Document of
The Wor-ld Bank               FI L    C-    
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3327-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
MARANHAO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 21, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1981            May 17, 1982
Currency Unit          Cruzeiro (Cr$)              Cr$
I  US$1            =      Cr$94.75                    Cr$155.23
Cr$1           =      US$0.0155                    US$0.0064
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
POLONORDESTE PROGRAM FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
The exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report (US$1 = Cr$100.68)
corresponds to the cruzeiro August 1981 exchange rate.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
BB          Banco do Brasil
(Bank of Brazil)
BNB         Banco do Nordeste do Brasil
(Bank of Northeast Brazil)
BNCC        Banco Nacional de Credito as Cooperativas
(National Bank for Credit to Cooperatives)
COTERMA     Companhia de Colonizacao e Terras do Maranhao
(State Land and Colonization Company)
CEASA-MA    Centrais de Abastecimento do Maranhao
(State Food Supply Centers)
COMABA      Companhia Maranhense de Abastecimento
(State Input Supply Company)
COPENAT     Companhia de Pesquisa e Aproveitamento de Recursos Naturais
(State Company for Research and Use of Natural Resources)
CODERMA     Companhia de Desenvolvimento Rodoviario do Maranhao
(State Company for Road Development)
COLONE      Companhia de Colonizacao do Nordeste
(Colonization Company of the Northeast)
CEAG-MA     Centro de Apoio a Pequena e Media Empresa do Maranhao
(State Center of Support for Small and Medium Enterprises)
DERMA       Departamento de Estradas e Rodagem do Maranhao
(Road Construction and Maintenance Agency of Maranhao)
EMATER-MA   Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural - Maranhao
(Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Agency - Maranhao)
EMAPA       Empresa Maranhense de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(State Agricultural Research Company)
EMBRAPA     Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Brazilian Agricultural Research Agency)
FCAP        Faculdade de Ciencias Agrarias do Para
(Agricultural Faculty - Para University)
FSESP       Fundacao Servico Especial de Saude Publica
(Foundation for Special Public Health Services)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Glossary of Acronyms                                                    Page 2
FUNAI          Fundacao Nacional do Indio
(National Indian F-Ju.dtion)
ICM             Imposto sobre Circulacao de Mercaderias
(Tax on product circul'tion)
ITERMA         Instituto da Terra do Maranhao
(State Land Institute)
INCRA           Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria
(National Institute of Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
IBDF            Instituto Brasileiro de T,esenvolvimento Florestal
(Brazilian Forestry Deve1opment Institute)
POLONORDESTE   Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas
do Nordeste
(Development Program for Integrated Areas
in the Northeast)
REPEMIR        Reflorestamento em Pequenos e Medios Imoveis Rurais
(Reforestation Program for Small and Medium Farms)
SUDENE          Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Northeast Economic Development Superintendency)
SIMA            Servico de Informacao de Mercado Agricola
(Agricultural Marketing Information Service)
SUCAM           Superintendencia de Campanhas Medicinais
(Superintendency of Public Health Campaigns)
SERNAT          Secretaria de Recursos Naturais do Maranhao
(State Secretariat for Natural Resources)
SE              Secretaria de Educacao
(State Secretariat for Education)
SES             Secretaria de Saude
(State Secretariat of Health)



BRAZIL
MARANHAO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:         US$42.7 million equivalent, including capitalized front-end
fee
Terms:          Interest at 11.6% per annum.  Repayment in 15 years,
including 3 years of grace
Project
Description:  The objective of the project is to increase income and
agricultural production of small farmers in central and
northwest Maranhao by providing secure land tenure, tech-
nical and marketing assistance, agricultural research, basic
health care and expansion of education services, and project
coordination, monitoring and evaluation. The project would
reach some 39,000 small farmers in 46 municipalities of the
state of Maranhao. A state land institute would be respon-
sible for carrying out the regularization and redistribution
of public lands to small farmers. Improved agricultural
techniques would be introduced gradually to increase
productivity while limiting soil erosion and improving soil
fertility.
Risks:          The constraints on increasing productivity of small farmers
in the area reflect in part the long established political
and cultural traditions which are slow to change. There is
some risk that the project may overload the administrative
capacity of the state.  This risk should be reduced by the
establishment of separate administrative units for the three
subprojects and the use of state-level rural development
program coordinating mechanisms. There is also risk that
delay in completing land regularization activities may cause
delays in other components. This risk has been reduced by
the provision of technical assistance to the state land
institute and introduction of modern techniques to speed the
process of land titling.



Estimated Costs:                                -----US$ Millions------
Local   Foreign   Total
A.   Land Activities                        28.9       2.6      31.5
Land Regularization/Redistribution  22.1          1.0     23.1
Laud Use Studies                        6.8       1.6      8.4
B.   Production Activities                  20.1       1.7      21.8
Agricultural Research/
Seec' Production                      4.6        .4      5.0
Extension                              10.3        .7      11.0
Marketing, Input Supply                 2.8        .6       3.4
Fisheries                               1.2       0         1.2
Small-Scale Enterprises                 1.2      0          1.2
C.   Forestry                                1.2       0.1       1.3
D.   Rural Transport                        14.5       7.6      22.1
E.   Social Infrastructure                   9.9       1.4      11.3
Education                               5.6       0.6       6.2
Health and Water Supply                 4.3       0.8       5.1
F.   Project Administration                  5.7        .4       6.1
G.   Baseline Costs                         80.3      13.8      94.1
Physical Contingencies            5.5       1.5       7.0
Price Contingencies               18.0      3.1      21.1
H.   TOTAL PROJECT COST                    103.8      18.4    122.2 1/
I.   Front-End Fee on Loan                   -          .7        .7
J.   TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED              103.8      19.1    122.9
1/   Including about US$1.6 million of local taxes.



- iii -
Financing Plan:                            ---US$ Million---
Local     Foreign        Total
Government             80.2          -          80.2
IBRD                  23.6        19.1         42.7
Estimated
Disbursement:        Bank FY:    FY83    FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88
Annual        3.9 1/  6.0   6.8   9.2  11.5   5.3
Cumulative   3.9       9.9  16.7  25.9  37.4  42.7
1/   Including front-end fee of US$0.7 million.
Rate of Return:      22% for the directly productive component, covering 78%
of estimated total project costs.
Staff Appraisal
Report:              No. 3845a-BR of May 21, 1982.



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                         i



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A MARANHAO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federative Repubic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$42.7
million, including the capitalized front-end fee, to help finance a rural
development project in the State of Maranhao. The proposed loan would have
a term of 15 years including 3 years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The most recent economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum on
Brazil" (Report No. 3275a-BR dated May 29, 1981) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on June 26, 1981. A mission to prepare a new country
economic memorandum is scheduled for May 1982. Country data are provided
in Annex I.
3.        The present government, headed by President Figueiredo, took
office on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. Much of its attention has
had to be devoted to grappling with inflation and a difficult balance-of-
payments situation. Major economic priorities of the Government include
the growth of agriculture, reduced dependence on imported petroleum,
continued expansion of manufactured exports, and increasing domestic
savings. Success on these fronts is crucial to the solution of the infla-
tion and balance-of-payments problems, as well as to the sustained improve-
ment of living standards and better income distribution.
Economic Performance
4.        In the 13 years ending in 1980, Brazil enjoyed a high level of
economic growth, with GDP rising at a rate of about 9% per annum. During
the 1967-73 period, growth was achieved with no significant deterioration
of the external resource balance, despite considerable trade
liberalization, and there also occurred a decline in the rate of domestic
inflation. However, given the dependence of industry and transport on
petroleum, over 80% of which was imported, the quadrupling of oil prices in
1973 resulted in a sharp deterioration in the nation's terms of trade.
Excess aggregate demand and a succession of bad harvests, along with higher
energy costs, resulted in increasing balance-of-payments difficulties and
the acceleration of inflation.
l1 Parts I and II are reproduced without substantial change from the
economic section of the President's Report on the Amazonas Rural
Development Project (Report No. 3311-BR, dated May 10, 1982).



5e         Coping with these constraints, while responding to pressures to
maintain growth of output and employment and simultaneously establishing
the basis for structural ad justment3 has been the central problem of
Brazilian economic management.  At the same time that success was achieved
in maintaining growth, an innovat4ve effort was 1aunched to reduce energy
consumption and substitute domestic energy resources for imported
petroleum.  Through 1978. the balance-o--payments pressures were contained
through the rapid expansion of `exports (particularly of manufactures),
increased import barriers, import. sustitution, and heavy external
borrowing.  However, the rapid accum"-lation of external debt, compression
of imports, and intensificat-ion of inflationary pressures increased the
economy's vulnerabilitv  to Eur'nher external shock, and that vulnerability
was severely testea by the sharp ir.reases ir. petroleum  prices and interest
rates that occurred iln 1979 and 1930
6.        Measures were taken in 1979 and 1980 to improve control over
public sector spending and monetary ex-,pansion.  These included increased
central authority over the investrments and borrowings of the public enter-
prises, the phasing-out of ta-x earnarklings, and the reduction of major
consumer and producer subsidies. Nevertheless, aggregate demand continued
to grow strongly, plac7ng severe tressure on prices and the balance of
payments.  in 1980, inIlation accelerated to 110% (from 41% in 1978), and,
despite a 32% growth of exports and significant reduction in the volume of
petroleum imports, the current account deficit grew to almost US$13 billion
(compared to $6 billion in 1978). At the same time, Brazil's international
reserves fell from US$11.9 billion  tvo 869 billion, and terms tightened on
new foreign borrowing.
7.         In response to the deteriorating situation, and strengthened by
the institutional reforms of the prevYrous two years, constraints were
imposed on aggregate demand n 1 981, and efforts to correct the trade
balance were increaseds The public sector deficit and the monetary aggre-
gates were reduced in real terms.  In an effort to encourage private finan-
cial savings and maintain export incentives, monetary correction and
exchange rate adjustments, -wh ch .ere allowed to lag in 1980, were brought
back into line with domestic inflation.  Banks were freed from interest
rate controls on thei r lending, and rates were increased on official
credits.  Some tax incenti-^zes tc exports, wnin.h  had been eliminated in the
wake of a large devaluation ofL the cruzeiro at the end of 1979, were
restored, while the forei-gn excharige tr-nsections tax on imports was raised
from 15% to 25%.7
8.         As a consequence of trese -easures, the economy entered into
recession 'n 1981.  Despite an es'a;aed 8% growth of agricultural output,
GDP declined around 4,%.  The industr-al  sector was hard hit by high
interest rates and cutbacks in pp bLic expenditures, and unemployment has
increased in the industria1 centers; Manufactured exports, however, have
continued to grow rapidly, Q236% in nor-irnal terms, and a merchandise trade
surplus of some US$1.2 b i:io  was ach-ieved in contrast to deficits of $2.8
billion in both 1979 and i983..  r   19L  surplus also reflected zero growth
of imports, including the further reduction of petroleum imports.  Despite
sharply higher interest payments -broad; the current account deficit was
cut by some US$2 billion. Tnflation for the year was reduced to 95% with a



- 3 -
declining trend evident through the second half of the year. No problems
were experienced in obtaining the US$11.5 billion in net external financing
required in 1981. Contrasting with 1979 and 1980 foreign exchange reserves
increased by US$600 million in 1981. Total M&LT external debt at year-end
was about US$61.4 billion.
Poverty Programs
9.        Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the government has made substantial efforts to relieve
poverty. In addition to efforts to maintain the growth of employment and
prevent the erosion of real wages, special programs for the northeast
region have been continued notwithstanding the tight fiscal and monetary
restraints. Coverage of the social security program has been expanded and
extended to the rural population. More than 70% of the urban population is
now covered by the social security health care system, and a cash transfer
program has been established for the rural elderly poor. Almost two
million loans have been made for housing by the National Housing Bank (BNH)
since 1964. Improvement and extension of the primary health services to
the urban and rural poor areas is a government priority in the health
sector. A program for grassroots health and sanitation actions for
northeast Brazil was initiated in 1976. A sites and services program was
established in 1975 to benefit the urban poor more directly, and this was
complemented in 1977 by a program to finance home improvement and building
materials. High priority has also been given to the extension and improve-
ment of urban water supply. Consequently, some six million households com-
prising about 30 million people have been connected to public water supply
systems since 1971, increasing the proportion of urban dwellers who receive
such services to 75%. 2/
Future Prospects
10.       Since 1973, Brazil has made major efforts to reduce petroleum
imports. Investments in exploration have been accelerated, and foreign
companies have been invited to drill under risk contracts with PETROBRAS,
the state oil company. Investments have also been undertaken to develop
the nation's hydroelectric potential, to initiate nuclear power production,
to substitute alcohol for gasoline, to expand domestic coal production, and
to exploit Brazil's shale oil deposits. Efforts are also being made to
induce energy conservation. While results thus far are encouraging,
dependence on imported energy remains formidable. With oil imports
constituting an estimated US$10.3 billion (nearly 44% of Brazil's
imports) in 1981, as compared to US$700 million (11% of imports) in 1973,
the trade-off between growth and balance-of-payments viability will
continue to be a principal preoccupation of economic decision-makers.
2/ For a more detailed account of these efforts see "The Distribution of
Income in Brazil" (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated September 1979)
and "Brazil - Human Resources Special Report" (Report No. 2604-BR,
dated July 13, 1979).



- 4 -
11.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must
continue to experience a period of careful demand management.  Accelerated
devaluations of the cruzeiro, the removal of import deposit requirements,
the scheduled phasing-out of tax subsidies to export, and the gradual free-
ing of prices and interest rates should help to promote more efficient
resource allocation favorable to both export growth and efficient import
substitution. Public investments may continue to be constrained by reduced
resource availabilities over the next several years, and foreign lenders,
including the Bank, should be prepared to finance a significant proportion
of project costs including, when necessary, a part of local costs. Fur-
thermore, priority attention has to be given to the development of domestic
energy sources, agriculture and the stimulation of domestic savings.
12.       Growth is expected to recover to about 5% in 1982 and to average
about 6% per annum in 1983-86, as compared to 11% in 1967-73 and 7.2% in
1973-80.  Such a growth rate should be compatible with a falling current
account deficit through 1986. The debt service ratio would decline
slowly. These projections are sensitive, however, to petroleum prices,
interest rates, and the rate of growth of manufactured exports. The
combination of high debt service and a high share of petroleum in total
imports leaves the economy vulnerable and this may be expected to persist
for several years.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
13.       Brazil's resource balance is expected to become positive in
1982, but interest payments on the growing external debt will increase
throughout the 1982-86 period, even if interest rates should decline. Thus
large service account deficits will contribute to current account deficits
through 1986. As a proportion of GDP, the current account deficit is
projected to fall steadily from its peak of 5.4% in 1980. This projection
assumes that imports grow at a moderate pace through 1986, reflecting
restrained demand and a strengthening of the domestic savings effort.
14.       Net medium- and long-term borrowing requirements are expected to
be around US$9 billion in 1982, and to decline thereafter. Gross borrowing
would be about US$16 billion this year and remain in the US$15-16 billion
range over the five-year period, with 70% obtained as financial credits
from private lenders. Consequently, the net debt service ratio 3/ would
decline from about 55% in 1980 to about 39% in 1986.
15.       In summary, after a period of rapid growth in the late 1960s and
1970s, the increased cost of petroleum imports has forced the nation to
moderate its growth expectations and to adapt its economic structure to
3/  Including both public and private debt.  The figure for public debt
service alone would be substantially lower. For example, in 1980 the
public sector accounted for only 61% of total debt service payments.



- 5 -
the changed terms of trade. This adjustment process was initially eased by
a strong reserve position, a solid image of creditworthiness, the
aggressive expansion of manufactured exports, and the opportunities for
efficient import substitution offered by the large domestic market.  Never-
theless, heavy dependence on petroleum imports, the resurgence of domestic
inflation, and the rapid accumulation of external debt left the economy
vulnerable to further external shocks. The government recognizes the need
for careful demand management and for selectivity in its investment
policies emphasizing efficiency in export expansion, import substitution,
employment creation, and poverty alleviation.
16.        The sensitivity of Brazil's balance of payments to petroleum
prices and interest rates makes projections subject to a wide margin of
error. The present scenario also depends on Brazil's ability to curtail
inflation, expand manufactured exports, and on its continued access to
international capital. A major effort is underway to reduce dependence on
foreign petroleum, but significant results may not be apparent for several
years. On the other hand, the Brazilian economy remains dynamic, divers-
ified, and resilient. The task of economic management will not be easy,
but policymakers have demonstrated their ability to adjust to changing
circumstances, and recent policy measures have strengthened their manage-
ment capacity. Thus, Brazil remains creditworthy for new borrowing on con-
ventional terms in the amounts indicated above.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
17.        By March 31, 1982 the Bank had made 110 loans to Brazil, amount-
ing to US$6,310.8 million (net of cancellations), of which 58 were not yet
fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150 million per
year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77, US$252 mil-
lion in FY78, US$295 million in FY79, US$318 million in FY80 and US$378
million in FY81. The total undisbursed amount as of March 31, 1982 was
US$3,003.5 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as
of March 31, 1982 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.        Over the FY77-81 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 million to over US$800 million per year. In FY81, eight loans
totaling US$844 million were approved. So far in FY82, five loans total-
ing US$529.1 million for the first and second phases of Bank participation
in the POLONOROESTE program and for a power distribution project have been
approved. Documents for a US$26.4 million loan for and agricultural devel-
opment project in the state of Amazonas and for a US$123.9 million loan for
an urban development project in the city of Recife have been distributed to
the Executive Directors. Work is relatively advanced on a third loan for
secondary and feeder roads, a large iron ore mining project in the Serra
dos Carajas, and the third-phase project of the northwest region develop-
ment program.
19.        Brazil's external public and private debt outstanding and dis-
bursed at the end of 1980 amounted to US$63 billion, and is estimated to



have been US$61 billion at the end of 1981. At the end of 1980, the Bank
held 3.9% of the debt, and its share of the service on this debt in 1980
was 2%. In 1981, the Bank's share in total outstanding debt is estimated
to have risen slightly to 4.2% while its share in total debt service
remained constant. These percentages are not expected to rise signifi-
cantly in the next five years.
20.       As of March 31, 1982, IFC commitments to Brazil totaled US$819.5
million, of which US$546.2 million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. Of
the balance of US$273.3 million, US$207.6 million represent loans and
US$65.7 million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of March 31,
1982 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
21.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Govern-
ment achieve important development objectives which are interdependent.
One lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the efforts of the
Government to develop projects that will increase the productivity of the
lowest income segments of the population, to broaden the opportunities open
to those groups, and to improve their living conditions. This is a primary
objective of the proposed Maranhao rural development project. Previous
loans for nutrition, primary education, vocational training, agricultural
research, agricultural extension, polder construction in the lower Sao
Francisco river basin, and integrated rural development were designed to
assist low-income groups in rural areas, especially those in the north-
east. The Bank is currently reviewing its experience over the past ten
years in the Northeast of Brazil, and is working with the Government to
identify further approaches to assist the region's rural poor. Loans for
water supply and sewerage projects in the state of Minas Gerais, in greater
Sao Paulo, in the northeast and in the south, loans for urban transport in
several major cities, a loan for sites and services and low-cost housing,
and a loan for urban development in medium-sized cities are assisting the
improvement of the living conditions of the urban population, particularly
of the urban poor.
22.       Another lending objective in Brazil is to support institutional
development and policy reform designed to establish adequate coordination
and control within the public sector and help maximize public savings and
ensure that they are used economically through rational selection of
projects. This institution-building objective is particularly important in
the proposed project which seeks to build up planning and administration
required at the state and local levels for rural development activities and
for designing and implementing land policies appropriate to the needs of
farmers with insecure tenure in the state of Maranhao. The project land
related activities build upon the experience with the Piaui rural develop-
ment project, approved by the Board in FY81. Loans for urban development,
industrial finance, agricultural research and extension, rural development,
water supply and sewerage, and the recently approved loan for alcohol and
biomass energy development also have important institution-building objec-
tives.



- 7 -
23.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange
constraint on development by supporting projects designed to increase
Brazil's export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic pro-
duction for imports. Lending for the electric power sector supports this
objective, since it is based on hydroelectric energy, and its development
lessens the need for petroleum imports. Bank support of fertilizer and
petrochemical projects is assisting Brazil to substitute large-scale effi-
cient domestic production for imports and thus aid its balance-of-payments
position. The alcohol and biomass energy development project addresses the
need to restrict growth of petroleum imports. Much of the Bank-assisted
investment in the transport sector -- railways, ports and highways -- is
designed to facilitate the economical flow of exports.
24.       A final objective is to provide part of the large medium- and
long-term capital inflows that Brazil needs to sustain satisfactory growth
and achieve its employment creation and regional development objectives.
Continued lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the international
financial community as a sign of confidence in Brazil and encourages others
to contribute to the country's development. In some sectors, especially in
electric power and industry, Bank participation has helped Brazil obtain
additional resources in greater amounts and on more favorable terms from
bilateral credit agencies and private financial institutions than may
otherwise have been provided. Eleven co-financing operations, for more
than US$425 million, have been concluded since 1976 with private financial
institutions and several others are in preparation.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
The Sector in the Economy
25.       Agriculture continues to be an important sector in the Brazilian
economy, employing 36% of Brazil's labor force, contributing over 10% of
GDP, and about half of export earnings. The average annual agricultural
growth rate in the decade to 1980 was just over 5%. Brazil is the world's
largest exporter of coffee and orange juice, the largest producer of sugar-
cane, and the third largest producer of soybeans. Other agricultural
exports include meat and fish products, cotton, corn, peanuts, cocoa,
castor oil, and sisal. In most years Brazil is self-sufficient in basic
food production, except for wheat. Most of the productivity gains have
occurred in the south and center-west of the country, while the north and
northeast have largely continued to use traditional practices with rela-
tively rudimentary technology.
26.       Agricultural development has been assigned high priority in
Brazil's 1980-85 development plan, to help reduce inflation through
expanded food production and to improve the balance-of-payments through
increased production of export crops and energy substitutes. To achieve
these objectives, the government is continuing its support for special
regional development programs during the current period of restraint in
public expenditures. However, despite reduction of the agricultural credit
subsidies, these remain high.



- 8 -
Rural Development and Land Tenure in the Northeast
27.       The nine states of northeast Brazil have a population of about 35
million (1980), of which half is rural. Much of the region has a semi-arid
climate with periodic droughts, and there are extensive areas of poor
soils. Nonetheless, the northeast contains about 30% of Brazil's harvested
area and 45% of its agricultural work force, and produces a major share of
the nation's cocoa, cotton, beans, rice and sugar.
28.       Although some crops (such as sugarcane) are grown predominantly
on large farms, basic food crops are produced mainly by small farmers,
using rudimentary technology and obtaining low yields. Development of the
agriculture of small farmers has been hampered by limited access to
improved seeds and other inputs, poor or inadequate rural extension
services, shortages of working capital and investment credit, and market
isolation. However, the insecurity of land tenure and lack of access to
land have compounded these difficulties and are considered to be major
constraints on small farmer investment and increases in productivity.
29.       Various programs have been directed at speeding economic develop-
ment in the northeast handled by the Northeast Development Superintendency
(SUDENE), and a special development bank for the northeast, Bank of the
Northeast of Brazil (BNB). Substantial fiscal and monetary incentives have
been made available for both industry and agriculture. Programs to
generate jobs in the industrial sector have not, however, kept pace with
population increases, and population movements have continued to the indus-
trialized center-south and to the center-west of Brazil. Prior to the mid-
1970s, government programs directed to the rural population of the
northeast concentrated on public works, with substantial efforts in
drought-prone areas to develop dams and ponds. More recently, efforts have
been initiated to strengthen the institutions offering the support services
required to develop more productive farming systems. Such efforts include
the POLONORDESTE program, initiated in 1974, a wide-ranging program aimed
at raising living standards through a series of area-based integrated
development projects.
Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector and POLONORDESTE
30.       Bank-assisted operations in Brazil's agricultural sector combine
an area development approach, which focuses on poor rural areas in the
northeast and northwest, with a functional approach designed to further
needed institutional and policy improvements. To date, the Bank has made
23 loans totalling US$895 million for agricultural and rural development in
Brazil. Of these, twelve, including the recently approved projects for the
northwest region, were for rural development; two each for irrigation,
livestock development, agro-industries and agricultural research; and one
each for land settlement, agricultural extension services, and grain
storage. In addition, Bank loans for fertilizer production, nutrition



- 9 -
research and development, and secondary and feeder roads are having a
direct impact on agricultural production and rural development. Documents
for a proposed agricultural development project in the state of Amazonas
have already been distributed to the Executive Directors. Completion and
Project Performance Audit Reports have been issued for the grain storage
and the two livestock development projects. In each of these three
projects, significant differences developed between the government and the
Bank .regarding interest rate policy, leading to some cancellation and/or
early repayments of the loans. Project Performance Audit Reports are
currently under preparation for an agro-industry credit project and the
Alto Turi land settlement project.
31.       The Bank has actively participated in the rural development
effort in northeast Brazil since 1973 especially through the POLONORDESTE
program. Bank assistance to the program aimed at helping the Government
sharpen the focus of efforts on behalf of the rural poor and to better
integrate development activities. The initial strategy called for
concentrating development activities on selected geographical areas while
promoting the establishment of an effective administration for the
program. This latter expectation, however, has been frustrated by
financial and administrative difficulties encountered by SUDENE, the
federal agency entrusted with the overall management of the program. In
contrast, good progress has been made by several of the northeast states in
improving their planning and execution capability for rural development
projects. Competent technical units have been established in most states
and a significant group of experienced managers has been developed.
Lessons learned from these earlier projects have made it possible for the
proposed project in Maranhao to better address land and community
participation issues on a significant scale.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.       The proposed project was identified by a Bank mission in April
1980 as a follow-up to the first Bank loan for the Alto Turi project. The
project was broadened to include areas of population concentration where
land tenure uncertainties were depressing agricultural production and
causing increased rural-urban migration. The project was appraised in
September 1981. Negotiations took place in Washington from May 3 to May 7,
1982 with a delegation led by Mrs. Bette Antunes of the Federal Secretariat
of Planning.  A Staff Appraisal Report, entitled "Northeast Brazil -
Maranhao Rural Development Project" (Report No. 3845a-BR, dated May 21,
1982) is being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Supplementary data, including references to clauses in the legal documents
are provided in Annex III.
33.       The original Alto Turi project (Loan No. 853-BR) aimed to settle
some 5,200 families in the northwest of Maranhao on part of the area
transferred to the Northeast Colonization Company (COLONE) by the state.
The project faced delays resulting from difficulties with land tenure
issues and the need to reformulate production recommendations. The overall
economic rate of return was estimated after completion at 13%, compared



- 10 -
with an appraisal projection of 16%. The project revealed the need for
close collaboration between COLONE and the state agencies, for the transfer
of some responsibilities to the state, and for measures to improve
conservation of the area's soils and forests.
Project Area
34.       Maranhao, the second largest northeastern state, has a population
of about 4 million with a total area of about 330,000 km2. The project
area of about 50,700 km2 is 15% of the state's total land area. It
includes 47 municipalities (including parts of five in the Alto Turi area
not developed under the first loan) of central and northwestern Maranhao
comprising 27% of the state's agricultural land. Population density ranges
from a minimum of 1/km2 to a maximum of 64.2/km2. Some 77% of the
population in the project area is rural. Population growth rates in the
project area vary, with the highest (5.5% per annum) in the Alto Turi
area. This reflects the influx of settlers from within and outside the
state in search of secure ownership of land.
35.       Land tenure in the project area is confused, but available data
show concentrated land ownership, with 13% of farmers claiming 64% of the
area. Holdings above 100 ha account for less than 3% of the total, but
occupy 70% of the total area. The trend has been for large farmers to
progressively claim remaining available state lands, primarily for
livestock production. This has resulted in growing rural-urban migration
while also substituting extensive livestock production for food crops.
Land use and distribution have become a major concern of state authorities.
36.       The project area produces about one-third of the value of the
state's agricultural and livestock output. Apart from beef, most of the
agricultural production comes from small farmers using techniques asso-
ciated with shifting agriculture and few modern inputs. Yields of the
major crops have been declining over the past 10 years, reflecting both the
depletion of soil fertility and increasing use of marginal lands. Produc-
tion support services are generally weak in the project area.
37.       Traditional agricultural techniques and limited support infra-
structure contribute to the low per capita income in the range of
US$150-220 estimated for the project area. This compares with an average
state per capita income of US$320. Transport infrastructure is little
developed and much of the road system becomes impassable during the wet
season. Clean and reliable supplies of drinking water are scarce and about
half the children in the area suffer from malnutrition. Education facili-
ties and programs are generally deficient, with a net enrollment rate of
52% for rural children. Health services are lacking and poorly distri-
buted, with 50% of all physicians concentrated in four municipalities.
Infant mortality rates are estimated to be 93 per 1,000 newborn.



- 11 -
Project Objectives and Strategy
38.       The proposed loan would support activities to alleviate major
constraints to improving the productivity and incomes of small farmers.
A special objective of the proposed project would be to strengthen the
administrative capacity of state and local institutions to formulate
policies and implement programs to increase agricultural production of
small farmers. This will entail the development of a technically sound
approach to land regularization and redistribution, 4/ the two key means
available to resolve land tenure uncertainty. The provision of secure
title to land, combined with appropriate production support services to
ensure efficient use of newly acquired land, would be the basis for achiev-
ing the objectives of the proposed project. The project would also
consolidate and complete the settlement activities in the Alto Turi area
initiated under Loan 853-BR and provide for the transfer of settler support
activities from COLONE to state agencies.
39.       The introduction of agricultural production systems compatible
with the resource base, and support to other local productive activities,
would improve living conditions and slow rural-urban migration. Annual
project planning, along with monitoring and evaluation of project activ-
ities would ensure that these activities, are consistent with the scope and
timing of land activities. Project design has emphasized technical assis-
tance to support institutions active in the project.
Project Components
40.       The proposed project would comprise three subprojects to be
executed in adjoining subproject areas referred to as the Baixada, Alto
Turi, and the Mearim-Pindare (IBRD Map No. 16152, attached). Combined, the
sub-projects would include:
(a) Land Tenure Activities: Regularization and provision of
title to about 39,000 small farmers on lands which they
currently occupy or on unused or irregularly occupied state
lands. This would require cadastral surveys of some 3.4
million ha, resolution of claims for some 2.2 million ha,
demarcation of about 1.4 million ha, support for the new
State Land Institute (ITERMA), and land use capability
studies;
4/ By "regularization" is meant providing title to present occupiers of
land with legitimate claims. "Redistribution" involves recovery of
state lands from irregular occupiers for redistribution to landless
farmers.



- 12 -
(b)  Production Assistance:  Support for applied research; rural
extension; seed production; marketing, input supply, and
cooperative development; support for small-scale industries;
inland fisheries; and reforestation and forest protection
programs;
(c) Physical Infrastructure: Construction of 510 km of new
access roads and minimum road improvements to 640 km of
existing roads, and a study to investigate the potential use
of the area's existing waterways;
(d) Social Infrastructure: Provision of physical facilities for
improved access to and delivery of education and health
services, and training and provision of materials necessary
for assisting in the control of major diseases;
(e) Project Administration: Coordination, planning, monitoring
and evaluation of project activities.
The project is expected to be carried out mainly over a five-year period,
beginning April 1982, but some activities began in late 1981.
41.       Land Regularization and Redistribution.  Resolving land tenure in
the project area would begin with cadastral surveys. Following this, a
number of steps are required to determine ownership rights before final
issuance and registration of titles can be completed. The project would
introduce modern techniques, such as the use of aerial photographs, to
reduce the need for costly conventional topographics, improve state admin-
istration of land ownership records and develop modern record keeping sys-
tems. It is estimated that some 364,000 ha or 17% of the area to be regu-
larized will become available for redistribution. Holdings of about 35 ha
would be distributed to renters, sharecroppers, or small owner-operators.
Recipients would pay for land services received under the project by making
payments into Land Funds, so that about 20% of the real cost of land tenure
regularization services would be recovered. Beneficiaries who decided to
sell their land before completing payment for these land services would be
required first to offer it to ITERMA (in the Baixada), or INCRA, the
National Coloniation and Agrarian Reform Institute (in the Mearim-Pindare),
or COLONE (in Alto Turi).
42.        ITERMA, the new state land institute, would carry out land
related activities in the Baixada. COLONE would be responsible for these
activities in the Alto Turi area. INCRA would carry out land activities in
the Mearim-Pindare and provide technical assistance to ITERMA during the
early years of the project. To help assure smooth and timely implementa-
tion of this key component, agreement was reached: (a) that the claims
of irregular occupiers over 60 ha in the Alto Turi area would be settled
not later than December 31, 1983; (b) the state and INCRA would provide by



- 13 -
November 30, 1982 plans for the interim management of lands recovered for
redistribution; (c) INCRA would maintain an agreement to provide technical
assistance to ITERMA for the duration of the project; (d) annual land
activities would not be less than the agreed minima specified for each year
of the project and agricultural land recovered through the project would be
used exclusively for small farmers. Establishment of the Land Funds and
recovery of 10,000 ha. (including lands claimed by 3 of the 15 largest
irregular occupiers) in the Alto Turi area would be conditions of loan
effectiveness.
43.       Land Use Capability and Planning Studies.  Land use capability
studies would be carried out to assist land tenure regularization and dis-
tribution activities and subsequent development planning for the region.
The initial studies would be based on photo-interprecation to define poten-
tially useful areas for agriculture, now estimated to be about three mil-
lion ha. It is expected that, within this area, some 975,000 ha would
require field surveys to prepare detailed land capability maps. Areas
unsuited for agriculture would be set aside as reserves.
44.       Agricultural Research and Seed Production.  The existing facil-
ities of the state research agency (EMAPA) d' not provide adequate coverage
for the area, owing to micro-regional variations in soils, topography and
land use. The component would adapt and further develop existing research
on techniques to improve labor efficiency and improve the linkages between
researchers, producers and extensionists. Foundation seed, produced by
EMAPA to meet project requirements (for rice, beans and maize) would be
multiplied by COLONE and by cooperatives for distribution to project bene-
ficiaries.
45.       Rural Extension.  Current extension services are weak, reaching
about 6% of the 70,000 producers in the Baixada. More effective extension
services are necessary to promote increases in agricultural production.
Some 80 additional extensionists needed for the project would receive
training (through facilities provided by Loan 1568-BR to EMBRATER) in
extension methods, plant and animal protection, credit, animal traction,
soil conservation, farm layout, agro-forestry, and irrigation. The
component would provide a full range of extension services to an additional
12,000 farmers in the Alto Turi area and 7,500 families in the Baixada; a
further 4,500 families in the Baixada would receive less intensive
extension services. Project beneficiaries in the Mearim-Pindare subproject
would benefit from extension services already provided by the state
extension agency (EMATER-MA) within an ongoing POLONORDESTE project. Two
regional and 26 local offices would be constructed in isolated communities,
and costs of incremental salaries, operating costs, and training would be
included as project costs.
46.       Marketing, Input Supply and Cooperatives.  Marketing institutions
in the state are weak and provide farmers with few options for the sale of
produce. The project would provide for a marketing study to diagnose



- 14 -
problems, and to define policies for a coordinated approach by public and
private agents for the supply of inputs and distribution of production.
The component would strengthen the agricultural market information system,
provide for re-equippping and establishment of new input supply outlets in
the area, and increase storage capacity to about 11,000 tons. Technical,
financial, and administrative support would be provided to establish
cooperatives. The state would, by September 30, 1982: (a) cause the input
supply agency to hire a consultant to assist in improving its administra-
tive capacity; and (b) provide satisfactory details of the management and
cost-recovery criteria prior to construction of stores.
47.       Inland Fisheries.  The project component would help improve
artisanal inland fisheries to help increase incomes as well as protein
supply for the local population and generate small quantities of fish for
export from the region. The component would provide for (a) strengthening
the technical assistance capacity of COPENAT, the state's company for
Research and Use of Natural Resources; (b) training courses for fishermen
and women; and (c) studies of technological improvements, marketing, and
transport of the catch.
48.       Forestry Development.  Shifting cultivation in the Baixada and
the more recent organized, as well as spontaneous, settlement of previously
unexploited areas, have removed much of the natural forests. One forest
reserve has already been established and the land use studies proposed
under the project would identify further areas which would remain under, or
be returned to, forest cover. The project would undertake to identify and
protect and manage new and existing reserves, define an overall forest pro-
tection strategy, and expand on-farm reforestation. The forest reserve
activities would be carried out by the Brazilian Forestry Development
Institute (IBDF) in conjunction with the State Secretariat of Natural
Resources (SERNAT). The state would prepare detailed plans for the protec-
tion of forest reserves.
49.       Small-Scale Enterprises.  Existing small non-farm enterprises
provide a variety of services and goods which are locally consumed. Many
are carried out by farm families as complements to agricultural activ-
ities. The component would aim to improve the productivity and enhance
employment opportunities within the Alto Turi and Baixada subproject
areas. The project would provide for managerial and technical assistance
to about 650 small-scale enterprises, and technical and financial feasibil-
ity studies on commodity processing following a survey of the industrial
sector in the project area. CEAG-MA, the state's small enterprise assis-
tance agency, would execute the component.
50.       Rural Transport.  The proposed transport component would provide
financing for the construction of new access roads and minimum road
improvements to existing roads, as well as the strenghtening of DERMA, the
state road agency particularly for road maintenance activites. A study on



- 15 -
the use of water transport and possible integration of water and road
transport systems will be made based on an evaluation of user cost-savings,
and funds could be allocated for this purpose. Model terms of reference
for road maintenance and civil works supervision have been agreed, as well
as the final list of maintenance equipment to be purchased. The state road
agency, DERMA, would provide personnel and workshop support to operate and
to maintain the project financed equipment. Prior to initiating
construction works, DERMA would enter into contractual agreements with each
municipality to maintain the roadworks, with the exception that for works
beginning in calendar year 1982 such agreements would be required as of
September 30, 1982.
51.       Social Services.  Improvement in access to and quality of health,
education, and water supply services are necessary. Social service compo-
nents would be directed at constructing and locating the physical infra-
structure necessary to improve access, and the training of manpower to
improve delivery systems. In education, the project would provide for con-
struction, furnishing and equipping of 107 rural schools, 50% of which
would replace currently unsuitable facilities. Location of schools would
be based upon the results of a school mapping study. About 800 teachers
and 100 supervisors and administrators would be trained along with staff
responsible for project implementation at the regional level.
52.       Health and water supply activities undertaken by the project
would help alleviate the most severe health problems and aim at a general
level of cost-effective rural health services. The completion of staffing
of existing offices and regional health units, and establishment of vital
diagnostic facilities for leprosy and tuberculosis in existing health posts
would be conditions of disbursement for the component. The project would
finance the establishment and/or improvement of health posts in the project
area, provision of consultancy services to improve administration and to
develop in-service training materials, and training of some 410 health
personnel. The state would implement measures which were agreed with the
Bank for improving health administration no later than June 30, 1983.
Water supply systems would complement health activities by providing clean
drinking water to minimize water borne diseases. The project would finance
construction of some 365 village well and pump systems. However, no such
system would be installed until the beneficiaries had established a water
user association to help pay for operating and maintenance costs.
53.       Project Administration:  The project would be administered by a
Project Management Unit (PMU) for each of the subproject areas (see paras.
62-64). The project would finance vehicles and equipment, PMU staff
salaries, travel costs, consultants, and additional needs for project
coordination, monitoring and evaluation.
Complementary Activities
54.       Credit.   The total incremental credit requirements, estimated to
be some US$69 million over the five-year project, would be provided by the
Federal Government under its existing POLONORDESTE credit line, its regular
rural credit programs, and a special credit line known as PROBOR III
(Natural Rubber Development Program). The participating banks have agreed
to open new facilities in the project area and would adjust their credit



- 16 -
availability based on annual estimates of credit demand.  Owing to the con-
tinued high subsidy element implicit in the prevailing interest rates,
credit would not be included in items subject to Bank financing. The
Government would ensure the timely availability of credit to the project's
beneficiaries and the state government would evaluate the implementation of
the credit component annually.
55.  -    Amerindian Protection.  There are two Amerindian reserves close
to the project area which could be influenced by development of the area.
Both lie within the influence area of the Carajas-Sao Luis railroad, and a
program to protect these reserves was developed during preparation of the
proposed Carajas mining project. The Government would ensure that such
arrangements will be carried out for the two reserves. The proposed
Maranhao rural development project would also provide for health care of
Amerindians on request, and collaboration in the demarcation of one of the
reserve boundaries shared with the Alto Turi subproject area.
56.       Agricultural Development in the Mearim-Pindare Subproject.
Project activities in the Mearim-Pindare subproject would be limited to
land re, ularization and redistribution. Some 70% of the subproject area
municipalities are, however, already benefiting from an ongoing
POLONORDESTE rural development project (Vale do Medio Mearim). The remain-
ing area largely lies within the influence area of the planned Carajas-Sao
Luis railroad and is expected to benefit from various related development
efforts. The state and federal governments would ensure that (a) support
of rural development activities under the Vale do Medio Mearim project
would be maintained and coordinated to support a common group of
beneficiaries under the proposed subproject; (b) the Annual Operating Plans
for the ongoing Vale do Medio Mearim project would be provided to the Bank
for comment prior to implementation; and (c) in its other plans and
programs for provision of support services and rural infrastructure, the
state would give priority to the subproject area municipalities not covered
by the Medio Vale do Mearim project.
Project Costs and Financing
57.       The project cost over the five-year period beginning in November
1981 is estimated at US$122.2 million, net of the US$0.7 million front-end
fee, of which US$18.4 million or 15% would be foreign exchange and about
US$1.6 million equivalent, duties and taxes. Base costs have been adjusted
to mid-April 1982 values and reflect recent actual costs for comparable
goods and services in Northeast Brazil. The physical contingencies
amounted to 7.4% of base costs and include 15% for civil works, and 5% for
equipment, training, technical assistance and other operating costs. Con-
tingencies for price escalation over the project period amount to the
equivalent of 20.9% of base costs and physical contingencies, and were
calculated in US dollar terms, based on international inflation rates
projected at 8.5% for 1982, 7.5% for 1983 through 1985, and 6.0% for 1986
and 1987. Project costs are summarized in the Loan and Project Summary.
58.        The proposed Bank loan of US$42.7 million, including the capital-
ized front-end fee would finance 35% of total project costs net of taxes.
It would cover the full foreign exchange cost (US$18.4 million) and about
US$23.6 million equivalent, or 23%, of local costs. The balance would be



- 17 -
financed by the Federal Government through its POLONORDESTE program (59%)
and through INCRA (7%). The financing of some local expenditures is
required to establish a meaningful Bank presence in this project which has
a high poverty impact but a low foreign exchange component.  The Federal
and State Governments would finance credit and essential complementary
items, including payment of compensation for improvements on lands to be
recovered from previous irregular occupants in the Alto Turi subproject
area. The Federal and State Governments would make adequate counterpart
funding available.
59.       Procurement.  Farm inputs and equipment for small-scale enter-
prises and fisheries would be procured by producers through local trade
channels or through the state supply agencies. Civil works (about US$19
million, excluding contingencies) associated with the transport component
would be procured following local competitive bidding procedures with con-
struction packages sized to allow bids from small and medium contractors.
Although the bidding procedures do not exclude foreign firms, no foreign
firms are likely to participate.  Brazil's construction industry is compe-
titive and capable of carrying out such works. Civil works involving the
construction of offices, research facilities, storage units, schools,
health posts and water supply facilities would be geographically dispersed,
individually small, and phased over time. Such works (totalling about US$7
million) would largely be executed under contracts awarded following local
competitive bidding although some 20% of these works would be executed by a
combination of force account and self-help. Most of the vehicles (US$2
million), materials and equipment (US$5 million) are locally produced and
readily available and would be procured in small and dispersed packages
following acceptable local procurement procedures. Various services such
as cadastral surveys and demarcations for the land component (US$13 mil-
lion) would be procured following local competitive bidding, with contracts
packaged to allow bids from small and medium contractors. Consultancy
services (US$1 million) would include a total of about 16 man-years at an
anticipated cost ranging from US$1,500 to US$7,000 per man-month. About
45% of such services would be for technical and administrative aspects of
the land components which would be carried out by local or foreign
consultants, while the balance would be largely local consultancies for
project administration, education and health administration, marketing,
forestry, fisheries and small-scale enterprise development. Consultants
would be selected and employed in accordance with Bank policies and
procedures.
60.       Disbursements.  The proceeds of the proposed loan would be dis-
bursed against all project expenditures except compensation for improve-
ments on lands recovered from irregular occupiers under the land compo-
nent.  Disbursement would be equivalent to 100% of expenditures (net of
taxes) for aerial photography and photo-restitution work. Costs of all
other eligible expenditures would be reimbursed at a rate of 31%. Dis-
bursements for works carried out by force account and operational expenses
would be made against withdrawal applications covering statements of expen-
ditures initiated by the various implementing agencies and certified by the
PMU. Supporting documentation would be retained by the agency responsible
for certification and would be made available for inspection by the Bank.



- 18 -
61.       A Special Account, similar to that for other recent projects in
Brazil, would be opened in the Central Bank with an initial deposit of up
to US$3 million.   Withdrawals in cruzeiros from the account would be made
on the basis of the statements of expenditures forwarded to the Central
Bank. Conversion from dollars into cruzeiros would be made at the exchange
rate that prevailed on the date the expenditures were made. The Central
Bank would send the statements to the Bank for review, which would then
disburse to the Special Account.
Project Implementation
62.       Organization and Management.  Each of the three subprojects would
have its own administration and coordination unit (PMU). The various
components would be executed through special agreements with existing
agencies. Coordination of planning and execution by the various agencies
responsible for implementing the project would be achieved through a
Project Coordination Committee composed of senior representatives of each
agency. This Coordinating Committee would be responsible to the state's
existing POLONORDESTE Management Council, which guides policy for the
state's overall POLONORDESTE program.
63.       Each PMU would be responsible for the day-to-day coordination,
administration and monitoring of each sub-project. The PMU for the Baixada
subproject would come under the direct administrative responsibility of the
state's POLONORDESTE coordinator. The PMU for the Alto Turi subproject
would have a similar internal structure and staffing as the Baixada PMU,
but its staff would be employees of COLONE. COLONE would coordinate its
activities with those undertaken by state and other participating
agencies. COLONE would hire a consultant by September 30, 1982 to present
by July 31, 1983 a proposal for the transfer of project-related respon-
sibilities to state agencies by mid-1987. The PMU for the Mearim-Pindare
land regularization subproject would consist of a small unit within INCRA
responsible for day-to-day management. A coordinating unit in ITERMA's
Planning Division would collaborate in overall planning and monitoring, and
liaison with activities with the on-going POLONORDESTE project in the
area. All project management units would be staffed by September 30, 1982
and their staffing adequately maintained for the duration of the project.
64.       Mechanisms for continued review are necessary to ensure that the
sub-projects respond quickly and flexibly to changing circumstances.
Activities of the project would reflect specific overall targets and
objectives updated through detailed Annual Operating Plans. Satisfactory
draft Annual Operating Plans for the project would be submitted to the Bank
not later than October 1 of each year and the Bank would be informed by the
Government, before the beginning of each project year, of the final
approved plans.
65.       Monitoring and Evaluation:  The three PMUs would include an
internal monitoring system to provide administrators with timely informa-
tion. The project's performance would be evaluated to determine whether
the expected effects and impacts are being achieved. The evaluation would
comprise a longitudinal study consisting of baseline, mid-term and post-



- 19 -
project surveys of about 300 producers within each subproject. The evalua-
tion activities would be identified by the PMUs but carried out by a small
independent team, including staff of the State Agricultural Planning
Commission (CEPA-MA), which would receive technical assistance from an
existing UNDP project which is already in the state. The results of the
baseline, mid-term and post-project surveys would be provided to the Bank
not later than December 31, 1982, 1985, and 1987, respectively.
66.       Accounts and Auditing.  All participating agencies, would
maintain separate accounts of project expenditures, and would be audited
annually by the Central Secretariat of Internal Control (SECIN) of the
Federal Secretariat of Planning, which is satisfactory. The PMU would
retain copies of all documentation of project related statements of expen-
ditures. Copies of the combined audited statement of the project accounts
for the three subprojects would be provided to the Bank within six months
of the end of their fiscal year. The Special Account in the Central Bank
would be audited by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank.
Benefits and Risks
67.       Production.  The proposed project activities are expected to lead
to significant increases in agricultural production and modest increases in
output from small-scale enterprises and inland fisheries. By full
development (year 10), the annual value of incremental crop production is
projected at US$40 million equivalent in 1981 prices. This production
increase would be derived from: an increase in area planted (by about
30%); increases in crop yields resulting from the use of improved seeds,
selected labor-saving and yield-enhancing inputs and from the adoption of
better cultural practices; the gradual introduction of new crops such as
rubber, banana, guarana, peanuts, sugarcane and pineapple; and improvements
in labor productivity owing to the removal of non-productive tasks and the
adoption of cropping systems which spread labor demand more evenly. Some
40% of the value of incremental production at full development would come
from cassava; 17% from rice; 3% from beans; 9% from rubber; and 30% from
bananas, pineapples or other high-value, newly introduced crops. Annual
incremental livestock production is valued at about US$2 million at full
development resulting from the introduction of small cattle herds (or
comparable livestock activities) on about 13% of the beneficiary farms.
68.       Return to Farmers.  The impact of the proposed changes in on-farm
practices on producer costs and incomes were analyzed to indicate likely
returns to beneficiaries. The estimated financial rates of return range
from 30% to over 50%. Current family incomes are estimated in the range of
US$900-1,500 in 1981, equivalent to a per capita income of US$150-220 for a
family of six, below Brazil's rural poverty level of US$330 per capita. At
full development, the average family income is expected to increase by
two-thirds to reach US$1,940 (in 1981 dollars). The returns to family
labor would increase by some 36%. Based on conservative estimates 17% of
project beneficiaries would have incomes above Brazil's relative poverty
level at full development. It can be assumed that farmers making only
minimal improvements in productivity during the first five years of the
project would adopt more advanced practices, in response to continued
provision of production support services, and could be expected to have



- 20 -
incomes above the rural poverty level by year 10.  The project would also
support a number of small-scale enterprises which are expected to generate
rates of return ranging from 20% to greater than 50%.
69.       Cost Recovery.  The costs of project investments per benefitting
family would range from US$5,800 for families receiving full land, produc-
tion and social services to US$730 for families receiving only land regu-
larization services. The state's existing fiscal devices could collect
revenues to offset recurrent costs and part of the capital costs.  The
marketing tax (ICM), levied on incremental project marketed production,
could generate some US$4 million annually by full development compared to
recurrent project-related costs of some US$3 million. In addition, rural
social security revenue (FUNRURAL), levied at 2.5% on the value of incre-
mental marketed production, could annually provide a further US$1 million
at full development. Road maintenance costs could be partially recovered
through the various license fees, road user charges and taxes. Water
supply systems would be largely maintained by the communities through user
associations and user charges. Land beneficiaries would be required to
contribute towards the costs of land they receive in addition to payments
of land tax (ITR), further improving the fiscal impact of the project. The
overall level of cost recovery is difficult to estimate however, in view of
the judgements which must be made about the efficiency with which existing
fiscal devices would be applied. Provisions for financing of operation and
maintenance for each component would be detailed in the operating agree-
ments between participating entities to reduce uncertainties.
70.       Economic Rate of Return.  The economic rate of return for the
directly productive aspects of the proposed project (representing about 78%
of total project costs) has been estimated at about 22%.  For various other
aspects of the project, such as the health, rural water supply, and educa-
tion components, which have significant but not readily quantifiable bene-
fits, no economic rate of return was calculated.  The costs and benefits of
the pilot fisheries assistance and reforestation components were not
included in the rate of return analysis.  The costs used in estimating the
economic rate of return included all on-farm and small-scale enterprise
investment and incremental operating costs, all off-farm investment and
incremental operating costs directly related to agricultural development
during the project period, and recurrent costs of services, infrastructure
and of certain project services (e.g., extension, marketing, research),
which would be necessary to sustain the projected development. The benefit
stream used in the economic rate of return analysis includes all of the
incremental production greater than the "without project" situation of
farmers and small-scale enterprise operators who are expected to receive
technical assistance through the project. Conservative estimates of bene-
fits to be derived from increased agricultural production resulting from
the more secure land tenure situation were also included.  The prices used
in the economic analysis for goods traded on the international market are
border prices adjusted to take into account quality differentials and
farm-to-border transportation costs. Non-traded goods were valued at local
farmgate prices. Most of these prices are expected to remain stable or
increase slightly over the next decade. Labor was valued at a seasonally
adjusted wage rate ranging from 60-100% of the peak market value, in order
to reflect the prevailing unemployment and underemployment in the project
area. Foreign exchange costs were adjusted upward by 20% to reflect trade



- 21 -
distorting tariffs, subsidies, advance import deposits, export taxes and
quantitative restrictions. To measure the impact of possible changes in
the economic environment on the project's stream of costs and benefits, a
range of sensitivity tests were performed.  The project exhibits a moderate
but acceptable degree of sensitivity to possible variations in key para-
meters. Analysis of switching values reveals that the project benefits
would need to fall 41%, or the project cost to rise 68%, to depress the
return to a 12% opportunity cost of capital.
71.       Employment.  The project would provide additional agricultural
employment equivalent to about 11,000 worker-years at full development.
Some 85% of this increment would be provided by family labor. Additional
employment would be generated in the processing, marketing, and service
industries as a result of increased agricultural input demand and produc-
tion. Project assistance to some 650 small-scale enterprises is expected
to generate about 1,000 new jobs by full development.
72.       Environmental Impact.  The project would have a beneficial impact
on the project area environment. The land use studies would lead to more
rational use of the area resources both at a regional level and within
farms. The areas found to be unsuitable for agriculture would be protected
or reforested, thus reducing soil erosion in watersheds and siltation in
watercourses. The shift from slash and burn agriculture to sedentary
cultivation incorporating crop rotations and restoration of fertility
through use of fertilizers would help stabilize land use. The encourage-
ment of practices such as contour farming, rotation of crops, and the
establishment of farm woodlots, would contribute to environmental protec-
tion.
73.       Project Risks.  The proposed project represents an ambitious
attempt to redress the most obstinate and long-standing constraints to
development of one of the least developed states in Northeast Brazil. The
constraints involved -- land tenure, infrastructure, support services and
economic options -- reflect not only scarcity of financial resources,
inadequate administration of service agencies, and mediocre resource endow-
ments of the area, but also long-established political and cultural tradi-
tions inimical to change. Perhaps the greatest risk the project faces is
that the state will not be able to sustain its determination to bring
change to the traditions hampering small farmer development. The risk has
been minimized by ensuring that the project reflected the state's own
desires and assessment of what would be feasible, and by ensuring that some
of the politically sensitive land-related decisions were taken prior to
project start-up. The remaining problems are more readily addressed by
project design and are common to rural development projects in Brazil.
There is a risk that the project would overload the administrative capacity
of the state. This should be offset by the establishment of sub-project
administration units, the use of strengthened state-level coordinating
mechanisms, and the provision of technical assistance to reduce the admin-
istrative burden.   The risk that there could be inadequate coordination
between executing agencies would be minimized by the functioning of the
Coordinating Committee and Project Management Units, and the designation of
liaison officers in each executing agency. Joint preparation of annual
operating plans and continual monitoring and evaluation of project activ-
ities ought to provide adequate warning of failures of coordination.



- 22 -
There is a risk that land regularization activities may be delayed and
cause delays in other activities. This risk would be reduced by the annual
establishment of goals in the light of progress made and by the provision
of technical assistance to ITERMA to help speed implementation. Finally,
there is the risk that project activities may not be adequately main-
tained. This has been addressed by giving particular emphasis to mainte-
nance needs in the project design and including specific assurances to this
end. Overall, the risks associated with the proposed project are accept-
able in view of the expected magnitude of project benefits and the antici-
pated role of the project in fostering greater institutional effectiveness
in the state to resolve the problem of insecure land tenure and provide a
basis for productive investments in rural development.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
74.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of
Brazil and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the State of
Maranhao and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between COLONE and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
75.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
the Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness are that the Land
Funds would have been established and that at least ten thousand hectares
of land (including lands claimed by 3 of the 15 largest irregular
occupiers) in sub-area one of the Alto Turi subproject area would have been
recovered.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
77.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments                                                By M. Qureshi
May 21, 1982
Washington, D. C.



-  23  -                                             ALNNEX I
pdge I Of 5
BRAZiLL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DAIA SHEET
BRAZIL                           REFERENCE GRUGPS (WEIGHTED AV,>GES
LAhu AREA (InoUnAND SQ. kn.)                                                              - MoST RECENT ESTILATE)--
luIAL            6511.U                                    IIST RELENT              MIDDLE IRCiOHE             MIULI F  INCIMH
ALRILLSLIURAL    2ul7.2                19bO  /b    1970 1b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMFiRICA b CARIBBEAN               EUROPE
.N? PER LAPITA (US5)                    320.0         570.0    1780.0 *                   1616.2                      2609.1
ENhKOY GoSbUMPTION PeK LAPITA
(KILWuiAMS ot LOAL EQUIVALENT)        392.1        565.0    1061.5                      1324.1                     2368.4
POPULATION AND VLIAL STATLSISLS
YOPULAIIOh, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 7151J.0         95322.0  116539.0
LRbAh PopuLArTuI   (PERKCET OF TOrAL) 46.1          5 5. 9     64.1                       64.2                       53.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATILON 1S YEAR 2uu0  (MILLIONS)                       176.5
SIATIONARY POPULAIION (MILLIONS)                            281.0
YEAR STAIlONARY POPULATION IS RlACHEU                      2075
Po PULAIUoN DENS 11rY
PER bQ. KM.                           8.4         11.2       13.7                       34.3                       80.6
PKR SQ. KH. AGRILULTURAL LAND        44.1         50.5       55.1                       94.5                      133.9
POPULATION ALGE STRLCIUR  (PERCENT)
0-14 YRb.                            43.6         42.7       41.5                       40.7                       30.1
15-b4 YRb.                            53.h         54.3       55.1                       55.3                       61.5
L5 YRb. AND AbOVE                      2.6          3.0        3.4                        4.0                        8.3
PUPULATIuN KROWTH KATE (PERLENr)
TOIAL                                 3.0          2.9        2.2                        2.4                        1,5
uRbAN                                 5.5          4.8        3.8                        3.7                        3.1
CKUDE bIRIH RATl (PER THOuSAND)        42.5         37.0        29.4                      31.4                       22.9
LKUDU DLATH RAIE (PER THOUSAND)        12.9          10.5        8.7                       8.4                         9.1
GROSb REPRODUCIION RATE                 J.0           2.6        2.4                       2.3                         1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ALCLEPTORs, ANNUAL (JIHOUbANDS)        ..        111.0      203.6
U6EsR  (PERLENI OF MARR0ED WUMEN)    ..            1.6
FOD ANU D NUIRLIUON
INDEX oF FPUD PRoDUCTIoN
PER CAPITA (1969-71-LO)             89.0        102.0      114.0                      108.3                      119.8
PER LCAP1A SUPPLY OF
LALORIES (PERCENT OF
REOUIREFILNTS)                    101.0        1u4.0      107.2                      107.6                      125.7
PRoTEINb (GRAMb PER DAY)             61.0         61.0       62.7                       65.8                       92.5
OP WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          34.0         34.0       35.1                       34.0                       39.7
niiLD (AGEb 1-4) PURTALETY RATE        17.3         i2.0         8.3                       7.6                         3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPELTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.7            59.1       62.7                       64.1                       68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
TO1USAND)                             128.0                    92.0                       70.9                       25.2
ACCESb Io SAFE WATER (PERCENI uF
POPULATIUN)
TOTAL                                  ..         56.3       77.1                       65.7
URBAN                                  ..         77.7       88.8                       79.7
RURAL                                  ..         29.0       56.8                       43.9
ACLESS To EXLRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENr
uF POPULATIUN)
UTTAL                                  ..         59.9       64.8                       59.9
URBAN                                  .          8. 6.1     83.7                       75.7
RLRAL                                  ..         26.5       31.7                       30.4
POPULAT1uN PER PHYSlCLALN            2561.2       2123.8    1700.0                      1728.2                      973.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERbUN        2772.1       2992.3         ..                     1288.2                      896.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               3u7.0        269.0      247.7                      471.2                      262.3
URBAN                               325.6        322.6         ..                      558.0                      191.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..
ADMISbIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..         18.0         ..                         *                        18.2
AVEKAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.1          4.8        4.9
URBAN                                  ..          4.6        4.7
RURAL                                  ..          5.2        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER UF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..           1.1
URBAN                                  ..           1.0
RURAL                                  ..           1.2
ACCESS TIo ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
IOTAL                                38.7         47.6        63.0
URBAN                                  ..         75.6       84.9
RURAL                                  ..           8.4       19.2



-  24  -                                            ANNEX I
P1ge2 of 5
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTEED AVER.AgES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
fEIST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOKE
1980  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA A CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
EDUCATIpN
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PR LMARY:    TOTAL                  95.0       12 5.0      88.0/c                   101.7                     105.9
MALE                  97.0        125.0      87.07W                   103.0                      109.6
FPMkLE                93.0        125.0      88.07W                   101.5                      102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0        26.0       24.0/c                    35.3                      66.3
MALE                  11.0         26.0      22.o7W                    34.9                       73.2
FEMALE                10.0         26.0      26.07W                    35.6                       59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  19.0           17.0      47.0/c,d                  30.1                      28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             33.0        28.0       22.0/e                   29.6                       26.8
SECONDARY                           13.0         13.0      13.07W                    15.7                      23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         61.0        66.2       75.7                      80.0                      75.4
CONSUMPT ION
PASSENGER LARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.0        24.4       53.6                     42.6                       83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPLLATION                         66.4        123.8      155.0                    215.0                      181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          16.8        64.0       97.9                     89.0                      131.1
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   54.0        37.0       45.2                      62.8                     123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0            1.9       1.9                       3.2                       5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    22869.1       30078.5   36718.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    17.5        20.4       22.6                     22.6                       32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               51.9        45.6       39.8                      35.0                      34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  14.8        18.3       21.8                     23.2                       28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE IPERCENT)
TOTAL                                 32.0         31.6      31.5                      31.8                      42.3
MALE                                  52.7         50.3      48.9                      49.0                      56.5
FEMALE                                11.2         12.8      14.2                      14.6                      28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4          1.4       1.4                       1.4                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  60.0          63.5       62.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.8           3.2        2.8
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.8           9.0        9.4
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..      150.0                     187.6
ESTiMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                     465.0                    513.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..     332.0                    362.2                      385.1
ESTLMATED POPULATION BEWW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..
Not available
NoL applicabl-.
NOTES
ia   The group averages tor each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic neans.  Coverage of countries
acong the icdlca-trs depends on a-ailability of data and is not anifotn.
ib   ScL-nu utheraiue noted, data for 19.0 reter L. any year between 1959 and 19611 for 1970, between 1969
and i971; and for Most Recent Entimate, between 1976 and 1979.
o      gining 1973 priacay and secondary educations cover age groups 7-14 and 15-17 instead of 7-10 and 11-17
mn earlier >nars; therefore nost recent estinates are nor comparable with earlier data;  /d 1974;  /e 1975.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates shown in the
1981 World Atlas are US$2,050 (at 1978-80 prices) and 119 billion.
April 14, 1982



-  25  -                                                                                ANNEiX i
iege I of 5
hfFLoIIOIJSc OF 10(1A44. IColAfdidE
ee Acoo h dy  dec. .rc d-ee   from  ...oa   generaly fudged dIeN OO  d -         c   t terd  rlal,3 od                   alec  A. -od ddial dhe., yd  b. Aa--
dmdor,lyc   -brele  AIeu... of the  mtOk  fettd dlddf -d i-        in      ..eai  dtopeoeddho   ff-Irt,   ooeta   orol.y               hg     .  et.-   The          ..    or
tiere      -t.f.l    d-ea ib  -rd-do    cddy    irdi tae  trend., eod odaac1te  eitohl   ddff ....   -
ot the  ovOtto  o..c,ioy  emomt  f    reotm, boocoe IdEnoiet     -gyo  wher   Middle boom   Month Afydo  md   IodrEs    acoem I                         te ae
eeroyo   h   orre       rgoyt.df   o ha  idied       io   t   oaeeo   onrc    n                                     he ivdte-nn- depend. or-cleave ilehllty  of Iet
enooetltoof,re tedclded.    iorec..d...aii   adeege   odon~1. lndt-anor'3.--.yo                            1.........            .yoetl            ---petjoeelefl
no-d    fd   i   d            -.000  O bl 3-ldo~.   Id             :
IlAl ldA-- :Iooata.i.              tl                                                                                                                                       oolot   (oe
Total      da   dft   ranmreo                  o   readm  I    metdOo conrtd     oddh   Ie    eyo   i   viov   opolhd
(to yEl CltolU~d    hO  ye  satr  ea tedeeat  orrydweted   oiea  oa           ~               ooaoo. oIncude,   bte  itrlh la.howve   dol ho lalt
dadto  mb   ttI Ie    l:Imited tante If aedi-a   ei  Ioie             .,oeeat
tvdlngitn.terolvioutoralaaoodbor.,-n3dnarto  ee-horaee-ao.e-ct0.                                                 o.ol.edondlaidd   ald                      tenrtifI
ld~~lLATldald.D A.ldot. hTdCldTlCh
data.                                                                                     drena~~~~I-l   1   tt.  de.. htord  tt-tes-t ICed-oOrf ibdoeedold,rta,nln  tdo.
Orln rriltio     nenen  orrot>  -Odd3-,of   oon -l idecy noIft di                           caildnntt   o   rC                   Ointtta   .lod .r ...... b.t
dIferntdelootoe  f   nitanctou  oytn   capruild;  f   at                    to  Ie-   nt-  feao     hoard en on loge  eay onwyId                b    otddI
tnhd     IC,itetbttdnC i  ton  i           -onunott d-itl 'a ynbI     vl -a  1itnn               o.3eeI   Iitlit   pnoioAnllae.ite.aba.ed  i
anI,d   n   enl   , en _ro _ro.o  orb3tta tCr      Oepr-lneiotI  ollg    therrefyd   otddatr
eeore  fiforolto.  ruro.etooooaooeteloveotifdtllomo                otOtA.,t-dd.tnd-ot_dollidsfeyeotoel
feoltycod o   .        Co00  line: adIFofe'n,tand    efrat
boo  cdnty   t oentoI Ida  on3 Id-v t  le   nhda_mo  of-  morcaltr IClildIllId
th   eraenn Il     coe00 of  oni  dl ttodilir-ad  .abt eoigeertto                                     oto  do  dlote   fr  ifernt  eiot  i  pteye_oeen.fo
h.o.tuIol,b- pul.n-edeno   -nioenoo.  ruif.o.noo2totOt                                                               ICO IeCrl.o-ototl  or teatten  tr-e-rlI ...ro          gi ..efrrori
area,1dIl, 1971 -drIO  03-todbold    etl .ndano - -                                                                                        otoe  preraadhio   orrth    bderoo-l
loyult .on .a itot-n   roeo       lirr (-I-onI,l      ent--odaee.15-                              nreo  ndre-dary  bide  diolded by nower  no teade.. it rIte
Iiyae -tdrtie4h  njq1yoda aId oo,c   eroae    tmdya   o.-ooenodt   eo
Pod-j-no d     1 G- eh tdfo y          - booa   In    ito  r-h Intorrid  .0bal p-nea                     leeetigatfeagh_eeoe    nnietwoate.lre    n
_ro-or-id-  19d0b,0 1970,ad 119 ,dataal i97oneloee
opatn,1db., 1170. rod lAb  dei                                                                 broa rtac-  -In-sea.         al    e    hotd  fyylio;sroe   n
len nrmuloepddocdde reold  o rioadreledde  Onrart  te-tal ifto tt-                 rds et  ty fffeo, dat  f.r reenrmi way no  be rdmparebleelcdne
ell i y rare; ooal l  f to-yearanereed ediv  Io bItt, 1970, and l9l9,                     maecooeeie  aolldlceee
of  lrt-lrityl   eoieo   nde  trnlve   f ntora,(ael-  lorin   rrretov.i eeeotlreio  pet  _haard  none tern                                 Iro fue   te eresa  T. fecene
eoeo   ofodfl-herld   ego11:to  ntit  eb  ra  ii-tnotrnl d-oiree. ICleneaewm                        otlvenle noen  no                   einn    - Shnoatbeuneetetoo-
prbli-aiioooenottd primaily  to relo-ding gen-e   de.maI            It Ioe.d-oe
ItODI 010 00T01T01                                                                                         irI    ely' if In ....... at             I  eeo , oon lneeeee..k
lode. of Prod _Pr_dootido ro_    o ioI>l-S-IL                  lodto tO  por cupola onol              Iomloolotedrenrlpt   e    1ea   - Bte.oId1   h,tIe'oler of
'Idc  o   falfodnmtdte    ynndrdin tt lden  eead ad, feed ed                        ~         teiba-soId  dorn   heno   i-r ldnig aer                     o  noet   ioce_e
ocrat  eo add:.Igrraiyrd.o.t.to  of e.n. .0..cr ry  iaoed, 0C                            IiOR FORCE
ooainel  nyugenrdooe    rycd   01         1961-t5, I190, and 1970 dar.-                       oT.tl Lahrbrrc  P        hIoei,- to etiy-             cto   rron   ioodo
Per rente   srrrdy o  cu loron (rorneoiof retotrcenra 9 -Cowotd fr.o                 erred foorta end toemployd boo.  --i org hoo.o.. e    tdns    e.
-rdd   e   -IalI   I If Iro  fr  rPyle  mom-  al   itdoor  yen tay rc Pnni0roia-to   f  l  mr.   e Otonton  in  -eir.e t                                              -oin   d
yed-y  d-aflable   opimcwyiedntl   nr- dcoo,  lo non  idee                                        ooc Cown-rie; 191910   AI  rod 1979 date.
dor -r4o  h-doee      -rock   Nlet tpplnt-m lo'de animal  feed -tode.,fml rrto FI   1-1Pemlo  elo   fono  e  p-reog If tota   Iblot  force
Itlottltitaood  1,In 11  nombe  ai  .o.m.  In  dtolotnn    .qbe-dnintrnlrb-i- an    oteI   mottd oe y, hnitra aid.
wentoenrom  toetod by f~o  -oad on phyaidloelca   t..OrO                  -onolc                    fitehtg oe noroer-ar  of total         b, Ito     .o. lO/ -11  191  aid 1979 dat.-
otto  add   bal    onrdoletrntttoeeu t-bd   egt.aeindaI-1Iprtn    -  eLonC  _drleIn nivine.  notrfo                                                                    eoen
end .e..    i  bo,on    op.do.n   alet11  nrortfI    eveIn lerirlnry. orde  aid gtr  n-le-if    of deal  .blot fo-n., t9d.
boieebld  lonl, lOl-no, 1t1  to  3dtT1  d-c.                                              lhnf ad Id9 df.-
cyr:o Itu  ,  f               tome   ....d-   I - l I .1 . . fi- .ct  It  ...  Rr.o              or-.  o., date. .tnyonoc          - -tote     mac   aid t ftln-r.bre fnipclt -
"I   rinonrto  eriiltledh- 1-   nrnnldo  ton nJnirvo                                        lletIvro   Idl-dl   rd feil  oprlnr1ino  If el,I'tletreerotloat;
olheyroot  O auorof   -to  -rtenr pot dao and lb egi-  or attol u-                           1961, 197~1,.ed-    Ol  dta T7rmo   brdnIl.p-rttirottotre_
oilrrprottn,  -l oict  0 frn. tooldoe eidol  pot.i.  Theercd-                          ref.   idoring   ego-eon  a         fodott  y   h   P.poIIr.aolw   nOte  red.
iooridbtnobdenf(hgraarodlnllptoceloandosrtoeoo                   leorerntoovate  frnaarlooelrrooor
atintlprnorittrunaotno gooorthr toldtorobpa-.                   bnbr                     tt.cil-eden3FOyRant-     l-i--nsinonneIC              udrttnbenoe
iodyn  dlancd nolme  lot  -rde  pet dab  101ho   Idol and >70 'dodo -               enma -ln      tTLO
tolt;--0   Ol   tdI>   udf inornld-.
dIALth                                                                                                  OVERTyn  TARETo leRorA
Llfr o.  tvdd E    tlrthffLt~YArrl-doennoo  noed           31 foor fo  I       -eOdail                t    nlnt   atan   aeot   poret    eone                             ooe    ero
anbind   101bO   od  ti   do
IftY'K~~~~-              .1  I.f.dC.  -d-  C-                        Ii~an   abod  i  ICe intyre    Illy100ioaiealo.
iotefnollifotcdorn(dooieeocttaI..dt.                                                 Itt               abardh olnPnee- hoo.rellhotaplltnaaortl
nO ege per rcorettd  _tn                                                                     E.rb
~~~h-,dd  11-  hi,ih.,                                                -rd  Abbolbepootnbotoe  eol  o  ha  icoe  ro- oP-                btb    wora
ta _fpeole (Onol.      obn   an__,d  nn   -- tt  e    -a ala  Iooe  toC cut                           odu d
.doato   d dbIn  ott..   n.t..  oonmofna   or. I  rrlaeclo   rdalri                                                       o  hlgbtt  noet o -lloo Iv arhon erro..Pl _
03.1'3031tOl  hebc.cioc  t  raer   .  ro  ooeiot        (niatd onladh     OElo  obeolot   -oon Inroimia tieoe . rooob                   -pa
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cdttl-rretn ppainttcin oa)odaear:n
in 001tori   .A0rnon3tpn3.nob.t-aty  not of"l,ddto0 doltblot Ot          onI
tntobodet-.I7o.aa    mrd.onI<-ah>a'  to...til               .              I. ...t tutera.
Nditde_    l    to I...odu             C..dorl ...oe   Itiyoedtrem
,d  11-,%~~~~~~~~~~~~Ir .......... ~ ~ ~ ~  ~         ~          ~         ~         ~         ~         nu  10
i~o.utio  nor theint-n--.noointri(niae
Piolatfrooonroltoloonorr.oo
ma.erdtmaietedulenoar, 00031-01 dt-odO   rob            rrntc tr



-  2 6  -                                                                    ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population         119.0 million (1980)
GNP Per Capita:  US$2,050 (1980)
Amount                     Average Annual Increase (Z)                  Share of GDP at Market Prices (Z)
Indicator                        (Million US$ Current)                (at Constant 1970 Prices)                           (at Current Prices)
1980               1965-70   1970-75    1975-80    1981-86          1970     1975     1979     1980 /b    1985
National Accounts
Gross Domestic Product /a                               248,200                 7.7        10.6         6.9        6.0        100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0          100.0
Agriculture                                            23,365                 1.9         5.7        4.7         5.2         8.2       8.7      9.4      9.4         9.4
Industry                                               71,590                 9.2       11.6         7.6         5.9        29.1    32.6    31.8    28.8            31.8
Services                                              111,365                 8.0       10.7         6.8         6.2        43.0    41.3    42.5    44.4           42.5
Consumption                                             201,040                 7.7         9.8        5.7         5.7        76.9    78.6    79.8    80.5            76.3
Gross Investment                                         52,460                 9.4        14.6         5.2        6.0         23.5    25.4      22.6    21.1         22.9
Exports of Goods and NFS                                 21,305                 8.2        11.2         7.3        8.2          6.6      7.4      8.2      8.6         9.7
Imports of Goods and NFS                                 26,575                14.5        17.2        2.8         5.9          7.0     11.4    10.6    10.7           8.9
Gross Domestic Savings                                 47,160                 7.9        12.9        6.1         -          23.1     21.4    20.2    19.5           23.7
Amount                     Average Annual Increase (%)                 Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)
(Million US$ Current)               (at Constant 1970 Prices)                           (at Current Prices)
1980               1965-70          1970-75           1975-80       1966        1970          1975         1980
Merchandise Trade
Merchandise Exports                                     20,132                  7.8              11.9              5.8        100.0       100.0         100.0        100.0
Primary                                               11,092                  7.3              8.3               1.1        82.9         75.1          61.8        55.1
Manufactures                                           9,040                  7.9             28.2              18.2        17.1         24.9          38.2        44.9
Merchandise Import                                      22,961                 10.0             17.6              -1.4       100.0        100.0         100.0        100.0
Food                                                   1,239                 -3.8             -6.7              17.5        11.5          4.5           3.0          5.4
Petroleum                                             10,210                  9.3              7.6               4.3        14.7         11.2          24.5        44.5
Machinery and Equipment                                4,392                 22.1             15.2             -7.5         15.2         21.2          14.0         19.1
Other                                                  7,120                  8.3             28.4             -1.9         58.6         63.1          58.5        31.0
1975            1976            1977            1978            1979            1980
Prices and Terms of Trade
GDP Deflator (1970 = 100)                                       305.1            444.3           632.7           892.5         1,399.4         2,724.6
Exchange Rate (Cr5/USS)                                            8.1            10.6            14.1            18.1            26.9            53.5
Export Price Index (1970 = 100)                                 176.0            192.0           226.0           228.0           266.0           290.0
Import Price Index (1970 = 100)                                 242.0           255.0            286.0           317.0           389.0           431.0
Terms of Trade Index (1970 = 100)                                72.0             75.0            79.0            72.0            68.0            67.0
As % of GDP
(at Current Cruzeiro Prices)
1970             1975              1979 /b
Public Finance (Central Government)
Current Revenue                                                                         16.6             19.8              20.8
Current Expenditure                                                                    14.4              15.8              17.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                              2.2               4.0               3.2
Capital Expenditure                                                                     2.6               3.8               3.7
Financing (Net)                                                                        -0.4               0.2              -0.5
1965-70            1970-75             1975-79
Other Indicators
GNP Growth Rate (%)                                                                    7.7                10.7                 5.8
GNP per Capita Growth Rate (%)                                                         4.6                 7.7                 3.0
Energy Consumption Growth Rate (%)                                                      7.2                7.3                 6.5
ICOR                                                                                   2.9                 3.0                 3.9
Marginal Savings Rate                                                                 20.5                25.7                22.7
Import Elasticity                                                                      2.2                 1.6                 0.3
/a   At market prices; components are net domestic products expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of depreciation and indirect
taxes less subsidies.
/b   Preliminary Economic Mission scheduled for May 1982 will update the fiscal data.
May 5, 1982



Page S of S
LUANCE OF PANTSI . XflRIAL CAPITAL Aim DMST
(sultan USS at U,rre t prie)
Population:      g119  illio- (1980)
GNP Per Capita:  US2,050 (1980)
ACTIAIL                                                                                        P20JtCTE
1975         1976         1977         1-98         1979         1980         1981              1982         1983         5984         1985          1986
Balance of Psyentt
Net eaporta of gooda and aervicet                                  -6,702        -6,018       -4,037       -6,086      -10,039      -12,564      -11,173           (-8,770)    (-7,533)    (-5,735)    (-4,095)          (-979)
Roporta of gooda                                                 (8,670)    (10,128)    (12,120)    (12,659)    (15,244)    (20,132)    (23,293)                 (27,757)    (32,770)    (38.740)    (035143)   (52,596)
Iworta of Goods                                                 (12.210)    (L2.383)    ()2,023)    f13,683)    (16,084)    (22,955)    (22,080)                 (23,648)    (26,065)    (28,937)    (32.505)   (36,99)
Not fac-or Incoe                                                 -1,733         -2,188     .2 536        -3,257       -4,821       -6,621       -9,549            -8,687      -10,609      -11,397      -11,990    -11,153
(of  hlloh net loeaoaol paynca                                (-1,488)    (-1.810)    (-2,103)    (-2.686)    (-4,185)    (-6,311)    (-9,179)                (-7.365)    (-8.246)    (-9.020)    (-9,631)    -8,663
Nes naon-acooraerolcea                                          (-1,429)    (-1,574)    (-1,578)    (-1,805)            (-2,378)    (-3,120)    (-2,837)         (-3,192)     4,3,628)          (-4,141)     (-4,744)   (-5,429)
Mtet oaiora                                                              2            1            -           71           18           168          197              197          197           197          (97         197
Correct account baSance                                            -6,700       -6,017        -4,037       -6,015      -10,021      -12,396      -10,976            -8,573       -7,336       -5,538       -3,898        -782
Otroct pnltato Inne-teoc /b                                            892          959          810        1,071        1,491        1,123          569             1,776        2.004        2,376        0,628      2(980
b64L  loane oat                                                     4,830         5,542        3,650       10,016        3,297        3,673        9,571             8,996        8.307        6.981        5 974       32 55
Trod" -tonaltoorco                                                  (955)     (1,147)       (1,059)      (1,450)      (1,250)      (1,195)      (4,314)           (524)        (5.125)      (4,965)      (4,986)    (4,354)
Pinanct-l credits                                                (6,027)      (7 013)      (8,226)    (13,714)    (50,479)         (8,890)    (13,513)           (50.962)    (10.936)    (11,370)    (15 010)   (12.017J
tmorlsaaelot                                                     (2.552)      (2.658)      (3,633)       (5,546)      (6,630)      (6.610)      (7,956)          (-7,190)    (-7 754)    (-9,354)   (-11,017)   ((3.080)
Scaailian Ioat, abroad (ceo(                                         -190          -240         -267         -357         -608         -416         -702                              -                          -
.,h-  capital n. .1                                                    -62        1,829       -1,248         -418        1,059        4,732         5,304           -1,638       -2.188       -2,801       -3,549      -4,040
Change In rei eree.   (-i-cr,a.e.                                      1 5,230     -2,065         -908       -4,299        2,782         3,480         -766             -560         -806          -948      -1,154      -1,410
ItOOOoationa 0 neaproca /d                                             4,041        6,544        7,256       11,895        9,699        6,913        7,505             8,065        8,872        9,820       10,974      12,384
tesecoe,o, nmontah of iw-orta/c                                            4            6.3          7 .2         3.9           6.4          2.8          4.1              3.3           3.3          3,2          3.7         3. 2
1975         1976         1977         5978         1975         1980          1981
Ontercal [alt
Total debt ouOtaed- ng and d1a1o-eod                              23,298       28,403        34,6051      46,436       31,342       54,865    61,400 /f
Poblic and pobitly goaranlead                                    13,70b       17,349       21,593        30,284       35,478       30,260
0fficlaoorce                                                    3,959        4,431        4,717        5,401         5,889        6,416
2000                                                         (1,093)      (1,21))      (1,453)      (1,602)      (1,827)      (2,069)            -
Olher                                                        (2,866)      (3,214)      (3,304)      (3,799)      (4,062)       (4,347)
Priat__  ...rev                                                 9,747       52,918       16,878       23,883        29,589      31,844
rclaee ncon-oornloeed                                             9,592       11,133        13,005       16,152       15,864       (6,605
lndltburaed deI              _ (pubIc only)                          3,879        6,620        8,415       10,209       12,448       14,04151
tross Disbursetints
Total gee.. dlebortenect of M6LT loaoI                              6,9I1         8,106        9,282       15,164       11,72       10,095
Pulit 10/ pobocly gc.renceed                                       3,788        4,921        5,422       10,116        9.532        6.893
Of II.ol  enc -nccrrd(ta                                          428          405           169          490          448          467
IBRD                                                             250          173           298          275          302          343            -
Other n,lttlacero(                                               159           13            92          130          206          (92
P--lote coocce                                                 2,991        4,233        4,862        9,216        8,197         5,892
Pi-tce oe -- -ar -tseed                                          3,194        3,239        3,861         5,048        2,576        3,192
Debt Service
Cot-l delbt aecoce paypeett                                         4,195        4,352        5,642        8,232       11,147       53,51668
Icterest (nec)                                                  (1,677)      (5,423)      (1,655)      (2,457)       (3,553)      (5,452)           -
Poyaettsoo 0 T of t' porto a- d NFS                                    39.6         36,2         39,6         54.2         59.8          54.9
Papuanosos X of NCP                                                     259          2,6          3,0          3.7          4,3          4. 8
resta   u Oce public dobl (X)  8i 8,7                                     7.6          0.3          9.9         51.2         15.3          -
Otffioal sococe                                                         7.7          79           60           7( t5           3          8            -
Av      aaturt  oftn.   guaranteed loan.                                  * 0         11.3          10,0        lo,          11.5         10,3
tics  adroe                                                         18 4         16.3         56.1         14,5         54,0         53.6
Private source                                                 7.0          9.3          8,7           9.3         11.2          9,3
18RU Esosr
0 D0 202/Total                                                          4,7          4,3          4,1          34           3.6           3 8
1660 digburtedaeus(total gores dlibura--e.ot (X)                        3.5          2,1          3,2           1,8         2,6           3.4
IBD debt scruis  .totol deli arni-ce (X)                                2.5          3.2          3.7          2,7           2,2         251           -
As X of total debl  nat.tandoig
at end of Deta-be- 1980       (h
reb,r Ntn:rs.,re
Nfaturitysatoucoune of Oslo outetandlog
lateirltes dos vtbil   3 peace                                                                  67
Mae,rSotlee  ted ott-.nn IO  -ear,                                                              33
/1 Edtite.
'b tocludito re-loceatad profIts
Ic 9c-luditg doOlor -aluation edjua.t nta sod Ioneeloeolon of doneaio gold.
/d  Includiog gold and dollat 1  aloattoo adjuatetts,
/e Good -nly.
If  -e           -ilsuoaoalle.
/g Public debt only.
/h Pro-iti.ced
So-rce:  balance of Payeot-  Isa - Banco Ceospal do Bratil; E.teroal Debt Dasa - EPD
Map 3, 1982



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 14
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Amount less
Loan # Year               Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Fifty-two loans fully disbursed                                  1,736.1
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -        Power              125.0           3.3
Itumbiara
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao         Power               81.0          16.0
Francisco-CHESF
1067   1974  Brazil                             Education           23.5           7.5
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal           Railways           175.0           2.1
1075   1975  Brazil                             Roads              110.0          16.7
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry               95.0          13.0
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry               60.0          21.7
1153   1975  Brazil                             Agriculture         23.0           3.2
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista         Railways            75.0          14.1
1195   1976  Brazil                             Rural Development  12.0            7.6
1207   1976  Brazil                             Feeder Roads        55.0          32.0
1249   1976  Brazil                             Agriculture         40.0           9.7
1300   1976  Eletrobras                         Power               50.0           0.8
1302   1976  Brazil                             Nutrition           19.0           2.0
1309   1976  Banco Nacional da Habitacao        Water Supply        40.0           0.1
1317   1976  Brazil                             Agro-Industry       83.0          59.6
1343   1977  ELETROSUL                          Power               82.0          17.5
1362   1977  State of Minas Gerais              Rural Development  42.0           10.5
1406   1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes            Fertilizer          52.0          11.7
1411   1977  Fertilizantes Vale do              Fertilizer          55.0           1.9
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452   1977  Brazil                             Education           32.0          22.7
1488   1977  Brazil                             Rural Development  17.0           12.1
1525   1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao        Sewerage           110.0          75.9
1537   1978  Brazil                             Rural Development  24.0           19.5
1538   1978  ELETROBRAS                         Power              130.0          64.9
1557   1978  Brazil                             Roads              114.0          88.5
1562   1978  COPESUL                            Petrochemicals      85.0          14.1
1563   1978  Brazil                             Urban Transport    88.0           36.4
1568   1978  Brazil                             Agric. Extension  100.0           76.5



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of March 31, 1982)
Amount less
Loan #  Year               Borrower              Purpose       Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1589    1978  Brazil                           Rural Development   37.0            28.5
1654    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sites & Services    93.0               65.9
1656    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water & Sewerage   100.0               85.7
1660    1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.            Aluminum              78.8          11.5
1714    1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   26.0            23.7
1720    1979  Brazil                           Urban Development   70.0            61.5
1721    1979  COPEL                            Power                109.0          84.9
1728    1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   40.0            35.2
1729    1979  Brazil                           Irrigation            28.0          18.6
1730    1979  Brazil                           Roads                110.0         100.6
1822    1980  Brazil/BNDE                      Pollution Control   58.0            58.0
1823    1980  Banco Nacional
da Habitacao                  Water Supply         130.0         115.0
1824    1980  CEEE                             Power                114.0         114.0
1839    1980  Brazil                           Urban Transport    159.0           155.8
1850    1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply            139.0         120.1
1867    1980  Brazil                           Education             32.0          30.8
1877    1980  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development   63.0            61.3
1895    1980  ELETROSUL                        Power                125.0         124.7
1924    1981  Brazil                           Rural Development   56.0            53.0
1939    1981  ELETROBRAS                       Power                 54.0          52.6
1965    1981  EBTU                             Urban Transport       90.0          90.0
1970    1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply            180.0         168.1
1989    1981  Brazil                           Alcohol Devt.        250.0         250.0
2015    1981  Brazil                           Agriculture           29.0          29.0
2016    1981  Brazil                           Agriculture           60.0          57.0
2060 /1 1982  Brazil                           Agriculture           67.0          67.0
2061 /1 1982  Brazil                           Health                13.0          13.0
2062 /1 1982  Brazil                           Highways             240.0         240.0
2116 /1 /3 1982 Brazil                         Agriculture           26.4          26.4
Total                                               6,310.8 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                  883.4
Total now outstanding                               5,427.4
Amount sold                            45.8
of which has been repaid             45.3             0.5
Total now held by Bank                              5,426.9
Total undisbursed                                                 3X003-5
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.
/3   Not yet signed.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 14
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVEST#ENTS (a, of March 31. 1982)
Fiscal                                                                                                                                                   Amoust in US$ million
Year                                               0 b 1 i g o r                                           Type of Business                         Loans        Equity      Total
1957                      Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Electricidade                                      Electrical Equipment                            2.00          -         2.00
1958                      Olinkraft, S. A. Cel.lose e Papel                                            Pulp and Paper                                   1.20         -         1.20
1958                      D. L. R. Plasticos do Brasil, S. A.                                          Astomotive Parts                                0.45          -         0.45
1958                      Willys-Overland do Brasil, S. A. - Industria e Comerclo                      Motor Vehicles                                  2.45          -         2.45
1959                      Companhia Mineira de Cinento Portland, S. A.                                 Cement                                          1.20          -         1.20
1959                      Chanpios Celulose, S. A.                                                     Pulp                                            4.00          -         4.00
1966/1968/1972            Acos Villares, S. A.                                                         Steel                                           8.00         1.93       9.93
1966/1969                 Papel e Celulosa Catarinen-e  S. A.                                          Pulp and Paper                                  3.78         3.41       7.19
1967/1972                 Ultrafertil, S. A. - Industria e Comercin de Fertilizantes                   Fertilizers                                     8.22         3.03      11.25
1969                      Petroquimica Uniao.  S. A.                                                   Petrochemicals                                  5.50         2.88       8.38
1970                      Pololefinas.  S. A. Industria e Comercio                                    Petrochemicals                                  5.50         2.88       8.38
1971                      Oxiteno, S. A. Industria e Comercio                                          Petrochemicals                                  4.60         1.44       6.04
1971                      Rio Grande - Coapanhia de Celulose do Sul                                    Pulp                                            4.90          -         4.90
1972/1975/1981            Companhia de Ciwento Nacional de Mhinas                                      Cewent                                        169.14        6.70      175.84
1973/1974/1977/1981       Coapanhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA                                 Steel                                          76.97       11.22       88.19
1973                      Capital Market Development Pund - FUMCAP                                     Capital Market Development                      5.00          -         5.00
1973/1978                 Empresa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos Minerais - CODEMIN, 8. A.    Nickel Mining and Refining                              85.00         8.34       93.34
1974                      Industrias Villares.  S. A.                                                  Elevators and Industrial Equipment              6.00         -          6.00
1974                      Pabrica de Tecido Tatuape.  S. A.                                            Testiles                                       31.00         -         31.00
1975/1979                 Capuava Carbonos Indostrias Ltd.                                             Carbon Black                                    6.18        1.19        7.37
1975                      Oxiteno Nordeste.   S. A.                                                    Petrochemicals                                 10.00         -         10.00
1976                      Santista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S. A.                               Te.tiles                                        6.45        1.00        7.45
1976/1980                 Tecanor S. A. - Textil Catarinense do Nordeste                               Te.tiles                                       16.20         -         16.20
1977                      FMB S. A. Productos Metalurgicos                                             Iron and Aluminum Castings                     20.00         -         20.00
1977                      Mineracao Rio do Norte S. A.                                                 Mining                                         15.00         -        15.00
1978                      Ci-tal Siderurgia S. A.                                                      Iron and Steel                                  7.00        3.00       10.00
1979                      Volvo do Brasil Motores e Veicules, S. A.                                    Motor Vehicles                                60.00         5.00      65.00
1980                      Hering do Nordeste S. A. - Malhas                                            Ready-made Garments                             2.00         -          2.00
1980                      Dende do Para S/A - Denpasa - Agricultura, Industria
e Comerco de Oleaginosas                                                 Palm-OS1                                        3.50         1.00       4.50
1980                      Villares Industrias de Base S. A. - VIBASA                                   Iron and Steel                                  5.00         -          5.00
1980                      PP8 - Companhia Industrial de Polipropileno                                  Chemicals and Petrochemicals                   15.00        2.00       17.00
1980                      Destilaria Cianorte S. A.                                                    Chemicals and Petrochemicals                     -          0.25        0.25
1980                      Sotave Ama.onia Quisica e Mineral S/A                                        Fertilizers                                    16.00        4.00      20.00
1980                      Polisul Petroqaimica                                                         Chemicals and Petrochemicals                   43.00        5.00      48.00
1981                      BraSilpar                                                                    Money and Capital Markets                        -          1.50        1.50
1981                      Companhia Brasileira de Agropecuaria - COBRAPE                               Food and Food Processing                        5.50        3.00        8.50
1981                      Triunfo                                                                      Chemicals and Petrochesicals                   46.00        4.00       50.00
1982                      Cimento CAUE                                                                 Cement and Construction Materials              40.00        5.00      45.00
Total Gross Comitmests                                                                                         741.74        77.77     819.51
Less Cancellations.  Terminations, Repay.ents and Sales                                                        534.19        12.02     546.21
Total Commitments No. Held by IPC                                                                              207.55        65.75     273.30
Total Undisbursed                                                                                              219.01        21.47     240.48



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14
C.   Status of Projects in Execution
As of March 31, 1982 1/
As of March 31, 1982, there were 54 effective Bank loans under
disbursement:
Loan No.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125.0 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is about 90% completed. Major procurement has
been completed. Four of the six generating units have been in
service since late 1980; the other two were commissioned in 1981.
A cost overrun of about 57% is forecast due mainly to a substantial
increase in the size of the transmission works and to an increase
in the cost of civil works.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81.0 million loan
of June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule. The Closing date was postponed to June 30, 1982 to
allow additional time for equipment deliveries extending into the
latter half of 1981, and thereafter to meet retention payments
on equipment contracts.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project execution is about two years behind schedule mainly because
of delays during the early stages. Forty-four of the 51 facilities
to be constructed are now operating or just completed. Progress in
implementation of the enlarged project is satisfactory. Overall costs
are within reviewed estimates. A local project completion team should
send a draft PCR to the Bank for comments by September 1982.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175.0 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project has been completed and no further disbursements will
be made. About US$1.0 million is being cancelled. A project
completion report will be issued before the end of 1982.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110.0 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Roadworks, detailed engineering studies for road construction
and road rehabilitation have been completed.  Implementation of
the maintenance program in the states of Minas Gerais and Rio Grande
do Sul is progressing well. Installation of the 73 weighing stations
(Phase I) suffered delays because of financial constraints imposed
by the federal government. Additional counterpart funds for 1981
have been provided recently and works have been reactivated. The
weighing station program is being reformulated; the closing date
will have to be extended further to allow completion of the works.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
June 9, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Due to lack of funds in 1981 and further
constraints on 1982 spending, project completion is now scheduled
for November 1983. The company's financial position is inadequate
with a year-end 1981 current ratio of 0.54, debt equity ratio of
52:48 and debt service coverage of 0.6 times. A supervision
mission visited Brazil in March 1982, and strongly reiterated the
Bank's request that the Government provide additional funds (or
allow CSN to increase its long-term borrowings) to complete the
project by May 1983 (the earliest now possible) and to restore
the company's current ratio to 1.0 times by year-end 1982 (with
full compliance on all financial covenants to be met by end-1984).
The Government and the Bank are discussing possible measures to
accelerate project completion and restore the company to a
viable financial position.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
December 30, 1983. Government approved budgets for the company
indicate that spending on the project in 1982 will be cut by 40%
in real terms below last year's levels. As a result, work on the
project is expected to stop by July 1982. The company also remains
in a poor financial situation, with a year-end 1981 current ratio of
0.45, debt-equity ratio of 55:45, and debt service coverage of 0.6
times. A supervision mission visited Brazil in March and strongly
reiterated the Bank's request that the Government provide additional
funds (or allow COSIPA to increase its long-term borrowings) to
complete the project by October 1984 (the earliest now possible) and
to restore the company's current ratio to 1.0 times by year-end 1982
with full compliance on all financial covenants to be met by end-1984).
The Government and the Bank are discussing possible measures to
accelerate project completion and restore the company to a viable
financial position.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page S of 14
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The Bank agreed to a CODEVASF proposal to
replace works previously planned for certain areas with the
rehabilitation of works in several flood plain areas which
suffered heavily from floods in 1979. With respect to the
project works, construction of the irrigation and drainage
system and settlement in the Betume flood plain has been
delayed by the unexpected need to construct a new small dam
to control floods in a tributary river. Roads recently
constructed by the Government in the area of Brejo Grande flood
plain are acting as control dikes for irrigation purposes, so
previously planned project works may be excluded from the project.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: September 30,
1983. The implementation of the project, as redefined to take into
account FEPASA's weak financial position in 1976-78, is improving.
Completion is estimated for mid-1983. FEPASA's operations continue
to improve significantly. The railway has reduced its operating
cost in the past year mainly due to reduction in staff and improve-
ment of train operations.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily
in the areas of extension, credit, applied research, and health,
although one year behind the original schedule. The design of
Phase II, extended project activities to new municipalities,
sharpened the project's focus on the lowest income farmers, and
included new components in the areas of marketing, storage, support
to cooperatives, land services, seed production, and inland fisheries.
Serious droughts in the last three years, coupled with delays in the
release of funds, have slowed down the implementation of Phase II,
but activities related to land, inland fisheries, and to increasing
small farmers' resistance to drought through small-scale irrigation
methods, have recently shown good progress.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. The loan was fully committed by mid-1980 for
16 subprojects in 12 states. Because of implementation delays
and constant devaluation of the ORTN, the monetary unit in which
subloans are denominated, a major reformulation was necessary to
restore BNDE/DNER/IBRD participation to its initial level. Under-
taken by mid-1981, the reformulation of the project is now complete,
resulting in a reduction of its scope to improvement or construction
of 5,420 km of roads and 62 bridges, and in the provision of about
US$23 million from the second Loan (1730-BR) for additional financing
of 10 subprojects under the first project. Physical implementation
of the project, which had reached 47% at the end of 1981, is now
progressing well. Disbursements under the first loan are expected to
be completed by the end of 1983.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. With the removal of constraints on the levels
of incremental staff, imports of project related equipment and
controls on the training programs (abroad) for research technicians,
the project progressed satisfactorily during 1981 and the rate of
disbursements rose sharply. Provided the current levels of
counterpart funding and project implementation are sustained during
1982, the project should be completed by about end-1982.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is about 6 months behind schedule because of
initial difficulties in obtaining a Government definition regarding
participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement is now progressing
satisfactorily. The agreed targets for connection of low income
households have been widely exceeded. Substantial improvements in
the management of the project companies have been achieved, partic-
ularly in the areas of financial control and planning of COELBA and
CELPE.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. An amending Agreement to the Loan and
Project Agreements was signed on January 14, 1981. The major
changes in the project involved the elimination of a credit program
for nutritious foods industries and the incorporation of a program
for the distribution of basic foods to low-income urban families.
The reformulated project responds better to the Government's
institutional priorities. Since this reformulation, project
operations have improved substantially. Problems still remain
with the quality of evaluation studies presently carried out and
counterpart funding for these studies. The rate of disbursements
has risen sharply. About 90% of the loan is now disbursed.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982. This loan has been fully
committed for the financing of subprojects in the metropolitan
area of Belo Horizonte, 38 subprojects for medium sized cities in
the interior, and 138 subprojects for small communities mostly in
rural areas of the state.  The physical works financed under the
project are about 80% complete. The closing Date was postponed
to September 30, 1982.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project (Loan No. 924-BR of August 1, 1973,
the undisbursed balance of which was cancelled as of December 31,
1980), disbursements for the second loan began only in 1981. The
existence of competing credit lines at subsidized rates and a
temporary Government policy of prefixing monetary correction unrelated



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14
to the actual inflation rate have ended. The Government is now follow-
ing a revised monetary correction system under which the level of
indexing more nearly reflects the level of inflation, in line with
the conditions of the Loan Agreement. Arrangements for monitoring
the adequacy of monetary correction were agreed with the Government.
The loan is expected to be fully committed shortly.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. The project is about 95% complete and 100% of the
contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded. Project execution is on schedule.
The Loan is expected to be fully disbursed by the closing date of
June 30, 1982.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project I:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. This project is progressing satisfactorily
after initial delays. Participation in this project by landless
producers was initially lower than originally envisaged, but
concerted efforts by the state government and the participating
banks have improved this situation markedly. A postponement of
the closing date by 18 months, and a reallocation of loan
proceeds to incorporate marketing, road improvement, and water
supply activities, have been agreed.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: May 31, 1982.
Construction of plant buildings and erection of equipment are well
advanced, but some delays have been experienced in delivery of
locally ordered equipment which may delay the project completion
date by about eighteen months. Commercial production is now
expected to begin in October 1982. The costs to complete the
project are expected to be about 15% below the appraisal estimate.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. The project has been in operation from August 1980.
During this period it achieved an average capacity utilization of
81% for sulfuric acid, 55% for MAP and 37% for TSP. Several plant
modifications have been carried out to improve performance of MAP
and TSP plants. Market constraints following revised credit
policies and fertilizer price increases in early 1981 have affected
production of finished products by about 20%.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The loan was amended on March 26, 1982, subsequent to a project
reformulation required by: (a) reduction in counterpart funds
affecting one component, and (b) difficulties encountered in
acquiring suitable sites for a number of centers. The presidential
decree approving the legal and financial definition of SENAR was
signed, which now permits this component to be fully implemented.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Agricultural extension has been particularly successful in reach-
ing target farmers, and initial land purchases for a first small
group of farmers have been made. Agricultural credit has suffered
from shortages of local bank funds. Physical and social infra-
structure is proceeding well, although there are some difficulties
in administering the health component and delays in carrying out the
water supply program. A state proposal to reformulate certain re-
maining aspects of the project and to extend the Closing Date is
under consideration.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. Physical execution of the
project components financed by the Bank is on schedule; however,
because of financial constraints the pace of execution is slow for
those project components not financed by the Bank. Three important
municipalities whose facilities are not operated by the executing
agency are not building the necessary sewage collectors to connect
to one of the treatment plants being built under the project. This
problem has been raised with the Brazilian authorities and is
expected to be solved soon. Project completion is expected to be
delayed by about two years.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
While financial and managerial problems created significant delays
in project implementation over the past two years, the situation
has improved since the recent reorganization of the project adminis-
tration. Several components, such as land tenure services, non-
farm rural enterprises, and agricultural credit, show encouraging
progress. Preliminary plans are currently developed toward modify-
ing the land, marketing and health components, and to expand the
project area for selected project activities.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan
of May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Disbursements were initially delayed by about
one year due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market, reluctance by
two of the beneficiaries to contract consultants as agreed, and
procurement delays. Initially there were also delays in project
execution due to low tariff levels and insufficient counterpart
funds. In July 1981, ELETROBRAS arranged for the required counter-
part funds to be provided and in September 1981 the Government
agreed with the Bank to increase tariffs to appropriate levels so
that these projects can now proceed satisfactorily.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Rehabilitation of highways foreseen under the project proceeded
satisfactorily to mid-1980, when works were suspended because
of financial constraints imposed by the federal government. However,
these problems have been recently corrected and project execution
has been resumed. The maintenance program in the state of Parana
is progressing well. The second phase of the weighing station
program will not begin until the first phase (under Loan 1075-BR)
has been completed and the effects monitored. The Project is being
*                     reformulated to reflect current priorities.  Project completion
could be delayed by two years.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation is proceeding well with an overall completion
ratio approaching 75%. Commencement of commercial operations is
expected in October 1982. The anticipated cost to complete the
project is presently running about 7% below the original estimate.
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This project is progressing satisfactorily although progress
initially varied widely among the five cities involved. The
project has been partially reformulated to delete certain items
whose implementation was no longer justified as originally envisaged
at appraisal, or could not be physically completed by the revised
project completion date, December 31, 1982. At the same time, some
new items have been included to achieve the project's objective, which
is improvement of the delivery of urban transport services in several
cities. The Closing Date has also been postponed to June 30, 1983.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22,
1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984. The executing agency, EMBRATER, continues to work closely
with state/territory agencies to achieve adequate project implementa-
tion. The Project Coordination Unit has been effective, and project
execution proceeded satisfactorily during 1981. The Closing Date
has been postponed from December 31, 1982 to June 30, 1984, in
part to allow additional time to achieve planned levels of incre-
mental staffing, fellowships for staff training, and use of
consultants.  However, at least a partial exemption to recently
re-imposed Government hiring restrictions will need to be arranged
by EMBRATER to prevent a serious slow-down in project development.
Overall, the remaining project activities appear to be proceeding
reasonably well.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983. The pace of project execution is now satisfactory, and delays
in funding have been reduced. Extension and land titling services
have been improved, but lack of land purchase credit is hampering
the balanced progress of the project. The quality of feeder road



- 8S -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14
construction has been uneven, but supervision of construction is
being strengthened. The health component is proceeding smoothly;
however, the education and water supply components are far behind
schedule.
1654      Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project:  US$93.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date:  July 9, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983. Housing targets are being met and
difficulties which had been encountered in meeting the sites and
services targets have been overcome. The Bank has approved a
proposal that will offer a solution to the problems which have
caused slow progress in this project and an amendment to the Loan
Agreement has recently been signed.
1656      Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$100.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 10, 1979, Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. The National Housing Bank has approved the
five year investment program of the project water companies for the
period 1980-1984. The first subprojects for the capital cities have
also been approved and construction is underway. Due to inherent
weaknesses in the State Water Company, the project may be completed
with about a one-year delay.
1660      Valesul Aluminum Project:  US$98.0 million loan of March 7, 1979;
Effective Date: August 6, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1982.
The Loan Agreement has been amended to cancel US$19.2 million of
the loan which will not be utilized. Construction is 99% complete,
and training pots were started in January 1982. There is a cost
overrun of about 8%. The shareholders are preparing an action
plan to finance project completion and start-up losses during 1982,
which are expected due to very low aluminum prices.
1714      Sergipe Rural Development Project:  US$26.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984. Reasonable progress is being made with
most project components. Extension services achieved very
close to first year targets and exceeded second year targets.
The land titling and colonization components are progressing
more slowly, but remedial action is beginning to show results.
The management of the project has become quite effective, and
the monitoring and evaluation of project results is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1720      Medium-Sized Cities Project:  US$70.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date: May 2, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
After a slow start, the project is now proceeding satisfactorily.
1721      COPEL Second Power Distribution Project:  US$109.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: November 21, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. Project implementation is about six months behind
schedule because the Borrower postponed procurement pending loan
effectiveness. The Borrower is, however, accelerating procure-
ment and the project is expected to be completed on schedule.



39                        ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14
1728      Pernambuco Rural Development Project:  US$40.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984. The project's start-up period was longer
than expected, in part due to delays in the release of federal
funds. Project administration has improved but further improve-
ments in coordination among the entities involved in execution is
still needed. The agency responsible for the village water supply
component has not performed adequately and is being replaced by
another entity. The recommendations of the land tenure study are
still under review in the state.
1729      Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project:  US$28.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date:  January 23, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986. While previously initiated civil works have
proceeded satisfactorily, local funding shortfalls and technical
problems emerging in the detailed design of project works for the
Boacica sub-area have slowed project progress. The infrastructure
being developed by the Government outside the project in the
Brejo Grande sub-area may lead to the dropping from the project of
previously planned irrigation and drainage investments there. The
monitoring unit has been installed and is now operational.
1730      Second Feeder Roads Project:  US$110.0 million loan of June 20,
1979; Effective Date: December 17, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986. The Second Feeder Roads Project provides
continuity to the program started under Loan 1207-BR. The loan
is now fully committed for 16 subprojects in 15 states, totalling
improvement or construction of 4,790 km of roads and 239 bridges.
Physical implementation is on schedule. Disbursements have
reached US$10 million by the end of March 1982, which is in line
with appraisal estimate. Completion is scheduled for June 30, 1986.
1822      Sao Paulo Industrial Pollution Control Project:  US$58.0 million
loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984. The project is experiencing some initial
delays, due mainly to long lead times in developing specific engi-
neering solutions to the pollution problems of individual industrial
concerns, but the first subprojects have begun to reach the Bank.
1823      Southern States Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$130.0
million loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983. After initial delays, the project
is now advancing at a good pace and is expected to be completed by
the end of 1984.
1824      CEEE Power Distribution Project:  US$114.0 million loan of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: July 15, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1984. After some initial delays, project implementation is now
proceeding satisfactorily.
1839      Second Urban Transport - Porto Alegre Project: US$159.0 million
loan of June 2, 1980; Effective Date: December 9, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Some problems concerning procurement have somewhat delayed the
implementation and procurement schedule.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14
1850      Third Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project: US$139.0 million
loan of July 18, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985. This project is proceeding satisfactorily. Most
works are already committed, and physical execution is progressing
on schedule.
1867      Northeast Basic Education Project:  US$32.0 million loan of July 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 12, 1981; Closing Date: September 1, 1985.
Project implementation is delayed by about nine months due to delay
in effectiveness and in transferring resources to project states
during Calendar year 80. Part of the delay is expected to be made
up for during Calendar year 81 and Calendar year 82. A substantial
impact evaluation effort being mounted as part of this project
should yield knowledge of educational determinants vital to other
work in the education sector.
1877      Minas Gerais Second Rural Development Project:  US$63.0 million
loan of September 15, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily. However, previous plans for co-financing have
fallen through and the availability of local counterpart funds has
slowed project implementation.
1895      ELETROSUL Second Power Transmission Project:  US$125.0 million
loan of October 6, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1924      Ceara Second Rural Development Project:  US$56.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: July 7, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1939      Electric Power System Coordination:  US$54.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: August 5, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Procurement is in progress.
1965      Third Urban Transport Project:  US$90.0 million loan of June 5, 1981;
Effective Date: October 20, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Some delays have occurred in the appraising of the remaining AGLURB
cities. Corrective measures have been taken to bring this component
back to its original schedule during the recent supervision mission.
The pavement program in low-income areas (PROPAV), and the institu-
tional component are progressing satisfactorily.
1970      Multi-State Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$180.0 million
loan of May 18, 1981; Effective Date: December 15, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985. Project execution is advancing satisfactorily
and no majot delays are envisaged.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14
1989      Alcohol and Biomass Energy Development Project:  'JSS250.0 million
loan of June 12, 1981; Effective Date: November 10, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985. All ports of the program are
progressing satisfactorily, although the production component
may suffer temporary delays due to financial stringency at the
national level.
2015      Piaui Rural Development Project:  US$29.0 million loan of August 10,
1981; Effective Date: February 5, 1982; Closing Date: December 31,
1986. Although project start-up has been somewhat delayed because
of the late arrival of funds for the first quarter, implementation
is thus far proceeding satisfactorily. Good progress has been
achieved in hiring staff and consultants, and in the land redis-
tribution program. Overall, project administration is function-
ing well. Start-up difficulties have slowed progress in small-scale
irrigation, water supply, and the establishment of the State Land
Institute; design and procurement procedures employed for rural
roads need strengthening.
2016      Second Agricultural Research Project:  US$60.0 million loan of
July 8, 1981; Effective Date: December 8, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987. Minor start-up delays have occurred as a
result of less than optimal counterpart funding. Also, recent
Government restrictions on hiring are necessitating special
arrangement by EMBRAPA of exceptions.



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
MARANHAO RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:        16 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:        State of Maranhao with
assistance of INCRA and COLONE
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:    April 1980
(d)  First mission to review project:   June 1980
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:    August 1981
(f)  Completion of negotiations:           May 7, 1982
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:        September 1982
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Agreements to settle the claims of irregular occupiers of
over, 60 ha in the Alto Turi area to be reached not later than
December 31, 1983 (para. 42, Section 2.01(b) of the COLONE
Project Agreement);
(b) Satisfactory model plans for interim management of lands
recovered and for redistribution and for payment options for
recipients of land would be provided by November 30, 1982 (para.
42, Section 3.01(d) of the Loan Agreement, Section 2.01(c) of the
State Project Agreement, and Section 2.01(b)(v) of the COLONE
Project Agreement);
(c) INCRA would maintain an agreement to provide technical assistance
to ITERMA for the duration of the project (para. 42, Section
2.01(d)(iv) of the State Project Agreement);
(d) Annual achievements under the land component would be no less
than agreed minima and agricultural land recovered through
the project would be used exclusively for project objectives
(para. 42, Section 3.01(e) of the Loan Agreement, Section
2.01(c)(v) of the State Project Agreement, and Section
2.01(b)(iv) of the COLONE Project Agreement);



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(e) Input supply agency would hire a consultant to assist in
improving its administrative capacity and state would provide
satisfactory details of the management and cost-recovery criteria
prior to construction of stores (para. 46, Section 2.01(e) of the
State Project Agreement);
(f) Detailed plans for the protection of forest reserves and for the
implementation of reforestation programs would be presented
(para. 48, Section 3.01(f) of the Loan Agreement);
(g) The state road agency would provide adequate and trained
personnel for maintenance of project financed equipment, and
would enter into road maintenance contracts with municipalities
prior to beginning construction with the exception that for works
beginning in calendar year 1982 such agreements would be required
as of September 30, 1982 (para. 50, Section 2.01(g) of the State
Project Agreement);
(h) Recommended measures for improving health administration would be
implemented by June 30, 1983, and disbursement for the health
component is conditioned on completion of staffing of regional
offices and health units, and establishing urgently needed
diagnostic facilities for tuberculosis and leprosy in the Baixada
(para. 52, Section 2.01(i) of the State Project Agreement);
(i) Beneficiaries of the water supply construction program would form
a user association prior to construction to help cover operation
and maintenance charges (para. 52, Section 2.01(j) of the State
Project Agreement);
(j)  Adequate credit for working capital and investment will be
provided by the Federal Government on a timely basis (para. 54,
Section 4.01 of the Loan Agreement and Section 2.07 of the State
Project Agreement);
(k) Government would ensure that measures to protect two Amerindian
*                      reserves near the project would be carried out (para. 55, Section
4.07 of the Loan Agreement);
A                 (1)  In its plans and programs for expanding the provision of support
services and rural infrastructure the state would give priority
to the subproject municipalities not covered by the Vale do Medio
Mearim project, and the Bank would be allowed to exchange views
with the state on plans for the ongoing subproject prior to
implementation (para. 56, Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement);



- 44 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
(m) Project accounts and the Special Account in the Central Bank will
be audited by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 66, Sections 4.05 and 4.06 of the Loan Agreement, Section
2.11(a) of the State Project Agreement and Section 4.02(a) of the
COLONE Project Agreement);
(n) Conditions of effectiveness are that at least ten thousand
hectares of land (including lands claimed by 3 of the 15 largest
irregular occupiers) in sub-area one of the Alto Turi sub-
project would have been recovered and that the respective sub-
project land funds would have been established (para. 41, Section
6.01(b) and (c) of the Loan Agreement).



IBRD 16152
4_                                467                                 45'                                44' |  i                                                             DECEMBER  5951
B RA  Z IL                                                                       odof rd                                                           OOMIAp0'.                       SE          l
Co  ioh                     A              t                                                                       nb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.i.2   tortc  Oceoo
MARANHAO   RURAL                                                                      - 100 Cm                                       A / o.GQZ'                                                                                              O'
DEVELOPMENT  PROJECTTuiu                                                                                                                                                                                                         .AEO
POPULATION  DENSITY                                                                                               5Baeuri
AND  PROJECT  WORKS                                                                                                 Cururupu                                                                  BAA R  A Z   I                      CF A
Project Area  Boundary                                        jMirinz0                                                   et    iE RU7B                                                           Z          L
-  Sub - project Bounda ries                                              0ISnt Hle                                                                                    O'V    A5-                        BosIr
A      Agricultural  Services Offices                              *-                          -                             /       ii                                ,l
*      Proposed  Research  Substotions                              \ABeqiool 0Atcantara"
*      Existing  Research  Substations                        J              i        'inheiro.-  f l                               &< u,a                           0                                                          i
R-,-s   Rivers                                                                    .  37Pomerada    ~e                                                        0
Municipality  Boundaries                                                                                 entS     . rAti
State  Boundaries                                                   Nov OlinV                      te deFerrer0 j   *                                         . W 0                                         /r
__ 1 1 - 20 J /: Ze D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oc- Peov; Vice gOnaatebgOrg  Sde feerer                                                do Rio Preto Benaro   
3-                         Rural Population  Density                       I                                                        Motinho              Rita
i   IF:  Over  50  { Bom Jardinn  OPindere  Mi;im  CantaXhecdeO 0 C;arge,m D Mata /Santa Quiteria do Moranhoo~~~~~~~SSoJoSo  rctttto  ~  ant
1- 5  Persons per sq. km.                                                /iii
6 - 10                                                                       Doca            Pn        *      n           nat'-'vatAt       'r  J.'oscelinoo                      430                                    42/ N
/e D         Lagoda Pedra                                                              Sdo Beredito do Rio PBro amodo 
11 - 20                                                                                                                                                                                                          Magalhoos de
21- 50                                                                                   M-Joao        isbo.a do    B        arra  d    aCrda0    ,noc Rodrnua                                               ../   Ainmeida
over 50                                                                  Bornjratrz  ido Po               M n    *ArrI                           0 44ntQuiteria do Maranhao
over 50                                    Bom Jo,dimo  ~~~~~~~~~~~~Cotahee0Vorge                                                         Mota0
f             --          o                                                        ~~~~~~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Grande  Romao  B,loeiot
/   =                        Pindo~~     ~      ~~~~~re  Chapadirrho'      Brjo
0      30             ~~~~           ~~100  150                                                                                                                                               BuoXfli
KIOETR                                                          Santa Luzio0Vtono-aoMaes4
4-                                                                                 Vitorino                        s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0a9t\trd                  4uii
Alttamira do Moran'ro 0      ree                                                                                     1
N -                              o~~~~~         ~        ~~~roolo  Aos
Paf1loRamos0                             Timbiras          '~~~~~~~~~~~omneo~o  --CoelIho Neto
j.ogod        o     ts Lb oogo
__/                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~Logo do Pedro0  auco           Campos    Codo
....    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ l~~grarpe Grande-                OPedr-eiros                              leo   lo
0PocSodeedo
Assailandia                              -                -/,:          -            71     A- Ino  os Lopes                                        .Coxios                T,   i a   eni--db  h
o                                                   Esperwinopolis-                        n~~~~~~~~~j~-Do  0 oee dor Archer-.                     Ti  a  a   ea  rprdb  h
World Boshks staff excluely forl
Timorr~   th, report to wh,ch it is attached
The de jtosused and the
'Governado, Eugenio Ba,,o5               ~~~be-ndaries shown err thlis map
Tatumu0   0Presiden te Dutrra                                               do nor i,mply, no th,, part of the
-,e'J                                                                                                                                                               Worlcf Bank ,d,ts affih,tel, ally~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wrl  arhan  o fflats ar
jedqm- trotn the legal itatus of
Joao Lisboc                                 Barro do                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~0GeaooA0antra                          anyl ter-itorf or arty irdorsemoet
430           0lmp~~~~~Jao isb470      Amorante do                                        oBrr doCorda                                                                                er -ceaptan-ee  f s-eh bu,ndaris.
Impo,atriz        Maranhao45                                                                                      ,4
48                     4p ~~~~~~~~~~o460                                                      45                                 44                                     4327



