Report No. PID6982
Project Name                     Honduras-Interactive Environmental   (+) ...
Learning and Science Promotion Project
PROFUTURO
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Multi-sectoral
Project ID number                HNPE57350
Implementating
Agency                           Honduran Council of Science and Technology,
COHCIT
Apdo. Postal 4458
Tegucigalpa, M.D.C.
Honduras, C.A.
(504) 236-9954
Borrower                         Republic of Honduras
Date this PID prepared           May 1999
Date initial PID prepared        September 1998
Project Appraisal date           October 1998
Country and Sector Background
1.      PROFUTURO would contribute to the longer-term effort to meet the multi-
sectoral requirements of sustainable development. To achieve its objective,
the project will support the following activities: (a) design and
implementation of an Interactive Learning Center (ILC) as a non-formal
educational facility focused on the social, scientific and environmental
requirements for sustainable development, to be used by children, teachers
and parents; (b) support for capacity building of staff and volunteers of the
ILC and the development of an ILC communication strategy; and (c) design and
implementation of a management plan for archeological parks.
2.      The Interactive Learning Center, to be located in Tegucigalpa, would
promote learning about the social, scientific, and environmental elements of
sustainable development. The ILC would be complemented by an itinerant model
with smaller and well-targeted exhibits in rural areas. The management plan
for archeological parks and related subprojects responds to damages resulting
from Hurricane Mitch. It would help to establish research priorities in
archeological parks (particularly Parque Copan Ruins, and also Parque Los
Naranjos, Parque El Puente, and Parque Cevas de Talgua). The three-year
project will be executed in a participatory manner with civil society and
private sector stakeholders in order to build the ownership, capacity and
constituency necessary for implementation. As part of its accountability
strategy, a committee with representatives of the private sector, civil
society, and Government would oversee project implementation.
3.      To address the quality of education, particularly on environmental
issues, the proposed ILC would create an interactive learning environment to
reinforce concepts learned in the classroom or to allow for understanding of
new concepts, such as sustainable development and non-conventional energy
sources. It would potentially create more effective learning conditions and



raise achievement levels through visits by schoolchildren and promotion of
teacher training. Research shows that individuals learn in very different
ways and from no single medium--some learn from reading and others who might
be nearly illiterate learn from manipulating objects, looking at things, and
making connections. Exhibits and programs in ILCs usually encourage
fundamental educational skills in a format that boosts self-esteem,
cooperation and independence, and celebrates ethnic diversity. The
Ministries of Education, Environment, and COHCIT plan to develop a conceptual
framework to guide the activities promoted by the ILC that is compatible with
the pedagogical activities promoted by the educational system. In addition,
the ILC, by promoting teacher training, will disseminate interactive
pedagogical tools to improve the learning process.
4.      To address priority rehabilitation and reconstruction needs in the
archeological parks, the proposed project would finance a sub-component for
the design and implementation of a management plan for archeological sites.
PROFUTURO would also address the need for systematic information on
environmental and cultural sites to serve as an input into Government's
tourism strategy, through financing the establishment of a resource inventory
database to be installed in the ILC.
Project Objectives and Strategy
5.      The development objective of the Honduras Interactive Environmental
Learning and Science Promotion Project - PROFUTURO - is to encourage and
expand Honduran scientific, environmental, and cultural knowledge and
management in the context of the borrower's sustainable development needs and
ethnic diversity.
6.      To achieve its objective, the project will support the following
activities: (a) design and implementation of an Interactive Learning Center
(ILC) as a non-formal educational facility focused on the social, scientific
and environmental requirements for sustainable development, to be used by
children, teachers and parents with exhibits on topics such as: (i) science
and technology (our world, energy, cities, transport, astronomy, geology,
economic production); (ii) sustainable development and environmental
management linkages with natural disasters (natural resources, plants and
animals, biodiversity); and (iii) the human body and communication (the
senses, cycle of life, language and knowledge, communication and artistic
expression, the brain and memory); and (iv) sustainable development practices
and scientific knowledge among pre-Hispanic cultures; (b) support for
capacity building of staff and volunteers of the ILC and the development of
an ILC communication strategy; and (c) design and implementation of a
management plan for archeological parks.
Project Description
7.      The project will consist of three components:
(a) Sustainable Development Resources Component. The objectives of this
component are to assist the GOH in: (a) design and implementation of a 4,000
square meter ILC in Tegucigalpa as a non-formal educational facility on the
social, scientific, and environmental requirements for sustainable
development, to be used by children, teachers, and parents; and (b) establish
archeological management plan sub-projects. There are three sub-components:
Interactive Learning Center; Pre-Hispanic Contribution; and Archeological
Parks Sub-projects.
-2-



(b) Capacity Building and Communication. The objectives of this component are
to support the capacity building of staff and volunteers of the ILC and
develop a communication strategy for the public and corporations.
(c) Project Implementation Unit. Financing will be provided to develop and
strengthen the capacity for management, monitoring and evaluating the
project. The project will support capacity building in project management,
including: finance and administration, ILC design and exhibitions,
engineering, procurement, and monitoring and evaluation.
Project Costs and Financing
8.      Total estimated project costs are $9.3 million with a proposed credit of
SDR 6.2 million ($8.3 million equivalent).
Project Coordination and Implementation
9.      The project would be implemented over a period of three years (1999-
2002). The Honduran Council of Science and Technology (COHCIT) would have
oversight responsibility and a PIU would be created within COHCIT to
implement the project. The PIU would be responsible for all project
implementation activities, including accounting, disbursement, monitoring and
evaluation, coordination, and supervision. An Operational Manual will be
finalized before the credit effectiveness detailing all the procedures to be
following during implementation. The PIU would be managed by a technical
coordinator with support of specialists in accounting and procurement, a
secretary and a driver. The PIU would work collaboratively with other
governmental agencies and civil society organizations, although it is
responsible for project implementation and supervision and accountable for
all related tasks.
10.     Given its previous experience with IDA, the Ministry of Public Works,
Transport and Housing (SecretarUa de Obras Publicas, Transporte y Vivienda,
SOPTRAVI) would provide in-house training in accounting and procurement.
Additional training would be provided by the consultant responsible for
designing the financial action plan and installing the financial management
system. Short-term consultants would be hired for special tasks, when
necessary. For the ILC, SOPTRAVI would collaborate with the PIU by assisting
with the development of TORs for the construction and supervision of the ILC,
but all procurement documentation, technical specifications, terms of
reference and contracts would be under the responsibility of the PIU.
11.     The Ministry of Culture, Arts and Sports (Secretaria de Cultura, Arte y
Deportes, SCAD) would assist the PIU with TORs and the implementation of the
environmental and cultural resources inventory and management plan for
archeological parks, and would also benefit from training activities.
However, these activities would be contracted by the PIU, according to
procurement arrangements defined by IDA.
12.     An archeological institution with proven expertise in Honduran
archeological sites will carry out, through an implementation agreement with
the PIU, the pre-Hispanic contribution sub-component which includes training
of local residents and indigenous peoples as guides and research on pre-
Hispanic practices and scientific knowledge in the COPAN Park.
13.     The Ministry of Education (SecretarUa de Educaci6n, SE) and Ministry of
-3 -



Natural Resources and the Environment (the Secretaria de Recursos Naturales y
Ambiente, SERNA) would also collaborate with the PIU on the design of the
exhibits for the ILC in order to make them compatible with the Honduran
educational system and environmental education necessities. Teacher training
on how to use the ILC would be provided by the Ministry of Education under
the IDA-financed Basic Education Project.
14.     To guarantee its financial sustainability and sound management, the ILC
would be managed by a non-profit organization (PROFUTURO Foundation), endowed
by the private sector and in the process of being created. The by-laws of
this foundation must be satisfactory to IDA (including sound financial
management for the foundation and for the trust fund to created and include
participation of the Ministry of Finance and COHCIT as board members). These
by-laws, to be voted on by its founding members, will be sent to IDA. The
agreement between the Government and the foundation to run the ILC should
include inter alia, the following criteria: (a) the trust fund will be
deposited in an institution which abides by the rules of the banking
regulatory agency; and (b) major changes or expenditures affecting the assets
of the foundation, including the trust fund should be authorized by the
board.
Project Sustainability
15.     Sustainability of this proposed project depends to a large extent on the
establishment and savvy management of the PROFUTURO Foundation resources.
During preparation, it was agreed that all statutory legal requirements would
be complied with for the establishment of the Foundation by May 1999
(condition of disbursement for the ILC) and that minimum pledges of $700,000
p.a. can be guaranteed from the Honduran private sector for, at least, the
first three years of project implementation. Additional fund raising
activities would be undertaken with bilateral donors and multinational
companies active in Honduras. It is therefore expected that the Foundation
would have raised a minimum of about $2 million by the time the ILC is built.
To cover the likely 75 percent operational deficit, a trust fund would be
established with a financial institution to invest these resources in
financial instruments (bonds, shares, CDs etc). The project is expected to
be financially sustainable, given the commitment of the private sector to
make this a successful venture.
16.     The archeological parks subprojects would address urgent reconstruction
needs in the sites, due to damages provoked by Mitch, in order to restore and
regain the previous flow of tourism.
Lessons Learned
17.     Lessons from other donors and from the Bank experience in Central
America suggest: (a) for sustainability, it is important to involve the
private sector in educational and environmental initiatives; (b) for
sustainability, financial mechanisms need to fully cover operational costs;
(c) for ownership, the main stakeholders must be involved from the beginning
of project preparation; (d) flexible but comprehensive institutional
arrangements foster successful implementation; and (e) social cohesion is
important for successful development programs.
18.     There is also evidence that interactive learning centers (also named
Children's Museums or Science Museums) are an effective tool of informal
- 4 -



education. The Children's Museum of Caracas, inaugurated in 1982, has been
visited by more than 3 million children and the school system uses it as a
support for formal classes. By having fun and handling the exhibits'
artifacts, children learn about biology, ecology, communications technology,
physics and chemistry. More than 5 million children have already visited the
Papalote Children's Museum in Mexico, which defines itself as a space where
children and adults understand what happens to them by making things happen.
The Mexican Museum is divided into five exhibits: Our World (our city, our
country, our world; natural phenomena; plants and animals); Human Body (brain
and memory, my body in action, the senses; to be born, to grow up and
health); Science (waves, light and shadow, bubbles, technology, energy, how
things work); Communication (language, communication systems); and Expression
(drawings, paintings, sculptures and architecture, theater and literature,
and music). Successful workshops are held involving the entire school system
in Mexico City, such as: tolerance week, environment day, and others. At the
Costa Rica Children's Museum, children can visit an old milk farm, travel
through the history of Costa Rica, experience what is like to be a director
of a small symphony orchestra, or listen as a life size robot recounts his
experience in space as a NASA astronaut. The Children's Museum of Bogota is
annually by about 300,000 people, including school children during the
weekdays and families during the weekends. It has exhibits on how a city
works and what is needed to provide water, sanitation, communication and
energy.
19.     All these interactive centers are successful due to five main reasons:
(a) strong links with their communities and with the school systems; (b)
support from the private sector; (c) outreach programs that increase access
to poor children and to schools located in poor neighborhoods; (d)
interdisciplinary and multi-sectoral conception; and (e) appropriateness to
the historical/social/cultural environment. All of these lessons have
influenced and inspired the design of the proposed ILC and the design and the
conception of the Honduras PROFUTURO Foundation
Environmental and Social Aspects
20.     A social scientist with a specialization in gender and a Honduran social
scientist were part of the core preparation team. Supported by the Swiss
Trust Fund, a pilot social assessment (SA) was conducted during preparation
based on consultation with children and teachers in rural and urban schools,
both public and private. Results of this assessment were reflected in
project design. A larger-scale social assessment will be conducted at the
outset of implementation. Teachers, parents, and children will be
interviewed and consulted and research on what children of the 21st century
should learn from the Maya and other ethnic groups will be conducted. In
addition, the SA would provide guidance for the design of the social
ownership strategy of the project. Based on recommendations from the pilot
social assessment, children's attitudes about Honduras and self-esteem were
included as monitoring indicators.
21.     With funds awarded by the Gender Operational Fund, a gender assessment
was also conducted as part of project preparation. More than 200 students
were consulted through focus groups and written essays, covering issues such
as the value of education and schools, daily life and family, expectations
and dreams, what are the perceived characteristics of being Honduran,
Honduran ethnic diversity, environment and Hurricane Mitch. The analysis,
- 5 -



conducted with a gender perspective will influence the ILC exhibits and the
training programs.
Environmental assessment:        Environmental Category   [ ] A   [ x] B    [
C
22.     An environmental specialist was part of the core preparation team.    No
major risks associated with this project have been identified. On the
contrary, given the concept proposed for the ILC, the project would have a
positive impact on the environment. The construction of the ILC would not
generate environmental impacts given the characteristics of the area and its
proposed location (in spite of being in an urban area, it is far enough from
residences and businesses so as to not provoke discomfort during
construction). The building would be designed to be environmentally friendly
with the consideration of: (a) solar panels to satisfy totally or partially
the electricity needs of the ILC; (b) rain water storage for the irrigation
of gardens and green areas; (c) recycling of waste waters for irrigation; (d)
separation of the potable water systems from irrigation systems; (e)
maximizing natural light in order to minimize artificial light needs; (f)
planting of native species in gardens and green areas and incorporating these
into the activities of the ILC with pedestrian walkways (showing children
native species); (g) using windmills for groundwater exploitation for
irrigation water; and (h) the stabilization of slopes using vegetative
measures. All recommendations from the environmental specialist will be
incorporated into the Operational Manual.
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 4, 1999.
- 6 -



ANNEX
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public
Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
6
7
6
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components, and certain
activities within a certain component, may not necessarily be included in the final
project.
-7-



