Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18452-HO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.2 MILLION (US$8.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR AN
INTERACTIVE ENVIRONMENTAL LEARNING AND SCIENCE PROMOTION PROJECT
- PROFUTURO -
May 25, 1999
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective August 31, 1998)
Currency Unit = Lempira
Lp. 1.00   US$ 0.741
US$ 1.00   Lp. 14.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CBO             Community-Based Organization
CCAD            Central America Commission of Environment and Development (Comisi6n
Centroamericana del Ambiente y Desarrollo)
COH4CIT         Honduran Council of Science and Technology (Consejo Hondureno de Cienciay
Tecnologia)
CPAR            Country Procurement Assessment Report
CQ              Consultant Qualifications
FARAH           World Bank Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook
GEF             Global Environment Facility
GOH              Government of Honduras
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
IDA             Intemnational Development Association
IDB             Inter-American Development Bank
IDF             Institutional Development Fund
ILC             Interactive Learning Center
LACI            Loan Administration Change Initiative
LCS             Least-Cost Selection
LIL             Learning and Innovation Loan
MIS             Management Information System
NBF             Not Bank-Financing
NCB             National Competitive Bidding
NGO             Non-Governmental Organization
OAS             Organization of American States
PIU              Project Implementation Unit
PROFUTURO    Honduras Interactive Environmental Leaning and Science Promotion Project
QBS             Quality-Based Selection
QCBS            Quality and Cost-Based Selection
SA              Social Assessment
SCAD            Ministry of Culture, Arts, and Sports (Secretaria de Cultura, Arte y Deporte)
SE              Ministry of Education (Secretaria de Educaci6n)
SEFIN           Ministry of Finance (Secretaria de Finanzas)
SERNA           Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment (Secretaria de Recursos Naturales y
Ambiente)
SOE             Statement of Expenses
SOPTRAVI        Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Housing (Secretaria de Obras Publicas,
Transportey Vivienda)
OAS             Organization of the American States
TOR             Terms of Reference
UNDP            United Nations Development Programme
UNESCO          United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organization
Vice President:                          Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:                        Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Acting Sector Director:                  John Redwood
Sector Leader:                           Mark Cackler
Lead Specialist:                         Shelton Davis
Task Team Leader:                        Maria-Valeria Junho Pena



Honduras
Interactive Environmental Learning and Science Promotion Project
- PROFUTURO -
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ....................................I
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ......................................................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ......................................................                     3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ................................4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components ......................................................5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ......................................6
3. Benefits and target population ......................................................6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ......................................................                  7
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ...............................................8
2. Major related projects financed by IDA  and/or other development agencies ................9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the proposed project design .......................................9
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ................................................... 10
5. Value added of IDA  support in this project .....................................................                    10
E. Summary Project Analyses
I. Economic .....................................................                                                      11
2. Financial .....................................................                                                     11
3. Technical .....................................................                                                     11
4. Institutional .....................................................                                                 11
5. Social .....................................................                                                         12
6. Environmental assessment .....................                                                                       12
7. Participatory approach .....................                                                                         12
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability .....................                                                                                13
2. Critical risks .....................                                                                                 13
3. Possible controversial aspects .....................                                                                14
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions .....................                                                                      14
2. Other .....................                                                                                          15
H. Readiness for Implementation ...........................                                                                       15
I. Compliance with IDA  Policies ...........................                                                                      15



Annexes
Annex  1.              Project Design Summary ......................................................                                   16
Annex 2.              Detailed Project Description ......................................................                              19
Annex 3.               Key Findings of the Pilot Social Assessment ...................................................... 23
Annex 4.              Estimated Project Costs ......................................................                                  27
Annex 5.               Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .................................................... 28
Table A.              Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ................................................... 30
Table Al.             Consultant Selection Arrangements ......................................................                      31
Table B.               Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review ................................. 32
Table C.              Allocation of Loan Proceeds ......................................................                           33
Annex 6.               Project Processing Budget and Schedule ......................................................                    34
Annex 7.               Environmental Analysis ......................................................                                  35
Table 1.               Construction Phases, Responsible Party and Environmental Requirements ... 37
Annex 8.               Status of Bank Group Operations in Honduras .................................................... 38
Annex 9.               Financial Management System  Action Plan ...................................................... 40
Annex  10.             Country at a Glance ......................................................                                     41
Annex  11.             Documents in Project File ......................................................                               43
Map IBRD 29839 Honduras Interactive Environmental Learning and Science Promotion Project
Location of Ethnic Groups



Honduras
Interactive Environmental Learning and Science Promotion Project - PROFUTURO -
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Central America Country Management Unit
Date: May 25, 1999                           Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Maria-Valeria Junho Pena
Country Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo      Acting Sector Director: John Redwood
Project ID: 57350    Sector: Multi-sectoral  Program Objective Category: EA, PA, EN, PV
Lending Instrument: SEL                      Program of Targeted Intervention:   X Yes    [ ] No
Project Financing Data                  []   Loan   X    Credit  l]   Guarantee  [   Other
[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$8.3/SDR 6.2
Proposed terms:                            [x]  Multicurrency     [   Single currency, specify
Grace period (years):        10 years      []   Standard Variable  [   Fixed         [    LIBOR-
based
Years to maturity:           40 years
Commitment fee:              0 - 0.5 percent
Service charge:              0.75 percent
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                                Local             Foreign     Total
Government                                              0.9               0.0        0.9
IDA                                                     4.5               3.8        8.3
Total                                                            5.5                3.8       9.3
Borrower: Republic of Honduras,
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: Honduran Council of Science and Technology (Consejo Hondureho de Ciencia y TecnologJa)
Estimated disbursements (IDA FY/US$M):    2000        2001      2002       2003
Annual                                  1.5        3.8       2.6         0.4
Cumulative                              1.5        5.3       7.9         8.3
Project implementation period: 3 years  Expected effectiveness date: 07/30/1999  Expected closing date: 10/30/2002
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The development objective of the Honduras Interactive Environmental Learning and Science Promotion
Project - PROFUTURO - is to encourage and expand Honduran scientific, environmental, and cultural
knowledge and management in the context of the borrower's sustainable development needs and ethnic
diversity.



Page 2
To achieve its objective, the project will support the following activities: (a) design and implementation
of an Interactive Learning Center (ILC) as a non-formal educational facility focused on the social,
scientific and environmental requirements for sustainable development, to be used by children, teachers
and parents with exhibits on topics such as: (i) science and technology (our world, energy, cities,
transport, astronomy, geology, economic production); (ii) sustainable development and environmental
management linkages with natural disasters (natural resources, plants and animals, biodiversity); and (iii)
the human body and communication (the senses, cycle of life, language and knowledge, communication
and artistic expression, the brain and memory); and (iv) sustainable development practices and scientific
knowledge among pre-Hispanic cultures; (b) support for capacity building of staff and volunteers of the
ILC and the development of an ILC communication strategy; and (c) design and implementation of a
management plan for archeological parks.
Key performance indicators are measurable and will include: (a) number of scientific and environmental
exhibits for the ILC defined and installed; (b) number of schools, children and youth visiting the ILC
yearly; (c) number of teachers trained on the sustainable development programs of the ILC, as defined in
coordination with the Ministry of Education (SE); (d) proportion of priorities in the management plan
implemented in the archeological sites; (e) as recommended by the pilot social assessment, increased
proportion of children who express positive attitudes towards schools, science and Honduras; and (f)
number of community and dissemination campaigns for families, schools, tourists, and private sector
defined and in place.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
Document Number: P-5923              Date of latest CAS discussion: August 5, 1993
IDA's most recent CAS for Honduras is dated July 14, 1993 and was discussed at the Board on August 5,
1993. A new CAS was under preparation and scheduled for presentation to the Board in mid-FY99, but
this needed to be deferred when Hurricane Mitch struck Central America. However, the major elements
of IDA's assistance strategy were summarized in the President's Report for the Hurricane Emergency
Project (P-7280-HO, reviewed by the Board on December 22, 1998). The CAS itself is scheduled for
Board presentation in October 1999.
The proposed project will support the following specific CAS objectives:
(a) Environmental Management and Sustainable Development. The ILC would address the CAS
objective of improving natural resource management since it would develop and install interactive
exhibits that will teach sustainable development concepts. The building itself will be environmentally
friendly and promote the use of non-conventional energy sources for educational purposes (for example,
solar panels, maximizing natural light, natural ventilation, rain water storage for irrigation of gardens and
green areas, planting native plant species and incorporating these into the exhibits, etc.). Finally, through
the development of an environmental and cultural resources inventory, the project would provide inputs
for Government's tourism strategy by incorporating the protection and management of environmentally
fragile areas.
(b) Human Capital Development and Education. The ILC would complement education provided by
schools through its hands-on and interactive exhibits since it can stimulate curiosity, enhance skills,
cooperation, and independence of children and young adults. It would also promote new and innovative
opportunities for teacher training and have a positive educational impact on families as shown by similar
facilities in other Latin American countries (Colombia, Costa Rica, Mexico, and Venezuela).
(c) Poverty Reduction. One of the recent trends in tourism has been the transition away from the
traditional two-week/beach format towards shorter heritage-based and eco-tourism. In the COPAN Park,
which was visited by more than 100,000 tourists annually prior to Hurricane Mitch, this trend has brought
tourism into the forefront not only of archeological regeneration, but also ofjob creation. The



Page 3
management plan for archeological parks and the support to priorities in research and reconstruction
would help to restore the tourism flow interrupted by Mitch, and support actions to restore and increase
sources of income, particularly for indigenous peoples living near these parks. The training of local
residents, including indigenous peoples, as guides for COPAN would also have a positive impact by
providing employment opportunities for the poorest groups in the Copan municipality.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
PROFUTURO is multi-sectoral, involving issues related to sustainable development, education and
science, and archeological site management.
Sustainable Development
Honduras, an IDA country that harbors some of Central America's richest ecosystems, is facing serious
natural resource management pressures. A large part of its primary forests have disappeared,
unsustainable agriculture and logging are affecting rainfall, erosion, and agricultural output. A lagging
rural economy combined with the severe damage caused by Hurricane Mitch is provoking rapid
movement towards towns and cities, further stretching their already weak service delivery capacity.
GOH has recognized that sustainable development can only be achieved if social, economic and
environmental policies are harmonized. While much of the damage of Hurricane Mitch was not caused
by poor environmental management and could not have been avoided by even the best practices, the
shortcomings in this area certainly aggravated the severity and extent of damage, and the shock of
Hurricane Mitch has helped to bring this message to the private sector and civil society generally.
Honduras is an active member of the Central America Commission on Enviromnent and Development
(CCAD) and the Government has signed the Central American Biodiversity Convention, the International
Convention on Biological Diversity and the Alliance for Sustainable Development. Steps to improve
natural resource management, biodiversity conservation and sustainable land use are being made through
the IDA-supported Rural Land Management Project (Credit 2940-HO) and the Global Environment
Facility (GEF) Biodiversity in Priority Areas Project (TF028367). Honduras is also part of a regional,
umbrella (GEF) project for the protection of the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor, currently under
preparation by CCAD.
The proposed PROFUTURO project would increase the opportunities for children and young adults to
learn about sustainable development and their environment in Honduras through the exhibits and events
of the ILC. PROFUTURO would also promote awareness among the public about the diverse
environment of Honduras through the information in the environmental and cultural resources inventory
and demonstrate a unique environmentally friendly building with innovative technology and concepts.
Education and Science
GOH considers education a key sector within its strategy of growth and poverty reduction. The ILC
would complement this strategy with its focus on sustainable development and environmental education.
During the past two decades, the Government has implemented several programs to expand the coverage
and improve the quality and efficiency of education. Honduras has made considerable progress in
expanding access to education, particularly at the primary level: the number of students tripled from
319,381 to 1,054,964 over the 1970-97 period, and the net enrollment rate for primary education was
approximately 80 percent in 1998. Despite the increase in coverage, there is still a need to improve the
efficiency and efficacy of education, integrate environmental, public health, and intercultural concerns
into the curriculum, and explore non-traditional teaching techniques. The ongoing Basic Education
Project (Credit 2694-HO) is currently being restructured to address quality concerns and to pilot a
community-based education model (along the lines of the successful El Salvador EDUCO program). By
creating new and attractive opportunities for learning, the proposed ILC will attempt to address these
challenges.
GOH has placed an emphasis on the importance of science and technology for its future development.
The mandate of the Honduran Council of Science and Technology (Consejo Hondurefno de Ciencia y



Page 4
Tecnologia, COHCIT), the implementing agency, when it was created in 1993, was to advise, formulate,
coordinate and promote programs and actions to foster science and technology development in Honduras.
The ILC would contribute to this objective through its interactive exhibits on science and technology and
the computer lab geared towards children and youth. The ILC would make the benefits and educational
opportunities offered by science and technology available to the public at large. Although the ILC will be
located in Tegucigalpa, lessons learned from the project will allow its expansion to rural areas.
Archeological Site Management
There are four archeological parks in Honduras, but only COPAN has been fully developed. However,
prior to Hurricane Mitch, the sites in COPAN were under pressure from the number of tourists who
visited the park at the same time. To offer tourists other options in the park, there is a need for the
development of new exhibits and environmental attractions (for example, butterfly and bird watching
trails) and more information on potential sites for development. After Mitch, the rehabilitation of several
already existing exhibits and monuments also became necessary (for example, part of the roof of the
COPAN Museum was destroyed) to restore the tourism flow, which is particularly important for the
welfare of the local population in the vicinity of COPAN.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
PROFUTURO would contribute to the longer-term effort to meet the multi-sectoral requirements of
sustainable development. The Interactive Learning Center, to be located in Tegucigalpa, would promote
learning about the social, scientific, and environmental elements of sustainable development. The ILC
would be complemented by an itinerant model with smaller and well-targeted exhibits in rural areas. The
management plan for archeological parks and related subprojects responds to damages resulting from
Hurricane Mitch. It would help to establish research priorities in archeological parks (particularly Parque
Copan Ruins, and also Parque Los Naranjos, Parque El Puente, and Parque Cevas de Talgua). The three-
year project will be executed in a participatory manner with civil society and private sector stakeholders
in order to build the ownership, capacity and constituency necessary for implementation. As part of its
accountability strategy, a committee with representatives of the private sector, civil society, and
Government would oversee project implementation. Specifically, PROFUTURO would address
education, environmental issues, and archeological site rehabilitation.
Education and the Environment
To address the quality of education, particularly on environmental issues, the proposed IELC would create
an interactive learning environment to reinforce concepts learned in the classroom or to allow for
understanding of new concepts, such as sustainable development and non-conventional energy sources. It
would potentially create more effective learning conditions and raise achievement levels through visits by
schoolchildren and promotion of teacher training. Research shows that individuals learn in very different
ways and from no single medium-some learn from reading and others who might be nearly illiterate
learn from manipulating objects, looking at things, and making connections. Exhibits and programs in
ILCs usually encourage fundamental educational skills in a format that boosts self-esteem, cooperation
and independence, and celebrates ethnic diversity. The Ministries of Education, Environment, and
COHCIT plan to develop a conceptual framework to guide the activities promoted by the ILC that is
compatible with the pedagogical activities promoted by the educational system. In addition, the ILC, by
promoting teacher training, will disseminate interactive pedagogical tools to improve the learning process.
The pilot social assessment carried out during preparation (see Annex 3) highlighted topics the ILC could
focus on to improve children's understanding about their world and their environment. The social
assessment also demonstrated that although children are aware of preventive actions to protect the
environment, very few were able to explain the consequences of environmental degradation or identify a
course of action to reverse it. The ILC would help children learn to make connections between learning
about environmental problems, understanding the reasons why there are problems, and offering proactive
solutions. In addition, a research program on pre-Hispanic practices and scientific knowledge to be
disseminated through ELC training programs will complete this strategy. The relevance of these practices
was shown during Hurricane Mitch when modem buildings in COPAN were seriously damaged, while



Page 5
pre-Hispanic buildings, such as its sepulcheres and temples, and the drainage system in the park,
withstood the flooding.
Tourism Potential and Sites
There is a substantial untapped tourism potential in Honduras and prior to Mitch, tourism accounted for
the sixth largest source of revenue. Honduras has four functioning archeological parks (Parque
Arqueol6gico de COPAN Ruinas, Parque Arqueol6gico El Puente, Parque Arqueol6gico Cuevas del
Talgua; and Sitio Arqueol6gico Los Naranjos), more than 100 archeological parks to be developed, and
thirteen museums. It also has one of the largest park systems in Central America (with two Biosphere
Reserves; sixteen National Parks; six Proposed National Parks, ten Wildlife Refuges, ten Biological
Reserves; and twelve National Monuments). Once the ILC is open, Tegucigalpa has the potential to be
integrated into the tourist circuit that today includes archeological parks and the Bay Islands.
To address priority rehabilitation and reconstruction needs in the archeological parks, the proposed
project would finance a sub-component for the design and implementation of a management plan for
archeological sites. PROFUTURO would also address the need for systematic infornation on
environmental and cultural sites to serve as an input into Government's tourism strategy, through
financing the establishment of a resource inventory database to be installed in the ILC.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 4 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component                         Category     Cost Incl.     % of  IDA-      % of
Contingencies  Total  financing  IDA-
(US$M)               (US$M)  financing
1. Sustainable Development Resources
(a) design and implementation of ILC   Physical     (a) 4.9     52.3     4.2      86.0
and exhibits;
(b) pre-Hispanic contribution,    Institution       (b) 0.4      4.7     0.4     100.0
including: (i) research on practices and  Building and
scientific knowledge of pre-Hispanic   Technical
cultures; (ii) training of local residents, Assistance
including indigenous residents, as
guides for the COPAN Park, and (iii)
development of a conceptual
framework for interactive
archeological exhibits and workshops
for children in the COPAN park; and
(c) archeological parks subprojects.    Physical    (c) 1.4     15.1     1.3      95.0
2. Capacity Building and
Communication
(a) strategy for communication, social  Institution    1.5      16.4     1.5      97.6
ownership and corporate awareness;    Building and
(b) training for staff and volunteers; (c) Social
environmental and cultural resources   Feasibility
inventory; (d) management plan for
archeological parks and sites; and (e)
social assessment.



Page 6
Component                         Category      Cost Incl.    % of  IDA-       % of
Contingencies  Total  financing  IDA-
(S$MM)               (US$M)   financins
3. Project Implementation Unit (PIU)   Project         1.1      11.5      0.9      87.5
Creation, capacity building and   Management
management of PIU.
Total                                                  9.3     100        8.3      90.1
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
As a signatory to international agreements supporting biodiversity and sustainable development, GOH is
currently implementing programs and projects to improve the management of key protected areas along
the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor and promote the sustainable use of natural resources, particularly
in degraded areas. Following the devastating impact of flooding caused by Hurricane Mitch, these issues
are even more salient for future resource use and planning. The ILC would provide information to the
Hondurans about their country and its environmnent and promote environmental education and
understanding though interactive exhibits, events, and the building itself, an environmentally friendly
demonstration.
PROFUTURO would complement the ongoing educational policy reforms mentioned above and support
the incorporation of interactive teaching methods to impart and reinforce concepts learned in the
classroom. The proposed project would support the objective of improving the quality of education
through teacher training and integration of public health, environmental, and intercultural concerns into
the teaching methods. The proposed project would also contribute to the overall objective of COHCIT, as
created by decree 55-92 on January 16, 1993, to advise, formulate, coordinate, and promote programs and
actions related to the implementation of a national policy that fosters scientific-technology development
in Honduras. The ILC would provide opportunities for children and the public at large to increase
scientific and technological literacy through visiting the interactive exhibits that would demonstrate
scientific concepts and the use of technology, including a computer lab.
3. Benefits and target population:
Direct Beneficiaries
As a non-traditional tool for learning about sustainable development, the ILC would have positive
impacts on all different stakeholders in the education sector. First, it would create new educational
opportunities for the Honduran children, particularly those living in, or close to, Tegucigalpa. Second, the
innovative and interactive learning methodologies to be displayed by exhibits, followed by training
programs and workshops would benefit teachers by enhancing their teaching skills. Parents would benefit
since the ILC creates a dynamic and safe environment for learning, recreation and leisure. College
students would benefit from the opportunity to be recruited and trained as guides. The ILC would also
benefit the population at large living in and around Tegucigalpa by providing an educational leisure
alternative.
Residents, particularly poor residents and indigenous communities living near the archeological parks,
especially COPAN, would benefit from the archeological parks sub-projects. Finally, the project would
directly benefit local residents and indigenous peoples, by training them as guides to the parks.
Indirect Beneficiaries.
PROFUTURO would benefit the Honduran population at large, and particularly the poor, with potential
opportunities opened by tourism, jobs in the archeological parks, and the construction and operation of
the ILC. It would also benefit the Honduran population at large because it would promote national
identity through the exhibits in the ILC and support to the archeological parks.



Page 7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Institutional arrangements for implementation
The project would be implemented over a period of three years (1999-2002). The Honduran Council of
Science and Technology (COHCIT) would have oversight responsibility and a PIU would be created
within COHCIT to implement the project. The PIU would be responsible for all project implementation
activities, including accounting, disbursement, monitoring and evaluation, coordination, and supervision.
An Operational Manual will be finalized before the credit effectiveness detailing all the procedures to be
following during implementation. The PIU would be managed by a technical coordinator with support of
specialists in accounting and procurement, a secretary and a driver. The PIU would work collaboratively
with other governmental agencies and civil society organizations, although it is responsible for project
implementation and supervision and accountable for all related tasks.
Given its previous experience with IDA, the Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Housing
(Secretaria de Obras Publicas, Transporte y Vivienda, SOPTRAVI) would provide in-house training in
accounting and procurement. Additional training would be provided by the consultant responsible for
designing the financial action plan and installing the financial management system. Short-term
consultants would be hired for special tasks, when necessary. For the ILC, SOPTRAVI would
collaborate with the PIU by assisting with the development of TORs for the construction and supervision
of the ILC, but all procurement documentation, technical specifications, terms of reference and contracts
would be under the responsibility of the PIUJ.
The Ministry of Culture, Arts and Sports (Secretaria de Cultura, Arte y Deportes, SCAD) would assist
the PIU with TORs and the implementation of the environmental and cultural resources inventory and
management plan for archeological parks, and would also benefit from training activities. However, these
activities would be contracted by the PIU, according to procurement arrangements defined by IDA.
For these activities, SOPTRAVI and SCAD would provide the necessary inputs for the execution and
implementation of sub-components and activities and will present periodic progress and evaluation
reports to the PIT, to be consolidated for purposes of monitoring and evaluation, coordination and
supervision. Implementation agreements between the PIU and SOPTRAVI, and the PIU and SCAD will
define the detailed responsibilities of each agency.
An archeological institution with proven expertise in Honduran archeological sites will carry out, through
an implementation agreement with the PIU, the pre-Hispanic contribution sub-component which includes
training of local residents and indigenous peoples as guides and research on pre-Hispanic practices and
scientific knowledge in the COPAN Park.
The Ministry of Education (Secretaria de Educaci6n, SE) and Ministry of Natural Resources and the
Environment (the Secretaria de Recursos Naturales y Ambiente, SERNA) would also collaborate with the
PIU on the design of the exhibits for the ILC in order to make them compatible with the Honduran
educational system and environmental education necessities. Teacher training on how to use the ILC
would be provided by the Ministry of Education under the IDA-financed Basic Education Project.
To guarantee its financial sustainability and sound management, the ILC would be managed by a non-
profit organization (PROFUTURO Foundation), endowed by the private sector and in the process of
being created. The by-laws of this foundation must be satisfactory to IDA (including sound financial
management for the foundation and for the trust fund to created and include participation of the Ministry
of Finance and COHCIT as board members). These by-laws, to be voted on by its founding members,
will be sent to IDA. The agreement between the Government and the foundation to run the ILC should
include inter alia, the following criteria: (a) the trust fund will be deposited in an institution which abides
by the rules of the banking regulatory agency; and (b) major changes or expenditures affecting the assets
of the foundation, including the trust fund should be authorized by the board.



Page 8
Procurement and Disbursement
During preparation and appraisal, procurement and disbursement arrangements were discussed in detail
and agreed upon with COHCIT. These arrangements will be reflected in the Operational Manual of the
project. Annex 5 contains a description of the procurement and disbursement arrangements covering
goods, civil works, and technical assistance.
Accounting, Financial Reporting, and Auditing Arrangements
An IDA-certified financial management specialist carried out an assessment of the borrower's financial management
system. The PIU is preparing a financial action plan (see Annex 5 and 9) for a management information system
which will integrate project accounting, and financial management, disbursement, procurement and contract
management and physical progress. This reporting system, as proposed, will comply with IDA procedures as
stipulated in OP/BP 10.02 and detailed in the Bank's Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook
(FARAH).
The elements of this financial management system are as follows: (a) establishment of a chart of accounts compatible
with government budget classifications; (b) matching of inputs/outputs of physical information with financial
informnation required; (c) arrangements to ensure that the accounting records are accurate and reliable; (d)
arrangements to record contract commitments, expenditures and other information required to track the procurement
process; (e) establishment and monitoring of project management indicators; and (f) establishment of audit
arrangements. Agreement on project reporting format, types, frequency (quarterly) and distribution has been reached.
It is expected that the system will be installed and in operation in early June 1999.
Monitoring and Evaluation System
Project implementation will be monitored by the PIU according to process, budget and impact evaluation
indicators satisfactory to IDA. A project-specific Management Information System (MIS) will be ready
prior to the effectiveness of credit to serve as the key project monitoring tool. The PIU will present to
IDA, no later than October 30 each year, beginning in 1999, a Project Implementation Report covering
project implementation activities during the previous calendar year. Such report will include: (a) the
Project Implementation Plan for the year under review; and (b) the Project Monitoring and Impact
Evaluation Indicators for this year under review. This Project Implementation Report will be discussed
during Project Annual and Midterm Reviews.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Assistance through an ongoing IDA investment. The main reason for the rejection of this alternative was
that the multi-sectoral characteristics of the proposed project did not allow it to fit adequately in any of
the ongoing IDA-supported prograrns. The Government and IDA agreed that other operations supported
by IDA on education, environment, infrastructure or social protection had different objectives, and that
this type of new and innovative project would place an unnecessary stress on the institutional energies
needed to make those other ongoing programs successful.
Target children's leaming on sustainable development through traditional education, rather than through
an ILC prototype. After visiting several different ILCs in other countries, the Government realized that
an ILC and schools are complementary tools of learning. Moreover, when a change in attitudes is
desired, such as in the case of the promotion of sustainable development and environmental education,
non-formal education tends to be more effective than traditional teaching methods.
Design through standard procedures and monitoring indicators, instead of as a learning credit. Although
presented as a standard credit since it slightly exceeds the ceiling of Learning and Innovation Loans and
Credits (LIL), given its innovative features, PROFUTIJRO was designed and will be closely monitored as
a flagship initiative. The ILC will be the first in Latin America conceived as an informal tool of learning
on sustainable development and cultural diversity. Its success will require multi-sectoral management,
teacher training, and parents' commitment.



Page 9
Implement the project with other institution (SCAD. SE. or SERNA) rather than with COHCIT.
Although the project will work collaboratively with all these institutions, the main inspiration to guide the
project is the Honduran need for sustainable development. This will require a multi-sectoral approach
leading to scientific and technological solutions to be displayed in the ILC. GOH evaluated COHCIT as
having the best comparative advantage to implement these ideas and translate them into exhibits attractive
to children. Also, COHCIT is better prepared to support a research program on pre-Hispanic practices
and scientific knowledge and incorporate lessons in schools, through a dialogue with SE.
Acquire second-hand exhibits from the Papalote Children's Museum in Mexico instead of plannin.
designing and acquiring new ones. This alternative was rejected because the displays that were offered:
(a) did not fit to the Honduran characteristics regarding sustainable development; and (b) they were too
costly.
2. Major related projects financed by IDA and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue             Project                        Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(IDA-financed projects only)
Implementation Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
IDA-financed
Land/Rural Development    Rural Land Management                S             HS
Environment              Biodiversity in Priority Areas        S              S
Education                 Basic Education Project             U               S
Social Investment Fund   Social Investment Fund (FHIS II)     S               S
Social Investment Fund (FHIS IV)    HS             HS
Other development agencies
UNDP                      Eco-tourism and Sustainable      Finalized
Development in the Bay of Tela
UNESCO                    World Heritage Sites Program
OAS                      Diagnosis of Science and          Finalized
Technology in Honduras
UNDP                      Support for the Development and  Finalized
Implementation of Research for
Technological Innovation          _
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons from other donors and from the Bank experience in Central America suggest: (a) for
sustainability, it is important to involve the private sector in educational and environmental initiatives; (b)
for sustainability, financial mechanisms need to fully cover operational costs; (c) for ownership, the main
stakeholders must be involved from the beginning of project preparation; (d) flexible but comprehensive
institutional arrangements foster successful implementation; and (e) social cohesion is important for
successful development programs.
There is also evidence that interactive learning centers (also named Children's Museums or Science
Museums) are an effective tool of informal education. The Children's Museum of Caracas, inaugurated
in 1982, has been visited by more than 3 million children and the school system uses it as a support for



Page 10
formal classes. By having fun and handling the exhibits' artifacts, children learn about biology, ecology,
communications technology, physics and chemistry. More than 5 million children have already visited
the Papalote Children's Museum in Mexico, which defines itself as a space where children and adults
understand what happens to them by making things happen. The Mexican Museum is divided into five
exhibits: Our World (our city, our country, our world; natural phenomena; plants and animals); Human
Body (brain and memory, my body in action, the senses; to be born, to grow up and health); Science
(waves, light and shadow, bubbles, technology, energy, how things work); Communication (language,
communication systems); and Expression (drawings, paintings, sculptures and architecture, theater and
literature, and music). Successful workshops are held involving the entire school system in Mexico City,
such as: tolerance week, environment day, and others. At the Costa Rica Children's Museum, children
can visit an old milk farm, travel through the history of Costa Rica, experience what is like to be a
director of a small symphony orchestra, or listen as a life size robot recounts his experience in space as a
NASA astronaut. The Children's Museum of Bogota is annually by about 300,000 people, including
school children during the weekdays and families during the weekends. It has exhibits on how a city
works and what is needed to provide water, sanitation, communication and energy.
All these interactive centers are successful due to five main reasons: (a) strong links with their
communities and with the school systems; (b) support from the private sector; (c) outreach programs that
increase access to poor children and to schools located in poor neighborhoods; (d) interdisciplinary and
multi-sectoral conception; and (e) appropriateness to the historical/social/cultural environment. All of
these lessons' have influenced and inspired the design of the proposed ELC and the design and the
conception of the Honduras PROFUTURO Foundation
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The concept of sustainable development guides the proposed project and Honduras is signatory to many
regional and international conventions that provide a framework for this concept. The borrower has
demonstrated commitment to and ownership of the proposed project during all stages of project
preparation. The borrower has already created and staffed the Project Implementation Unit, presented a
satisfactory draft of the Operational Manual, and is actively organizing the PROFUTURO Foundation.
The borrower's commitment is also evident in the active participation of high level staff of different
institutions in the Government during preparation workshops. Also, representatives from the Ministries
of Finance, Culture, Science and Technology and Environment made the effort to attend an international
seminar held in California about ILCs. Finally, study tours were conducted with PROFUTURO staff in
Mexico and Central America and the United States, also visited by the First Lady of Honduras and the
Minister of Science and Technology.
5. Value added of IDA support in this project:
The creation of the ELC as an informal tool of education on sustainable development, but linked to the
schools, recognizes that other institutions, not only schools, produce understanding and stimulate
curiosity for knowledge. IDA contributes to this effort by bringing together multi-disciplinary expertise,
including social scientists, education specialists, environmental specialists and financial specialists for the
preparation and implementation of the proposed project. Since IDA is currently supporting projects in
both the education and environmental sectors in Honduras, this facilitates opportunities to establish
connections among the agencies involved, share information, and increase coordination.



Page 1 1
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic:
The project has not been subjected to a conventional economic rate of return analysis, since its immediate
objectives and outputs will be primarily institutional. However, the project will generate the following
non-quantifiable economic benefits: (a) children would have access to information on sustainable
development; (b) children would have access to scientific and technological data; (c) parents would have
access to this same information; (d) teachers would have access to new interactive teaching tools; (e) the
flow of tourism to COPAN would benefit from rehabilitation sub-projects; and (f) pre-Hispanic practices
and scientific knowledge and its contribution to modem science will be rescued.
2. Financial:
PROFUTURO is effectively a pilot project and full cost recovery is not a project objective. However, a
financial analysis was included in preparation and an attempt has been made to estimate the financial
benefits and costs based on a similar interactive center in Mexico, the Papalote Children's Museum.
The main category of operating costs is personnel. Assuming 50 employees with a monthly salary range
between $200 and $1,000 among professionals and support staff, personnel costs amount to $500,000 per
year, plus operating and maintenance expenses ($300,000 - $500,000) for a facility of 4,000 m2, total
recurrent expenses amount to $800,000 - $1 million, including advertising. To cover these costs, it is
assumed that entrance fees will amount to 10 percent and most visitors will not be charged since they will
be children with their schools and low income groups. Revenue generating activities such as a coffee
shop, conventions, social festivities and souvenir shops are expected to amount to 15 percent of operating
costs and the remaining 75 percent to be covered by PROFUTURO Foundation, as mentioned in the
institutional arrangements.
Fiscal impact:
The project's fiscal impact is not significant because recurrent costs (about $1.0 million annually) will be
covered partly by the Foundation's fundraising activities. The only costs absorbed by GOH are the
counterpart funds, which represent 12 percent (average of $250,000 annually for three years) of the total
of the project. The ILC construction will not entail purchase of land since it will be built on land owned
by Government, the Centro Civico of Tegucigalpa.
3. Technical:
The construction of the ILC will involve technical studies in architecture, soil analysis and engineering, as
well as an environmental analysis. The planning and acquisition of objects to be displayed by the ILC
will involve design and social analysis. Studies, plans and recommendations will be reviewed by IDA,
including cost estimates, engineering data, supervision reports, outputs, and allowances for physical and
price contingencies.
4. Institutional:
Executing agencies: The PIU will be located in COHCIT, a small agency which reports directly to the
President. Conceived as a decentralized entity (ente desoncentrado), COHCIT, in contrast to other
Ministries, is financially autonomous. During implementation, the PIU would work collaboratively with
other governmental agencies and civil society organizations, although it is responsible for project
implementation and supervision and accountable for all related tasks. This is the first IDA-financed
project to be implemented by COHCIT and project preparation included an analysis of their capacity to
deliver the intended objectives and an assessment of the COHCIT's financial management system. In
order to complete the recommendations from this review, the PIU is preparing a financial action plan for a
management infonnation system which will integrate project accounting, and financial management,
disbursement, procurement and contract management and physical progress.



Page 12
As described in more detail in section C.4., the other government agencies involved in project
implementation include the Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Housing, the Ministry of Education,
the Ministry of Culture, Art, and Sports, and the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. Given
the importance of institutional collaboration in this project, representatives from these agencies
participated in a three-day Logical Framework workshop held during project preparation. The Ministry
of Finance has also been closely involved in preparation and, in fact, the project coordinator was selected
from within this Ministry. While inter-institutional collaboration has been positive during project
preparation, care will need to be taken to ensure that this continues during project implementation.
5. Social:
A social scientist with a specialization in gender and a Honduran social scientist were part of the core
preparation team. Supported by the Swiss Trust Fund, a pilot social assessment (SA) was conducted
during preparation based on consultation with children and teachers in rural and urban schools, both
public and private. Results of this assessment were reflected in project design. A larger-scale social
assessment will be conducted at the outset of implementation. Teachers, parents, and children will be
interviewed and consulted and research on what children of the 21 st century should learn from the Maya
and other ethnic groups will be conducted. In addition, the SA would provide guidance for the design of
the social ownership strategy of the project (see Annex 3, Pilot Social Assessment). Based on
recommendations from the pilot social assessment, children's attitudes about Honduras and self-esteem
were included as monitoring indicators.
With funds awarded by the Gender Operational Fund, a gender assessment was also conducted as part of
project preparation. More than 200 students were consulted through focus groups and written essays,
covering issues such as the value of education and schools, daily life and family, expectations and
dreams, what are the perceived characteristics of being Honduran, Honduran ethnic diversity,
environment and Hurricane Mitch. The analysis, conducted with a gender perspective will influence the
ILC exhibits and the training programs.
6. Environmental assessment:     Environmental Category []A  [ x] B []C
An environmental specialist was part of the core preparation team. No major risks associated with this
project have been identified. On the contrary, given the concept proposed for the ILC, the project would
have a positive impact on the enviromnent. The construction of the ILC would not generate
environmental impacts given the characteristics of the area and its proposed location (in spite of being in
an urban area, it is far enough from residences and businesses so as to not provoke discomfort during
construction). The building would be designed to be environmentally friendly with the consideration of:
(a) solar panels to satisfi totally or partially the electricity needs of the ILC; (b) rain water storage for the
irrigation of gardens and green areas; (c) recycling waste waters for irrigation; (d) separation of the
potable water systems from irrigation systems; (e) maximizing natural light in order to minimize artificial
light needs; (f) planting native species in gardens and green areas and incorporating these into the
activities of the ILC with pedestrian walkways (showing children native species); (g) using windmills for
groundwater exploitation for irrigation water; and (h) the stabilization of slopes using vegetative
measures. All recommendations from the enviromnental specialist will be incorporated into the
Operational Manual (see Annex 7, Enviromnental Analysis).
7. Participatory approach:
The project is not expected to provoke adverse effects on any group. On the contrary, it will be largely
beneficial to the entire Honduran population. A pilot social assessment was conducted during preparation
and a full social assessment will be undertaken at the outset of implementation, including incorporation of
indigenous groups in the consultation process. The Logical Framework for the project was prepared
during a three-day workshop with the main stakeholders of the project - representatives from
Government, civil society, private sector, and IDA. The project would be implemented in a participatory
fashion and a supervision committee would be created with representatives from the Government, private
sector and civil society.



Page 13
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
During preparation, children and teachers were consulted as part of the pilot social assessment. For the
full social assessment to be carried out during implementation, not only children and teachers from other
regions will be consulted, but also parents. Indigenous groups and other ethnic minorities will be
included during the preparation of the environmental and cultural resources inventory. They will also
participate in the definition of the exhibits for the ILC.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Key stakeholders were consulted and participated in a three-day seminar held during preparation to design
the Logical Framework. A workshop with other key stakeholders (NGOs, other intemational
organizations, community groups, university, college students, and private sector) is planned for the
beginning of project implementation.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability of this proposed project depends to a large extent on the establishment and savvy
management of the PROFUTURO Foundation resources. During preparation, it was agreed that all
statutory legal requirements would be complied with for the establishment of the Foundation by May
1999 (condition of disbursement for the ILC) and that minimum pledges of $700,000 p.a. can be
guaranteed from the Honduran private sector for, at least, the first three years of project implementation.
Additional fund raising activities would be undertaken with bilateral donors and multinational companies
active in Honduras. It is therefore expected that the Foundation would have raised a minimum of about
$2 million by the time the ILC is built. To cover the likely 75 percent operational deficit, a trust fund
would be established with a financial institution to invest these resources in financial instruments (bonds,
shares, CDs etc). The project is expected to be financially sustainable, given the commitment of the
private sector to make this a successful venture.
The archeological parks subprojects would address urgent reconstruction needs in the sites, due to
damages provoked by Mitch, in order to restore and regain the previous flow of tourism.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                                Risk   Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to
Objective"
Public is not sufficiently interested in  N    A communication strategy would be established.
the ILC.                                   The Ministries of Education, Environment and
Culture and the PIU would work closely to make
the ILC useful for the school systems. A pilot
social assessment carried out during preparation
demonstrates the usefulness of the ILC and the full
social assessment at the outset of implementation
would help to guide the communication strategy.
The necessary inter-institutional    M    The project has been designed and would be
collaboration will not happen.            implemented with representatives of all the key
institutions involved.



Page 14
Risk                                Risk  Risk Minimization Measure
tinRa
Private sector support will not endow  M    A condition for beginning civil works is thc
the PROFUTURO Foundation as               creation of a private foundation (PROFUTURO
expected over the long run                Foundation) which at this point in time is expected
to have a trust fund endowed with $1.5 million.
Private sector representatives have committed
themselves to a flow of about a million a year for
the coming few years. The by laws of this
Foundation and its trust fund are in process of
being finalized and voted upon. Finally, the
project would support communication activities to
increase corporate awareness.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to
Outputs"
Stability of the personnel responsible  M    During meetings held between IDA and the
for the project                           Government it was understood that this stability is
crucial for successful outcome. An economist
from the Ministry of Finance (Secretaria de
Finanzas, SEFIN) was chosen as project
coordinator, which is an important indicator of
commitment in the country.
Efficient and timely flow of resources  M    In contrast to other Ministries, COHCIT is a
to implement the project.                 decentralized entity, with control over the accounts
of the project. The counterpart budget has been
already been approved as part of the National
Budget for FY99.
Availability of materials for        N    The ILC would be designed taking this possibility
construction of the ILC.                  into consideration and avoiding the risk. Local
materials shall be given priority.
Overall Risk Rating                  M    The project is considered a priority at the highest
levels of GOH which considers it a flagship
initiative. The staff of COHCIT is highly
qualified; many with experience from the private
sector and a capable project coordinator and
accountant have been appointed. The staff is very
motivated about the project and consider it the
most important activity for the coming years.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None identified.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
(a) The Implementation Agreement shall have been entered into by COHCIT and the Implementation
Entity (NGO) which will carry out the Pre-Hispanic Sub-component;
(b) The final version of the Operational Manual has been approved by COHCIT and sent to IDA; and
(c) Financial Management System has been established.



Page 15
2. Other:
Disbursement conditions
Before the beginning of civil works:
(a) PROFUTURO Foundation is created legally and by-laws sent to IDA for review;
(b) PROFUTURO Foundation is endowed with a minimum of $1.5 million; and
(c) Government sends to IDA evidence of the legal title of the land.
Before the establishment of the archeological management plan sub-projects
Manual for the sub-projects is ready with priorities from the management plan established.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. This item is not applicable since the engineering documents would be prepared
following the architectural design competition as described in Annex 5.
[x ] The procurement plan for the first year's activities was completed during appraisal and is ready for
the start of project implementation.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan (Operational Manual) was appraised and will be fmalized before
credit effectiveness.
-. Compliance with IDA Policies
[x ] This project complies with all applicable IDA policies.
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Maria Valeria Junho Pena
Acting Sector ManagerRDirec    hn Redwood
Acting Country Manager/Director: Mark Cackler



Page 16
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Honduras: PROFUTURO
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators        Monitoring and      Critical
Evaluation         Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                       (Goal to IDA
Human capital                                                                  Mission)
development, poverty                                                           Sustainable
reduction, and sustainable                                                     development
development.                                                                   prioritized by GOH
Project Development                                                            (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
Promote and expand       1. In the ILC, a minimum of:                          1. Other projects
scientific, environmental,   1.1 100,000 visitors (70 percent                  with similar goals are
and cultural knowledge   younger than 18 years old) during the                 successfully
and management in the    first year.                                           developed.
context of Honduran      1.2. 150,000 visitors (70 percent                     2. Government
sustainable development    younger than 18 years old) during the               policies and priorities
and ethnic diversity.    second year.                                          related to families
1.3. 200.000 (70 percent younger than                 and children are
18 years) during the third year.                      maintained.
3. Continual support
2. In Tegucigalpa, a minimum of:                      of the international
2.1. 25 percent of schools use the ILC                community
and the environmental and cultural                    4. Social and
resources database as part of their                   political stability is
lesson plans in the first year;                       maintained
2.2. 50 percent of schools use the ILC                5. Maintenance of
and the resource inventory database as                sustainable growth
part of their lesson plans in the second              goals
year.
2.3. 75 percent of schools use the ILC
and the resource inventory database as
part of their lesson plans in the third
year.
3. The number of children expressing
positive feelings towards the
environment, their country, and its
identity has doubled from the base line
one year after museum opening.
Outputs:                                                                       (Outputs to
1. Infrastructure and   1. External and internal installations    1. Project   Objective)
equipment of the ILC in    of 4000 square meters in accordance    Completion Report.  1. Sufficient interest
place.                   with the design and the technical                     and participation of
specifications concluded 12/2000                      the public.
2. Exhibit package       2.1. Eighty scientist/technical and  2. Delivery of the    2. Personnel stability
defined, established and  cultural exhibits (4 per module)  ILC.               and effective training
operational.             installed by 01/2001 in accordance                    programs.
with technical specifications.



Page 17
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators          Monitoring and      Critical
Evaluation          Assumptions
3. Complementary         3.1. A package of at least six      3. Delivery of the    3. Continued
activities and services  complementary activities (art       ILC.                cooperation and
defined, operational and  workshops, craft workshops, teacher                    participation of the
effective.               courses, holiday courses for children                   institutions
and young adults, music workshops,
dance workshops, theater for children,
temporary exhibits) designed, supplied
and, in operation by 01/2001
3.2. A package of technical facilities
(technical and operational assistance to
the educational system, concerts,
interactive information center,
souvenirs shops, cafeteria, fast food
services, transportation, first aid
services,) designed by the year
01/2000
4. Mechanism for         4.1. PIU with plans for the execution   4.1. PIU staff hired   4. Efficient and
managing, operating and    of physical works defined and     and in place with a   timely flow of funds
sustaining the effective  operational before September 1999.    work program.    from the private
operation of the ILC.                                                            sector to operate the
4.2. Operational Manual with       4.2. Operational    ILC.
procedures, rules, terns of reference    Manual
established, design and operating
before September, 1999.
4.3. Deed of the
4.3. PROFUTURO Foundation          agreement between
established before June 1999.      the Government and
the PROFUTURO
Foundation
published in the
Official Gazette
4.4. Foundation with funding from  4.4. Trust Fund
private sector in sufficient amounts to   established in the
cover operational expenses of the ILCs  Foundation for the
as follows:                        ILC.
year- 2001:  95 percent
year- 2002: 90 percent
year- 2003: 80 percent
4.5 Funds generated by the ILC:    4.5. Audited
-2001: 5 percent                   financial statements
- 2002: 10 percent                 of the trust fund.
- 2003: 20 percent
4.6. Funds obtained by the trust fund   4.6 Audited
as follows:                        financial statements
12/1999: 1.5 million               of the trust fund.
12/2000: 1.8 million
12/2001:2 million
5. Environmental and                                         5. Surveys of users
cultural resources       5. Hardware and software to operate   of the environmental
assessment database ready  the environmental and cultural    and cultural
for being used and installed  resources database available and  resources
in the ILC.              installed                           assessment database. _



Page 18
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators          Monitoring and      Critical
Evaluation          Assumptions
6. Staff, volunteers, guides  6. 200 staff trained by the end of year  6. Training
and teachers trained.    2001 (50 staff of the children ILC, 100  workshops reports.
college students to serve as guides and
50 of the Ministry of Culture); 100
local guides trained by the end of year
2001; 1000 teachers trained by the end
of year 2001.
7. Communication,        7. Promotion materials, videos, and
participation and        tourists brochures developed and
promotion operational    distributed among 100 tourist agencies
strategies finalized.    in Honduras, Central America and
international.
Project Components/Sub-  Inputs:                                                 (Components to
components:                                                                      Outputs)
1. Sustainable                                                                   1. Stability of the
DeveloDment Resources:                                                           personnel in charge
of the project
2. Efficient and
(a) Interactive Leaning  $4.9 million                        Disbursement        timely flow of funds.
(b) Pre-Hispanic                                           reports              3. Disposition and
(b) Pre-Hispanic         $0.4 million                                            experienced
Contribution                                                                     personnel and
(c) Archeological Parks  $1.4 million                                            corporations that
sub-projects                                                                     support the project.
2. Capacity Building and       ..                                                4. Stability of the
Communication            $1.5 million                                            construction
company and
3. Project fImplementation                                                      availability of
3.UProject Implementatio $1.1 million                                            material and
resources.
5. Availability of the
equipment and
exhibits for purchase
and fabrication
purposes.
6. Private sector is
interested in
supporting
financially the
nonprofit
organization
_  7. Political Stability



Page 19
Annex 2: Project Description
Honduras: PROFUTURO
Project Component 1 - $6.7 million
Sustainable Development Resources Component
The objectives of this component are to assist the GOH: (a) design and implement a 4,000 square meter
ILC in Tegucigalpa as a non-formal educational facility on the social, scientific, and environmental
requirements for sustainable development, to be used by children, teachers, and parents; and (b) establish
archeological management plan sub-projects. There are three sub-components: Interactive Learning
Center; Pre-Hispanic Contribution; and Archeological Parks Sub-projects.
Sub-component ILC ($4.9 million). The ILC sub-component will support a non-traditional, hands-on,
and interactive informal learning experience on science, environment and sustainable development built
in evolving modules. This sub-component includes:
(a) Infrastructure ($3.7 million), including:
(i) architectural design;
(ii) soil assessment;
(iii) engineering design of the building of the ILC, including equipment and finishing;
(iv) construction of an ILC with 4,000 square meters; and
(v) plan to operate and maintain the building and the equipment.
(b) 30 Exhibits and Artifacts to be displayed ($1.2 million) including:
(i) studies and definition of the exhibits and artifacts;
(ii) exhibit design
(iii) fabrication, acquisition and installation of the exhibits;
(iv) plan for operation and maintenance of the exhibits and artifacts; and
(v) plan for renovation of the artifacts.
These exhibits will focus on the following:
(i) science and technology (our world, energy, cities, transport, astronomy, geology, economic
production);
(ii) sustainable development and environmental management linkages with natural disasters
(natural resources, plants and animals, biodiversity);
(iii) the human body and communication (the senses, cycle of life, language and knowledge,
communication and artistic expression, the brain and memory); and
(iv) sustainable development practices and scientific knowledge among pre-Hispanic cultures.
(c) Activities and Services to the community (workshops for teachers and parents, plays, interactive data
center with the environmental and cultural resources inventory, cafeteria, gift shop, etc.). The following
activities will be undertaken:
(i) plan for additional services; and
(ii) plan for service "concessions" for the private sector.
(d) Support to the PROFUTURO Foundation on:
(i) definition of the organization and administration of the ILC;
(ii) definition of human resources, career development, and job descriptions; and
(iii) recruitment.



Page 20
Sub-component Pre-Hispanic Contribution ($0.4 million). This sub-component will support research
on pre-Hispanic practices and scientific knowledge to be disseminated to teachers and students through
the ILC and through a small children's facility in the COPAN Museum. It will also finance activities to
promote ownership among indigenous peoples regarding COPAN. The following activities will be
undertaken:
(a) technical assistance to carry out studies about the pre-Hispanic contribution to modem science and
environmental management ($0.2 million)
(b) training local residents and indigenous as guides for COPAN Park and teachers and students on pre-
Hispanic practices and scientific knowledge ($0.2 million); and
(c) technical assistance for the development of interactive exhibits and workshops for children in the
COPAN Park ($0.05 million)
Sub-component Archeological Parks Sub-projects ($1.4 million). This sub-component will support
activities considered priorities by the management plan for archeological parks. Up to $400,000 are
allocated for emergency subprojects to be implemented prior to the conclusion of the management plan,
but according to criteria defined in the Operational Manual.
(a) Emergency Archeological Parks Subprojects. ($0.4 million)
(b) Archeological Management Plan Subprojects. ($1. 0 million)
Project Component 2 - $1.5 million
Capacity Building and Communication
The objectives of this component are to support the capacity building of staff and volunteers of the ILC
and develop a communication strategy for the public and corporations. This component includes:
(a) Development of a communication and dissemination strategy, including planning fundraising
activities, informing the private sector, and creating social ownership. Activities to be financed will
include an array of public information and dissemination programs and efforts to create public and
particularly corporate awareness, and social commitment and ownership regarding the project. Targeted
groups will consist of business people, potential contributors, parents, children, education stakeholders,
cultural stakeholders, scientific and technological community, ethnic groups and college students. In the
aftermath of Mitch, this dissemination will also consider the re-launch of COPAN Park and other
archeological parks for international tourism. ($0.8 million)
(b) Design and implement a program to develop a body of professionals and volunteers at the national
level, for researching, designing and implementing the ILC, archeological parks management and
reconstruction. Special programs will be designed for volunteers and for college students who will
function as the ILC guides. ($0.4 million)
(c) Design and implement an environmental (ecological sites, archeological parks, national parks,
biological reserves, etc.) and cultural resources inventory (cultural sites) and store it in a database that is
accessible to the users of the ILC. ($0.1 million)
(d) Design of a management plan for archeological parks, which will identify priorities for research and
reconstruction. ($0.1 million)
(e) Design and implement a social assessment. The main objectives of the social assessment will be to:
(i) identify the main stakeholders of the project and their respective stakes, including international
stakeholders and private sector; and (ii) ensure that ILC exhibits are not gender biased and are appropriate
to the social diversity of the country. ($0.1 mflion)



Page 21
Project Component 3 - $1.1 million
Project Implementation Unit
Financing will be provided to develop and strengthen the capacity for management, monitoring and
evaluating the project. The project will support capacity building in project management, including:
finance and administration, ILC design and exhibitions, engineering, procurement, and monitoring and
evaluation. Activities include:
(a) recruitment of international and national specialists for short periods of time in the above-mentioned
areas;
(b) training provided by international and national specialists in the above-mentioned areas;
(c) recruitment of a consultant to develop, based on the Operational Manual, a project specific
Management Information System (MIS) as a tool for monitoring and evaluating financial and
implementation performance and social impacts of the credit; and
(d) study tours to other ILCs, particularly in Latin America countries (Venezuela, Colombia, Bolivia,
Costa Rica and Mexico) and participation in international and national events pertaining to the ILCs.



Page 22
Summary Cost Table by Components
Component/Sub-component                Responsible            Amount
Agency           (US$ thousand)
1. Sustainable Development Resources
a) Interactive Learning Center                 COHCIT/PIU            4,842.5
b) Pre-Hispanic Contribution                   COHCIT/PIU              435.3
c) Archeological Parks Sub-projects               SCAD                1.400.0
Subtotal                                           6,677.8
2. Capacity Building and Communication
a) Communication and Dissemination Strategy    COHCIT/P1U              550.0
SCAD                203.8
754.6
b) Training Program for professionals and volunteers   COHICT/PIU      359.8
SCAD                 61.5
421.3
c) Environmental and Cultural Resources Inventory  SCAD                 38.4
COHCIT/PIU              50.7
89.1
d) Design management plan for archeological parks  SCAD                152.2    152.2
e) Social Assessment                            COHCIT/PIU             101.7    101.7
Subtotal                                          1,518.9
3. Project Implementation Unit (Evaluation,       COHCIT/PIU            1.068.2  1,068.2
Monitoring, and Management)
TOTAL                                     9,264.9
Summary Table by Responsible Agency
Responsible Agency          Total Amount of Project    Amount Financed by IDA (US$
(US$ thousands)                 thousands)
COHCIT/PIU                              $ 7,358.3                     $6,516.4
SCAD                                    $ 1,906.6                     $1,832.0
TOTAL              $9,264.9                       $8,348.4



Page 23
Annex 3: Key Findings of the Pilot Social Assessment
Honduras: PROFUTURO
Background
A pilot social assessment was conducted during preparation to obtain inputs from the main beneficiaries
of PROFUTURO - children and teachers- and to strengthen the project's conceptual framework,
particularly defining the terms of reference for the future social assessment.
Objectives and Methodology of the Pilot. Using a rapid appraisal methodology (focus groups and in-
depth interviews), children and teachers from rural and urban schools in, and surrounding, Tegucigalpa,
were consulted about: (a) learning in schools, including areas of interest, what they like and dislike in
schools, and their perceptions about what is lacking in schools; (b) Honduran history, Honduran heritage,
and cultural identity and diversity; and how these views are linked with their expectations in the future;
(c) their perceptions on pre-Hispanic civilizations; and (d) their leisure options and recreational areas.
The consistency of results revealed that the methodology is adequate to understand the modal evaluation,
values, and aspirations of potential beneficiaries.
With the support of the Ministry of Education, three urban (one private and two public) and two rural
public schools were visited to conduct interviews with teachers and hold group discussions with students.
About fifty children were consulted in eight focus groups; each of them made up of three girls and three
boys. Age ranged from seven to sixteen years old. Five informal interviews with teachers of both
primary and secondary level of education were held.
As expected, age and location - urban or rural - are closely related to how children express themselves.
Younger children in rural schools tended to be the most timid of all with strangers and the most
monosyllabic when discussing the proposed agenda. In contrast, older children (about 12-16 years old) in
urban private schools are talkative and at ease when talking to strangers. Nonetheless, there is a striking
similarity of some of their views about certain issues, for example, Honduran history and the Mayas.
Main Results
Schools. Children like school. As shown in the social assessment for the El Salvador Basic
Modernization I Project', children feel the need for a place that they define as theirs and that is different
from home - which they may like but is their parent's place. Schools are the space children identify as
their own. In schools they feel important because is a place they can socialize with other children, though
at the same time, satisfy their need for individualization and belonging. This feeling makes more difficult
for them to be negative about school.
Schools play different roles in children's life, not all of them related to education and learning. Girls
learn to be girls, boys learn to be boys, friendships develop, games are played. No matter how poor
schools are or inadequate the teaching they provide, if those other functions are performed, students will
still be happy. Basically, children do not approve of what they think will disrupt that sense of dignity
they gain by going to schools (as fights, violence, scratches in the wall); conversely, they like everything
that reinforces the role they expect schools should play in their lives: games, friends and leaning.
Junho Pena, Valeria (1995) Social Assessment: El Salvador Basic Education Modemization Project. LATEN Dissemination Note # 13,
The World Bank.



Page 24
Box 1. What do children like and not like in schools?
I like field trips ...to play football during break-time ... to do manual work. (8-year-old boys and girls from
non-poor urban schools)
I do not like children scratching the school walls ...children fighting in the classroom...
(8 year-old girls from poor urban school)
I do not like to write a lot...to look up up many words in the dictionary. (8-year-old boys from poor urban
school)
When asked about what school lacks, non-poor urban students mention: more computers to help them
with their school tasks, more videos, materials for arts and craft activities, more musical instruments for
their band. The poor urban and rural students, on the other hand, unanimously answer the same question
by saying "nothing." Only when asked about specific items, as for example, whether they have drawing
materials, they mention that they do not have notebooks, erasers, and glue. Given the above-mentioned
reasons, the lack of these materials does not affect children's appreciation and the positive visions of their
schools.
Teachers' perceptions about what is lacking in school ratify what children mention. Teachers from
private schools remark that the pedagogic material is outdated, and they need more modem materials such
as maps, books, and videos. On the other hand, teachers from rural and poor urban schools mention the
lack of basic pedagogic material such as chalk, paper, textbooks, and pencils.
Although teachers describe the learning methods as being obsolete and teacher-centered, rather than
child-centered, they agree that students show eagemess to learn. Students stress their interest in
mathematics, social sciences, and natural sciences, Spanish, English and artistic activities. When asked
about their interest in history they report having knowledge about world history such as ancient cultures,
the industrial revolution and the French revolution and their Honduran history.
Box 2. What do children like?
I like to go to school to play. (8-year-old boys from rural school)
I like to learn mathematics because it is important to know how to add and multiply....Because it is easy.
(9-year-old girlfrom urban school)
I like sciences because I learn about human body. (9-year-old boyfrom urban school)
(I like) social studies because we learn about the world and where Honduras is located ... Because I learn
about the rivers and the valleys. (8-year-old boys and girls from urban school)
I like to learn the history of our ancestors ...I like to learn about the Mayas, what they ate, how they lived,
and about their gods. (12-year-old girls and boys from urban school)
I like Computer Science; I am in my second year of Computer Science Baccalaureates. (16-year-old
female student in a private school)



Page 25
History and Heritage. For children, the Honduran past is a compilation of facts transmitted by history
textbooks. They refer to their ancestors and heroes in the same way they refer to the Egyptians and other
cultures they are being taught. When they were asked about what they know about their history, they
stress the Maya culture and the Spanish domination. However, they do not seem to establish links
between those two elements as part of their history formation. The same happens with other ethnic
groups who played a role in the country formation. The past is neither linked to the present or to the fiture.
Only students from the non-poor urban school were able to verbalize about how they perceive the future of
their country and their people. One student said, "... in the near future Honduras is going to face a severe
ecological problem." She mentioned that the main causes are the destructive exploitation of the country's
natural resources. When students from the poor schools were confronted with questions about the future,
they simply laughed and did not answer.
Children refer to the Maya with veneration, as if they were deities rather than human beings. The Maya are
described as being very talented and superior regarding their knowledge and uses of advanced techniques in
agriculture and construction. This may explain why the children of Honduras, although aware of the
progress that the Mayas achieved as a civilization, do not seem to identify with them. In fact, they report
that they would like to know more about the Maya's everyday activities, such as, how did they care for their
children, how did they prepare their meals, how did they live, and what were their gods like. In the mean
time, the Mayas are perceived as the "other," a culture childrenr mirror to evaluate theirs as inferior.
In contrast to the admiration that they demonstrate regarding the Maya, children show concern for
Honduras, and for themselves as Hondurans, whom they described as being conformists. Children said:
"The Mayas were brilliant, glorious, admirable and with a great artistic talent," "We are conformists, and
we do not like challenges," "The main concern of the richer is becoming richer and the poor will become
poorer because of their passivity."
Leisure Options and Recreational Areas. There are few leisure options for children in Tegucigalpa.
Most of the poor stay home or play in the streets, whereas the non-poor reported more options such as
visits to parks (e.g. Picacho, Obrero), cinema and countryside excursions. Children seldom mention
other cultural options such as the theater and music events (there are some bands and orchestras in
Tegucigalpa). Visits to museums (there are a few in Tegucigalpa) occur as part of school excursions.
Teachers explain that museums are not as appealing to children because they can only see, not play.
According to them, exhibits are not presented in a way that stimulate children's curiosity; they cannot be
touched, and do not have anything to do with children's reality. Particularly, the Museum of the
Presidency is mentioned as an example that shows dresses of the recent ex- First Lady. They also
mention that parents are not in the habit of taking their children to museums probably because this is
considered the school's responsibility.
Box 3. What do children do when they are not in school?
I go to church ... I go the park "El Picacho." (ten-year-old girls and boys from non-poor urban school)
I go to Burger King. (six-year-old boy from urban non-poor school)
I play football in the street. (twelve-year-old boyfrom poor urban school)
I do not go out because my parents are busy. (eight-year-old girls from rural school)
I go to visit my relatives and play with my cousins. (ten-year-old boy from rural school)



Page 26
Recommendations:
For the ILC. Based on the findings mentioned above, children have an innate potential that is not fully
developed as a result of the limited array of educational and cultural opportunities available for those who
are poor and/or rural; and the lack of awareness of how children can be motivated in the case of non poor.
Thus, the design of the ILC should consider the following recommendations:
-  Create more value-added entertainment that will serve as a complementary tool for formal education.
-  Create interesting exhibits that stimulate curiosity, motivate learning, and enhance self-esteem, by
increasing creativity, broadening children's horizons and increasing their understanding of their world.
-  Create programs that facilitate the identification of children with the Mayas, and promote the value of
the richness of cultural diversity.
- Organize classes and workshops for teachers designed to provide learning options that support the
work of educators and expand teaching techniques, as well as activities that children could take back to
their classroom.
-  Organize an education guide that contains pre- and post-visit activities to be sent in advance to the
scheduled visits to the ILC.
TOR for the future Social Assessment:
-  Considering that, according to the pilot social assessment, children do not link their present with the
social events and actors of the past, the social assessment should confirm this finding, explain the factors
that account for this limited vision, and propose a new teaching strategy that could permit children to
learn how history influenced their present and what is their role in it.
-   Identify and analyze options that permit the intemalization of the Mayas' achievements in children's
everyday life.
-  Although the pilot social assessment did not find gender disparities or differences that should be
considered, the social assessment should analyze the demands and opportunities of both women and men
regarding the issues mentioned above.
The following activities would be undertaken:
(i) an anthropological study about what 215 century children should learn from pre-Hispanic
cultures;
(ii) an analysis about the vision of Honduran children on history, environment, education arid
science;
(iii) an analysis about the vision of Honduran children and teachers on sustainable development;
and
(iv) a consultation with children, teachers and parents on ethnic diversity and the main issues
related to education, particularly informal education.
The methodological tools for carrying-out the social assessment are as follows:
(i) secondary data review: special attention should be given to history textbooks;
(ii) semi-structured interviews with key informants;
(iii) focus group meetings with students, teachers, and parents; and
(iv) essays by students.



Page 27
Annex 4: Estimated Project Costs (in US$ million)
Honduras: PROFUTURO
Proiect Comvonent              Local      Foreign      Total
1. Sustainable Development Resources
2.1 Interactive Learning Center       2.2         2.2         4.4
2.2 Pre-Hispanic Contribution         0.2         0.2         0.4
2.3 Archaeological Parks Subprojects  1.4           -          1.4
Subtotal                             3.8          2.4         6.2
2. Capacity Building and Communication   0.7         0.8          1.5
3. Project Implementation Unit           0.8         0.3          1.1
Total Baseline Cost                      5.3         3.5          8.8
Physical Contingencies                 0.2          0.2         0.4
Price Contingencies                    0.0          0.1         0.1
Total Project Cost                       5.5         3.8          9.3



Page 28
Annex 5: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Honduras: PROFUTURO
Procurement
There is no up-to-date Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) for Honduras and no
comprehensive review of local regulatory and institutional framework for procurement was conducted.
The Honduran Council of Science and Technology (COHCIT) through its Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) will have the overall responsibility for procurement. This is the first IDA project for
COHCIT. Its administrative unit is very small and has three staff: one administrator, one accountant, and
one assistant with little experience on projects financed by multilateral organizations. COHCIT is
currently implementing an Organization of American States (OAS) project, where procurement is done
mostly under local shopping procedures.
A PIU will be established for the management of the project. The PIU coordinator and
accountant have been recently selected. A procurement specialist familiar with IDA procedures has also
been hired to handle and coordinate all procurement activities. IDA procurement courses will be
available for the PRU staff and on-the-job training will also be provided.
The construction of the ILC will be the main procurement activity of the project ($3.2 million).
Therefore, the GOH has agreed to transfer the procurement responsibility of the construction and
supervision of the ILC to the Ministry of Civil Works, Transport and Housing (SOPTRAVI) in view of
their experience with IDA procurement procedures. SOPTRAVI has an implementation unit that has
worked already with several projects funded by IDA and IDB. This unit will be responsible for the
bidding process and supervision of the construction. The PIU Procurement Specialist will coordinate the
planning and preparation of the engineering studies and bidding documents with SOPTRAVI and will
receive on-the-job training from this unit.
Procurement training will also be part of the training program that will be offered to the ILC staff.
It is recommended that a procurement unit be established in the ILC for managing all ILC property, goods
and materials.
Procurement Arrangements (Table A). All procurement will be done in accordance with IDA's
guidelines on procurement of goods, works, and using standard contract documents acceptable to IDA
(Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January/August
1996and September 1997 and January 1999; and Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999).
Civil works consist of the construction of the ILC and small rehabilitation works at priority
archaeological parks. The estimated building area for the ILC is 4,000 m2, and the estimated cost is $3.2
million. International Competitive Bidding (ICB) will be carried out for this contract using IDA's
Standard Bidding Document for small works. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures
satisfactory to IDA will be used for rehabilitation works expected to cost between $150,000 and
$1,500,000, up to an aggregate amount of $300,000. For rehabilitation works below $150,000, up to an
aggregate amount of $1,100,000, procurement will be done under lump-sum, fixed price contracts
awarded on the basis of price quotations.
Goods to be procured under the project ($1.4 million) consist of diverse elements for the exhibits of
the ILC; such as toys, tools, handicrafts, learning material, electronic equipment, computers and software.
No ICB is anticipated. NCB procedures satisfactory to IDA will be used for contracts estimated to cost
above $25,000 up to an aggregate amount of $96,000. Contracts estimated to cost below $25,000 would
be procured through international shopping or national shopping procedures, based on price quotations
from at least three suppliers.



Page 29
Consultant services under the project ($2.5 million) will follow Quality-Cost Based Selection
procedures. Table A. 1 shows the different consulting assignments: the architectural design and
supervision of the construction of the ILC, design of the exhibits, design of the training plan for the staff
ILC, external auditors for the project accounts, the promotion campaign, the development of an
archeological site management plan, and several individual consultants for the PIU's operation up to an
aggregate amount of $1.3 million).
The preliminary conceptual architectural design will be done through open competition and the
evaluation will be based on quality. Terms of reference including detailed evaluation criteria will be
developed and agreed with IDA. An evaluating committee will be formed and members of the Honduran
Architects Association will be included. The participants will be required to submit technical and
financial proposals at the same time in separate envelopes. Technical proposals will be evaluated and
only the financial proposal of the consultant that ranks first in the evaluation of technical proposals will
be opened. If an agreement is not reached during the negotiation of the financial proposal, the financial
proposal of the second ranked technical proposal will be opened.
Prior review thresholds (Table B). The level of IDA's prior review of procurement for this project is
54.1 percent, which covers (a) the ICB for the construction of the ILC, (b) the first NCB contract for
goods, (c) the first NCB contract for works, (d) the first contract under international/national shopping, (e)
consultant contracts with consulting firms above $100,000, (f) consultant contracts with individuals above
$30,000; and (g) any sole-source contract.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C). Disbursements will be made against the categories of
expenditures indicated in Table C. The proceeds of the proposed credit are expected to be disbursed over
a period of 3 years. The project closing date is expected to be October 30, 2002.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs): Disbursements will be made on the basis of full
documentation for all expenditures made under contracts requiring prior review by IDA, and contracts
whose value will be raised above the prior review limits as a result of amendments. For all other
expenditures, disbursements will be made against SOEs: (a) contracts for works costing less than
$150,000 equivalent; (b) goods costing less than $25,000 equivalent; (c) contracts for consulting firms
costing less than $100,000; (c) contracts for individual consultants costing less than $30,000; and (d)
training expenses.
SpecialAccount: In order to facilitate project implementation, the PIU will establish a special
account in US dollars at the Central Bank with an authorized allocation and initial advance of $850,000,
corresponding to the average of four months expenditures that are expected to be made from the account.
The PIU will submit the request for replenishments on a monthly basis, or when 25 percent of the
authorized allocation has been used, whichever occurs first. The replenishment application will be
supported by the necessary documentation: a bank statement of the Special Account and a reconciliation
of the Special Account against bank records. The Special Account will be audited in conjunction with the
annual financial audit of the project accounts.
Audit
The PIUJ will have the records and accounts of the project for each fiscal year, including the Special
Account, audited by independent and qualified external auditors, in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards and procedures, and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA. Certified copies of the
audit reports will be submitted to IDA no later than June 30 of each year.
Retroactive Financing
IDA will finance expenditures incurred after October 12, 1998. The amount of the retroactive
financing will not exceed 10 percent of the total credit amount.



Page 30
Annex 5: Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure
Category                       Procurement Method                     Total
ICB            Other        N.B.F.
1. Works                          3.2          1.5                            4.7
(2.7)        (1.3)                          (4.0)
2. Goods 1/                                    1.3                            1.3
. -      ~~(1.1)                         (I. 1)
3. Consultant Services 2           -           2.5               -            2.5
________________________              -           (2.5)             -            (2.5)
4. Training 3/                     -           0.7               -            0.7
-          (0.7)             -            (0.7)
5. Recurrent Costs                 -           -                0.1           0.1
TOTAL                             3.2          5.9              0.1           9.3
_______________________             (2.7)         (5.7)                          (8.3)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA
credit
N.B.F. = Non-Bank financing
1/ Goods to be procured by NCB, international/national shopping (three
quotations).
2/ Consultants Services will be procured under QCBS procedures. See Table A. 1.
3/ Training consists of study tours, registration in courses, and other related
expenses.



Page 31
Annex 5: Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Selection Method                   Total
Consultant Services                                     _                    Cost
QCBS   QBS    SFB   LCS   CQ   Other  N.B.F.
A. Firms
a) Promotion campaign           X                                                 0.5
b) Architectural Design of ILC          X                                         0.2
c) Supervision of ILC           X                                                 0.2
Construction
d) Auditing                     X                                                 0.03
e) Research on Pre-Hispanic     X                                                 0.2
practices, scientific knowledge
f) Archeological Sites          X                                                 0.2
Management Plan
B. Individuals
a) Promotion Campaign                                                X            0.1
b) Social Assessment                                                 X            0.05
c) Architectural plan                                                X            0.05
d) Exhibits Designs                                                  X            0.1
e) PCU staff                                                         X            0.4
f) Short-term consultants to                                         X            0.2
assist ILC and PIU
g) Plan of ILC Activities                                            X            0.1
h) Archeological Sites                                               X            0.2
Management Plan              _        _
Total   2.5
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS   Least-Cost Selection
CQ  = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.



Page 32
Annex 5: Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value         Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)            Method          Prior Review / Estimated
Total Value Subject to
Prior Review
US $                                   US $ millions
1. Works                      All                  ICB                Yes- ($3.2 m)
150,000-1,500,000          NCB                First ($0.150)
< 150,000          Lump-sum, fixed         First ($0.05)
price contracts
2. Goods                    >25,000                NCB                First ($0.03 m)
<25,000            International/         First ($0.02 m)
National Shopping
3. Consultant Services
With firms                 >100,000          Lump-sum service           All ($0.4)
contracts
<100,000                 44                 Only TORs
With individuals            >30,000           Service contracts         All ($0.5)
<30,000                 ;                  Only TORs
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:                            4.5m.



Page 33
Annex 5: Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category          Amount in US$ million    Financing Percentage
1. Civil Works
(a) ILC building                         2.4                      83%
(b) Emergency Archaeological
Subprojects                          0.4                      95%
(c) Archaeological Management
Plan Subprojects                     0.9                      95%
2. Goods                                    1.1                 100% of foreign
expenditures; 88% of
local expenditures
3. Consultant Services                      2.5                    100%
4. Training                                 0.7                    100%
5. Unallocated                              0.3
Total                                       8.3
Note: No recurrent cost would be financed with the credit proceeds.



Page 34
Annex 6: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Honduras: PROFUTURO
A. Project Budget (US$000)                Planned                Actual
$50,000
B. Project Schedule                       Planned                Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  3 months             3 months
First IDA mission (identification)        07/30/1998             07/22/1998
Appraisal mission departure               10/01/1998             10/05/1998
Negotiations                               11/04/1998            04/20/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness             08/18/1999
Prepared by: Honduran Council of Science and Technology (COHCIT)
Preparation assistance: Swiss Trust Fund, Gender Operational Fund
IDA staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Specialty
Mark Cackler                              Sector Leader, LCC2C
Shelton Davis                             Lead Specialist, LCSES
Maria Valeria Pena                        Task Manager, LCSES
Genaro Alarc6n                            Counsel, LEGLA
Teresa Roncal                             Procurement Analyst, LCSES
Enrique Vanegas                           Financial Analyst, LCSFP
Olympia Icochea                           Gender Specialist, LCSPR
Kathryn Johns Swartz                      Operations Analyst, LCSES
Madalena dos Santos                       Sr. Education Specialist, LCSHD
Augusta Molnar                            Sr. NRM Specialist, LCSES
Juan David Quintero                       Sr. Environmental Specialist, LCSES
Maria Geigel                              Task Assistant, LCSES
Marie Claude Haxaire                      Administrative Assistant, LCSES
Peer Reviewers
Thomas Blinkhorn                          Lead Operations Specialist, ECSHD
Frank Method                              UNESCO
Advisers
Robert Crown                              Projects Adviser, LCOQE
Juergen Franz                             Sector Leader, LCC2C



Page 35
Annex 7: Environmental Analysis
Honduras: PROFUTURO
Environmental Aspects
1.   The construction of the ILC will not generate any significant negative environmental impacts
because of the type of plot selected, area available, and urban location, however, construction activities
would probably be of some concern. Although it is located in an urban neighborhood, the area is
relatively isolated from residences and other businesses. Thus, there will be no inconveniences or
nuisances within the community during construction. On the other hand, the project itself provides
excellent opportunities for environmental enhancement and the promotion of environmentally sustainable
technologies and concepts. These enhancement opportunities can be built into the design and
construction of the ILC and will reinforce the focus on sustainable development that was adopted for the
facility.
Environmental Considerations for the Engineering Design
2.   The engineering design of the ILC should take into consideration: (i) the connection of the ILC to the
potable water system and the capacity of the existing water distribution network; (ii) the connection to the
sewerage network and the need for capacity expansion for receiving collectors; (iii) the treatment of
wastewater from cafeterias and restaurants before being discharged to the sewerage networks (iv) the
adequate management of runoff and the facilities for its recollection and evacuation, keeping in mind the
existing downstream systems; (iv) the systems for recollection, storage and transportation of solid wastes
generated in the LLC, incorporating the structures for separation and recycling; (v) appropriate access
systems for pedestrians, municipal and inter-municipal buses, bicycles and handicapped people; (vii)
alternatives for managing the informal or street sellers at the entrance of the ILC; and (viii) avoiding the use
of materials such as wood from tropical forests, lead-based paints, asbestos, for example.
Environmental Enhancement
3.   The architectural design of the ILC brings many opportunities to incorporate and reinforce the
criteria of environmental sustainability that will be promoted by the ILC. The feasibility of incorporating
these aspects into the design should be analyzed during the conceptualization phase of the architectural
designs and during the engineering designs. This analysis should include inter alia: (i) solar panels to
satisfy totally or partially the electricity needs of the ILC, with proper back-up systems; (ii) rain water
storage for the irrigation of gardens and green zones; (iii) recycling waste waters for irrigation; (iv)
separation of the potable water systems from irrigation systems; (v) maximizing natural light in order to
minimize artificial light needs; (vi) planting native species in gardens and green areas and incorporating
these in the activities of the ILC with pedestrian walkways (showing children native species, names and
importance of these species); (vii) using windmills for groundwater exploitation for irrigation water; (viii)
natural ventilation systems, minimizing the necessities of air conditioning (even though some modules like
the computer interactive center, projection rooms, etc. will need these systems); and (ix) the stabilization of
slopes using vegetative measures.
4.   Many of the above concepts are part of in-country initiatives such as the non-conventional energy
sources that are promoted by the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment (SERNA). Based on their
hands-on knowledge of the environmental situation in Honduras, the Ministry has offered their
collaboration to contribute conceptual ideas to the architectural design of the ILC regarding issues of non-
conventional energy, national environmental problems and solutions. The preparation of the basis for the
architectural conceptual designs will be consulted with the Sub-secretary of the Environment.



Page 36
Environmental Management of Construction Activities
5.   Construction activities could cause important impacts and nuisances to surrounding areas. These
impacts merit careful planning of construction activities and the application of strict environmental
measures during construction. Among the aspects that should be kept in mind are: (i) pedestrian safety and
traffic congestion during construction due to the increase of heavy traffic (of the construction itself and
from traffic detours) in high traffic avenues and exit ramps; (ii) dust and particulate materials, causing
nuisances to surrounding businesses; (iii) undesirable noise levels due to the machinery and equipment; (iv)
degradation of lateral streets due to heavy equipment machinery and traffic detours; (v) the interruption of
services (water, electricity, telephone, urban buses) during construction; (vi) the adequate disposal of
garbage, metals, used oils, excess materials, generated during construction; and (vii) the necessity of
informing the population about construction and work schedules, interruption of services, traffic detour
routes, provisional bus routes, and pedestrian security measures during construction.
6.   The design of the ILC will then consider: (i) the preparation of environmental specifications that the
contractor should follow during the construction of the ILC, within the identified lineament; and (ii) the
constructive design and activity programming keeping in mind the minimization of impacts and trouble to
the population.
Environmental Supervision during Construction
7.   The supervision of the construction will include compliance with the Operational Manual and the
environmental specifications by the contractor.
Environmental Measures during the Operational Phase
8.   During the operational phase of the ILC, adequate provisions should guarantee: (i) the maintenance
of the systems of collection and treatment of waste waters; (ii) the adequate collection and disposal of solid
waste, incorporating recycling systems and the separation of materials; and (iii) the maintenance of
complimentary systems (solar panels, wind mills, etc.). The engineering design should include the
preparation of operational manuals and maintenance of all systems.



Page 37
Environmental Management of the ILC's Design, Construction and Operation
9.   The following table presents the different phases of the construction process, identifying the agency
or organization responsible and the environmental considerations that should be included in each phase.
Table 1. Construction Phases, Responsible Party, and Environmental Requirements
Phase        Responsible Party                Environmental Requirements
Basis for    PIU will hire a consultant with  The terms of reference for the biding competition on
biding of   expertise on this type of  architectural design must include the conceptual
conceptual  projects. The Ministry of  environment requirements as well as consideration on
architectural Environment and Natural  environment enhancement (see paragraph 3).
design     Resources (SERNA) will be
consulted about programs or
initiatives related to their
agenda, as a result; they will be
able to provide support or
represent such programs in the
ILC.                       _
Preliminary  The basis for the selection of an The preliminary project must take into consideration the
Architectural architectural firm will be made environment criteria and must include environmental
Project    from a preliminary architectural enhancement concepts (see paragraph 4).
competition. It is recommended
that the jury include
environment specialists. The
preliminary project will be
presented to SERNA for their
=_________  evaluation
Engineering The consulting firm or the same Engineering design should include the preparation of
Design     firm of prior architectural  environmental manual and specifications for the
design. The environment    contractor (see paragraph 6).
manual for the contractor must
be based on similar manuals
already existing in SOPTRAVI.
Construction The construction contractor    Contractor should follow environmental manual and
must be selected through   specifications (see paragraph five).
international competition
biding.
Supervision  Consulting Firm           Technical supervision of the project should include
supervision of compliance with the environmental
manual of the contractor and the environmental
optimization efforts. The terms of reference for
contracting the work supervisor must include assuring
compliance with all environmental aspects (see
paragraph 7).
Operation   PROFUTURO Foundation       The operation must guarantee the maintenance of all
environmental systems (see paragraph 8).



Annex 8: Status of Bank Group Operations in Honduras
Operations Portfolio
As of 24-May-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                              disbursements a/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed       Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 44
Active Projects
HN-PE-48651    1999   GOVERNMENT OF HONDURAS            FHIS IV                                  0.00       45.00        0.00             16.33      -29.00        0.00
HN-PE-64083    1999   REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS              HURRICANE EMERGENCY                      0.00      200.00        0.00            195.53       23.15        0.00
HN-PE-7398      1997   GOVERNMENT OF HONDURAS           RURAL LAND MGMT                          0.00       34.00        0.00             27.35       10.03        5.06
HN-PE-34607     1996   REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS             PUB SEC MOD TAC                          0.00        9.60        0.00              3.02        2.20        0.00
HN-PE-37709     1996   GOVERNMENT-HONDURAS              SOC INV FUND III                         0.00       30.00        0.00              1.57        -.19        0.00
HN-PE-7387      1996   REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS             PUB SEC MOD SAC                          0.00      115.70        0.00             27.84        1.71        7.41
HN-PE-7396      1995   GOVERNMENT OF HONDURAS           ENVIRON. DEVELOPMENT                     0.00       10.80        0.00              5.67        5.38        4.99
HN-PE-7399      1995   GOVT OF HONDURAS                 BASIC EDUCATION                          0.00       30.00        0.00             19.48       15.10        0.00
HN-PE-7388      1993   GOVERNMENT OF HONDURAS           TRNSPRT SCTR RHB                         0.00       85.00        0.00             23.63        2.83         1.71
HN-PE-7392      1993   GOVERNMENT                       NUTRITION/HLTH                           0.00       35.40        0.00             10.20        -.78        0.00
Total                                                                                            0.00      595.50        0.00            330.62       30.43       19.17
Active Projects       Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                246.33            1,078.41            1,324.74
of which has been repaid:                  0.00              515.54             515.54
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                595.50              551.79            1,147.29
Amount sold                                       0.00               4.46                4.46
Of which repaid              :                0.00                4.46                4.46
Total Undisbursed               :              330.62                0.00              330.62
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Apr-99.



Honduras
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Mar-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1995/98       Elcosa                   8.28    2.64    3.50   21.62    8.28    2.63    3.50   21.62
1997           Cressida               15.00    0.00   10.00   37.00   15.00    0.00   10.00   37.00
Total Portfolio:           23.28    2.64   13.50   58.62   23.28    2.63   13.50   58.62
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equit-Y  Quasi  Partic
1998           CAMINO REAL PLAZ    10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998           CRESSIDA BLINC          0.00    0.00    0.00    7.00
Total Pending Commitment:    10.00    0.00    0.00    7.00



Annex 9: Financial Management System Action Plan
Honduras: PROFUTURO
No.            WEEKLY ACTIVITIES              1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12
ACCOUNTFNG MODULE P                                          = _     _
I  ANALYSIS AND DESIGN OF ACCOUNTING BOOKS=             ,.=====_=
2  ANALYSIS AND DESIGN OF MODULE._
DISBURSEMENT MODULE
I  ANALYSIS                       _          =  =  E  =  =  __ =   __  ___   U
2  DESIGN                                    =c=o=  r  S  S  =  =  ==   =  =   eD
3  INSTALLATION AND TESTING
4  TRAINING
5  PAYMENT FOR MODULE PREPARATION
BUD1GET MODULE
2  DESIGN
3  INSTALLATION AND TESTING
5  PAYMENT FOR MODULE PREPARATION
LACI REPORTS MODULE
2  DESIGN_______ _                                                              m  
3  INSTALLATION AND TESTING
5  PAYMENT FOR MODULE PREPARATION               _                 _            __       m



Page 41
Annex 10
Honduras at a glance
Latin
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                       Arnerica    Low-
Honduras  & Carib.  income       Development diamond*
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                     6.3      494    2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                 700      3,880      350
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                    4.4    1,917       722
Average annual growth, 1991-97                                                                  1
Population (YO                                      3.0       1.7      2.1
Labor force (%)                                     3.8       2.3      2.3     GNP                            Gross
per                          primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                          capita                     enrollment
Poverty (%l of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)            45        74        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                    67        70        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)            43        32        78
Child malnutrition (%6 of children under 5)         18        12        ..              Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)              65        73        71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                27        13        47
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  111   111        91           -H onduras
Male                                             110         ..      100                 Low-income group
Female                                           112         ..       81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      1996      1997
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                         1.3      3.8       4.1      4.7
Gross domestic investmentUGDP             19.2    13.9       30.4     30.0                    Trad
Exports of goods and services/GDP         33.7    26.0       43.1     42.7                     rae
Grossdomesticsavings/GDP                  14.8    11.5       24.8     25.5
Gross natonal savingslGDP                 10.5      7.0      22.3     24.5
Current account balance/GDP                -8.8    -6.9      -8.1     -5.5     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                      1.6      3.0       3.7      3.6        mesticn                 Investment
Total debtGDP                             35.5    78.1      111.1    100.0     Savigs
Total debt service/exports                13.1    28.5       27.0     21.3                      l
Present value of debt/GDP                    ..
Present value of debtexports                ..
Indebtedness
197646  1987-97    1996      1997  1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                2.7     3.4      3.7       4.9      2.9   1        -Honduras
GNP per capita                    -0.9     0.5      1.3       2.6      0.3                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services      2.1     1.8      8.1       1.0      2.8   1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      1996      1997     Growth rates of output and investment(%)
(% of GDP)                                                                     40
Agriculture                               28.5    20.6       22.3     22.6    40
Industry                                  23.2    23.5       30.8     30.2    30
Manufacturing                            15.1    14.3      18.1      18.0    210 
Services                                  48.2    55.9       47.0     47.1       _
Private consumption                       72.3    74.2       61.9     61.9    10    92    3   94 96
General govemment consumption             12.9    14.3       13.3     12.6          -DI    -OGDP
Imports of goods and services             38.2    28.3       48.7     47.2
197646  1987-97      1996     1997      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                2.3      3.5       2.5      3.2    15 T
Industry                                   3.2      3.9       2.9      7.6    104 .
Manufacturing                             2.5     3.6       4.6       9.3       
Services                                   3.2      3.2       3.6      4.8                                96-
Private consumption                        2.9      3.1       5.5      6.6      5 t
General government consumption             2.9    -2.6        5.3     -1.9   -10 
Gross domestic investment                  -3.2     9.5      -5.9     -0.4   -15
Imports of goods and services             -0.8      3.5       2.4     -1.9            -     Exports     alImports
Gross national product                     2.7      3.5       4.3      5.6
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 42
Honduras
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prics                               1976    1986       1996      1997      Inflation (%)
(% cha ge                                                                          40
Consumer prices                                 ..     4.2       23.8     20.2    30
Implicit GDP deflator                         8.5      3.9       22.4     22.7    20
Government flnance                                                                 10
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                 ..    22.0       31.0     31.3             92    93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                         ..      0.7        5.8       6.9             -     GOP deflator  --*-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..    -5.3        -3.6      -1.3
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1976    1986       1996      1997      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..    894       1,423     1,536    2,500
Bananas                                       ..    257         280      212
Coffee                                        ..    322         279      327      2.000
Manufactures                                                                      1,500
Total imports (cif)                            ..    962        1,882    2,103      1M000
Food      .                                    .     151        234      255
Fuel and energy                                       97        246      236       s
Capital goods                                 ..    172         448      528         o
91  92  93  94  95  99  97
Export pnce index (1995=100)                    *       98        97       103
Import price index (1995= 100)                 ..       86       100        92                U Exports     * Imports
Termsoftrade(1995=100)                          ..     113        97       111
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ mnillions)                              1976     1986      1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                 454    1,012      1,758    2,007       o
Imports of goods and services                 514    1,076      1,989    2,216      -2
Resource balance                              -80      -64       -231     -209      -4
Net income                                    -58    -211        -236     -204      -
Net current transfers                           0       13       136       153      -'*
Current account balance                      -118     -263       -331     -260    -1211
Financing items (net)                         156      292       424       540    -14 +
Changes in net reserves                       -38      -30        -93     -280      ,31
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..    118         283       591
Conversion rate (DEC, localUUSS)              2.0      2.0       11.7      13.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          479    2,975      4,533    4,698
IBRD                                         67      465       350       275                  G:482   k 275
IDA                                          30       81       424       496                     2  _        B49|
Total debt service                             61      299       564       505          F:499                      c:46
IBRD                                          7       56        89        73
IDA                                           0        1         5         5
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               9      146       141       159
Official creditors                           56       99        33       348
Private creditors                            42       14        70         3          E: 1,368                 :1532
Foreign direct investment                     5       30        90       114
Portfolio equity                              0        0         0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                  49       37        60        54     A-IBRD                        E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                15       33        52        95     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Prvate
Principal repayments                          2       22        61        52     C-IMF                         G - Short-term
Net lows                                     12       11         -9       43   1                            _
Interest payments                             5       36        33        26
Net transfers                                 8      -25        -42       17
Development Economics                                                                                                  3/1/99



Page 43
Annex 11: Documents in the Project File
Honduras: PROFUTURO
A. Project Implementation Plan (Operational Manual)
B. Articles
Brown, J., "Just Beyond the Classroom: Community Adventures for Interdiciplinary Learning."
Situated Learning Lecture 3. ED 388485.
Children's Museums "Museums defined," Childhood Education, Spring 1995.
Farmer, D., "Children Take Learning into their Own Hands," Childhood Education; v71 n3 p-
168-69 Spring 1995.
Hall, B., "Parent behind Growth in Children's Museums," The New York Times" Wednesday,
July 22, 1998 A16.
Hammonds, K., "Dig into Community Resources," Instructor; v104 nl p 72-74 July-Aug 1994
1994.
Harrison, M., "Education and Activities", Education in ILCs, 1988.
Klein, J., The Political Scene "In God They Trust," New Yorker, June 1997.
Lewin, A., "Just Beyond the Classroom: Community Adventures for Interdiciplinary Learning"
From Theory to Practice, Introduction. ED 388485.
The Maya World. Available on line at: htpp:// www.mayanet.hn/Copan
/English/culture/Culture.htm.(July 1998).
The Mayas Available on line at: htpp:// www.mayanet.hn/Copan /English/culture/Culture.htm.
(July 1998).
"Professional Practices in Children's Museums, including Recommended Standards for
Professional Practice and Self-Study Questions," Association of Youth ILCs, 1992.
Shepherd, B., "Childhood's Pattern: Appropriation by Generation" Children's Museums and the
Appropriation of Culture.
Shorris, E. II., "As a Weapon in the hands of The Restless Poor on New York's Lower East
Side." Harper's Magazine/September 1997.
A Stroll Through Copan Available on line at: htpp:// www.mayanet.hn/Copan
/English/Pictures/A-stroll.htmn. (July 1998).
Templeton, M., "The Role of Informal Education: An evening exploring the exhibits at Capital
Children's Museum." How we Think and Learn. Lectures series. 1991 ED348138.
C. Children's Museums in America
Canadian Children's Museum. Available on line at:
htpp://www.civilization.ca/cmc/cmceng/cmeng.html (July 1998).
Costa Rica Children's Museum, Available on line at:
htpp://www.worldheadquarters.com/cr/crarticlea.html (July 1998).
Museo de los Nifios: Ciencia, Arte y Tecnologia, Caracas, Venezuela Gerencia de Relaciones
Institucionales (1998).
Museo de los Nifios. Bogota, Colombia. (1998).
Museo del Nino de Bolivia. Available on line at:
htpp://www.esperanto.com/Quipus/laika.htm#Museo (July 1998).
Papalote/ Museo del Ninio/ Mexico. Available on line at:
htpp://www.papalote.org.mx/pages/pres-t.html#quecont (July 1998).



Page 44
D. World Bank Documents
Honduras: Biodiversity in Priority Areas Project (Report 16859-HO) World Bank, Sept. 1997.
Honduras: Proyecto FHIS III Evaluaci6n Social y Plan de Desarrollo de los Pueblos Autoctonos
de Honduras (Indigeneous People Development Plan) March 1998 prepared by Ximena
Traa-Valarezco.
Honduras: Reforming Public Investment and Infrastructure Sectors. A Joint World Bank and
Inter-Am6rican Development Bank Study, 1995.
Investing in Culture: A View from the World Bank by Ismail Serageldin at UNESCO
Symposium on Culture and Development (March 30, 1998).
Project Appraisal Document for a Proposed Learning and Innovation Loan to Georgia for A
Cultural Heritage Project, (Report No.17275-GE), World Bank, January 19, 1998.
Report and Recommendations of the President of the International Development Association to
the Executive Directors on a Proposed Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit to the
Republic of Honduras, (Report P-5923-HO), World Bank, July 14, 1993.
Staff Appraisal Report Honduras: Basic Education Project.(Report 13791-HO) World Bank,
March 8, 1995.
E. Project Preparation Documents
Comparaci6n de caracteristicas de las dos alternativas de terrenos para el museo de los nifios.
Paper prepared by Luis de la Torre.
Evaluaciones e Informes prepared by Luis de la Torre.
Proposal-Honduras Cultural Inventory and Cultural Strategy prepared by Celina Albano.
F. Legal Documents from Honduras
Certificaci6n de la Fundaci6n Nacional de Parques.
Estatutos Asociacion de Copan. Repuiblica de Honduras.
Proyecto: "Punta de Lanza" "Aprender Creando" Repuiblica de Honduras Tegucigalpa, Honduras
(Junio de 1998).
G. Documents from COHCIT
Actualizacion Diagnostico de la Ciencia y Tecnologia en Honduras, Vol 1 Proyecto
Fortalecimiento del Desarrollo Cientifico y Tecnol6gico de Centro America y Panama
(Dic 1997).
Proyecto: Fortalecimiento del Desarrollo Cientifico y Tecnol6gico de Centro America y Panama
(Dic 1997).
Republica de Honduras Consejo Hondurefno de Ciencia y Tecnologia Organizaci6n de Estados
Americanos.
RepuTblica de Honduras Consejo Hondureflo de Ciencia y Tecnologia Organizaci6n de Estados
Americanos. Anteproyecto: Indicadores Nacionales de Ciencia y Teenologia.
Repuiblica de Honduras Consejo Hondurefno de Ciencia y Tecnologia Organizaci6n de Estados
Americanos. Actualizaci6n Diagnostico de la Ciencia y Tecnologia en Honduras.
Vol II Anexos. Proyecto Fortalecimiento del Desarrollo Cientifico y Tecnol6gico de Centro
America y Panama (Dic. 1997).



MAP SECTION



IBRD 29839
B E L I Z E
16-
A
GU                 LA
GRAC
Y(R
Lg
COR                               L
LAN
MAYAGA
ETHNICITY.
Z_                    -RANC  C
LENCAS (pop. 217,000)
LIE,                                                                                                                                                              MISKITOS J ZAMBOS (pop, 40,000)
CHORTIS (p.p. 1 7,000)
CIGALPA
Ns"                                                                                                           a        GARIFUNAS (pop. 175,000)
TOLUPANES lpop. 120,500)
EL SALVAD                R                                                                                                                                                        PECH / PAYAS (pop. 2,700)
TAWAHKAS / SUMOS (pop. 9161
a       ENGLISH-SPEAKING BLACK (pop. 22,600)
W% F.,      T,4-, P.h, 7-hk-d
:-fll. L M,'pil.-M Ch.,;
5.-  Thk.)                 C-p-li. (SETCO)   m
N I C A R A G U A
NATIONAL CAPITAL
RIVERS
MUNICIPALITIES
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARlES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
MAY 1999



