Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3250-1-HO
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Interactive Environmental Learning and
Science Promotion Project - PROFUTURO)
between
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 17, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3250-1-HO
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 17, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Interactive Environmental Learning and Science Promotion Project - 
PROFUTURO) dated June 29, 1999 (the Development Credit Agreement), for the purpose of 
assisting in the financing of the project described in Schedule 2 to the Development 
Credit Agreement (the Project);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Project by increasing the amount made 
available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to three million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
3,200,000); and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
Page  2
"Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph 12 is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13), (14) and (15):
"12.
 "Participating Country" means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of resolution No. 
183 of the Board of Governors of the Association adopted on June 26, 1996; and 
Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."
(b)
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 3.04 to read:
If the Association shall at any time receive less than the full amount 
then due and payable to it under the Development Credit Agreement, the 
Association shall have the right to allocate and apply the amount so received 
in any manner and for such purposes under the Development Credit Agreement as 
the 
Association shall in its sole discretion determine."; 
(c)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made either in respect of Tranche One or of Tranche Two 
(as both terms are defined in the Development Credit Agreement, as the case 
may be):  (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country 
which is not a Participating Country for purposes of Tranche One or of Tranche 
Two, as the case may be, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, 
such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations."; and
(d)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second sentence, the word 
"radiogram" with the word "facsimile" and adding a new sentence at the end of the said 
Section to read:
"Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail."
Section 1.02. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms 
have the following meanings:
(a)
"Amending Agreement" means the Agreement Amending Development 
Credit Agreement (Interactive Environmental Learning and Science Promotion 
Project - PROFUTURO) between the Borrower and the Association dated October 
17, 2001;
(b)
"Archeological Parks Management Plan Manual" means the Manual 
referred to in Section 3.03 (c) (ii) of this Agreement, as approved by the 
Association;
(c)
"Archeological Parks Management Plan Subproject"  means each of 
the projects for the rehabilitation, reconstruction, restoration, preservation 
or presentation of archeological park sites, as identified in the 
Archeological Parks Management Plan;
(d)
"Assisting Ministries" means SEFIN, SERNA and SE, as hereinafter 
defined);
(e)
"COHCIT" means Consejo Hondureño de Ciencia y Tecnología, the 
Borrower’s Council of Science and Technology;
(f)
"DLC" means distance learning center, the annex of ILC referred to 
Page  3
in paragraph (k) of this Section that meets the criteria and requirement set 
forth in the Operational Manual, as hereinafter defined, for its equipping and 
operation; 
(g)
"Eligible Category" means each Category from (1) through (5), as  
set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(h)
"Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(i)
"Emergency Archeological Parks Subproject" means each project for 
the rehabilitation, reconstruction, restoration, preservation or presentation 
of 
archeological park sites which meets the criteria for emergency operations 
set 
forth in the Operational Manual;
(j)
"Fundación PROFUTURO" means the legal entity referred to in 
paragraphs 3 (c) (ii) and (iii) of Part  A of Schedule 1 to, and Section 3.08 
of, this Agreement;
(k)
"ILC" means the interactive learning center for children and youth 
to be established and operated under Part A.1 of the Project and the term 
includes the distance learning center to be annexed thereto as an integral 
part thereof;
(l)
"ILC and DLC Management Agreement" means the agreement referred to 
in Section 3.08 of this Agreement;
(m)
"Implementation Agreement" means the agreement  entered into 
between the Borrower and the Implementation Entity, as hereinafter defined, 
pursuant to Sections 3.01 (b) and 6.01 (a) of this Agreement, as such 
agreement may be amended from time to time to the satisfaction of the Borrower 
and the Association;
(n)
"Implementation Entity" means a non-profit organization, 
satisfactory to the Association, established in the Borrower’s territory with 
recognized archeological, technical and managerial expertise to carry out Part 
A.2 of 
the Project;
(o)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter of June 29, 1999 from the 
Borrower to the Association setting forth the monitoring and evaluation 
indicators for the Project, as amended by the letter from the Borrower to the 
Association dated October 17, 2001;
(p)
"Management Plan" means the plan to be designed by the Borrower 
under Part B.4 of the Project;
(q)
"Operational Manual" means the manual for the operation of the 
Project referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement dated August 31, 
1999, as it may be amended from time to time to the satisfaction of the 
Borrower and the Association;
(r)
"PIU" means the Project implementation unit referred  to in 
Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(s)
"Procurement Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 
3.09 (a) of this Agreement;
(t)
"Procurement Entity" means an entity with procurement experience 
and qualifications acceptable to the Association;
(u)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(v)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(w)
"SCAD" means Secretaría de Cultura, Arte y Deportes, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Culture, Arts, and Sports; 
(x)
"SE" means Secretaría de Educación, the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Education;
Page  4
(y)
"SEFIN"  means Secretaría de Finanzas, the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Finance;
(z)
"SERNA" means Secretaría de Recursos Naturales y Ambiente, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Natural Resources and the Environment;
(aa)
"SOPTRAVI" means Secretaría de Obras Públicas, Transporte y 
Vivienda, the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works, Transportation and Housing;
(ab)
"Subproject" means, according to the context, each Emergency 
Archeological Park Subproject or each Archeological Parks Management Plan 
Subproject or a Subproject of any of the types just mentioned;
(ac)
"Tranche One" means an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
six  million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,200,000) for 
the original financing of the Project; and
(ad) 
 "Tranche Two" means an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
three million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,200,000) for  
supplementing the original financing of the Project.".
Section 1.03. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million four 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,400,000), consisting of the sum 
of  
Tranche One and Tranche Two."
Section 1.04. Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: 
"Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and consultants’ 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all amounts 
withdrawn from the Credit Account or made subject to a special commitment 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall initially be charged 
against the Tranche One until that tranche has been exhausted, and shall 
thereafter be charged against the Tranche Two.". 
Section 1.05. Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be October 31, 2004 or such later 
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall notify the 
Borrower of such later date.".
Section 1.06. A proviso is added before the semicolon at the end of Section 2.04 
(b) (i) of the Development Credit Agreement, to read as follows:
", except that any commitment charge on Tranche Two shall accrue from a date 
sixty days after the date of the Amending Agreement;".
Section 1.07. Section 2.07 (a) of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.07 (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall: (i) repay the principal amount of Tranche One in semiannual 
installments payable on each March 15 and September 15 commencing on September 
15, 2009 and ending on March 15,  2039. Each Tranche One installment to and 
including the installment payable on March 15, 2019 shall be one percent (1%) 
of 
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent 
(2%) 
of such principal amount; and (ii) repay the principal amount of Tranche  Two in 
semiannual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15 
commencing on 
September 15, 2011 and ending on March 15, 2041. Each Tranche 
Two 
installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2021 
shall 
Page  5
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
Section 1.08. Subparagraph (i) of Paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 of the 
Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"(i)
carry out Parts A, B.1, B.3 and C of the Project  through COHCIT 
with the assistance of SOPTRAVI, SCAD and the Assisting Ministries 
and, exclusively in respect of Part A. 1 of the Project and under 
the terms and conditions of the agreement required by Section 3.08 
of this Agreement, with the assistance also of Fundación 
PROFUTURO;"
Section 1.09. Section 3.08 of the Development Credit Agreement is hereby amended 
to read as follows: 
"Section 3.08.  (a) Not later than October 31, 2001 and before the ILC 
and DLC are operational, the Borrower shall enter into an agreement with the 
Fundación PROFUTURO for the operation of the ILC and the DLC, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the agreement 
referred to in paragraph (a) above, in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Association, and to accomplish the purposes 
of the Credit and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to 
enforce the aforesaid agreement or any provision thereof.".
Section 1.10. A new Section 3.09 is added after Section 3.08 which shall read as 
follows:
"Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower may, with the prior approval of the 
Association, enter into an agreement (the Procurement Agreement) with the 
Procurement Entity on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, 
including, inter alia, the obligation of the Procurement Entity to assist the 
Borrower in the procurement of goods and consultants’ services for the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Procurement 
Agreement, in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and 
the Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the Procurement Agreement or any 
provision thereof.".
Section 1.11. Sections 5.01 and 5.02 are hereby amended in their entirety to 
read as follows:
"Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, 
the following additional events are specified:
a)
The Borrower or any other entity or person having jurisdiction 
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the 
Fundación PROFUTURO.
b)   
The Procurement Entity shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Procurement Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, 
the following additional events are specified, namely, that any of the events 
specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have 
been given by the Association to the Borrower.".
Section 1.12. Section 7.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Page  6
Secretaría de Estado en el 
 Despacho de Finanzas
Tegucigalpa, MDC
Honduras
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
      Hacienda
1308
504-238-2309
Tegucigalpa
FINANZAS
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)".
Section 1.13. Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of Part A of Schedule 1 to the Development 
Credit Agreement are amended to read as set forth in Annex 1 to this Agreement, while 
Paragraph 4 thereof shall remain unchanged.
Section 1.14. The date April 30, 2002, specified in the last line of Schedule 2 
to the Development Credit Agreement, is hereby replaced with the date April 30, 2004.
Section 1.15. The words "goods and" shall be added immediately before the word 
"works" in Part B.1 of Section I of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 1.16. The amount of $969,000 in Section I, Part C.2 of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement is hereby raised to $1,969,000.
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Agreement shall not become effective until:
(a)
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the 
Association that the execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the 
Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action; 
and
(b)
the Operational Manual has been amended, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, so as to include criteria and requirements for the 
equipping and operation of the DLC, as the term is defined in Section 1.02 (f) of this 
Agreement for purposes of Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.02.  As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
(a) of this Agreement there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association 
showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and is legally 
binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Agreement shall come into force and effect as of May 31, 2001 
upon dispatch of a notice by the Association to the Borrower indicating acceptance of 
the  evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
Section 2.04. If the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Agreement shall 
have not been furnished to the Association by January 15, 2002, this Agreement and all 
obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association 
establishes a later date for the purposes of furnishing said evidence. If this 
Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the Development Credit 
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this Agreement had not been 
executed.
Page  7
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Tegucigalpa, Honduras,  as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
By /s/ Gabriela Nuñez de Reyes
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Joseph M. Owen
Authorized Representative
ANNEX 1
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works
(a)
Under Part A.1
of the Project
(i)
Other than as
   1,800,000
85%
covered by Category (1)
(a) (ii) below
(ii)
DLC
     270,000
83%
(b)
Under Part A.3 (a)     300,000)
95%
of the Project                )
)
(c)
Under Part A.3 (b)     670,000)
of the Project                )
(2)
Goods
(a)
Other
than as    
     820,000) 100% of foreign
covered by Category
)
expenditures
      (2) (b ) below
)
and 88% of local                  
)
expenditures
)
(b)
DLC                  1,350,000)
(3)
Consultants’ services
(a)
Other than as 
   1,850,000) 100%
Page  8
covered by Category
)
(3) (b) below 
)
)
(b) 
DLC                    660,000)
(4)
Training
(a)
Other than as          520,000)
100%
covered by Category                 )
(4) (b) below
)
)
(b)
DLC
                        30,000)
(5)
(a)  
DLC Operating Costs    600,000
90% until
the amounts
withdrawn shall
have reached the 
                                                aggregate of SDR
                                                200,000;
                                                70% until the 
amounts
withdrawn shall 
have reached the
aggregate of SDR
330,000; and
40% thereafter                                                                                                
(b) 
PIU Operating Costs     90,000
60%                                                                                                                                                      
(6)
Unallocated
(a)
DLC                    200,000
(b)
Other
           240,000
TOTAL                      9,400,000   
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)  
the term "DLC Operating Costs" means recurrent expenditures of DLC 
operation incurred for: (i) satellite bandwidth rental; (ii) maintenance of equipment; 
(iii) incremental staff; (iv) vehicle operation and maintenance; (v) office supplies, 
photocopies and maintenance of office space; (vi) conference materials; and (vii) 
telecommunications costs; 
(d) 
the term "PIU Operating Costs" means recurrent expenditures of PIU 
incurred for: (i) incremental staff; (ii) office supplies; and (iii) utility and other 
services for PIU operation, all in connection with the establishment of DLC; and
(e)  
the term "Training" means expenditures (other than for consultants’ 
services) incurred for: (i) training materials; (ii) rental of training facilities; 
(iii) transportation expenses of trainees to the place where training is provided and 
subsistence expenses for such trainees; and (iv) study tours and internships in the 
Borrower's territory or abroad.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to June 29, 1999, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 620,000 could 
have been made with proceeds of Tranche One on account of payments made for 
expenditures after  October 12, 1998;
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Category (1) of the table set forth
Page  9
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the Borrower shall have furnished to the 
Association the Management Plan and the Archeological Parks Management Plan Manual, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the latter; and 
(c)
payments made for expenditures under Category (1) (a) (i) of the table  
set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the Borrower shall have furnished to 
the Association evidence, satisfactory to the Association: (i) that the Borrower has 
appropriate title to the land designated for the construction of the ILC; (ii) that 
the non-profit legal entity has been established for the future operation and 
financial sustainability of the ILC (Fundación PROFUTURO), in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association; and (iii) that the said Fundación PROFUTURO has 
received contributions in cash in an amount of at least $ 1,500,000 equivalent.".
