Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 3250-HO
Development Credit Agreement
(Interactive Environmental Learning and Science  
Promotion Project- PROFUTURO)
between
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 29, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3250-HO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 29, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
 WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
Page  2
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association determines 
meets the 
requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 183 of the Board 
of Governors of the 
Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; and ‘Participating 
Countries’ means, collectively, 
all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a 
Participating Country or for goods produced 
in, or services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Archeological Parks Management Plan Manual” means the Manual referred to 
in Section 3.03 (c) (ii) as approved by the Association;
(b)
“Archeological Parks Management Plan Subprojects” means projects for the 
rehabilitation, reconstructionrestoration, preservation or presentation of 
archeological parks sites as identified in the Management Plan;
(c)
“Assisting Ministries” means SEFIN, SERNA and SE (as hereinafter 
defined);
(d)
“COHCIT” means Consejo Hondureño de Ciencia y Tecnología, the Borrower’s 
Council of Science and Technology;
(e)
“Eligible Categories” means categories 1, 2, 3, and 4, set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(f)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(g)
“Emergency Archeological Parks Subprojects” means projects for the 
rehabilitation, reconstructionrestoration, preservation or presentation of 
archeological parks sites which meet the criteria for emergency operations set forth 
in the Operational Manual;
(h)
“Fundación PROFUTUROMuseo del Niño” means the legal entity referred to in 
paragraph 3 (b) (ii) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(i)
“ILCMuseum” means the interactive learning center for children and youth 
children’s museum to be established under Part A.13 of the Project;
(j)
“ILCMuseum Management Agreement” means the agreement referred to in 
Section 3.08 of this Agreement;
(k)
“Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and the Implementation Entity pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such terms include all 
schedules to such Agreement;
(l)
“Implementation Entity” means a non-profit organization, satisfactory to 
the Association, established in the Borrower’s territory with recognized 
archeological, technical and managerial expertise to carry out Part A.2 of the 
Project;
Page  3
(m)
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Association setting forth: (i) the monitoring and evaluation 
indicators;  and (ii) the characteristics and structure of the Fundación Museo del 
Niño; (ni)
“Management Plan” means the plan to be designed by the Borrower under 
Part B. 45 of the Project;
(n)
“Operational Manual” means the manual for the operation of the Project 
referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement as approved by the  Association;
(o)
“PIU” means the Project implementation unit referred to in Section 3.04 
of this Agreement;
(p)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(q)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(r)
“SCAD” means Secretaría  de Cultura, Arte y Deportes, the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Culture, Art  and Sports;
(s)
“SE” means Secretaría de Educación, the Borrower’s Ministry of Education;
(t)
“SEFINSOF” means Secretaría de Finanzas, the Borrower’s Ministry 
Secretariat of Finance;
(u)
“SERNA” means Secretaría de Recursos Naturales y Ambiente, the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment;
(v)
“SOPTRAVI” means Secretaría de Obras Públicas, Transportes y Vivienda, 
the Borrower’s Ministry Secretariat of Public Works, Transportation and Housing; and
(w)
“Subprojects” means Emergency Archeological Parks Subprojects and 
Archeological Parks Management Plan Subprojects.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to six million two hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 6,200,000_________).
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in Dollars a 
special deposit account in its central bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October[April] 30, 2002 or such later 
date as the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
Page  4
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15  in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each March 15 and September 15 commencing on September 15, 2009 and ending on March 
15, 2039.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2019 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall:  (i) 
carry out Parts A, B.1 and 3 and C of the Project through COHCIT with the assistance 
of SOPTRAVI, SCAD and the Assisting Ministries; and (ii) carry out Part A.2 of the 
Project through COHCIT with the assistance of an Implementing Entity satisfactory to 
Page  5
the Association, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate financial, administrative, educational, environmental, archeological and 
managerial practices and shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower, through COHCIT, shall enter into an agreement with the 
Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
setting forth their respective obligations in the implementation of Part A.2 of the 
Project.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the Implementation Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of  the Credit and, except 
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive  the  Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
carry out all parts of the Project (except for Part A.31 (b) ) in 
accordance with an operational manual, satisfactory to the Association, which 
establishes inter alia: (i) the responsibilities of SOPTRAVI, SCAD and the Assisting 
Ministries with respect to the implementation of the Project; and (ii) all the 
operational aspects of the execution of the Project;
(b)
present to the Association for its prior approval each of the Emergency 
Archeological Parks Subprojects and such other information as the Association may 
reasonably request in connection with said proposed subprojects;
(c)
prepare, and furnish to the Association, no later than 12 months after 
the Effective Date for its approval: (i) the Management Plan; and (ii) a manual, which 
includes: (A) the list of Archeological Parks Management Plan Subprojects to be 
carried out under Part A. 31 (b) of the Project; and (B) the implementation 
arrangements for the carrying out of Archeological Parks Management Plan Subprojects; 
and
(d)
carry out Part A.31 (b) of the Project in accordance with the 
Archeological Parks Management Plan Manual.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
establish and thereafter operate and maintain during Project 
implementation, a Project implementation unit (PIU) with structure and functions 
acceptable to the Association; and 
(b)
ensure that the PIU is at all times headed by a coordinator assisted by 
staff in adequate numbers, all with qualifications satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.05.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Article 9.06 (c) of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, and furnish to the Association not later than six months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project; 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan; and
(c) 
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association’s comments 
thereon.
Page  6
Section 3.06. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.06 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the 
Implementation Letter, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; and 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, before the end of the month of October[April] of each year 
until the completion of the Project, beginning in October, 1999[April 1999], a report 
on the implementation of the Project during the preceding calendar year in which the 
report is furnished to the Association, each report to detail: (i) the financial and 
physical progress of the Project; and (ii) the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section; 
Section 3.07.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall undertake annual reviews of Project 
implementation with the Association during the month of November[May] of each year 
during Project implementation, beginning in November [1999].  Such annual reviews 
shall focus on the information provided in the reports referred to in Section 3.06 (b) 
of this Agreement, as well as on the results of any other reports.  As part of each 
such review the Association may require the Borrower to prepare an action plan, 
satisfactory to the Association, to make adjustments in Project implementation.  In 
such event, the Borrower shall not later than forty-five days after the conclusion of 
each review furnish such plan to the Association and shall thereafter carry out such 
action plan as approved by the Association. 
Section 3.08.  No later than 24 months after the Effective Date and before the 
ILC Museum is operational, the Borrower shall enter into an agreement with the 
Fundación PROFUTURO Museo del Niño for the operation of the ILCMuseum, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account, for 
each fiscal year audited in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied,  
by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited; and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
Page  7
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower to prepare [quarterly Project management reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
and projected 
sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period 
following the period covered by 
said report; and
(B)
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds 
of the 
Credit during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the six-month period 
following the period covered by 
said report;
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report; and 
(B)
explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is are specified, namely, that the Borrower or any other 
entity or person having jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution 
or disestablishment of the Fundación PROFUTURO. Museo del Niño; and  (b) Asociación 
COPAN shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Implementation 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified namely that any event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days 
Page  8
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
that the Implementation Agreement shall have been entered into by COHCIT 
and the Implementation Entity;
(bb)
that the Operational Manual has been approvedissued by COHCIT in 
accordance with the provision of Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement; 
(c)
that the PIU has been duly established in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 3.04; and
(d)
that the financial management system referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of 
this Agreement has been established.
Section 6.02. The date September 29, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03.  The obligations of the Borrower under Article III and IV of this 
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretario de Estado en el Despacho de Finanzas of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretaría de Estado en el
Despacho de Finanzas
Tegucigalpa, M.D.C.
Honduras
Cable address: 
Telex:
HACIENDA
1308
Tegucigalpa
FINANZAS HO
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
Page  9
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
By /s/ Gabriela Núñez de Reyes  
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
By /s/ Mary Flake de Flores
Honorary Witness
By /s/ Gerardo Cepeda Bermúdez
Minister of Science and Technology
Honorary Witness
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works
 
(a)
Under Part A.1
   1,800,000
83%
of the Project
(b)
Under Part A.3 (a)
     300,000
95%
of the Project
(c) Under Part A.3 (b)
     670,000
95%
of the Project
(2)
Goods 
     820,000
100% of foreign
expenditures; and 
88% of local 
expenditures.
(3)
Consultants’ services
   1,850,000
100%
(4)
Training
     520,000
100%
(5)
Unallocated
     240,000
Page  10
    ________
           TOTAL
   6,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “Training” means expenditures (other than for consultants’ 
services) incurred for: (i) training materials; (ii) rental of training facilities; 
(iii) transportation expenses of trainees to the place where training is provided and 
subsistence expenses for such trainees; and (iv) study tours and internships in the 
Borrower's territory or abroad.  
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
620,000 [up to 10%]* may be made on account of payments made for expenditures within 
the twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement but after October 12, 1998;
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Category 1 (cb) of the table set 
forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the Borrower has furnished to the 
Association the Management Plan and the Archeological Parks Management Plan Manual, in 
form and substance satisfactory to it; and 
(c)
payments made for expenditures under Category 1 (ac) of the table set 
forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the Borrower has furnished to the 
Association evidence, satisfactory to the Association: (i) that the Borrower has 
appropriate title to the land designated for the construction of the ILCMuseum; (ii) 
that a non-profit legal entityMuseo del Niño has been established for the future 
operation and financial sustainability of the ILC (Fundación PROFUTURO), in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Associationand in accordance with the provisions of the 
Implementation Letter; and (iii) that the Fundación PROFUTURO Museo del Niño has 
received contributions in cash in an amount of at least $1,500,000 equivalent.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditures for goods, works and consultants’ services 
under contracts costing less than the equivalent of:  (i) $150,000 for works; (ii) 
$25,000 for goods; (iii) $100,000 for consulting firms; (iv) $30,000 for individual 
consultants; and  (v) training.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in its 
Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
Page  11
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of: (i) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (ii) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $850,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
Page  12
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $1,700,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to promote and expand cultural, scientific, and 
technological, environmental and cultural  knowledge and management in the context of 
the Borrower’s sustainable development and ethnic diversity.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Page  13
Part A:
Sustainable Development Resources  
1.
Interactive Learning Center for Children and Youth (ILC) 
Establishment and operation of an interactive learning center for children and 
youth in Tegucigalpa, providing non-traditional, hands-on and interactive informal 
learning experience on sustainable development and ethnic diversity, including:
(a)
Provision of technical assistance to the PIU for the establishment of the 
Fundación PROFUTURO.
(b)
Provision of technical assistance in the planning of: (i) auxiliary 
services to be provided by the ILC; and (ii) recruitment and training of staff for the 
operation of the ILC.
(c)
Carrying out of: (i) the architectural design; (ii) the engineering 
studies and design; and (iii) construction of the ILC.
(d)
Design and provision of the exhibitions and equipment to be contained 
inside the ILC.
2.
Pre-Hispanic Contribution
(a)
Carrying out of several studies on the Pre-Hispanic contribution to 
modern science, technology and environmental management.
(b)
Training of local residents, including indigenous residents, as tourist 
guides for the archeological park of COPAN. 
(c)
Training of teachers and university students on Pre-Hispanic science, 
technology and environmental management.
(d)
Provision of technical assistance to develop proposals for interactive 
exhibits and workshops for children and youth within the existing COPAN archeological 
park.
3.
Archeological Parks Subprojects
(a)
Carrying out of Emergency Archeological Parks Subprojects.
(b)
Carrying out of Archeological Parks Management Plan Subprojects.
Part B:
Cultural Capacity Building and Communication 
1.
Review of the legal and organizational framework and implementation of 
institutional reforms for a cultural heritage strategy at the national and local 
levels. 
2.
Development and implementation of a communication and dissemination strategy to 
promote the project development objectives among civil society and the public  
sector.strengthen the Borrower’s cultural sector.
3.
Design and implementation of a program to develop a body of professional and 
volunteer scientific and cultural staff at the national level. 
4.
Carrying out of a cultural and environmental inventory to develop a tourism 
national cultural strategy. that is accessible to the poor and to the indigenous 
peoples.
5.
Design of a management plan of the existing archeological parks and sites to 
identify priorities for research and reconstructionrestoration.
6.
Design and implementation of a social assessment of alternative educational 
strategiesthe cultural sector at the national level.
Part C:
 Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
Page  14
Establishment and operation of the PIUa project implementation unit for the 
provision of: (a) overall coordination of the Project; (b) monitoring and evaluation 
of all Project activities; and (c) administrative support for Project procurement, 
disbursements, accounting and reporting.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by April October 30, 20021. 
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto (preference for domestically-manufactured goods) shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Works estimated to cost less than $1,500,000 but more than $150,000 
equivalent per contract shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Goods estimated to cost more than $25,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate 
amount equivalent to $96,000 may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $969,000 equivalent, may be procured on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works for Subprojects under Part A. 31 of the Project estimated to cost less 
than the equivalent of $150,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,600,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded 
on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic 
form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
Page  15
quotation for the required work and who has the experience and resources to complete 
the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to:
(i)
all contract for works procured under Part B.1 of this Section;
(ii)
the first contract for works procured under Part C.1 (a) and Part 
C.3 of this 
Section; and
(iii)
the first contract for goods procured under Part C.1 (b) of this 
Section, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first contract for goods procured under Part C.2 of 
this Section, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower 
shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy of 
the specifications and the 
draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with: (a) the provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank 
in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 subject to the 
modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant 
Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.  
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
Page  16
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for the architectural design of the ILCMuseum under Part A.13 (c) (i) 
of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, 
for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants, estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, provided, however, that the terms of reference for such contracts and any 
single-source selection of consulting firms or individual consultants shall be subject 
to the Association's prior approval.
Section III.
Special Provisions
1.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles and rules of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of goods and works referred to in Part C. 1 (a) and 
(b) of Section I of this Schedule:
(a)
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bid in accordance with 
criteria set forth in the bidding documents, and without taking into account, in the 
evaluation, the financial cost of foreign exchange components.
(b)
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be 
required to:
(i)
be registered in Honduras;
(ii)
have a representative in Honduras;
Page  17
(iii)
be associated with Honduran suppliers or contractors; and
(iv)
certify that, in their country of origin, Honduran suppliers or 
contractors 
are allowed to participate in competitive bidding procedures 
under equal 
conditions with other bidders.
(c)
Contracts shall not be divided for the sole purpose of reducing contract 
amounts.
2.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II of 
this Schedule:
(a)
Foreign consultants shall be permitted to participate in the selection 
process even if there is availability of Honduran consultants for the services being 
procured.
(b)
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered with Honduran 
associations or to be associated with Honduran consulting firms as a condition for 
participating in any selection process. 
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of the Project;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to $800,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
Page  18
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Sections 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account for the Project, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the 
Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible Categories for the Project shall follow such procedures as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  19
