Report No. PID6344
Project name                     Indonesia-Policy Reform Support Loan
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Structural Adjustment Lending
Project ID                       IDLL56230
Borrower                         The Republic of Indonesia
Implementing Agency              Coordinating Ministry for the Economy,
Finance and Industry
Taman Suropati No. 2
Jakarta, Indonesia
Telephone: 62 21 3843655;
Facsimile: 62 21 334779
Date this PID prepared           May 6, 1998
Appraisal date                   April 3, 1998
Projected Board date             May 19, 1998
Country and Sector Background
1.      Up until the recent crisis, Indonesia's development achievements over the
last thirty years had been remarkable. Real economic growth averaged 7
percent per annum. With per capita income surpassing $1000 in 1996, Indonesia
joined the ranks of lower-middle income countries. The incidence of poverty
fell from 70 percent in 1965, to 29 percent in 1980 and 11 percent in 1996.
Literacy increased from 52 percent in 1965 to 87 percent in 1996.
2.      The combination of physical and financial shocks, and political
uncertainty that hit Indonesia in the second half of 1997, produced a loss of
domestic and international confidence in the Indonesian economy of
unprecedented proportions. Large private capital inflows became large outflows
and the value of the Rupiah fell nearly 80 percent from its peak in 1997 to
its trough in January 1998. With inflation at the end of 1997 running at 10
percent on an annual basis, the Rupiah's real depreciation is one of the
largest on record in the postwar era.
3.      Indonesia has struggled to overcome this crisis with a series of
initiatives, including reform program agreed with the IMF in October and in
January. The first of these emphasized financial sector reforms. The second
included far-reaching structural reforms. But neither of them managed to
restore confidence. These efforts were dealt a further blow in February when
the Government announced it was considering introducing a currency board
system in an effort to stabilize the Rupiah. Uncertainty regarding the
composition of the new Cabinet was removed when it was installed on Mach 16.
Since then the new Government has held extensive discussions with the IMF, the
ADB, and the World Bank to develop a more comprehensive response to the
crisis. This is the reform program the proposed loan is to support.
Loan Objectives
4.      The overriding objective of this loan is to support Indonesia's efforts
to rebuild confidence and restore rapid poverty-reducing growth as quickly as



possible, while shielding the poor. This objective is pursued by supporting:
- actions to increase the efficiency and transparency of public sector
operations;
- financial sector reform and principals for a framework for restructuring
corporate debt;
- structural policy reforms to increase productivity, improve governance and
ensure environmental sustainability; and
- actions to protect the poor and to continue investments in education and
health.
Loan Description
5.      The proposed loan would provide balance of payments assistance to the
Republic of Indonesia to support policy reforms covering the four points
listed in the preceding paragraph. Examples of the policy reform actions
supported under each point are summarized below.
6.      Actions to increase public sector efficiency and transparency:    complete
a review of public sector expenditures; increase petroleum product and power
prices; establish guidelines for private participation in provision of
infrastructure; and accelerate privatization.
7.      Financial sector reform actions: tighten reporting requirements for
foreign exchange and credit risk; complete portfolio reviews for banks that
account for at least 80 percent of the assets of banks under IBRA supervision;
remove restrictions on foreign investment in banks; establish a framework that
defines GOI's participation in restructuring private corporate debt; modify
and strengthen bankruptcy laws; and achieve private participation in all state
banks.
8.      Structural policy reforms to increase private sector efficiency, improve
governance and protect the environment:    remove restrictions on foreign
investment in wholesale and retail trade; reduce import tariffs; ensure that
all traders are free to compete with BULOG on all goods except rice; introduce
a system of resource royalties and reduce export taxes on logs, sawn timber
and rattan; dissolve the Clove Support and Marketing Board; abolish taxes on
inter-provincial and inter-district trade; adopt an action plan for enacting
legislation and regulations relating to competition and corporate
restructuring; issue all implementing regulations needed for the new
Environmental Law; allow transferability by sale of forest concession permits,
remove the requirement to have a processing facility in order to hold a
concession, develop an effective surveillance system to avoid overfishing, and
eliminate the use of lead in gasoline.
9.      Actions to strengthen social safety nets and protect the poor:    expand
community-based, labor-intensive public works; import a further 3 million tons
of rice; phase out food subsidies over time; ensure adequate resources for
basic education and scholarships for an additional 3.5 million poor primary
and junior secondary school students; and ensure adequate resources for
primary health services, including communicable disease control and family
planning.
-2-



Financing
10.     A total of US$1 billion is proposed for this adjustment loan.    The amount
is based on an overall external financing plan worked out with the Government
and IMF. It will be a fixed rate single currency loan (SCL) in US dollars,
with standard amortization terms, grace period and interest rate for fixed-
rate US dollar SCLs with an expected disbursement period of 0-3 years. The
proposed loan has two tranches, the first of $600 million and the second of
$400 million.
Implementation
11.     Overall responsibility for Indonesia's reform program rests with the
Economic Resilience Council, which is chaired by the President and comprised
of senior advisors, key economic Ministers and private sector representatives.
Day-to-day implementation is being led by the Coordinating Minister for
Economics, Finance and Industry and a team of senior Government officials. The
Central Bureau of Statistics is responsible for monitoring key social
indicators, and is finalizing a monitoring plan with inputs from the UNDP,
UNICEF, ADB and the World Bank.
Risks
12.     There are substantial political, social, economic and implementation
risks associated with the reform program and hence this operation. These risks
have been mitigated by front-loading the reform program and by designing this
loan as a two-tranche operation. In each key area of the program, the
Government has already implemented important reforms. The risk of social
unrest is being lessened by phasing price increases, sustaining basic health
and education programs, and expanding labor intensive public works. Pressure
on the Government budget is being lessened by reducing food and fuel
subsidies, limiting the fiscal costs of the bank and corporate debt
restructuring programs, and raising additional revenue through privatization.
The risks associated with limited administrative capacity are being eased
through continued technical assistance from bilateral and multilateral sources
and increased private sector involvement. However, these measures reduce
rather than remove these risks. Restoring confidence and rapid economic growth
will take time and will require perseverance.
Environmental Aspects
13.     No environmental assessment is required for structural adjustment
lending. However, the proposed loan incorporates policy reforms to improve
environmental management in Indonesia and measures to minimize adverse
environmental impacts.
Program Objective Categories
14.     The proposed loan contributes to poverty reduction, environmentally
sustainable development, financial institutions, natural resources management,
economic management, and private sector development.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
- 3 -



Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 8, 1998.
- 4 -



