Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7237-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED POLICY REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$1 BILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
April 28, 1998
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of April 27, 1998)
Currency Unit   Rupiah
1 Rupiah    = US$0.00013
US$1         = 7987 Rupiah
FISCAL YEAR: April 1 to March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       - Asian Development Bank
BI        - Bank Indonesia
BULOG   - National Logistic Affairs Agency
IBRD      - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IBRA      - Indonesian Bank Restructuring Agency
IFC       - International Finance Corporation
IMF       - International Monetary Fund
GOI       - Government of Indonesia
MIGA      - Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MOF       - Ministry of Finance
PRSL      - Policy Reform Support Loan
SAL       - Structural Adjustment Loan
SCL       - Single Currency Loan
TOR       - Terms of Reference
UN,       - United Nations
UNDP      - United Nations Development Program
UNICEF   - United Nations Children's Fund
VAT       - Value Added Tax
WB        - World Bank
Vice Presidenit:              Mr. Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director:             Mr. Dennis de Tray, EACIF
Acting Sector Manager:        Mr. Pieter Bottelier, EASPR
Task Team Leader:             Mr. Lloyd McKay, EACIF



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA - POLICYREFORMSUPPORTLLOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROGIRAM SUMMARY                                                                    iii
I.     INTRODUCTION                                                                           1
II. FROM GRO'WTH TO CRISIS .1
III. THE GOVERNMENT'S RESPONSE TO THE CRISIS..                                                4
A. FISCAL AND MONETARY POLICY.                                                        5
B. FINABlCIAL SECTOR REFORM ~~~....................... ... ........ .. ....... .. ... .......................
B.    FINANciAL SECTOR REFORM.6
C.    CORPORATE DEBT RESTRUCTURING                                                    8
D.    STRUCTURAL POLICY REFORMS                                                        9
E.    PROTECTING THE POOR           ....................... .12
F.    INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING              .    14
IV. MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK ..14
A.    PROSPECTS                                                                       14
B.    EXTElRNAL FINANCING NEEDS                                                       15
V. THE WORLD BANK'S RESPONSE TO THE CRISIS ..16
A. THE WORLD BANK'S PROGRAM OBJECTIVES .16
B.    MODALITIES OF BANK SUPPORT FOR A RESTRUCTURED ASSISTANCE STRATEGY              18
C.    COORDINATION WITH INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND DONORS              19
VI.    THE PROPOSED LOAN                                                                     20
A. OBJECTIVES .20
B. LoAN ADMINISTRATION .22
C. BENEFITS AND RISKS .23
VII. RECOMMENDATION .25
ANNEXES:
ANNEX 1: Summary of Policy Reforms ...                                               26
ANNEX 2: Key Macroeconomic Indicators .......................................... 32
Balance of Payments ............................................          33
Indonesia At a Glance.34
Indonesia t a Glance..............................................  34.......................
ANNEX 3: Status of Bank Group Operations ................................            36
ANNEX 4: Statement of Development Policy ................................................ 41
The task team includes Magda Adriani, Florence Cazenave, Bridie Champion, Jim Douglas, Jorge Garcia-Garcia,
Scott Guggenheim, David Hawes, Peter Heywood, Stephen Howes, Lloyd Kenward, Samuel Lieberman, Vikram
Nehru, John Newman, Karin Nordlander, Jacqueline Pomeroy, Yogana Prasta, Richard Roulier, Fadia Saadah,
Haneen Sayed, Gurushli Swamy, and Tom Walton.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
POLICY REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower         Republic of Indonesia
Amount           US$ 1 billion
Terms            Standard amortization terms, grace period and interest rate for fixed-rate US dollar
Single Currency Loans with an expected disbursement period of 0-3 years.
Description      The proposed loan would provide balance of payments assistance to the Republic
of Indonesia to support policy reforms designed to overcome the present economic
crisis and restore rapid growth, while protecting the poor. The policy reformn
program supported by this proposed loan has been jointly developed by the
Government, the ADB, the IMF and the World Bank. It embraces:
* actions to increase public sector efficiency and transparency,
* financial sector reform and principals for a framework for restructuring
corporate debt,
* structural policy reforms to increase private sector efficiency, improve
governance and protect the environment, and
* action to protect the poor and to continue priority investments in basic
education and health.
Benefits         *  Restoration of confidence and growth by ensuring a sound macroeconomic
fiamework, improving governance, increasing efficiency and transparency in
both the private and public sectors, and establishing a sounder, more
competitive and better supervised banking system.
* Protection of the poor from the worst effects of the drought and financial
crisis.
*   Increased environmental sustainability.
*   A  smoother transition of consumption and investment levels, thereby
increasing the acceptability of tough reform and supporting an early recovery.
Risks            The Government's reform program and this supporting operation are subject to
considerable risks and uncertainties. There are four main sources of risks:
*   UJncertainty associated with the early days of a new Cabinet and with political
succession.
*   The possibility of social unrest due to rising unemployment, increasing prices
(especially for food and fuel), and falling real incomes.
*   The fragility of the financial sector and the associated possibility of excessive
pressure to expand government expenditure.
*   Limitations in administrative capacity, coupled with opposition from vested
interests.
- liii-



REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA - POLICYREFORMSUPPORTLOAN
The severity of these risks has been mitigated by front-loading the reform program
and by designing this loan as a two-tranche operation. In each key area of the
program the Government has already implemented important reforms. The risk of
social unrest is being lessened by phasing price increases, sustaining basic health
and education programs, and expanding programs to shield the poor from the worst
effects of the crisis. Pressure on the Government budget is being managed by
restricting food subsidies to only rice and soybeans from October 1998, reducing
fuel subsidies, limiting the fiscal costs of the bank and corporate debt restructuring
programs, and raising additional revenue through privatization.  The risks
associated with limited administrative capacity have been eased by the provision of
extensive technical assistance, especially to support financial sector reforms.
Despite the measures that have been put in place to mitigate the risks, they remain
considerable. Restoring confidence and credibility in Government actions will take
time; the economy will likely be depressed for several years, which will put further
strain on the already - fragile political and social situation; and, the ongoing
corporate debt restructuring poses risks to the program that the Government can not
fully control. Nevertheless, this program presents the only available opportunity to
stabilize Indonesia's economy and provide protection to the poorest members of
society.
Poverty          N.A.
Category
Estimated        Two tranches, the first of $600 million to be released on effectiveness and a second
disbursements    of $400 million expected to be released in July or August 1998.
- iv -



REPUBLiC OF INDONESIA - POLICYREFORMSUPPORT LOAN
Report and Recommendation of the President of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development to the Executive Directors
on a Proposed Policy Reform Support Loan In
the Amount of US$1 billion to the Republic of Indonesia
I. INTRODUCTION
1.      I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed Policy
Reform Support Loan to the Republic of Indonesia in support of the Government's economic policy
reform program. This reform program is designed to rebuild confidence in Indonesia's economy and to
restore sustainable, equitable growth. To achieve these objectives, the policy reforms backed by this loan
will: improve private sector productivity, make public sector management more transparent and efficient,
regain depositor's confidence in banks, resolve problems of illiquid and undercapitalized banks, protect
the environment, and shield poor and vulnerable groups.
2.    The Bank's initial contribution to a broad program of international support for Indonesia's reform
effort consisted of a Banking Reform Assistance Project (Loan 4255-IND) approved by the Board on
December 4, 1997. Other operations currently proposed by the Bank include a loan to improve
agricultural productivity thereby enhancing food security, a second structural adjustment loan, and two
investment loans that will provide iicome earning opportunities to the poor in urban and rural areas. A
CAS progress report outlining the Bank's revised Country Assistance Strategy is being prepared for
discussion at the Board in July 1998.
II. FROM GROWTH TO CRISIS
3.    Up until the recent crisis, Indonesia's development achievements over the last thirty years had
been remarkable. Real economic growth averaged 7 percent per annum, increasing per capita income
from less than half of India's, Nigeria's, or Bangladesh's in the mid- 1960s to between 3 and 5 times those
countries' by end 1996. With per capita income surpassing $1000 in 1996, Indonesia joined the ranks of
lower-middle income countries.   This remarkable growth picture was accompanied by equally
remarkable gains in poverty reduction. The incidence of poverty fell from 70 percent in 1965, to 29
percent in 1980 and 11 percent in 1996. Literacy increased from 52 percent in 1965 to 87 percent in
1996.
4.    In 1996, high growth continued (7.8 percent), inflation remained under control (6.6 percent), the
fiscal accounts were in surplus (nearly 1 percent of GDP), and interest rates were falling. Foreign
confidence was strong, allowing the current account deficit, at 3.5 percent of GDP, to be financed from
inflows of foreign direct investment and private capital. Official reserves were comfortably high (about 5
months of imports), and public external debt was on the decline (due to a combination of prepayments,
low disbursements and third-currency movements). Even during the first half of 1997, the picture
remained positive: inflation continued to fall (reaching 5.1 percent for the year ending June 1997), and
real domestic demand remained strong.
5.    These exemplary macroeconomic achievements masked persistent underlying structural
weaknesses in the economy (see Indonesia: Sustaining High Growth with Equity, May 30, 1997). These
weaknesses were of three types: a financial sector characterized by too many weak banks, a real sector
with too many "hidden costs" that undermined efficiency and competitiveness; and a business culture in
which connections rather than cost benefit analysis determined too many investments.
-1-~~~~~~~ 



REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA - POLICY REFORMSUPPORT LOAN
6.    These structural weaknesses were exacerbated by two features of the mid-1990s: a slowdown in
the country's decade-old deregulation efforts; and, a rapid build-up in private foreign debt. The
unfinished deregulation agenda left in place a weak financial sector and a complex web of domestic
distortions that slowed growth and hurt the poor, especially those living in the outer islands. On the debt
front, while public external debt has been relatively constant during the 1990s, private external debt
increased dramatically from $35 billion ($10 billion short term) at the end of 1994 to $68 billion ($16
billion short term) by December, 1997. Moreover, much of this private debt was unhedged.
7.     At the same time, Indonesia (along with other developing countries) was being held to
progressively higher international standards, as common local business practices came under greater
external scrutiny. All this was reflected in persistent perceptions that Indonesia was a high-cost place to
do business, where the regulatory system tended to favor the well-connected over the efficient.
8.    Contagion from the collapse of the Thai baht in July 1997 drove Indonesia's corporate sector to
try to hedge substantial short-term external debt. These actions plus concerns about the sustainability of
the current account deficit and weaknesses in the banking system led to a sharp depreciation of the
Rupiah. External creditors, uncertain about the underlying health of the economy or its corporate sector,
refused to roll over short-term debt. Many corporations have become technically bankrupt. Fueled also
by uncertainty surrounding the end of the sixth Soeharto cabinet, the economy suffered a precipitous and
collective loss of confidence that, by mid December was driving large amounts of private domestic
capital overseas. In January 1998, the Rupiah temporarily fell below 20 percent of its July 1997 value.
The banking sector, already weakened by a high proportion of bad debts before the crisis, was crippled
by a sharp deterioration in its loan portfolio as the financial positions of corporate clients deteriorated
almost overnight. Inflation rose to high levels (see Figure 1), millions of workers have now been laid off,
imports have fallen and growth is plummeting.
9.     On top of these financial sector and foreign exchange woes, Indonesia is suffering from one of
the worst droughts this century. The eastern islands have been hit particularly hard with the rainy season
beginning more than two months late in Java. Food, especially rice production, will fall for the second
year in a row, creating a need for large food imports which is straining scarce foreign exchange resources
even further. BULOG, the Government logistics agency, has already imported 2.5 million tons of rice
since November 1997 and plans are under way to import a further 2.85 million tons of rice between April
1998 and March 1999. Food prices have risen sharply in recent months, and high import costs will
continue this inflationary pressure (see Figure 1). High prices and shortages in food and medical supplies
are adding to the adverse social effects of the currency crisis.
10.    The combination of physical and financial shocks, and political uncertainty that hit Indonesia in
the second half of 1997, produced a loss of domestic and international confidence in the Indonesian
economy of unprecedented proportions. The value of the Rupiah, the chief barometer of confidence in the
economy, fell nearly 80 percent from its peak in 1997 to its trough in January 1998. With inflation at the
end of 1997 running at 10 percent on an annual basis, the Rupiah's real depreciation is one of the largest
on record in the post war era.
-2 -



REPUBLIC OF INDONESiA - POLICY REFORMSUPPORTLOAN
FIGURE 1: RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Rupiah depreciates                   Foreign exchange market becomes highly volatile
(Daily Rupiah per USS spot rate)           (3-month swap rate premium, in percent per year)
2,000                                    2,000    45
3,000                                    3,000    40
46000                                    4,000    35
0.000                                    5,000
0,000                                    6,0      30
7,000                                    7,000    25
8,000                                    8,000    20
0,000                                    9,000
1000                                      10,000   I
I1,000                                    11,000   10
12,00                                     12,000
13,000                                    13,000      ___O___          ..  .,,,,,,
14,000                                    14,000
RuplahIUS$                                 L i
Stock market crashes                            Inflation picks up rapidly
(Jakarta Stock Exchange Index)            (12 month Percentage change in Consumer & Food
Price index)
a00                                              60                                            G0
w°oo a                               so                                   !~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5  so
300~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                                 00F
700
40                                          40
6000
30                                           30
500
20                                          -20
400                                               0-1
3001                                              01
Interest rates rise and become highly variable  Depositors lose confidence in private national banks
(Overnight interbank call rate)         (Ratio of deposits in private national banks to deposits
in total commercial banks)
90%1                                              65
80% 13
70%
51
00%
50%/                                              5
40%                                               5
30%
20%
10%                                               53
0%                                               5
,   |  t  s  =  , U c - O O b = n ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I            z  a   <         
-3-



REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA - POLICY REFORm SUPPORT LOAN
III. THE GOVERNMENT'S RESPONSE TO THE CRISIS
11.    When the crisis first hit the region in July, 1997, the Government responded with a conventional
program designed to address the initial weakness in the exchange rate. Thailand elected to float the Baht
on July 2, the Philippines the peso on July 11. That same day, Indonesia widened the exchange rate band
to accommodate growing pressure on the Rupiah. When this move was met with continued depreciation
pressure, the Government chose on Friday, August 14 to float the Rupiah. The following Monday
interest rates were raised dramatically to stabilize the Rupiah and stem the outflow of capital, and
cutbacks announced in infrastructure projects to preserve the fiscal surplus. Despite these measures the
Rupiah continued to fall. By early October the Rupiah had depreciated by 25 percent and appeared on a
continued downward course. In early October the Government invited the IMF to negotiate a stand-by
arrangement, which was approved by the Fund's Board on November 5. This agreement emphasized
financial sector reforms, although it also contained some important structure reforms.
12.    By the first week in December, it was clear that the first IMF package was not working. Exactly
why will undoubtedly remain a much-debated issue but several factors were clear contributors. To avoid
large-scale collapse of the corporate sector, Bank Indonesia eased up on interest rates, increasing pressure
on the Rupiab. In addition, some of the package's key measures put great pressure on the banking sector
and monetary management. Key among these measures was the closing of 16 private banks, which
caused a flight of depositors to safety and may have contributed to a growing loss of confidence in
Indonesian's financial system. There were also indications that some well-connected parties affected by
the reforms were not going to take their losses quietly. These challenges to the reforms, along with a set
of apparently mixed signals from different cabinet ministers, led international and domestic observers to
question the Government's, especially the President's, commitment to the reforns.
13.   In response to a rapid deterioration in the Rupiah and a massive build-up of emergency credits to
the banking sector, the IMF and the Government renewed talks on January 12. These discussions led to a
reform package announced on January 15 that was heavily weighted toward a series of far-reaching
structural reforms, but weaker on two other fronts: banking sector reform and resolution of the corporate
sector's foreign debt overhang problem. Within a week the January 15 package had been augmented by
an enhanced banking sector reform program, the announcement of the start of a process to resolve the
corporate debt issue and the implementation of all elements of the package due by end-January.
14.   Market reaction to the January 15 package was swift and negative, giving the Government almost
no time to demonstrate its commit to implementation. Within hours of the signing of the second Letter of
Intent, the Rupiah was in near free fall. On January 20 the Rupiah crashed to 17,000 to the U.S. dollar,
about 15 percent of its value seven months earlier.
15.   The program was dealt a further, almost fatal blow in early February when the Government
announced that it was considering introducing a currency board system as a means of stabilizing the
Rupiah. Despite widespread international concern that Indonesia's financial and credibility crisis would
make such a measure extremely risky, the debate over the currency board continued for nearly three and a
half weeks, until virtually the final days of the Sixth Cabinet. On March 1, the Sixth Cabinet was
dissolved. The Seventh Cabinet was announced March 14 and installed on March 16.
16.   Beginning the week of March 16, the new Government held extensive discussions with the IMF,
ADB and World Bank to develop a more comprehensive and credible response to the crisis. These
discussions led to the five-part program this loan will support. The main elements of this strategy are:
(a) fiscal and monetary policy action to maintain macroeconomic stability and to increase the
efficiency and transparency of public sector activities;
-4-



REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA - POLICY REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
(b) financial sector reform to get credit flowing again and to rebuild the financial sector;
(c) corporate debt restructuring to preserve productive assets and ease pressure on the exchange
rate;
(d) structural reform to increase efficiency, improve governance and transparency, and protect the
environment; and,
(e) actions to shield poor and vulnerable groups.
17.   Together, these actions address the financial crisis's main causes: weaknesses in the financial
sector, the heavy burden of private external debt, and loss of confidence in public sector decision making.
The Government has supported plans for reform in these five key areas with a high-level committee
responsible for implernentation and with institutional arrangements for monitoring the social impact of
the crisis.
A. FISCAL AND MONETARY POLICY
18.    Restoring stability is a critical challenge facing the Indonesian Government today. To achieve
this, the Government will maintain tight monetary policies, keep the budget deficit to within acceptable
limits, and finance it almost entirely by foreign borrowing. The sharp depreciation of the Rupiah and the
slowdown in economic growth is imposing severe constraints on discretionary government expenditures.
Growth in government revenues has slowed while the cost of debt servicing has ballooned, subsidies have
climbed sharply, and the potential cost of bank restructuring is very large.
19.   In view of the acknowledged urgency of actions to consolidate public finances and to refocus
public resources on priority areas, some important actions were taken in the context of the FY1998/99
budget. In particular:
a. Budgetary and extra-budgetary support and credit privileges to the state-owned aircraft
manufacturer (IPTN) have been discontinued;
b. The program for bringing non-tax revenue onto the budget is being accelerated from five to three
years, and Rteforestation and Investment Funds have already been incorporated in the
Government budget for FY 1998/99;
c. 12 major infrastructure projects that had been reinstated earlier were canceled and others
deferred;
d. Excise taxes on alcohol and tobacco have been increased by 80 and 100 percent respectively;
e. VAT exemptions will be reduced; and
f. A 5 percent local sales tax on gasoline has been introduced.
20.   Nevertheless, the deteriorating situation has compelled the Government to make further
adjustments to the budget. Since there is little scope in the current environment to raise additional tax
revenues, the Government is focusing on measures that cut low-priority expenditures, transfer additional
profits from state enterprises to the Government, and raise revenues from state enterprise divestiture. The
proposed revised budget strikes a balance between preventing undue deterioration in the fiscal accounts
and avoiding excessive fiscal contraction. A budget deficit of about 3.8 percent of GDP in FY1998/99
has been agreed upon with the IMF.
21.   To identify low-priority expenditures in the development budget, the Government, in
collaboration with the World Bank, has already initiated a Public Expenditure Review. This review will
be completed by June 30, 1998 and covers public enterprises and strategic industries, such as IPTN as
well as central govemment expenditures. It will lead to a program to improve the allocation of public
expenditure, cut low-priority expenditures, and restructure inefficient state-owned enterprises.
- 5 -



REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA - POLICYREFORMSUPPORTLOAN
22.   The Government is accelerating its privatization program with the intention of bolstering public
finances as well as improve efficiency. Additional shares of some of the six listed state enterprises will
be sold in the coming fiscal year. In addition, by March 1999, seven additional public enterprises will be
privatized and five more will be prepared for privatization. Over the longer term, the Government is
committed to selling controlling stakes to the private sector of enterprises that operate in a competitive
market environment. Non-viable enterprises will be closed. Enterprises that continue to be owned and
managed by the state will have their performance monitored according to criteria spelt out in action plans
that are to be prepared for each enterprise by end-September 1998.
23.    The Government is ensuring that price increases on essential goods will be restrained by
budgeting subsidies to mitigate the worst consequences of the crisis on the poor. At the same time, care
will be taken to contain the budgetary costs of these subsidies by increasing prices. For example, the
price of sugar, wheat flour, corn, soybean meal, and fishmeal will be increased in phases until the entire
subsidy is eliminated. In the case of soybean, a product largely consumed by the poor, the subsidy will
only be eliminated after the exchange rate has stabilized at a reasonable level. The government will also
increase fuel and electricity prices gradually over the fiscal year, and ensure that the price increase for
kerosene is smaller because it is consumed mainly by low income households.
24.    To stabilize the Rupiah and to curb inflation, the Government is committed to pursuing tight
monetary policy. Interest rates on Bank Indonesia's primary monetary instruments (SBIs) were raised
significantly on March 23, 1998. Commercial bank deposit rates also rose in response to the increase in
SBI rates. In view of the deposit guarantee that is in place, however, the authorities have limited the
increase in the deposit rates of weak banks to the average deposit rate of a group of strong banks. In the
future, Bank Indonesia will adjust its interest rate policy in accordance with developments in prices and in
the foreign exchange market.
B. FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM
25.    As part of its efforts to stabilize the economy and restore credit flows to the corporate sector, the
Government is taking immediate steps to address pressing problems and fundamental weaknesses in the
banking system. In the short term, the Government's goals are to help restore depositors' confidence in
banks and to identify and resolve the problems of seriously illiquid and/or undercapitalized banks. In the
longer-term, the goal is to establish a banking system that is sound, competitive and properly supervised,
and to broaden and deepen the financial system through further development of non-bank financial
institutions and the capital markets.
26.    For many years, Indonesia's strong economic growth provided little incentive to tackle
fundamental weaknesses in the financial system. The system lacked (a) criteria to assure that credit
applications were analyzed based on the borrower's financial performance, (b) capabilities to assure that
loans were classified based on risk or loan collectability, (c) effective rules to assure bank statements
reflected financial reality and thus provide an "early warning" signal of deterioration, and (d) the legal
infrastructure to allow contract enforcement when borrowers failed to perform as agreed. It was common
for enterprises without foreign currency earnings to borrow in foreign currency, to reduce the cost of
borrowings.  Loan approvals were often based on relationships with bank owners rather than
creditworthiness. These practices led to an unsustainable level of problem loans. Even before the current
crisis, numerous banks were insolvent or seriously undercapitalized. As a result, when the currency
began to depreciate in July 1997, banks were poorly positioned to absorb any further deterioration in their
portfolios. Bank liquidity was eroded as borrowers with unhedged foreign currency positions rapidly
found themselves unable to service their debts and depositors withdrew large amounts from private
national banks as confidence evaporated.
-6 -



REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA - POLICYREFORMSUPPORTLOAN
27.    Under the current program, the Government's objective is to address the immediate priorities of
stabilizing the banking system, restoring depositors' confidence in banks, and ensuring continued
essential banking services in the economy. To this end, the Government has established a comprehensive
guarantee program covering all depositors and creditors and an Indonesian Bank Restructuring Agency
(IBRA). In addition, the program includes measures that lay the foundations for achieving a competitive
banking system in the medium-term. These include: strengthening bank supervision; improving the
timely disclosure and dissemination of key financial information to support better informed financial
markets; and strengthening the legal framework and legal institutions to facilitate bankruptcy, enforce
contracts, and encourage corporate mergers, acquisitions, and restructuring.
Rebuilding Confidenrice through a Guarantee Program
28.   In an effort to boost confidence in banks, the Government announced a guarantee that covers all
depositors and creditors of locally incorporated banks. The guarantee covers Rupiah and foreign
currency claims, with payment of foreign currency claims to be made in Rupiah at the market exchange
rate. It also covers all foreign currency obligations associated with imports of essential commodities, but
excludes shareholdings, subordinated debt, depositor and creditor claims of controlling shareholders,
members of the Board of Directors and their families, and deposits held by delinquent debtors. The
guarantee will remain in place for at least two years and will only be terminated after six months'
advance notice. The guarantee agreement signed with all locally-incorporated banks requires that all
participating banks will be subject to enhanced supervisory oversight. The Government is working to
ensure that a well-designed and financed deposit insurance scheme is in place by the time the guarantee
scheme is removed.
Strengthening bank supervision
29.    Strengthening Bank Indonesia's supervisory capabilities will be critical to building a safer,
sounder financial sector and to avoid a repeat crisis. Over the next two years, internationally recognized
experts will provide active support in banking supervision, to transfer best practices and international
experience. Loan classification and provisioning rules and the role of collateral, have been tightened, and
are now based on risk rather than solely on delinquency. Minimum capital requirements for banks have
been set at Rp.250 billion. Reporting requirements for foreign exchange and credit risk will be tightened
with the help of outside specialists. Key banking data will be published on a regular basis to better
inform markets and exert greater discipline over managers.
Establishing the Indlonesian Bank Restructuring Agency (IBRA)
30.    On January 27, 1998, the Government announced the establishment of the Indonesian Bank
Restructuring Agency (IBRA) and gave it responsibility for restructuring unsound banks, including
decisions on recapitalization, mergers, takeovers, or liquidation. On February 14, 54 banks (including 39
private banks, 4 state banks and 11 regional development banks) were transferred from the regulatory
oversight of Bank Indonesia and placed under the supervision of IBRA. By the end of June 1998, the
Government will appoint an independent review committee, with high-profile foreign participation, and
assisted by an international audit firm, to regularly review IBRA preparations and ensure its sound and
transparent functioning.
31.    On April 4, IBRA took action on 14 of the banks under its supervision, freezing the operations of
seven small to medium-sized banks (comprising some 1 percent of the assets of the commercial banking
system), and placed seven others under IBRA management with immediate effect. The seven banks
whose operations were frozen had used central bank liquidity support in excess of 500 percent of their
total equity and at least equal to 75 percent of their total assets. Depositors' accounts at these banks, fully
- 7 -



REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA - POLICY REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
benefit from the government guarantee, and were transferred automatically to the nearest branch of Bank
Negara Indonesia, the largest bank in the country. The seven banks whose managements have been taken
over by IBRA include some of the largest private banks and account for approximately 20 percent of the
assets of the commercial banking system. These banks continue to operate but under IBRA management
because they have used liquidity support of more than Rp.2 trillion each (comprising 75 percent of total
Bank Indonesia lending to the banking system) and in excess of 500 percent of their total equity. As a
next step, IBRA plans to restrict the foreign exchange transactions, increase surveillance and closely
monitor the liquidity position of other banks under its supervision.
32.   All banks under IBRA's umbrella are preparing rehabilitation plans and IBRA will engage
internationally recognized auditors to carry out diagnostic reviews. By the end of June 1998, portfolio
reviews will be completed for banks whose assets total at least 80 percent of the total combined assets of
these 54 banks. Findings of diagnostic reviews and rehabilitation plans will be made public. Following a
review of these plans, IBRA will either agree with each proposal and monitor its implementation, or will
proceed with restructuring the bank. Bad assets will be transferred to an Asset Management Company in
the course of bank restructuring, and legal action will be taken if fraud or malpractice are discovered. The
Asset Management Company will specialize in debt collection with the objective of minimizing IBRA's
fiscal costs. IBRA will be funded by government bonds issued specifically for this purpose.
33.   IBRA, in coordination with Bank Indonesia will also be responsible for overseeing merger plans
of state banks. To begin the process, Bapindo and Bank Bumi Daya are to be merged, and their bad assets
are to be transferred to IBRA's Asset Management Company. In preparation for further restructuring,
internationally recognized auditors are to do portfolio and system reviews for all state banks. The
reviews will establish adequate loan loss provisions and provide critical information for the segregation
of good and bad assets. Strategic partners will be sought for all state banks. Until their privatization,
Government will set annual financial and operational objectives for state banks and monitor performance
against targets.
Improving the Legal and Institutional Framework for Banking
34.   To strengthen the legal and institutional infrastructure for banking, the Government is
undertaking a thorough review of all banking laws and regulations and will then make changes to the
legal and regulatory framework as necessary. Likely areas for reform include information disclosure,
taking and realizing collateral security interests, and laws and regulations on financial instruments and
insurance. Action plans to improve the legal framework will be initiated by end-September 1998 with the
help of the World Bank.
35.   Similarly, to increase transparency and the quality of information in banking, the Government
now requires all corporations (including banks) to publish audited financial statements annually. Bank
Indonesia is to review the adequacy of data provided by banks and improve the dissemination of
information on individual banks.
36.   The Government will level the playing field for foreign investors in banking by lifting the
restriction limiting foreign banks to one branch in each of nine major cities; changing the definition of
foreign banks' capital; and lifting limits to foreigners' holdings. These actions will be completed by end-
1998. Legal changes to eliminate restrictions on foreign investment in listed banks will be enacted by
end-June 1998.
C. CORPORATE DEBT RESTRUCTURING
37.     The restructuring of private sector debt is also critical to restoring the health of the private
sector and relieving pressure on the foreign exchange markets. A "steering committee" of lenders and a
"contact committee" of borrowers have been formed to facilitate discussion and communication between
-8 -



REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA - POLICYREFORM SUPPORTILOAN
the two groups. Major lenders to Indonesia comprising banks from Japan, Singapore, the United States,
Germany, Korea, Hong Kong and the United Kingdom are represented on the Steering Committee. The
contact committee represents private sector corporates that have large external debts. A number of
proposals have been considered by these committees and by government officials.
38.   As outlined in the Statement of Development Policy (see Annex IV), a scheme is under
consideration with features broadly similar to that of the FICORCA scheme adopted by the Mexican
authorities in 1983, which proved to be a powerful tool to encourage debtors and creditors to negotiate
and reach agreement on the rescheduling of private debt. The scheme's basic principles are that the final
scheme must limit the potential fiscal cost, ensure that lenders alone bear the commercial risk, and allow
debtors and lenders to renegotiate debts on a bilateral basis.
39.   Sound laws and regulations of general application are necessary for the orderly restructuring of
corporate debt. The specialized services required in connection with restructuring firms and corporate
debt are available in Indonesia and regionally, but they cannot operate effectively without effective laws
and regulations. The Government is meeting this need in the following ways:
*  Immediate modification and strengthening of the Bankruptcy Law. The existing law is being
modified to establish transparent rules for the evaluation and confirmation of reorganization plans
for failing firns and their conversion to liquidation procedures. Amendments to the existing
bankruptcy law will be enacted in late April and go into effect 120 days later.
* Establishment of special-purpose legal institutions. The government is considering establishing
special commercial tribunals/courts and simpler procedures to facilitate bankruptcy proceedings.
Taking such steps could create incentives for Indonesian corporates to maintain payments to
creditors and enhance the confidence of creditors.
* Provision of special support for small debtors. Smaller debtors often have neither the skills nor
the funds to contract specialized professionals. Government support could consist of information
dissemination, seminars, workshops, and limited technical assistance.
*  Strengthening corporate disclosure and governance mechanisms. The pace of adopting new
disclosure standards is being accelerated. For firms undergoing reorganization and undertaking
debt restructuring, new disclosure standards will be a prerequisite for forbearance from creditors.
Such an approach will enhance the willingness of creditors and financial markets to accept debt-
forgiveness and rollover arrangements.
D. STRUCTURAL POLICY REFORMS
40.   The structural policy reforms being implemented by the Government improve efficiency, protect
the environment, and enhance transparency and governance. They strike at the heart of the governance
issue by making the policy environment more market-oriented. Thus they will help rebuild investor
confidence and lay a foundation for efficient economic recovery and sustained growth.
Reforming Trade and Investment Policies
41.   Import policy.  The medium-term tariff reduction program has been extended to embrace
chemicals, metal products and agricultural goods. This leaves motor vehicles and alcohol as the only
exceptions to a maximum tariff of 10 percent by 2003. Moreover, import tariffs of 15 percent or more
(except those applying to motor vehicles and alcohol) were reduced by 5 percentage points in February
1998, in keeping with this tariff reduction program. The maximum tariff on food items was reduced to 5
percent (effective Feb. 1, 1998). Local content regulations on dairy products and all import restrictions
-9-



REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA - POLICY REFOR SUPPORT LOAN
on ships have been abolished (effective Feb. 1, 1998). All other remaining quantitative import
restrictions, other than those justified by health, safety, environmental and security concerns, will be
completely phased out by the end of 2000. All special provisions for the national car project have been
discontinued for new imports, and the local content program that provides producers with customs
concessions based on higher local content will be phased out by 2000. This relaxation of import
restrictions will continue the Indonesian pattern of increasing productivity through import competition
and of strengthening export competitiveness by reducing costs.
42.   General importers are now free to import wheat and wheat flour, garlic, sugar and soybeans, thus
removing BULOG's monopoly over these items. Moreover, all restrictions on domestic marketing of
these items has also been lifted and subsidies are being extended to all market participants. Farmers have
been released from the formal and informal requirements to plant sugar cane. This will rationalize sugar
production, allowing inefficient mills to close and giving farmers freedom to switch from growing sugar
cane to producing higher valued rice. The only item that BULOG still has an import and marketing
monopoly over is rice. Ensuring adequate supplies of rice at affordable prices has become BULOG's
priority for the coming months and will be very important in view of the ongoing drought.
43.   Export policy. To avoid the risk of over-exploitation of natural resources, a set of resource
royalties are being introduced for environmentally sensitive items. The resource royalties on forest
products will be linked to world prices, vary according to independently estimated extraction costs and be
independent of who buys the logs. This makes revenue sharing from forest use much more like that
applying to the oil and gas sector. Export taxes on leather, cork, ores and waste aluminum products, were
abolished on February 1, 1998. Export taxes on logs and sawn timber, rattan, and minerals are being
reduced to a maximum of 30 percent ad valorem and will be fuirther reduced to a maximum of 20 percent
by end-1998, 15 percent by end-i999, and 10 percent by end-2000. These reductions of export
impediments together with resource royalties will promote more environmentally sustainable use of
resources, help sustain rapid export growth, and force domestic users of these resources to be more
efficient.
44.   To balance the need to maintain domestic supplies of palm oil at affordable prices with the need
to facilitate exports of this important foreign exchange earner (over $1 billion per annum), all quantitative
export restrictions are being replaced by an export tax on crude and processed palm oil, olein and stearin
ranging from 30 to 40 percent ad valorem. The export taxes will be reviewed regularly, initially to
maintain relatively stable domestic prices and then to reduce the tax rate in stages to reach 10 percent by
the end of 1999.
45.   Investment and pricing policy. The freeze on foreign investment in oil palm plantations has been
removed. Hence, there is now no discrimination between foreign and domestic investors in this sector;
they both face the same restrictions arising from environmental and land use guidelines. Restrictions on
foreign investment in wholesale and retail trade have been lifted. This paves the way for increased
foreign investment, technology transfer, and closer linkages between domestic wholesaling operations
and export marketing. In November 1997, the administrative controls on cement pricing were removed,
thus increasing competition in the industry. These investment and pricing policy changes will compress
distribution margins through competition, thereby helping consumers, small-scale enterprises and
exporters.
46.   Domestic marketing and trade reforms. A number of measures are being taken to deregulate
domestic trade and marketing. The plywood cartel has been dissolved so producers can now sell to
whomever they choose and they can ship with any carrier of their choice. Similarly, traders are now free
to purchase and distribute all brands of cement in all provinces and to export without acquiring permits
- 10 -



REPUBLIC OFINDONESIA - POLICYREFORMSUPPORTLOAN
other than a general exporter's license. Domestic trade in agricultural products is also being deregulated:
(i) since February 1, 11998, traders have been free to buy and sell all commodities (including cloves,
cashew nuts, oranges and vanilla) at unrestricted prices and to transport them across district and
provincial boundaries; (ii) by July 1, 1998, the Clove Support and Marketing Board will be eliminated;
and, (iii) by September 30, 1998, the system of quotas limiting the inter-provincial sale of livestock will
be abolished. Moreover, provincial governments have been prohibited from restricting trade within or
between provinces (effective February 1, 1998). To support export expansion, the Government is
enforcing the prohibition on retribusi (local tax) on export goods and to strengthen domestic competition
and avoid market fragmentation, the Government will abolish taxes on trade within or between provinces
by April 1, 1999. All these measures will better integrate the domestic market and provide the poor in the
outer islands with freedom to pursue the highest possible market return for their goods and labor.
47.   Strengthening competition laws. These structural reforms targeted at specific monopolies and
cartels are being backed up with reform of legislation and regulations relating to corporate restructuring
and competition policy. The key objective of these changes is to achieve and maintain an improvement
in economic efficiency and consumer benefits through competition. This reform will make anti-
competitive conduct illegal. The changes will facilitate the merger and acquisition of failing firms by
other firms so long as such a merger does not result in a substantial lessening of competition. These
provisions will help expedite corporate restructuring and provide safeguards against anti-competitive and
predatory practices. Considerable work, including the drafting of some legal and regulatory reforms
relating to corporate restructuring, has already been completed with bilateral assistance. An action plan
for implementation reforms in this area will be completed by June 1998.
Protecting the Environment
48.    To strengthen overall environmental management, the Government introduced a new law in 1997
(UW 23/97). Work is now focusing on the necessary implementing regulations. Regulations pertaining to
at least four of the highest priority areas (air quality, water quality, hazardous waste management, and
environmental assessment) will all be issued by June 30, 1998. The remaining regulations (about 15 in
all) will be issued by June 30, 1999.
49.    To improve urban air quality, the President has already ordered the phasing out of lead as an
additive in gasoline. Regulations and decrees setting December 31, 1999 as the deadline for achieving
the phase-out for Bali and Java, and December 31, 2001 for the other provinces, will be issued by April
30, 1998. The Government will supplement the shift to unleaded gasoline with phased improvements in
the quality of diesel fuel, and measures to increase the use of other clean fuels for motor vehicles such as
compressed natural gas and liquefied petroleum gas. The Government is also developing a policy and
strategy to reduce and control pollution caused by domestic wastewater, with particular attention to urban
areas, for inclusion in Repelita VII.
50.   In addition to the beneficial effects stemming from the revised system of forestry rent taxation,
the Government intends, by June 30, 1998, to improve forest resource management by lengthening
substantially the period of new logging concessions, enacting regulations to allow for the sale of
concessions and to define a transparent process for concession award, and removing the current
requirement that a company must possess a wood processing facility in order to qualify for a concession.
By the end of 1998, the Government will develop an independent system for monitoring the use of forest
resources. This system will encourage participation by local communities. No new licenses and permits
for-converting forest land into other uses will be issued until this new system is in place.
- 11 -



REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA - POLICYREFORMSUPPORTLOAN
Improving Governance and Transparency
51.    Governance is being improved in three key ways: (a) structural reforms that increase
competition; (b) changes that make public sector decisions more transparent; and (c) actions that increase
the transparency and credibility of information, particularly in the financial sector.
52.   Increased competition. Most of the structural reforms described above, in addition to improving
the efficiency of the economy by increasing competition, will also reduce rent-seeking opportunities.
Most notably: eliminating the clove monopoly and dismantling the marketing cartel for plywood
removes huge rents that have been going to strong vested interests; in the forestry sector, since the
prohibitively high export taxes on logs and sawn timber have enabled the plywood cartel to appropriate a
large share of the forestry resource rent, the move to a more modest export tax and the introduction of
resource royalties will enable the Government to get a larger share of this rent; and, the removal of
restrictions on interprovincial trade will integrate the domestic market and reduce opportunities for
corruption, such as in the cement sector. Finally, actions to reform legislation and regulations relating to
competition, corporate restructuring and bankruptcy also increase transparency and improve governance.
53.    Transparency in public sector management. The ongoing public expenditure review will
highlight inefficient public investments and areas where public resources are being wasted. The
establishment of a more transparent project selection and tendering system for public investments, begun
with the issuing of Keppres 7 of 1998, will make it difficult to allocate projects on the basis of
connections. To further strengthen the transparency of public decision making, the Government will issue
implementation guidelines for Keppres 7, including, inter alia, guidelines to clarify the scope of this
Keppres, establish principles to govern cooperation arrangements, establish criteria and institutional
arrangements for project screening and selection, make requirements for transparent bidding explicit,
strengthen tariff setting and adjustment provisions, refine dispute resolution mechanisms and support
arrangements for "non-commercial" projects, and establish sector-specific procedures.  Increased
transparency in privatization procedures will lend credibility to the process and reduce opportunities for
impropriety. Bringing off-budget revenues and expenditures onto the budget, as has already been done
with the Reforestation and Investment Funds will lend greater transparency to budgetary processes and
resource use. The removal of public funding for the airplane company will limit public finance losses to
this project. The removal of special provisions for the National Car removes the associated implicit
subsidy.
54.    Credibility and transparency of information. Lack of credible information has hampered efforts
to rebuild market confidence, particularly in the financial sector. Requiring all corporations to publish
audited financial accounts annually will help rebuild confidence. In the specific case of banks, this also
involves publishing more comprehensive data on their operations within two years. All state banks and
those private banks falling under IBRA supervision will be subject to independent external audits, at
international standards. Furthermore, Bank Indonesia is reviewing the adequacy of data provided in
condensed biannual balance sheets from banks.
E. PROTECTING THE POOR
55.   Indonesia is rightly proud of its achievements in poverty reduction over the past 30 years, and is
striving to protect these gains during the current economic crisis. The combination of drought and the
economic crisis is reducing incomes, increasing food prices, and increasing unemployment and under-
employment. This will lower the living standards of many, and increase the number of poor, because the
incomes of many non-poor are clustered near the poverty line.
- 12-



REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA - POLICYREFORMSUPPORTLOANv
56.   Many aspects of the reform package, e.g., export tax cuts, reductions in tariffs, and the
deregulation of domestic markets, will have pro-poor effects by enabling farmers, informal sector
workers and small scale enterprises to benefit from more attractive market prices. The relaxation of
import and marketing monopolies, together with less costly domestic transport and increased competition
in wholesaling and retailing, will result in more efficient food markets. Removing import barriers on
ships will reduce the cost of inter-island shipping, thus helping the poor in the outer islands. Reducing
tariffs on food items and removing non-tariff barriers on dairy product imports will help contain food
price increases. Removing domestic marketing restrictions (taxes on inter-provincial trade, quotas on
inter-provincial trade in livestock, regulations restricting the freedom of traders to buy, sell and transport
cashew nuts, oranges, vanilla and cloves at unrestricted prices) will increase returns to producers in outer
islands and lower consumer prices in Java, thus helping the poor. This is particularly important for the
eastern islands, where poverty is the deepest.
57.   The pro-poor benefits of these reforms may not occur instantaneously. Therefore, to help ensure
adequate and affordable food supplies for the poor and vulnerable groups, the Government has correctly
initiated a three-part strategy: (a) expanded labor-intensive public works programs to provide purchasing
power to the poor, (b) actions to ensure the continued availability of key goods with only modest price
increases, and (c) initiatives to maintain access to quality basic education and health.
58.   Providing purchasing power through public works. The Government has expanded labor-
intensive public works projects by reallocating funds in the 1997/98 budget and by allocating Rp 1.7
trillion ($850 million equivalent) in the 1998/99 budget. These funds are for urban and rural job creation
schemes (Padat Karya, various infrastructure investrnents) and for the best of the country's micro-credit
programs. The Government plans to work closely with non-government, community-based groups to
extend the coverage of these infrastructure and micro-credit programs. This expansion of labor-intensive
public works is being done with financial support from the World Bank. ADB and bilateral agencies.
59.   Ensuring the continued availability of key goods with only modest price increases. Rice
production declined about 4 percent in 1997 and is expected to decrease further in 1998. This decrease in
production and the depreciation of the Rupiah have combined to increase rice prices by almost 50 percent
during the last 12 months. The Government, through BULOG, is protecting the most vulnerable groups of
the population by guaranteeing the supply of lower quality rice with only modest price increases.
BULOG has already ordered 2.5 million tons of rice imports and plans to import a further 2.85 million
tons before April 1999. To smooth price changes for the poor and vulnerable groups, BULOG will sell
this lower quality rice in the market at a subsidized price. For people living in isolated areas that have
been particularly hard hit by drought, the Government is continuing to provide grant food assistance, with
the help of non-government organizations.
60.   Petroleum fuel prices have not been increased since January 1993, so the Rupiah's depreciation
has now resulted in a very large subsidy to local consumers. The VAT-inclusive prices of automotive
diesel fuel and kerosene are around US 5 cents and 3.7 cents per liter, respectively, when the exchange
rate is Rp 7500 per US dollar. The Rupiah's depreciation has also increased the subsidy on electricity by
reducing PLN's power tariff from an already insufficient US 6.7 cents per KWh in mid-1997 to only
around US 2.5 cents per KWh at the above exchange rate. The Government plans to phase out subsidies
on petroleum products and electricity over the next three years, but in a manner that softens the impact on
the poor and vulnerable. In particular, the initial price increases for kerosene and diesel prices -- the fuels
whose prices most affect lower income groups -- will be lower than for gasoline.
61.   Maintaining service delivery in basic education and health. Income reductions, food shortages
and price increases are likely to adversely affect education and health outcomes. School enrollments may
fall, and health vulnerability to communicable disease may increase. To combat these possibilities, the
- 13 -



REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA - POLICY REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
Government is committed to allocating sufficient resources to sustain delivery of basic education and
health services, each of adequate quality, to the poor, and to safeguarding health through communicable
disease control efforts. To ensure continued high enrollment rates for children through the first nine
years of school, the Government is to provide scholarship funds for an additional 3 million needy primary
school students and 0.5 million needy high school students. Additional resources are being allocated to
finance essential drugs, including the vaccines and drugs needed for communicable diseases control. The
prices of these drugs have risen sharply due to their high import content, and inventories have been
depleted. Additional funding will be provided for materials required for drug and vaccine quality control
and for hospital and health center laboratory work; equipment and crucial consumables needed to sustain
hospital emergency room services. To design a sustainable medium term health strategy by the end of
1998, the Government (with assistance from the World Bank) will (a) assess the sustainability of health
service delivery systems; (b) evaluate competitiveness of pharmaceutical/vaccine production; and (c)
develop a strategy to extend pre-paid health finance mechanisms.
F. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
62.   Overall responsibility for Indonesia's reform program rests with the Economic Resilience
Council, which is chaired by the President and comprised of senior advisors, key economic Ministers and
private sector representatives. Day-to-day work on implementation is being led by the Coordinating
Minister for Economics, Finance and Industry and a team of senior Government officials. One of the
strengths of this program is that the majority of structural reforms have already been implemented, and
key actions have also been taken in financial sector and public sector reform.
63.   The Government has made the Central Bureau of Statistics responsible for monitoring key social
indicators. The Bureau will work with the Ministries of Social Welfare, Education and Culture, Health,
and Manpower, and the National Family Planning Board on this monitoring program. The final action
plan for this is being prepared with inputs from the UNDP, UNICEF, ADB and the World Bank. Existing
information collection mechanisms will be used wherever possible to avoid duplication, but where
necessary, additional brief surveys and participatory techniques will be used. The intention is to focus on
a limited number of key variables (including availability and quality of essential drugs and vaccines,
educational enrollment, immunization rates, nutritional status of children under 5 years old, and prices of
essential commodities) and to make the information public every three months. This information will be
used to revise policies where necessary to ensure their effectiveness.
IV. MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK
A. PROSPECTS
64.   Indonesia's short-term macroeconomic prospects are bleak. The sharp depreciation of the
Rupiah has rendered a large number of corporations technically bankrupt. The precarious state of the
country's banks has harmed export performance, as foreign banks have refused to accept letters of credits
drawn on Indonesian banks. The exchange rate has whipsawed, sometimes by over ten percent in a day,
disrupting commerce and creating severe difficulties for trade and financial transactions. Domestic
demand is shrinking as corporates struggle to survive, declining real wages, rising unemployment, and
widespread drought, take their toll on investment and consumption expenditures.
65.   Uncertainty surrounding Indonesia's present predicament and its future prospects make
projections of macroeconomic variables particularly hazardous. Consequently the projections presented
here are subject to a wider-than-usual degree of uncertainty. Much will obviously depend on the
continued commitment of the Government to the wide range of structural and financial sector reforms
that are needed to rebuild confidence and the financial sector. In addition, the faster corporate debtors
- 14-



REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA - POLICYREFORMSUPPORTLOAN
and external creditors work out an agreement, the quicker will be the recovery. If these uncertainties can
be resolved, Indonesia's prospects will become noticeably brighter, as the economy still has a solid base
of human capital and physical infrastructure, an abundance of natural resources, and close links with the
global economy.
66.   In the current fiscal year it is likely that GDP will fall by about 4 percent and inflation (year on
year) is likely to exceed 40 percent for calendar year 1998. Adjustments to administered prices for
petroleum, electricity, and food to reflect the change in the exchange rate will contribute to this inflation
in the middle half of 1998. The contraction of domestic demand and the depreciation in the real
exchange rate will depress import demand and encourage export-oriented firms and industries. But
continued problems in banking are likely to hamper the availability of export finance and dampen rapid
improvements in export performance. Nevertheless, the current account is expected to swing into a
surplus, of about $4 billion for 1998/99 (see Annex II). Shrinking GDP will mean that per capita income
will decline, though investment will absorb most of the compression. Unemployment is expected to rise
in the cities as firms lay off workers and drought-affected farmers come to the cities in search of jobs.
Disaffection among the poor and unemployed could increase social tensions.
67.   After running fiscal surpluses for several years, the Government has programmed a fiscal deficit
of nearly 4 percent of GDP in FY1998/99. The relaxation of the Government's fiscal stance is warranted
by four considerations. First, a decline in revenues is inevitable because of drought, rising inflation and
economic recession. Second, the expenditure side of the budget will be under considerable strain from
bank restructuring and subsidies for food, petroleum and electricity.  Third, the Government is
appropriately committed to making every effort to protect expenditures on priority investments in health
and education, and to expand labor-intensive public works programs to help the poor. Fourth, the
depreciation of the currency has sharply increased the Government's interest payments on foreign debt.
68.   As the Government continues to implement structural and financial sector reforms, and assuming
a satisfactory workout of corporate debt, investment, consumption and incomes will begin to rise again in
1999/2000. But the economy's prospects will be subdued for several years. Growth is expected to
recover to 6 percent per annum in the early years of the next century, but only if there is adequate
international financial support and domestic economic reform (see Annex II).
B. EXTERNAL FINANCING NEEDS
69.   The excess demand for foreign exchange resulting from the turn-around in private capital flows
needs to be offset by a combination of three factors: (a) a temporary decline of international reserves held
by Bank Indonesia, (b) an increase in the trade surplus, and (c) large transitional official capital inflows.
Though Indonesia had relatively large foreign exchange reserves, they were not sufficient to finance all
private sector external debt obligations due in 1998. Similarly, a trade surplus is needed, but it cannot
carry the full burden of this adjustment without a very large compression of imports, investment and
consumption.
70.   A large amount of transitional official borrowing is needed to help Indonesia through this crisis.
Without it, consumption and investment would be compressed even further and economic recovery would
be delayed. A realization of this by Indonesia and the international community lies behind the package of
international support spearheaded by the IMF in early November 1997. This proposed operation is part
of the Bank's contribution to this coordinated effort. Even with extensive external support from
multilateral financial institutions and bilateral donors, the current account balance is still projected to
swing from the $7.8 billion deficit of 1996/97 to a surplus of about $4 billion in 1998/99.
- 15-



REPUBLIC OF INDONESiA - POLICYREFORMSUPPORT LOAN
Table 1. Sources and Uses of External Financing (US$ Billion)
1996-97   1997-98   1998-99   1999-00   2000-01
Actual Estimated      -------Projected----
Uses of Financing                                      5.6       19.7      11.1       5.5       5.6
Current account deficit (-ve = surplus)              7.8       2.3       -4.0      -1.6       0.6
Principal repayments (public)                        8.0        6.5       6.2       6.4       6.0
Net Private capital outflow (-ve = inflows)        -10.2       10.9       8.9       0.7      -1.0
Sources of Financing                                    5.6      19.7      11.1       5.5        5.6
Foreign direct investment (net)                      2.0        0.5       0.4       1.0        1.2
Public MLT loans                                     7.5        9.5      14.7       7.5       7.5
IBRD                                              0.9       0.9       3.0        1.1       1.1
o.w. Policy Reform Support Loan               0.0       0.0        1.0
Other Multilateral (including ADB and IMF)        0.8       3.8       7.5       2.4        1.8
Bilateral                                         2.3       2.6        3.7       2.5       2.1
Other                                             3.6       2.2        0.4       1.4       2.6
Reduction in official reserves (- ve = increase)     -3.9      9.6       -4.0      -3.0      -3.2
Debt service ratio (%)                                37.0       40.6      36.0      30.2      25.7
Source: Bank Indonesia and World Bank staff estimates.
V. THE WORLD BANK'S RESPONSE TO THE CRISIS
71.    Since the early days of the crisis in Indonesia, during the fall of 1997, the World Bank has been
continually adjusting its Country Assistance Strategy to respond to the rapidly changing economic and
social situation in Indonesia. With the onset of the crisis, it became clear that the Country Assistance
Strategy (discussed at the Board on July 10, 1997) needed to be fundamentally restructured to help meet
critical immediate needs and to pave the way for a return to sustainable, equitable growth as quickly as
possible. A CAS Progress Report is currently under preparation for discussion in July 1998.
72.    The adjustment in the Bank's assistance strategy has three aspects.  First, our restructured
program of assistance to Indonesia will help meet critical immediate needs and build a platform for a
return to sustainable growth. Second, we have modified significantly the nature and type of the Bank's
lending, technical assistance, and non-lending services to respond to the new priorities of our revised
assistance strategy. And finally, the Bank has intensified its coordination with the IMF and the ADB, as
well as with bilateral donors, to ensure that there is a consensus in the diagnosis and development of
remedies and that each institution is playing a distinct, but mutually supportive, role in helping the
Government implement reforms.
A. THE WORLD BANK'S PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
73.    The World Bank's restructured program  of assistance has been designed to address the
immediate priorities of helping to brake the economy's free fall and to mitigate the effects of the
economic crisis and the drought on the poor, and the medium term priorities of supporting policy and
institutional changes to get productive assets back to work and to reduce the chance of a repeat crisis.
- 16-



REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA - POLICY REFORmSUPPORT LOAN
74.   To respond to the immediate crisis, the Bank is structuring a program on three pillars--protecting
the poor, restoring domestic confidence through structural reform and improved governance, and
restarting the domestic financial system.
(a) Helping the Poor. Our program has as its immediate focus ensuring that low income and poor
households have adequate food security and access to critical basic needs such as medicine,
hospital supplies and contraceptives. Shortages of food and other basic needs can result from
four factors: a lack of purchasing power, poor distribution, sudden large price increases and
shortage of aggregate supply. Our assistance strategy is:
* to help finance labor-intensive public works in poor urban and rural areas through using
portfolio savings;
* to identify critical needs and to isolate bottlenecks in the distribution of food and key
social services by launching sector work and improved monitoring;
* to help ensure sufficient aggregate supply to keep price rises to socially acceptable levels
by organizing donor assistance;
* to enhance the government's framework for labor intensive local public works and
poverty reduction through preparing poverty-oriented investment operations in rural and
urban areas.
(b) Restoring domestic confidence, increasing transparency and improving governance. This is
a critical dimension of the Bank's strategy in Indonesia and the area where the Bank has taken
the lead in helping to design reforms. The well-known perception of an economy dominated by
special interests and monopolies precipitated a widespread loss of domestic and foreign
confidence and was a major factor in the economic crisis. The vigorous implementation of the
structural reforms in the Government's reform program remain an essential cornerstone to
restoring domestic confidence and stabilizing the economy. Implementation of the reform
program in this area is being supported by this proposed Policy Reform Support Loan, extensive
technical assistance in the design of reforms and a monitoring facility being developed and
managed in conjunction with Bappenas (the national development planning agency).
(c) Restarting the domestic financial sector. Actions in this area are critical to stabilize the
economy and restore credit flows to the corporate sector. The Bank's efforts in this area are
closely coordinated with the IMF and the ADB. Responsibilities have been divided so as to use
the comparative advantages of each institution: the IMF is focusing its attention on strengthening
Bank Indonesia; the ADB has taken responsibility for strengthening so-called "good banks," that
is, banks that are not under the Indonesian Bank Restructuring Agency (IBRA) supervision or
control, as well as working on other aspects of Indonesia's financial system; and the World Bank
is supporting IBRA's work with banks under IBRA control or banks whose operations have been
suspended. The Bank assistance strategy in this area includes:
* assisting the newly-created Indonesian Bank Restructuring Agency, initially through a
US$20 million Banking Reform Assistance Project loan,
* helping the Government achieve the three key immediate objectives of stabilizing the
banking system, restoring depositors confidence in banks and ensuring continued
essential banking services in the economy through this proposed US$1 billion Policy
Reform Support Loan, and
*  helping the Government establish a framework that defines the Govemment's role in
restructuring private corporate debt and within which private, bilateral creditor and
debtor discussions can take place.
- 17-



REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA - POLICY REFORMSUPPORTLOAN
75.   The program's medium term objective is to restore growth and continue a successful battle
against poverty. The crisis mentality that has engulfed the Government in recent months risks ignoring
the country's longer term development needs. Indonesia's economy will return to health. When it does,
its pace of recovery and development will depend on how well it rebuilds a foundation for growth. To
achieve this, there a number of important medium-term priorities and the Bank will have an important
role to play in helping the Government achieve the following objectives:
* rebuilding the financial system,
* rebuilding and improving Indonesia's agricultural sector and water management,
* developing a program to maintain physical and human capital in times of severe restrictions
on Government expenditures, and
* working with the government to build public and private institutions to carry Indonesia into
the next century.
76.   IFC and MIGA. The IFC and MIGA are also adjusting their programs as appropriate. The IFC
is continuing a close working relationship with the Government and the corporate sector. In keeping
with the Government's wish that creditors adopt a flexible approach to the private sector, the Corporation
is concentrating on helping its clients and other business firms that need financial restructuring and/or
additional working capital. This includes initiatives to provide additional equity and loan finance to
clients in the financial sector, identifying a small number of banks that are fundamentally sound but
require capital infusion, and supporting mergers where that leads to a sounder and more robust banking
sector. MIGA's current portfolio in Indonesia includes five contracts of guarantee for a total exposure of
US$ 80.4 million. These contracts represent four projects, including three in the infrastructure sector
(two power projects and one telecommunications project), and one in the manufacturing sector. As a
result of the current crisis in Asia, MIGA has received an increasing number of inquiries for coverage in
the infrastructure and financial sectors.
B. MODALITIES OF BANK SUPPORT FOR A RESTRUCTURED ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
77.   In terms of the instruments of the Bank's assistance program--lending, non-lending services and
technical assistance--we are adjusting our program in three principal ways:
*  reconfiguring existing projects to ensure that resources are made available quickly for public
works programs to help the poor restore lost income;
*  adjustment lending and non-lending assistance to support policy reforms and to provide
balance of payments support; and
*  a revised pipeline of investment lending that gives increased prominence to labor intensive
public works as a means of containing poverty.
78.   Reconfiguring existing projects. We have begun a "crash" program of community-based, labor-
intensive small public works by restructuring existing urban loans and using the savings (estimated to be
over US$100 million) to finance employment programs. Adjustments are also being made to the rest of
our portfolio to free additional resources from exchange rate savings for use in poverty alleviation
programs. A full review of the portfolio is underway, which will inevitably lead to cancellation of some
loans and project components.
79.   Adjustment Lending and Associated Non-Lending Assistance. The lending program has been
redesigned to provide Indonesia with quick disbursing support during calendar year 1998. Our lending
program now includes this proposed US$1 billion Policy Reform Support Loan and two to three
- 18-



REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA - POLICYREFORMSUPPORTLOAN
additional fast disbursing operations early next fiscal year which would total another US$1 billion. This
proposed Policy Reform Support Loan, which is a key element of the Bank's response to the crisis, is
designed to contribute to the short-term objective of protecting the poor and stopping the economy's near
free-fall by supporting social programs and by helping to rebuild confidence and restart the financial
sector. It also contributes to the medium term objective of restoring growth and reducing poverty by
helping to rebuild the financial sector, establishing a more market-friendly policy environment,
improving public sector efficiency and protecting investment in human capital.  The remaining
adjustment operations would focus on improving agriculture efficiency and sustainability and continued
support of the Government's structural and financial policy reform programs. Needless to say, future
adjustment lending will depend on satisfactory implementation of the reform program.
80.   Revised investment lending pipeline. The Bank is preparing two poverty alleviation investment
projects for consideration by the Board - one in May and the other early next fiscal year. One of these,
the recently-negotiated Kecamatan Development Project (KDP), consists of cash grants and technical
assistance to poor villages so they can build productive infrastructure. The second operation, focused on
urban areas, will adapt the KDP model to peri-urban areas to offset income loss from the recession in
construction.
C. COORDINATION WITH INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND DONORS
81.    The World Bank has been part of a collaborative effort along with the IMF and the ADB to help
the Government design an overall program of stabilization and structural reform in response to the crisis
and the drought. The Bank's relationship with the IMF and the ADB has been excellent in recent months.
The three institutions are working to their comparative advantages, and to Indonesia's benefit.
82.   This proposed Loan is an integral part of the package of financial support assembled by the IMF
for Indonesia during October 1997 and revised in January and March 1998. Bank staff have worked
closely with the Government and IMF in strengthening all aspects of the reform program and will
continue to be heavily involved in implementation and supervision. The Bank's primary involvement has
been in the design of structural reforms, bank restructuring, and programs to protect the poor. Initiatives
being supported under this proposed Loan strengthen and deepen reforms already agreed with the IMF.
The ADB is also preparing a Structural Adjustment Loan and Bank staff are in close contact with ADB
staff to ensure a strong, mutually-agreed support program and to avoid needless duplication. Japan is
currently exploring options for disbursing their support in parallel with structural adjustment support from
the Bank. Bank staff have been working with Japanese officials on how best to integrate support, with
the result being parallel operations rather than formal cofinancing.
83.   The World Bank has also intensified its aid coordination efforts, in particular to ensure a
smooth flow of essential imports, especially rice and other food essentials. The Bank has been asked by
the Government to help it coordinate donor contributions to social safety net issues, ADB to coordinate
efforts to sustain small and medium scale enterprises, and the UNDP to coordinate technical assistance
efforts. We have convened a special session of donors supporting Indonesia to coordinate multilateral
and bilateral finance of essential imports, and to discuss ways of increasing the supply of trade financing.
Additional meetings are planned for donor representatives in Jakarta over the coming weeks and months.
The regular Consultative Group meeting for Indonesia will take place toward the end of July.
- 19-



REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA - POLICYREFORMSUPPORT LOAN
VI. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. OBJECTIVES
84.   The overriding objective of this loan is to support Indonesia's efforts to rebuild confidence and
restore rapid poverty-reducing growth as quickly as possible, while shielding the poor. This objective is
pursued by supporting policy reforms and other actions to:
* increase the efficiency and transparency of public sector operations,
* rebuild an efficient, competitive and properly supervised banking sector,
* improve governance, increase productivity and ensure environmental sustainability, and
* shield poor and vulnerable groups.
85.   This loan is a critical component in an overall package of external assistance provided by the
IMF, the World Bank, the ADB, and bilateral donors to Indonesia. Without strong external financial
support for Indonesia's efforts, there is a risk that the policy reform program under implementation could
be undermined by continued uncertainty, large private capital outflows, and collapse of the corporate
sector and the banking system.
86.   Management and monitoring of the program. The Government's institutional arrangements for
implementing and monitoring the program are described in paragraphs 62 and 63. The international
financial institutions will not only be supporting the Government in this effort with technical assistance,
but will also continue independent monitoring of reforms. The World Bank's monitoring of economic
developments and policy reforms has been intensified since the crisis began and this will continue as part
of the supervision of this operation. World Bank staff will continue to contribute to regular IMF reviews
of the program and will review the overall program in preparation for release of the second tranche which
is expected in July or August. In addition, a concurrent World Bank analysis of poverty in Indonesia is
examining the likely effects of this crisis on the poor, and ongoing supervision of investment operations
(e.g. health, education and power) will provide additional monitoring of policy actions.
87.   Letter of development policy. The Government's Statement of Development Policy, dated April
8, 1998 is attached as Annex IV.
88.   Policy actions supported by this loan.  The program of policy action supported by this loan
covers the four points listed in paragraph 84 and is summarized in Annex I. These actions directly
address the key domestic causes of the economic crisis. Financial sector reforms and corporate debt
restructuring, coupled with sound fiscal and monetary management, will overcome weaknesses in the
financial sector and reduce risks arising from the build up of private debt. Increased transparency and
improved governance through public sector and structural reforms will help rebuild confidence and
restore efficient growth.
89.   The first tranche of this loan is in support of actions already taken by the Government of
Indonesia. These actions are listed in column 3 of Annex I. They include:
* Measures to increase the efficiency of public sector activities and confront pressures for an
unsustainably large fiscal deficit -- many public investments deferred or canceled, Reforestation
Fund and the Investment Fund incorporated into the state budget, budgetary support for IPTN
(the airplane manufacturer) discontinued, and Keppres 7/1998 issued to make procedures for
project evaluation and bidding more transparent and competitive.
-20 -



REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA - POLICY REFORMSUPPORTLOAN
* Reforms to rebuild an effective and competitive financial sector -- 16 banks were closed in
November 1997, the Indonesian Bank Rehabilitation Agency (IBRA) has been created to
restructure unhealthy banks, IBRA froze the operations of seven banks and placed seven other
banks under its management in April 1998, portfolio reviews of all banks are being conducted by
internationally-recognized firms, two state banks are being merged and loan classification and
provisioning regulations have been revised.
* Actions to increase private sector efficiency, and improve governance -- tariff reduction for about
2000 items; special privileges granted to the national car program discontinued; import
monopolies in wheat, wheat flour, sugar, garlic and soybean has been terminated; non-tariff
barriers on imports of new and used ships eliminated; local content requirements for dairy
products abolished; the export cartel for plywood dismantled; export taxes on leather, cork, ores
and waste aluminum products abolished, restrictions on trade within and between provinces
eliminated (including the monopoly in clove marketing); cement marketing and pricing
decontrolled; and restrictions on foreign investment in oil palm plantations and in wholesale and
retail trade removed.
* Programs to shield the poor -- price subsidies for key food items, and labor intensive public
works expanded to provide purchasing power to the poor.
90.   In spite of this front loading of reforms, it will take time to rebuild confidence. Success will
depend heavily on maintaining this effort over time. In recognition of this, the conditions of second
tranche release focus on sustaining and deepening implementation. They are:
(a)   Continue to maintain a sound macroeconomic policy framework, consistent with the objectives
of the policy reform program as indicated by Annex I.
(b)  Maintain discipline in public expenditure management, increase public sector efficiency and
make public sector management more transparent by:
*  Completing a review, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, of public sector
expenditures and investments, including public enterprises and strategic industries, and
adopt an action plan for implementing agreed recommendations.
*  Increasing the weighted average price for regulated petroleum products (BBM fuels) and
the weighted average electricity tariff, both by at least 50 percent from their March 1998
level.
*  Ensuring implementation guidelines, acceptable to the Bank, providing for private
participation in the provision of infrastructure.  Such guidelines are to include: (i)
principles that will govern cooperation arrangements; (ii) criteria and institutional
arrangements for project screening, selection and review; (iii) transparent bidding
requirements; (vi) tariff setting and adjustment provisions; (v) dispute resolution
mechanisms; and (vi) sector specific procedures.
*  Identifying at least seven public enterprises to be privatized by March 31, 1999, and
identifying at least five more public enterprises that will, by March 31, 1999, be prepared
for privatization, and adopting a plan for the sale of additional Government controlled
shares in companies listed on the Jakarta stock exchange, as of March 31, 1998.
- 21 -



REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA - POLICY REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
(c)  Rebuild an efficient financial sector, contain further bank losses, and protect productive assets
of corporations by:
* Completing portfolio reviews, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, for banks
whose assets total at least 80 percent of the total combined assets of the 54 banks that
were under the supervision of IBRA as of February 28, 1999.
* Establishing an independent review committee, with terms of reference and membership
acceptable to the Bank, to verify the sound and transparent functioning of IBRA.
* Establishing a framework, acceptable to the Bank, that defines the Government's
participation in restructuring private corporate debt.
(d)  Improve governance and transparency, increase competition and make the policy environment
more market-friendly by:
* Introducing a system of resource use royalties for forestry, reducing export taxes on logs,
sawn timber, and rattan to a maximum of 30 percent ad valorem and adopting and
announcing a program for reducing this to a maximum of 20 percent by Dec. 31, 1998, 15
percent by Dec. 31, 1999 and 10 percent by Dec. 31, 2000, removing the requirement to
have a processing facility in order to hold a forestry concession, and allowing forest
concessions to be transferred by sale. Resource royalty rates will be directly linked to
international prices for the raw material, inversely related to the cost of efficient
extraction, and independent of end use.
* Adopting an action plan, acceptable to the Bank, for enacting legislation and regulations
relating to competition and corporate restructuring.
*  Replacing all existing quantitative export controls on crude and processed palm oil, olein
and stearin with an export tax not exceeding 40 percent ad valorem, and implementing a
system of regular reviews with an objective of reducing this in stages to reach 10 percent
by Dec.31, 1999.
* Dissolving the BPPC (Clove Support and Marketing Board) and maintaining the right of
traders to buy and sell cloves at unrestricted prices and to transport cloves across district
and provincial boundaries.
* Ensuring that all traders, including foreign direct investors, continue to be free to compete
with BULOG by importing, wholesaling and/or retailing any commodity other than rice,
and ensure that private traders and BULOG have access to foreign exchange at the same
rate when importing goods other than rice.
B. LOAN ADMINISTRATION
91.   Borrower and loan amount. The Republic of Indonesia is the borrower. At the request of the
Government, a total of US$1 billion is proposed for this adjustment loan. This amount is based on an
overall external financing plan worked out with the Government and IMF in November 1997. It will be a
fixed rate single currency loan (SCL) in US dollars, with standard amortization terms, grace period and
interest rate for fixed-rate US dollar SCLs with an expected disbursement period of 0-3 years.
- 22 -



REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA - POLICY REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
92.   Disbursement and procurement. The proposed loan has two tranches, a first of $600 million
and a second of $400 million. Funds will not be disbursed against expenditures normally excluded from
adjustment loans, i.e., imports of alcoholic beverages, tobacco and tobacco processing machinery,
radioactive material, pearls and precious stones, nuclear reactors, gold and jewelry of gold, silver
platinum, and military equipment, luxurious and environmentally hazardous goods. The Government will
open and maintain a deposit account with Bank Indonesia for the disbursement of these funds. Upon
effectiveness, the Government will submit a simplified withdrawal application to the Bank, against which
the Bank will disburse the loan proceeds for the first tranche into the deposit account. Disbursements will
not be linked to specific purchases and supporting evidence for disbursements is therefore not required.
If after deposit is made in the deposit account, the proceeds of the loan or any part thereof are used for
ineligible purposes as defined in the Loan Agreement, the Bank will require the Borrower to either (a)
return the amount to the deposit account for use for eligible purposes, or (b) refund the amount directly to
the Bank, in which case the Bank will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the loan.
93.   Accounts and audit. Bank Indonesia will maintain the accounts for this loan in accordance with
sound accounting practices. The accounts under the program will be audited within four months of a
request by the Bank.
94.   Environmental assessment requirements. In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive
on Environmental Assessment (OD4.00, Annex A), the proposed operation has been placed in "Category
C" and will not require an environmental assessment.
C. BENEFITS AND RISKS
95.    There are four key benefits from this operation. First, the policy reforms will restore stability and
confidence in the economy by ensuring a sound macroeconomic framework, improving governance,
increasing the transparency and efficiency of public sector activities, restoring stability in the banking
system, and increasing the competitiveness of the private sector. Second, actions being taken help protect
the poor from the worst effects of the crisis.  Third, the reforms strengthen the environmental
sustainability of Indonesia's development. Fourth, as part of a broad program of external financial
support, the resources provided under this loan will help Indonesia avoid an excessive transitional decline
in consumption, and help continue investments (including investments in human resources) that are
critical to rapid recovery.
96. The Government's reform program and this supporting operation are subject to considerable risks
and uncertainties. Without a strong and sustained reform effort, Indonesia could slip into a severe crisis
entailing major losses of output and employment, and hyperinflation. The past few months of delays and
reversals of some key elements of the two earlier reform programs have eroded the Government's
credibility and will make it even more difficult to re-establish the confidence in economic management
necessary to stabilize the economy. There are four major risks that could undermine the effectiveness of
this operation:
(i)  The first is the political juncture at which Indonesia finds itself. Anxieties about the
President's age (76 years) and health over the past year, coupled with concerns about the
lack of effort to prepare a successor and ensure a smooth transition, have exacerbated
foreign investors' concerns about the future of the economy. In addition, the newly
appointed Cabinet contains several of the President's close friends and prominent business
leaders who have benefited from past policy distortions. This heightens anxieties about
possible conflicts of interest and the willingness of the Cabinet to implement policy
changes that would potentially hurt their private financial interests.
- 23 -



REPUBLIC OF INDONFSIA - POLICY REFOR  SUPPORT LOAN
(ii) The second risk is the social tension and the rising (albeit still small) threat of societal
breakdown resulting from a combination of slower growth, rising unemployment, rising
prices (especially of food, fuel, and electricity), and declining real incomes. Adding to this
tinderbox of tensions, the drought is encouraging rural migrants to compete with the
unemployed for jobs in cities. These tensions have occasionally erupted into local
violence, some of which has taken an ugly turn against the Chinese ethnic minority. This
violence, if allowed to spread, could threaten the coalition of political, ethnic, regional, and
economic interests that has maintained conditions conducive of rapid development and
sharp reductions in poverty. Violence would also scare foreign investors and domestic
entrepreneurs away, and add to capital flight.
(iii) The third risk is the fragility of the banking system and the possibility that pressure for
rising government expenditures could undermine commitment to conservative fiscal
management. Upward pressure on public expenditures could come from (a) a desire to buy
social peace through food and energy subsidies, (b) higher-than-expected fiscal costs of
nurturing banks back to health, (c) pressures for the Government to absorb the exchange
rate risks associated with corporate debt restructuring, and (d) a desire to continue funding
selected projects. Giving in to these pressures would mean greater budget deficits and the
possibility of accelerating inflation. In addition, there is always the possibility that
government revenue estimates may turn out to be optimistic.
(iv) Limitations in administrative capacity, coupled with inevitable opposition from vested
interests, may result in delayed implementation of some reforms. The need for such a wide
array of reforms has stretched the Government's administrative capacity to the limit. The
relative inexperience of the new Cabinet and the complexity of the problems its members
face also exacerbate this risk.
97.    The design of the reform program, the structure of this loan, and the mechanisms that have been
established for monitoring program implementation are the principal means by which these risks are
mitigated. The loan supports a "front-loaded" reform program where many of the difficult decisions have
already been taken. In virtually every sphere of reforms -- bank restructuring, budget management,
structural reforms, even corporate debt restructuring -- the Government has already implemented
important, and in many cases irrevocable, reforms. While the business connections of some Cabinet
appointees raise concems about conflicts of interest, their proven managerial skills and no-nonsense
styles have created a new momentum and help ensure a commitment to the program at the highest level.
Close supervision by the IMF of the monetary and budgetary program and by the World Bank and ADB
of the banking sector, public expenditure, and structural programs will ensure that the program is
monitored in detail and warning signs of slippage are raised immediately to the highest levels.
98.    To soften the impact of the exchange rate depreciation on the prices of essential commodities and
thereby lessen the risk of social unrest, the budgetary program agreed with the IMF includes measures to
ensure continued supplies of basic foodstuffs (rice, soybeans and cooking oil) at reasonable prices, the
phasing of price increases for power and petroleum products, and special public works programs in both
rural and urban areas. World Bank financing of labor-intensive public works will help in this regard. The
Bank will also monitor these measures and bring any shortcomings to the government's attention.
99.    Pressure on the government budget is being managed in several ways. First, the reform program
calls for bringing all off-budget revenues on to the budget thus increasing both transparency and
revenues. Second, subsidies are being contained by restricting them to a few commodities, especially rice
and soybeans that are key food items for the poor. Third, the bank reform program includes safeguards to
contain the costs of reforms. Fourth, the Government will use all possible avenues to raise additional
- 24 -



REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA - POLICYREFORMSUPPORT LOAN
revenues, including through privatization. Finally, the IMF will work with the Govemment in ensuring
that aggregate govemment expenditures and the budget deficit will be kept within reasonable limits and
remain consistent with the broad objective of restoring stability to the economy.
100.  The risk of inadequate administrative capacity is being mitigated through technical assistance
provided by bilateral and multilateral institutions. Much of this is ongoing and will continue over the
next several years. Active technical support of World Bank, ADB and IMF staff and consultants has been
instrumental in moving financial sector and structural reforms forward and getting changes implemented.
Similarly, World Bank and IMF staff, have provided significant inputs into shaping the budget and
designing appropriate subsidy schemes. Bilateral programs are assisting with judicial reforms. The Asian
Development Bank and the IMF are assisting Bank Indonesia authorities with strengthening the payments
system and improving the capacity of bank examiners and supervisors.
101.  Despite the measures that have been put in place to mitigate risks, they remain considerable.
Restoring confidence and credibility in economic management will take time and there is little, if any,
room for slippage in implementation, as has occurred in the past few months. Even under the best
circumstances, the economy could be severely depressed for several years, which will continue to put
pressure on Indonesia's already fragile political and social fabric. Finally, uncertainties about the
resolution of Indonesia's private corporate debt and the resumption of normal trade credits pose
considerable risks to the program that the Government can not fully control. Nevertheless, this program
presents the only available opportunity to stabilize Indonesia's economy and provide protection to the
poorest members of society. Thus, the risks of not supporting this program are also considerable. The
financial support of the Bank for the Government's program of stabilization and structural reforms will
contribute positively to market sentiments, add to Indonesia's ability to finance essential imports, and
strengthen the Government's fiscal position.
VII. RECOMMENDATION
102.  I am satisfied that this proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of the Intemational
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstrom
Washington, D.C.
April 28, 1998
- 25 -



ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF POLICY REFORMS
Objective: To quickly restore sustained rapid growth while shielding the poor and protecting the environment
Overarching      Instrument and sub-            Actions Already Taken                      OtherActionsfor 199.8"               Actonsfor 1#99944 a Re'
objective           objective
A. Increase      Increase transparency of   Bring Reforestation and Investment Funds  Complete, under terms of reference acceptable   Bring remaining off-budget
efficiency and   public administration and  into the Government Budget.            to the Bank, a review ofpublic sector        government revenues and
transparency of   budget.                                                           expenditures and investments, including public  expenditures on budget within 3
public sector                                                                       enterprises and strategic industries, and adopt   years.
operations.                                                                         an action planfor implementing accepted
recommendations.
Discontinue any budgetary and extra       Increase the weighted average price of
budgetary support and credit privileges   regulatedpetroleum products (BBMfuels) and
granted to IPTN projects.                the weighted average electricity tariff by at least
50 percentfrom their March 31, 1998 level.
Establish a clear       Keppres 7 of 1998 issued to establish clear  Issue implementation guidelines, acceptable to
framework for           and transparent cross-sectoral procedures for   the Bank, providingforprivate participation in
competitive bidding on    competitive tendering on the private provision  the provision of infrastructure. The guidelines
public projects.        of infrastructure.                        are to include: (i) the principles that will
govern cooperation arrangements, (ii) criteria
and institutional arrangementfor project
screening, selection, and review; (iii)
transparent bidding requirements; (iv) tariff
setting and adjustment provision, (v) dispute
resolution mechanism; and (vi) sector specific
procedures.
Broaden and hasten                                                Establish a clear framework for the management
privatization.                                                    and privatization of the Govemment assets,
including (i) a criteria for determining whether
enterprises should be closed, restructured, or
privatized and (ii) a transparent sales processes
that maximizes the return to the Govemment and
treats all bidders equally. Action plans for every
public sector enterprise will be completed by
end-September 1998.
1/ Actions in bold italics are second tranche release conditions.



Establish clear profit and performance targets for  Close non-viable enterprises.
government enterprises and make these targets    Establish performance contracts for
public.                                     the ones remaining in the public
sector.
Identify at least 7 public enterprises that shall    By March 31, 1999, privatize
be privatized by March 31, 1999, identify at  seven additional public enterprises
least an additional 5 public enterprises that  and prepare a further five for
will, by March 31, 1999, be preparedfor     privatization. In all cases, the
privatization, and clarify plans forfurther sales  government will allow the private
ofpublic holdings in enterprises listed on the  sector to have majority
stock exchange, as of March 31, 1998.       shareholdings.
B. Establish a   Establish a              Guarantee program for all depositors and
sound financial   comprehensive guarantee  creditors of locally incorporated banks
sector with a    program to instill       announced Jan 27, 1998. This guarantee will
competitive and   depositor and creditor  be in place for at least 2 years and will not be
*        properly          confidence.             terminated without 6 months advance notice.
supervised                                Guarantee made retro-active to cover large
banking system.                           depositors of 16 private banks closed in Nov.
1997.
Improve governance and                                            Have international experts assist in bank    Continue to use technical
supervision of banks                                              examinations and provide best practice and   assistance to improve supervision
international supervisory experience.       capabilities.
Establish base loan classifications based on  Tighten reporting requirement for foreign
risk rather than delinquency              exchange and credit risk.
Establish an Indonesian    Close 16 banks in November 1997.       Complete portfolio reviews, under terms of  Dissolve IBRA when it has
Bank Restructuring                                                reference acceptable to the Bank, for banks  fulfilled its current purpose.
Agency (IBRA) to (i)    Announce IBRA creation on January 27      whose assets total at least 80 percent of the total
restructure or liquidate    1998. Operational in March 1998.      combined assets of the 54 banks under the  Manage asset resolution to
restructure or liquidae               combined assets of he 54 banks under themaximize recoveries on the bad
banks that threaten     39 private banks voluntarily place themselves  supervision of IBRA as of Feb. 28, 1998.  loan portfolios and contain fiscal
systemic stability and (ii)  under IBRA's supervision and are asked to                                         costs f bank restructurin
create an asset resolution   prepare rehabilitation plans to be validated by   Establish an independent review committee,  o  ares  g.
entity to maximize bad    diagnostic reviews,                     with terms of reference and membership
loans recoveries.                                                 acceptable to the Bank, to verify the sound and
transparentfunctioning of IBRA.



Over      i   ffinstr tsament and s.-         A;O                                                       i   9 ;                            9 
Objective              jeie-/
Operations of 7 private banks frozen on   Monitor rehabilitation plans and restructure banks
April 4, 1998. On same date, 7 other  whose rehabilitation plans is non-viable.
banks placed under IBRA management.
Bapindo and Bank Bumi Daya to be merged; their   Achieve private participation in all
Intention to merge 4 state banks     good and bad assets to be separated; and bad assets  state banks.
announced on 31 Dec. 1997, with     to form basis for an Asset Management Company
ultimate goal of privatization.      to manage, restructure and sell bad assets.
Establish regulatory and/or performance contracts
on state bank management.
Strengthen the policy                                        Remove legal impediments on private ownership
and institutional                                            of the state banks.
infrastructure for
banking.                                                     Remove restrictions on foreign investment in, and
ownership of, banks.
Require banks to regularly publish   Review adequacy of financial date published by
comprehensive financial data.        banks.
Strengthen bankruptcy                                        Establish aframework, acceptable to the Bank,
and debt restructuring                                       that defines the Government's participation in
provisions.                                                  restructuring private corporate debt.
Modify and strengthen bankruptcy laws to provide
adequate protection to debtors and creditors, and to
adopt transparent rules for evaluating
reorganization plans and for liquidation
procedures.
C. Increase      To reduce costs and     Include chemicals, metal products and                                               Remove local content regulations for
productivity/    increase efficiency by  agricultural goods in the program for                                               motor vehicles by 2000.
efficiency of    increasing import        further tariff reductions' .
private sector   competition                                                                                                 Import tariffs on all goods except
Reduce import tariffs that are 15                                                   motor vehicle & alcohol to be reduced
percent or above by 5 percentage points                                            to 10 percent by the year 2003.
(excludes motor vehicles and alcohol),
and reduce tariffs on all food items to 5
percent.
'This phased program now reduces the maximum import tariff to 10 percent by 2003 for all goods except motor vehicles and alcohol.



Reduce tariffs on non-food agricultural
products by 5 percentage points.
Discontinue special tax, customs duty and
credit privileges granted to new imports under
the National Car Project.
Allow general importers to import wheat,  Ensure that all traders, includingforeign direct
wheat flour, soybeans, garlic and sugar.  investors, continue to befree to compete with
BULOG by importing, wholesaling and/or
retailing any commodity other than rice, and
ensure that private traders and BULOG have
access toforeign exchange at the same rate
when importing goods other than rice.
Abolish local content regulations on dairy
products and all ships.
Remove export           Abolish export taxes on leather, cork, ores and  Introduce a system of resource royalties, reduce  Abolish all quotas and other
impediments to improve   waste aluminum products.                 export taxes of logs, sawn timber, and rattan to  restrictions on exports by the end
export competitiveness                                            a maximum of 30 percent ad-valorem, and     of 2000, except for health and
adopt and announce a program to reduce this   security reasons.
to 20 percent by Dec. 31, 15 percent by Dec. 31,
1999, and 10 percent by Dec. 31, 2000.
Resource royalties on forestry use will be linked
to world market value, vary with cost, and be
independent of end use.
Replace quantitative export controls on crude
and processed palm oil, olein and stearin with
an export tax of 40 percent ad-valorem or less,
and hold regular reviews with an objective of
reducing this in stages to reach 10 percent by
Dec. 31, 1999.
Relax investment        Remove the restrictions on foreign investment  Issue a shortened list of activities closed to
restrictions to encourage   in oil palm and in wholesale and retail trade.   foreign investors by June 30, 1998.
investment



erarching         Instrument and sub-.                AcionosAIready        en                       Other&Acdtos or  99:                   Aliffn           9   d
:                                         '  J''    ... ..    :'.'  :,: '1,,, 'cs,,,,', . : " '.:.' ", :' : , , ,, ,, ,, S :",'.,',:'':.:':..:.".':.'.....'.'..".:: :',,::",
Deregulate domestic        Dissolve all restrictive marketing
trade to reduce costs and   arrangements, including those for cement,
increase efficiency.      paper and plywood.
Deregulate domestic prices of cement.
Give traders freedom to buy, sell and transfer   Dissolve the Clove Support and Marketing
all commodities across district and provincial   Board(BPPC), and naintain the rights of
boundaries, including cloves, cashew nuts,    traders to buy and sell cloves at unrestricted
oranges and vanilla.                          prices and to transport cloves across district
andprovincial boundaries.
Prohibit provincial governments from                                                          Implement a program for abolishing
restricting trade within or between provinces.   Abolish the system of quotas that limit the  taxes on inter-provincial and inter-
sale of livestock by September 30, 1998.       district trade by April 1, 1999.
Prohibit provincial or district governments
from charging export taxes (retribusi).
Permit domestic wheat millers to sell or
distribute wheat flour to any agent.
.i
Allow traders to market sugar domestically.
Release farmers from the formal and informal
requirements for the forced planting of sugar
cane.
Establish rules to        Background preparation with bilateral support  Adopt an action planfor enacting legislation
maintain competition.     over past two years.                           and regulations relating to conpetition and
corporate restructuring.
D. Strengthen      Maintain purchasing        Increase budget resources for labor intensive   Expand community-based labor-intensive
safety nets and    power in the poorest       local community public works.                   public works in rural and urban areas.
protect the poor   areas.
Ensure supply of food.    BULOG ordered 2.5 million tons of rice and     Import a further 2.85 million tons of rice.   Phase out subsidies for all agricultural
subsidizing sales.                                                                          commodities except rice.
Ensure the poor's access                                                  Ensure adequate resources for basic          Continue adequate resources for basic
to quality social services,                                               education, and scholarships for an           education, along with scholarship
including communicable                                                    additional 3.5 million poor primary and      program for the poor as needed
disease control.                                                          junior secondary school students.



Ensure adequate resources for primary  Continue adequate support for primary
health services, including communicable    health services, communicable disease
disease control and family planning    control and family planning services.
services.
E. Ensure        Strengthen overall      New Environmertal Law (UU23/97) issued.    Establish implementation rules needed for   Issue remaining regulations for t.he
environmental    environmental                                                       four priority items under the new      New Environmental Law.
sustainability   management.                                                         environmental law-air quality, water
quality, hazardous waste management
environmental assessment.
Protect forest cover and    Ensure that the reforestation fund is transparent  Allow the transferability by sale of
strengthen forest       and used only for reforestation and closely  concession permits, remove the
management.            related activities.                         requirement to have a processingfacility
in order to hold aforestry concession. By
June 30, 1998 lengthen concession periods
and reduce land conversion targets to
environmentally sustainable level.
Ensure sustainable                                                 Restrict new imported and large domestic    Develop and implement an effective
fisheries management.                                              boats to the EEZ until a new monitoring  monitoring contro' and surveillance
and control system is in place.         system by the end of 1999 to avoid
overfishing.
Improve air quality.                                               Prepare plans for reducing lead in gasoline   Reduce the use of lead as an additive in
and formalize with regulations and decrees.  gasoline.
F. Monitoring    Establish monitoring                                                Issue quarterly reports on social outcomes   Maintain monitoring of social sector
and              system to assess                                                    covering at least the following items (i) the   outcomes.
Administration    outcomes and refine                                                availability and quality of essential drugs,
policies.                                                          vaccines and contraceptives, (ii) nutritional
status of children under five years old, (iii)
price changes for essential commodities,
and (iv) educational enrollment for grades
one through nine.
GOI working groups, with assistance from the Bank, to (a) assess sustainability of
Government health service delivery; (b) evaluate competitiveness of
pharmaceutical/vaccine production; and (c) develop a strategy to extend pre-paid
health finance mechanisms.
Establish administrative    Economic resilience committee appointed with President Soeharto as Chairman.
mechanism to achieve    Implementation led by Coordinating Minister for Economic, Finance and Industry.
effective implementation.



ANNEX 2
INDONESIA: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
FY96/97   FY97/98   FY98/99   FY99/00   FYOO/01
Actual Estimated       --------Projected------
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Growth rates:
Real GDP                                          7.8        2.0       -4.0       3.0        4.0
Consumption                                       8.1        2.3        1.0       2.5        2.8
Investment (GDFI)                                10.2       -9.9      -30.3      16.6       15.2
Real GDP per capita                               5.1        0.5       -5.4        1.5       2.6
Consumption per capita                            5.4        0.7       -0.4       1.1        1.4
Share of GDP:
Investment                                       31.9       29.1       21.9      24.2       26.3
Domestic Private Savings                        21.6      21.7       20.9       20.4      20.6
Government Deficit(-)/GDP                         0.9       -0.2       -3.8      -0.8        0.2
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Export volume growth rate (Merch. FOB)              6.2        9.5       5.0        6.8        8.2
Import volume growth rate (Merch CIF)              10.4       -4.4      -9.2       17.2       13.9
Exports (Merch FOB) (US$billion)                   52.1       54.3      56.9       62.9       70.4
Imports (Merch CIF) (US$billion)                   50.9      47.3       44.2       52.7       61.9
Non-oil merch. export growth rate in US$          5.8       11.6        9.1      12.4       12.8
Current Account Balance (US$billion)               -7.8       -2.3       4.0        1.6       -0.6
Current Account Balance/GDP                        -3.5       -1.5       2.6        0.8       -0.3
Gross Reserves (months imports GNFS)                5.7        3.9       5.2        5.0        4.8
EXTERNAL DEBT
Total DOD (US$Billion)                             129"      1342'       134        130       128
M&LT DOD (US$Billion)                             971/      1172/      118        114        112
External Government Debt (US$Billion)             65"       702/        72         73         73
Total Debt/GDP                                       57        86         86         71        60
Debt Service (M&LT, US$Billion)                    19.9      22.9       21.6       19.9       20.1
Amortization (US$Billion)                        14.8       17.5       16.1      14.6       13.7
Interest Burden (M&LT; US$Billion)                5.1        5.3        5.5       5.3        5.1
Total Debt Service/Exports(GNFS)                    37         41         36         30        26
EXPOSURE INDICATORS
DOD/XGS (%)                                       214       218        207        181        159
Concessional/DOD (%)                              4.0        3.8        4.2       4.3        4.3
IBRD exposure indicators
IBRD DS/public DS (%)                            19.3       17.5       19.0      18.8       16.1
Preffered creditor DS/public DS (°O)             36.1       26.3       30.3      32.4       39.0
IBRD DS/XGS (%)                                   3.7        2.8        3.1       2.9        2.7
IBRD DOD (US$Billion)                            11.1       10.0       11.9      11.9       11.8
Share of IBRD portfolio (%)                      10.2        9.0       10.6      10.4       10.3
IDA DOD (US$m)                                    736       715        694        672        648
1/ end-Dec, 2/ end-January.
Source: Government of Indonesia and World Bank staff estimates
Note: Balance of payment and debt numbers do not build in any private debt write-off.
DOD- debt outstanding and disbursed, DS-debt service, GNFS-goods and non-factor services, M&LT-
medium and long term, XGS - exports of goods and services.
- 32 -



BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ BILLION)
FY96/97    FY97/98  FY98/99  FY99/00  FYOO/01
Actual   Estimated    --------Projected-----
Merchandise Exports (FOB)                         52.1        54.3     56.9      62.9     70.4
Oil & Gas Exports                               12.8        10.5       9.0      9.1      9.7
Non Oil & Gas Exports                           39.3        43.8      47.8     53.7      60.6
Nonfactor Services                                 6.0         5.8       5.6      5.8      6.1
Exports of GNFS                                    58.1        60.1     62.5      68.7     76.5
Merchandise Imports (FOB)                        -41.5       -42.6    -39.9    -47.5    -55.8
Merchandise Imports (CIF)                        -50.9       -47.3    -44.2    -52.7    -61.9
Nonfactor Services                                -6.1        -5.7     -5.5      -6.3     -7.4
Imports of GNFS                                   -57.0       -53.0    -49.8    -59.0    -69.3
Resource Balance                                    1.1         7.1      12.7      9.7      7.2
Net Factor Income and Transfers                    -8.9        -9.4      -8.7     -8.1     -7.8
Current Account Balance                            -7.8        -2.3       4.0      1.6     -0.6
Capital Account Balance                            11.7        -7.3      0.0       1.4      3.8
Net Disbursment of Public M&LT debt              -0.5         3.0      8.5       1.1      1.5
Amortization                                     6.3         6.5      6.2       6.4      6.0
Foreign Direct Investment                        2.0         0.5      0.4       1.0      1.2
Net Other Capital (- = outflow)                 10.2       -10.9     -8.9      -0.7      1.0
Change in Official Resources (- = increase)     -3.9         9.6     -4.0      -3.0     -3.2
Memo Items:
Current Account Balance/GDP                      -3.5        -1.5      2.6       0.8     -0.3
Export real growth rate (Merch FOB)               6.2         9.5      5.0       6.8      8.2
Non-oil merch. export growth rate in US$        5.8        11.6       9.1     12.4      12.8
Import real growth rate (Merch CIF)              10.4        -4.4     -9.2      17.2     13.9
Total debt service/Exports (GNFS)                37.0        40.6      36.0     30.2     25.7
Total DOD (US$ billion)                           129         134       134      130      128
" Estimates, 2/ Projections.
Source: Government of Indonesia and World Bank staff estimates.
DOD-debt outstanding and disbursed, GNFS-goods and non-factor services.
- 33 -



INDONESIA AT A GLANCE
Lower
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                         East     Middle-
Indonesia   Asia    income
Development diamond'
Population mid-1996 (millions)                                 197.1       1,726    1,125                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                                      1,090       890      1,750
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                                        213.7       1,542    1,967                        1
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                                 1.7         1.3      1.4                         A
Labor force (%)                                                2.5         1.3      1.8          GNP            |               Gross
More recent estimate (latest year                                                                per                      I   primar
available since 1989)                                                                          capita                     enrollmen
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)                     11 
Urban population (% of total population)                       36          31       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                               64          68       67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                       51          40       41                   Access to safe meter
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                     11
Access to safe water (% of population)                         62          49       78
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                           16          17        .Indonesia
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age                                                               -Lovier-mide-incomegroup
population)                                                   115         117      104
Male                                                       117         120       105
Female                                                     113         116       101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-                       1975       1985        1995     1996
TERM TRENDS                                                                                      Economic ratlos'
GDP (billions US$)                                  32.1       87.2        201.2    225.8               Openness of economy
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                       23.7       26.1        31.1     31.8
Exports of goods and services/GDP                   24.0       23.0        26.4     26.2
Gross domestic savings/GDP                          26.6       28.6        32.3     33.2
Gross national savings/GDP                          ..        ..           24.7     25.6
Current account balance/GDP                         .. .                 -3.5      -3.5         Savings                   Investfnen
Interest payments/GDP                               1.0        2.3         2.5      2.3
Total debt/GDP                                      35.8       42.1        61.7     56.5
Total debt service/exports                          ..        ..           29.8     37.0
Present value of debt/GDP                           ..        ..          ..        ..                      Indebtedness
Present value of debt/exports                       ..
1975-85   1986-96   199          1996     1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                                  hdonesia
GDP                                       7.0       7.9        8.2         7.6      6.6                -Lower-middle-incomegroup
GNP per capita                            4.3       6.1        5.8         6.0      5.1
Exports of goods and services             -1.0      8.9        8.6         6.3      7.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975      1985        1995      1996         Growth rates ot output and investment t%)
(% of GDP)                                                                                       201
Agriculture                                         30.2       23.2        17.2     16.315
Industry                                            33.5       35.9        41.5     42.7         1
Manufacturing                                      9.8        16.0       24.2      25.2              _  ,    .    .    .
Services                                            36.3       40.9        41.4     41.0                91   92   93   94   95   96
Private consumption                                 64.3       59.6        59.9     59.2                       GDI   OGDP
General government consumption                      9.0        11.8        7.9      7.7
Imports of goods and services                       21.0       20.5        25.2     24.9
(average annual growth)                             1975-85   1986-96      1995     1996         Growth rates of exports nd imports
Agriculture                                         4.2        3.4         4.2      1.9          25
Industry                                            7.0        9.9         10.4     10.5         20
Manufacturing                                      14.5       11.2        10.8     11.0         15 /
Services                                            9.0        8.0         7.7      6.9          10.
Private consumption                                 10.0       7.2         9.6      7.4           0      ,l
General government consumption                      10.5       4.4         1.3      3.8                 91   92   93   94   9s   ss
Gross domestic investment                           12.1       10.8        13.5     11.8
Imports of goods and services                       8.8        9.4         15.8     9.6                       Exports    SImports
Gross national product                              6.5        7.9         7.5      7.5
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will be
incomplete.
- 34 -



PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975      1985      1995          1996         Inflation (W
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                                   D)
Consumer prices                               19.1      4.7        5.1          6.6           8
Implicit GDP deflator                          11.2     4.3        9.4          8.7           6
4
Government finance                                                                            2
(% of GDP)                                                                                    o l  l   l  l    l
Current revenue                               ..         19.2      15.5         15.3                91   92   93   94   95   96
Current budget balance                        ..          6.0      6.4           6.2
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..        -3.2      -0.2           0.9                 - DPdef.   cI
TRADE
(millions US$)                                1975      1985       1995         1996
Export and Import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                           ..         18,823    47,454       50,188        e0,000
Fuel                                         ..        12,804    10,465        11,722            T
Rubber                                       ..        714        1,986        1,894        40,000
Manufactures                                 ..        2,287      30,853       32,653        40,000
Total imports (cif)                           ..         14,056    40,286       44,240        30,000
Food                                         ..        812        3,397        3,852         20,000
Fuel and energy                              ..        2,870      3,841        4,693        10,000
Capital goods                                ..        5,394      18,957       20.783           0   S     U R E
Export price index (1987= 100)                ..        121        137          131                 90  91  92  93  94  95  96
Import price index (1987= 100)                ..        85         127          127                      *Exports   *IrIports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                     ..         143       108          103         1
BALANCE of PAYMENTS                           1975      1985       1995         1996
(millions US$)
Exports of goods and services                  .         ..        52,683       58,060        Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Imports of goods and services                 ..        ..         51,589       56,961
Resource balance                              ..        ..          1,349       1,099
Net income                                    ..        ..        -7,832        -8,548
Net current transfers                         ..        ..          -284          400         1
Current account balance, before official
capital transfers                            ..        ..        -6,987        -7,849       -2
Financing items (net)                         ..        ..         9,418        11,747
Changes in net reserves                       ..        ..        -2,651        -3,898       -3 -
Memo:                                                                                        -4
Reserves including gold (mil. US$)            592       13,184    26,139        27,519
Conversion rate (local/US$)                   415.0     1,110.6   2,248.6       2,342.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS    1975                1J85       1995         1996
(millions US$)                                                                                Composition of total debt, 1996
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          11.498    36,715    124,398       129,033        (mill. US$)      A
IBRD                                         57        3,590      12,503       11,139                         11139  B
IDA                                          318       844       756           736                 G               736  D
32230     _ _        5375  
Total debt service                            1,060     5,823      16,416       21,462
IBRD                                         2         384        1,875        2,249
IDA                                          2         12        26            26                                         E
28911
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              .         ..        249           190
Official creditors                           515       980        1,115        -805                     -.
Private creditors                            1,749     154       2,314         6,971                   F
Foreign direct investment                    .         ..        4,348         7,986                  50642
Portfolio equity                             ..        ..        4,873         3,099         A-IBRD            E-Bilateral
B-IDA             F-Private
World Bank program                                                                             C-IMF             G-Short-term
Commitments                                  311       1,068      1,312        1,194         D-Other Multilateral
Disbursements                                164       777        1,045        905
Principal repayments                         0         133       975           1,429
Net flows                                    164       644       69            -523
Interest payments                            3         262       926           846
Net transfers                                160       382       -857          -1,370
Development Economics
Note: Govemment finance and trade fiscal year (April to March)
-35 -



ANNEX 3
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
IBRD LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN THE OPERATIONS PORTFOLIO
Difference Between
expected and actual
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                    Original Amount in US$ Millions             disbursements a/
Project ID   Credit No.   Year    Borrower                   Purpose                          IBRD           IDA Cancellation  Undisbursed   Orig       Frm Revised
5
Number of Closed Loans/credits:
162/48
Active Loans
ID-PE-3960   IBRD3209    1990       GOI    Gas Utilization                                       86.00        0.00       0.00         18.06         18.1         13.3
ID-PE-3977   IBRD3246    1991       GOI   Third Jabotabek Urban Development                      61.00        0.00       0.00         12.16         12.2          0.0
ID-PE-3922   IBRD3340    1991       GOI    Sulawesi Irian Jaya Urban Development                100.00        0.00       0.00         2.17           2.2          0.0
ID-PE-3928   IBRD3402    1992       GOI    Agricultural Financing                               106.10        0.00       0.00        38.91          38.9          0.0
ID-PE-3966   IBRD3431    1992       GOI    Third Non-Formal Education                            69.50        0.00       0.27         4.46           4.7          0.0
ID-PE-3940   IBRD3448    1992       GOI    Primary Education Quality Improvement                 37.00        0.00       0.00         11.75         11.5          0.0
ID-PE-4012   IBRD3454    1992       GOI    BAPEDAL Development                                   12.00        0.00       0.00         0.30           0.3          0.0
ID-PE-3860   IBRD3464    1994       GOI    Treecrops Smallholder                                 87.60        0.00       0.00        24.00          16.9          0.0
ID-PE-3997   IBRD3482    1992       GOI    Fourth Telecommunications                            375.00        0.00       0.00        133.53        103.5          0.0
ID-PE-3969   IBRD3496    1992       GOI    Primary School Teacher Development                    36.60        0.00       0.00          7.02          7.0          0.0
ID-PE-3916   IBRD3501    1992       GOI    Suralaya Thermal Power                               423.60        0.00      100.00        72.50        139.4         47.1
ID-PE-3914   IBRD3550    1993       GOI    Third Community Health & Nutrition                    93.50        0.00       0.00        27.66           8.6          0.0
ID-PE-4006   IBRD3579    1993       GOI    E. Indonesia Kabupaten Roads                         155.00        0.00       0.00         16.65         16.6          0.0
ID-PE-4009   IBRD3586    1993       GOI    Integrated Pest Management                            32.00        0.00       0.00         11.41          9.9          0.0
ID-PE-3999   IBRD3588    1993       GOI    Groundwater Development                               54.00        0.00       18.94        10.76         12.1         -0.3
ID-PE-4018   IBRD3589    1993       GOI    Flores Earthquake Reconstruction                      42.10        0.00       0.00          1.52          1.6          0.0
ID-PE-4007   IBRD3602    1993       GOI    Cirata Hydroelectric Phase II                        104.00        0.00       0.00        58.79         53.3           0.0
ID-PE-3990   IBRD3629    1993        GOI    Water Supply & Sanitation for Low Income             80.00        0.00       0.00        40.70          32.7         13.9
ID-PE-3985   IBRD3658    1994       GOI    National Watershed Mgmt and Conservation              56.50        0.00       0.00        43.41          17.4          0.0
ID-PE-3945   IBRD3712    1994       GOI    Second Highway Sector Investment                     350.00        0.00       0.00       181.42         128.9          0.0
ID-PE-3952   IBRD3721    1994        GOI    Skills Development                                   27.70        0.00       4.91         8.49          13.4          6.0
ID-PE-3998   IBRD3726    1994        GOI    Surabaya Urban Development                          175.00        0.00       0.00        106.90         57.3         -0.1
ID-PE-4020   IBRD3732    1994        GOI    Fifth Kabupaten Roads                               101.50        0.00       0.00         19.94          5.9          0.0
ID-PE4010   IBRD3742    1994         GOI    Dam Safety                                           55.00        0.00       0.00        35.55          20.0          0.0
ID-PE-3890   IBRD3749    1994        GOI    Semarang-Surakarta Urban Development                174.00        0.00        3.67        94.45         44.9          0.0
ID-PE-4017   IBRD3754    1994        GOI    University Research for Graduation Study             58.90        0.00        0.00        31.53         10.4          0.0
ID-PE-3937   IBRD3755    1994        GOI    Integrated Swamps                                    65.00        0.00       0.00        35.27          10.5          0.0



Difference Between
expected and actual
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                   Original Amount in US$ Millions            disbursements a/
Project ID   Credit No.   Year    Borrower                  Purpose                         IBRD           IDA Cancellation  Undisbursed  Orig       Frm Revised
s
ID-PE-3910   IBRD3761    1994      GOI    Sumatera & Kalimantan Power                         260.50        0.00       0.00       206.80        110.1          0.0
ID-PE-3954   IBRD3762    1994       GOI    Java Irrigation Improvements and Wtr Resource      165.70        0.00       0.00        99.09         38.2          0.0
Mgmt.
ID-PE-3984   !BRD3792    1995       GOI    Land Administration                                 80.00        0.00       0.00        51.51         14.2          0.0
PE-4019     iBRD3801    1995        GOI    Second Accountancy Development                      25.00        0.00       0.00        17.33         13.4          0.0
ID-PE-3988   IBRD3825    1995       GOI    Second Professional Resource Development            69.00        0.00       0.00        36.81          6.3          0.0
ID-PE-3979   IBRD3845    1995       GOI    Second Rural Electrification                       398.00        0.00       0.00       214.12        162.8          0.0
ID-PE-3951   IBRD3854    1995       GOI    Kalimantan Urban Development                       136.00        0.00       0.00        68.35         40.8          0.0
ID-PE-3972   IBRD3886    1995       GOI    Second Agriculture Research Management              63.00        0.00       0.00        53.57         22.8          0.0
ID-PE-3968   IBRD3887    1995       GOI   Book & Reading Development                          132.50        0.00       0.00       113.51          3.5          0.0
ID-PE-34891  IBRD3888    1995       GOI    Village Infrastructure                              72.50        0.00       0.00         3.78          0.0          0.0
ID-PE-4001   IBRD3904    1995       GOI    Telecommunications Sector Modernization            325.00        0.00       0.00       300.31        105.3          0.0
ID-PE-3965   IBRD3905    1995       GOI    Fourth Health                                       88.00        0.00       0.00        76.43         10.4          0.0
ID-PE-39754  1BRD3913    1995       GO(   Second Technical Assistance for Infrastructure       28.00        0.00       0.00        24.69         13.5          0.0
ID-PE-3978   IBRD3972    1996       GOI    Industrial Technology Development                   47.00        0.00       0.00        38.83         22.8          0.0
ID-PE-4021   IBRD3978    1996       GOI    Second Power Transmission and Distribution         373.00        0.00       0.00       359.99        155.6          8.0
ID-PE-4003   IBRD3979    1996       GOI    Second Teacher Training                             60.40        0.00       0.00        52.09         20.3          0.0
ID-PE-39643  IBRD3981    1996       GOI   STD/AIDS                                             24.80        0.00       0.00        22.99         13.5          0.0
ID-PE-4008   IBRD3984    1996       GOI    Nusa Tenggara Agriculture Development               27.00        0.00       0.00        24.16          3.7          0.0
ID-PE-4011   IBRD4007    1996       GOI    Sulawesi Agriculture Area Development               26.80        0.00       0.00        22.95          1.0          0.0
ID-PE-4014   IBRD4008    1996       GOI   Kerinci Seblat ICDP                                  19.10        0.00       0.00        18.44          3.5          0.0
ID-PE-39312  IBRD4017    1996       GOI   Second E. Java Urban Development                    142.70        0.00       0.00       129.46         65.2          0.0
ID-PE 41896  IBRD4030    1996       GOI    Human Resource Capacity Building                    20.00        0.00       0.00        19.22          5.2          0.0
ID-PE-37097  iBRD4042    1996       GOI    E. Java Junior Secondary Education                  99.00        0.00       0.00        95.81          9.5          0.0
ID-PE-4004   IBRD4043    1996       GOI    Higher Education Support                            65.00        0.00       0.00        51.27         -2.0          0.0
ID-PE-4016   IBRD4054    1996       GOI    Strategic Urban Roads                               86.90        0.00       0.00        76.83         16.8          0.0
ID-PE-3987   IBRD4062    1997       GOI    C. Indonesia Secondary Education                   104.00        0.00       0.00       100.10         13.4          0.0
ID-PE-41894  IBRD4095    1987       GOI    Sumatra Secondary Education                         98.00        0.00       0.00        93.02          2.5          0.0
ID-PE-4052i  IBRD4100    1997       GOI   Second Village Infrastructure                       140.10        0.00       0.00       104.39         15.5          0.0
ID-PE-36053  IBRD4105    1997       GOI    Second Sulawesi Urban Development                  155.00        0.00       0.00       147.00         29.4          0.0
ID-PE-4026   IBRD4106    1997       GOI    Railway Efficiency                                 105.00        0.00       0.00       105.00         10.0          0.0
ID-PE-42540  IBRD4125    1997       GOI   Iodine Deficiency Control                            28.50        0.00       0.00        26.99          0.9          0.0



Difference Between
expected and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                 Original Amount in US$ Millions           disbursements a/
Project ID   Credit No.   Year   Borrower                 Purpose                         IBRD         IDA Cancellation  Undisbursed    Orig     Frm Revised
s
ID-PE-35544  IBRD4132    1997     GOI   Solar Homes Systems                                 20.00        0.00       0.00       20.00          2.0         0.0
ID-PE-36047  IBRD4155    1997      GOI   Bali Urban Infrastructure                         110.00        0.00       0.00      106.80         -3.2         0.0
ID-PE-40195  IBRD4193    1997     GOI   Undergraduate Education                             71.20        0.00       0.00       68.70          2.5         0.0
ID-PE-49051  IBRD4194    1997      GOI   BEPEKA Audit Modernization                         16.40        0.00       0.00       15.40          1.3         0.0
ID-PE-42882  IBRD4198    1997     GOI   Renewable Energy Small Power                        66.40        0.00       0.00       66.40          0.0         0.0
ID-PE-36956  IBRD4207    1998     GOI   Safe Motherhood                                     42.50        0.00       0.00       41.15         -1.4         0.0
ID-PE-48715  IBRD4244    1998      GOI   Information Infrastructure Development             34.50        0.00       0.00       34.50          2.0         0.0
ID-PE-55755  IBRD4255    1998      GOI   Banking Reform Assistance                          20.00        0.00       0.00       20.00          0.0         0.0
ID-PE-40061  IBRD4290    1998      GOI   Bengkulu Regional Development                      20.50        0.00       0.00       20.50          0.0         0.0
ID-PE-36048  IBRD4305    1998      GOI   Coral Reef Management Rehabilitation                6.90        0.00       0.00        6.90          0.0         0.0
ID-PE-37095  IBRD4306    1998     GOI   Maluku Regional Development                         16.30        0.00       0.00       16.30          0.0         0.0
ID-PE-3993   IBRD4307    1998      GOI    N. Sumatra Regional Roads                        234.00        0.00       0.00      234.00          0.0         0.0
ID-PE-39644  IBRD4308    1998      GOI   W. Java Basic Education                           103.50        0.00       0.00      103.50          0.0         0.0
Total                                                                                      7,246.3        0.0      127.8      4,558.3     1,743.5        87.9
Active     Closed
00
Loans/Credits Loans/Credits   Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                                                2,560.2    16,138.9    18,699.1
of which has been                                                              0.0      7,641.7     7,641.7
repaid:
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                                                7,118.5     8,542.4    15,661.0
Amount sold:                                                                   0.0        88.1        88.1
Of which repaid:                                                               0.0        88.1        88.1
Total Undisbursed:                                                             4,558.3       45.2      4,603.6
a/ Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b/ Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP),
a letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory,
Note: Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



INDONESIA
STATEMENT OF IFC'S
COMMITTED AND DISBURSED PORTFOLIO
AS OF 31-JAN-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1971                  Unitex                  0.00      .35    0.00    0.00    0.00     .35    0.00    0.00
1980/87               Semen Andalas           7.04   10.02    0.00    7.99    7.04   10.02    0.00    7.99
1982/84/93            Saseka Finance          0.00      .38    0.00    0.00    0.00     .38    0.00    0.00
1988                  Manulife                0.00     .32    0.00    0.00    0.00      .32    0.00    0.00
1989                  PT Agro Muko            2.52    2.20    0.00    2.73    2.52    2.20    0.00    2.73
1989/91/94            PT Astra                0.00   12.16    0.00    0.00    0.00   12.16    0.00    0.00
1990/91/93/95         PT Indo-Rama           32.07    8.72    0.00   51.48   32.07    8.72    0.00   51.48
1991                  LYON-MLF-lbis           2.01    0.00    0.00    2.01    2.01    0.00    0.00    2.01
1991                  PTArgoPantes            11.25   13.00    0.00   15.14   11.25   13.00    0.00   15.14
1991                  PT Indaci               0.00    0.00    1.83    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.44    0.00
1991                  PT RIMBA                5.99     .60    0.00    2.50    5.99      .60    0.00    2.50
1991                  SEAVI Indonesia         0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
1992                  PT Swadharma           20.22    0.00    0.00   30.56   20.22    0.00    0.00   30.56
1992/94/96            PTKIAKeramik           25.68    9.12    0.00   84.64   17.19    8.99    0.00   57.13
1992/95               PT Viscose             30.53    0.00    0.00   40.13   30.53    0.00    0.00   40.13
1992/95/97            PT Bakrie Kasei        27.85    0.00    0.00    0.00   27.85    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                  PTNusantara             3.60    0.00    0.00   10.70    3.18    0.00    0.00   10.38
1993                  PT Samudera              1.64    5.00    0.00    4.74    1.64    5.00    0.00    4.74
1993/96               PT BBL Dharmala        15.11    0.00    0.00   28.18   15.11    0.00    0.00   28.18
1994                  KDLC Bali               6.00    1.14    0.00    0.00    6.00    1.14    0.00    0.00
1994                  Prudential Asia         0.00    6.75    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.19    0.00    0.00
1994                  PAMA (Indonesia)        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994                  PT PAMA                 0.00      .71    0.00    0.00    0.00     .71    0.00    0.00
1994                  PT Saripuri             6.67    0.00    0.00   16.00    6.67    0.00    0.00   16.00
1995                  PT ABS Finance          0.00    1.31    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.31    0.00    0.00
1995                  PT Bakrie Pipe         17.14    0.00    9.50    0.00   17.14    0.00    9.50    0.00
1995                  PT Bunas Finance        7.10    0.00    0.00    3.00    7.10    0.00    0.00    3.00
1995                  PT Grahawita            0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
1995                  PT Hotel Santika        9.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.75    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  PT KIA Serpih          15.00    6.35    0.00   49.50   15.00    6.24    0.00   49.50
1995                  PT Panin Finance        5.14    1.93    0.00    6.00    5.14    1.93    0.00    6.00
1996                  PT Dharmala            20.00    0.00    0.00   15.00   20.00    0.00    0.00   10.00
1996                  PT Pramindo Ikat       25.00    8.18   25.00  300.00   25.00    3.27   25.00   70.00
1997                  PT AdeS Alfindo        24.00    3.53    0.00   46.00   10.29    3.53    0.00   19.71
1997                  PT Alumindo             15.00    0.00    0.00   20.00   15.00    0.00    0.00   20.00
1997                  PT AstraDian            0.00    1.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.07    0.00    0.00
1997                  PT Astra Graphia        0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  PT Bank NISP            10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  PT Berlian             22.00   20.00    0.00   68.00    0.00    8.50    0.00    0.00
1997                  PTKalimantan           20.00   15.00    0.00    6.00   11.11   15.00    0.00    3.33
1997                  PT Karabha              0.00   10.43    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.43    0.00    0.00
1997                  PT Sayap                14.00    0.00    0.00   27.99   10.00    0.00    0.00   20.00
1997                  PT Wings                11.00    0.00    0.00   27.01    8.68    0.00    0.00   21.32
-39-



Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
Total Portfolio:                  412.56  141.77   41.33  865.30  350.48  122.56   40.94  491.83
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1997                  NISP A LOAN INCR        5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  P.T. MEGAPLAST          11.50    2.50    0.00   19.50
1996                  PANIN FINANCE II        6.00    0.00    0.00    4.00
1996                  PANIN II - BLINC        0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00
1996                  PT ASIANAGRO           40.00    0.00    0.00   40.00
1995                  PT BAKRIE PIPE          0.00    0.00    0.00   13.00
1995                  PT INDO-RAMA RI         0.00    2.50    0.00    0.00
1995                  PT VISCOSE II           0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:          62.50   10.00    0.00   80.50
- 40 -



ANNEx 4
COORDINATILNG MluKEMERt OF THE ECONOwy. FPANwL. ANb INDusThvi
C.KACMAN -OF ThI KATIOKA L DEVEOPMENT JPLANNIKC ACE!'CY
REPUBLIC OF INWDOESA
Jakarta. Indconesia
Apri3 8, 1998
Mr. James Wolfensohn4
President,
WC orld Bank
18181  l St. NW.
Washington, DIC
Dear Mr. Wolfensolhn,
Thi3 -attachci Starenmeni of 3 )evdopmenL Policy outlines the ac-tions Ind4onesia
is imiiplementin,g tco address the futidaniecital causcs of rho curreClt economic cnisis
I hese actions have been designed to rebuild confidence and restore sustained rapid
grCowth as quick ly as possible, while shieldin,g poor and v-ulnerable groups fi-om hars
transit]onal difficuLties.
Si nerely yours,
-) ~ ~ ~       -
Ginandj ar Kartasasm ita
SACte Co)rTdinating Mini-ster
For Economy, Finance. and
Industry
Cc:
Mlinister of Finance
A tac hments
-41-



STATEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
I. BACKGROUND
1.    For the past several decades, prudent macroeconomic policies and continuing structural reforms have
kept Indonesia on a path of rapid economic development. Since the 1970s, economic growth has averaged 7
percent per annum, raising GDP per capita toward the level of middle income countries, while dramatically
lowering the incidence of poverty. The economic structure has become diversified, as dependency on the oil
sector has declined and an export-oriented manufacturing base has emerged, led by a dynamic private sector
and fueled by high domestic savings and large inflows of foreign direct investment.  Meanwhile,
macroeconomic balance has been maintained: the budget has been balanced; inflation has been contained at
relatively low levels; current account deficits have been kept moderate; and international reserves have
remained at comfortable levels.
2.    Despite this strong macroeconomic performance, a number of underlying weaknesses have made the
country vulnerable to adverse external shocks. Structural rigidities arising from regulations in domestic trade
and import monopolies have impeded economic efficiency and competitiveness. At the same time, the
relative stability of the Rupiah during most of the 1990s, together with high rates of return on domestic
investment, encouraged and facilitated high levels of overseas borrowing. An increasing portion of this has
been private short-term debt that has been unhedged. By the end of 1997, Indonesia's external debt stood at
$134 billion (about two-thirds of GDP), of which $16 billion was short term, while its debt service has
remained close to 40 percent of exports of goods and non-factor services. Also, the rapid expansion of the
financial system since the late 1980s has left a number of banks with significant amounts of nonperforming
loans, straining their liquidity and, in a number of cases, undermining their financial viability.
3.    In the wake of the recent currency turmoil in the region, the exchange rate has depreciated to
alarming levels. From mid-July last year to early January this year, the cumulative depreciation of the
Rupiah reached 70 percent, with over half of this decline occurring since the end of November. Since
January, the Rupiah has fluctuated between Rp.8,000 and Rp.10,000 per US dollar, down 65-75 percent
from its value in July 1997. The fall in the Jakarta stock exchange index reached 50 percent by December,
before recovering somewhat to an accumulated decline of about 30 percent by March, 1998. The enormous
depreciation of the Rupiah did not seem to stem from macroeconomic imbalances, which remained quite
modest. Instead, the large depreciation reflected a severe loss of confidence in the currency, the financial
sector, and the overall economy.
4.    The plummeting of the Rupiah has led to very large increases in the Rupiah debt service costs of
banks and corporations that had borrowed largely without hedging from abroad. Moreover, since the
currency depreciation has engendered a substantial rise in domestic interest rates, the burden of paying for,
and collecting, domestic currency loans has also increased, further straining the position of corporations and
financial institutions, particularly those that were already weak. A major concern for the Government is that
the process has become self-reinforcing: growing strains on firms have amplified investor uncertainty and
encouraged capital flight, thereby intensifying pressures on the exchange rate and domestic interest rates.
5.    From the outset of the currency crisis, the Government has taken strong corrective action. To
discourage speculative attacks, the exchange rate band was widened in July and, in August, in the face of
continued pressure on the currency, the Rupiah was allowed to float. This policy was backed by a significant
tightening of liquidity conditions and an announcement that the budget surplus would be preserved by
postponing major infrastructure projects, cutting low priority development programs, and extending the
coverage of the luxury sales tax. At the same time, import tariffs on over 150 items (mainly raw materials
- 42 -



and other intermediate goods) were reduced effective mid-September, while the 49 percent limit on foreign
holdings of listed shares was abolished. Further trade liberalization measures, including removing monopoly
restrictions on imports of wheat and wheat flour, soybeans and garlic were announced in November last year.
These actions, however, were not sufficient to restore confidence in the Rupiah and the economy.
6.    In November, 1997, the Government initiated a program  of policy reform, aimed at bringing the
economy back to a path of rapid growth, by transforming the economy into one which would be more open,
transparent, competitive, and efficient. In spite of actions taken at that time, the economic crisis has deepened
during December and early January, making it clear that bolder, and faster, reform was needed to overcome
the economy's problems. Accordingly, the Government strengthened this program with a wide array of
additional reforms in January, 1998. This program was further strengthened during February, March and
April with additional fiscal adjustments, financial sector reforms, efforts to restructure corporate debt, and
actions to continue the implementation of structural reforms. This letter describes the Government's overall
reform program and the administrative and monitoring arrangements that have been initiated to ensure that it
is effectively implemented.
II. FISCAL AND MONETARY POLICIES
7.    Restoring macroeconomic stability is a critical foundation for restoring growth. To achieve this, the
Government will maintain tight monetary policy, keep the budget deficit within reasonable limits, and finance
the deficit almost entirely by foreign financing.
8.    The Government has a long record of sound fiscal policy and is committed to continuing that pattern.
With the sharp depreciation of the Rupiah and the slowdown in economic growth, though, the fiscal balance
is being strained by the rise in Rupiah cost of debt servicing, losses of tax revenue and costs associates with
subsidies and bank restructuring. The budget strikes a balance between preventing undue deterioration of
the fiscal position and avoiding an excessive fiscal contraction. After running a fiscal surplus of close to one
percent of GDP in FY1996/97 and a balanced budget in FY1997/98, the current crisis calls for a budget
deficit of nearly 4 percent of GDP in FY 1998/99. This has been agreed with the IMF.
9.    In view of the importance of containing the fiscal deficit by limiting expenditures and focusing them
on priority areas, the Government will, by June 1998, complete a public sector expenditure and investment
review. This review is being carried out with technical support from the World Bank, and will result in a
comprehensive program to improve fiscal efficiency, and restructure state-owned enterprises.  Without
waiting for this review, though, the following actions have already been taken to consolidate public finances:
*  all budgetary and extra-budgetary support and credit privileges granted to IPTN  (the airplane
development company) have been discontinued;
*  the program for bringing non-tax revenue onto the budget is being accelerated, with Reforestation and
Investment Funds already being incorporated in the central government budget;
* twelve major infrastructure projects have been canceled, including the Tanjung Jati-C power plant;
* excise taxes on alcohol and tobacco have been increased by 80 and 100 percent respectively;
* VAT exemptions have been removed and a 5 percent local sales tax introduced on gasoline.
10.   To mitigate the worst consequences of the crisis on the poor, price increases for essential goods will
be restrained by subsidies. The price of sugar, wheat flour, corn, soybean meal, and fishmeal are being
increased to focus the Government's capacity to subsidize food on the most important items for the poor -
rice and soybean. But government may continue to subsidize all these items until October 1, 1998. By then,
price increases, together with exchange rate movements, are expected to eliminate the subsidy on all food
-43 -



items except rice and soybeans. The subsidy of soybeans will also be eliminated after the exchange rate is
stabilized at a reasonable level. Fuel and power prices are being increased over time to phase out subsidies.
During the transition period, fuel subsidies will be concentrated on kerosene and diesel because of the
importance of these items to the poor. Fuel and power price adjustments will begin with a weighted average
increase of over 50 percent by June 30, 1998.
11.    The public expenditure review will also be the basis for an accelerated program of privatization. In
the near future, oversight of public enterprises will be moved to the State Minister for Empowerment of State
Enterprises. A clear framework will be established for the management and privatization (either through
share flotation or negotiated enterprise sales) of government assets, including: (i) criteria for determining
whether enterprises should be closed, restructured or fully privatized; and (ii) a transparent sales process that
maximizes the return to the Government and treats all bidders equally. Action plans for every public sector
corporation will be completed by end-September 1998.
12.    The Government is accelerating privatization and taking decisive action to restructure or close poorly
performing enterprises. By end-June 1998, 12 enterprises will be identified for early privatization. Seven of
these will be privatize during FY1998/99 and the others prepared for privatization. In all of these cases, the
Government intends to go beyond the recent pattern of seeking minority shareholders in public enterprises by
selling controlling, or even complete, stakes to the private sector. In addition, further tranches of
government-controlled shares in public enterprises which are already listed will be offered for sale, so that
these enterprises, too, can be fully privatized.
13.    As for those enterprises remaining within the public portfolio, clear profit and performance targets
will be established, which will be made public and reported upon annually. Nonviable enterprises will be
closed.
14.    To generate additional revenue, the Government is increasing certain taxes and improving tax
administration. These changes include (a) increasing the number of goods subject to the luxury sales tax; and
(b) increasing the proportion of the market value of land and buildings assessable for tax to 40 percent for
plantations and forestry property.  In order to improve tax administration, the Government intends to
introduce a single taxpayer registration number. The annual audit coverage of income tax returns is being
increased. The VAT audit programs are being improved for large potential taxpayers, and an intense effort
is being made to increase the recovery of tax arrears. The efficiency of public expenditure will be increased,
through the introduction of a comprehensive and transparent system to report on the accounts of the public
sector, especially quasi-fiscal operations.
15.    The Government is committed to strengthening the transparency of public-private sector decision
making and to securing efficient private participation in the provision of public infrastructure in a manner that
achieves an equitable sharing of risks and rewards. To this end, the Government has already issued Keppres
7 of 1998, establishing cross sectoral rules concerning, inter alia, the selection of projects for private
participation and the procedures by which bids are to be solicited and evaluated. The Government is now
embarking on further refinement and implementation of this Keppres, including the development of consistent
sector-specific rules and procedures. This includes (i) clarifying the scope of this Keppres; (ii) establishing
principles that will govern cooperation arrangements; (iii) establishing appropriate criteria and institutional
arrangements for project screening, selection and review; (iv) making explicit the requirement for transparent
award of projects through competitive bidding processes; (v) strengthening the provisions relating to tariff
setting and adjustment/remuneration of private parties; and (vi) refining and enhancing the provisions relating
to dispute resolution mechanisms, and support arrangements for "non-commercial" projects. All project
proposals will now be subject to this evaluation and competitive tendering.
- 44 -



16.    The energy sector is particularly important because of its size, and because of effects on the
environment and using industries. As indicated in the policy statement issued by the Minister of Mining and
Energy on August 21, 1997, the Government is committed to expanding domestic use of natural gas by
stimulating the participation of foreign and domestic investors in exploration, production, transmission and
distribution. The Government is committed to enabling private ownership of gas transportation and
distribution assets, permit gas producers to negotiate contracts directly with large consumers, and establish
the basis for transparent regulation, where needed. To achieve this, a new draft law amending UU8/1971
(the current Authority granted to Pertamina) will be submitted to Parliament by December 31, 1998. Fuel
subsidies will be phased out, with price increase to begin by July 1998, and an automatic (quarterly)
adjustment mechanism that aligns prices with world/regional market levels will be established to avoid any
future subsidies build up. The Government is also exploring options for a national per liter fuel tax (in
addition to the 5 percent local tax) that is applied at different rates to different products. This tax would
enable the pump price of unleaded fuels to be kept lower than that for leaded fuel, and would allow recovery
of a proportion of road use costs (especially from trucks).
17.   To stabilize the Rupiah and to curb inflation, the Govermnent will pursue tight monetary policy. To
this end, interest rates on Bank Indonesia's primary monetary instruments (SBIs) were raised significantly on
March 23, 1998. Bank deposit rates also rose in response to this increase in SBI rates. In view of the
deposit guarantee that is in place, however, the authorities have limited the increase of the deposit rate of
weak banks to the average of deposit rate of a group of strong banks. In the future, Bank Indonesia will
adjust its interest rate policy in accordance with developments in prices and in the foreign exchange market.
Bank Indonesia has introduced a new facility for providing liquidity support for financially troubled banks
with interest rate incentives designed to discourage banks to seek BI support, but not so high as to force
banks into insolvency.
III. FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORMS
18.    For many years, Indonesia's strong economic growth provided little incentive to tackle fundamental
weaknesses in the financial system. The system lacked, inter alia: (a) underwriting criteria to assure that
loans were analyzed based on adequate knowledge of the borrower's financial position and performance; (b)
examination capabilities to assure that loans were classified based on risk or loan collectability; (c) accounting
and provisioning rules to assure bank statements reflected financial reality or provided an "early warning"
signal of deterioration; and (d) the legal infrastructure to allow contract enforcement, collateral perfection or
conversion of collateral to cash when borrowers failed to perform as agreed. Loan approvals were often
based on relationships with bank owners rather than creditworthiness or capacity to carry exchange rate risk.
These and other unsafe and unsound lending practices led to an unsustainable level of problem loans. Even
before the crisis, numerous banks were insolvent or seriously undercapitalized.   As a result, when the
currency began to depreciate in July 1997, banks were poorly positioned to absorb any further deterioration
in their portfolios. Bank liquidity was eroded as borrowers with unhedged foreign currency loans rapidly
found themselves unable to service their debts and as the confidence of depositors evaporated, leading to
large deposit withdrawals from private national banks.
19.    The Government's program of banking reforms has been designed with this background in mind. It
has both short- and longer-term objectives. In the immediate term, the goals are to help restore depositors'
confidence and to identify and resolve the problems of those banks which are the most seriously illiquid
and/or undercapitalized. In the longer-term, the goal is to establish a competitive system which is safe,
sound, competitive and properly supervised.   To these ends, the Government has: established a
comprehensive guarantee program to instill depositor and creditor confidence; linked the guarantee directly
to improved governance in and supervision of the banks; and established an Indonesian Bank Restructuring
- 45 -



Agency (IBRA) to supervise the restructuring, including possible mergers of those banks, and to establish and
manage an asset resolution effort to maximize recoveries on the existing stock of bad loans. Finally, the
Government will strengthen the policy and institutional and legal infrastructure for banking to support this
comprehensive program.
(a) Establishment of a Guarantee Program
20.   The Government's key short-term objective is to restore depositor confidence, and to increase the
resilience of the banking system. To this end, the Government has announced a guarantee that covers all
depositors and creditors of locally incorporated banks, including private national banks and state-owned
banks. The guarantee covers Rupiah and foreign currency claims processed made the guarantee, with
payment of foreign currency claims to be made in Rupiah at the market exchange rate, covers all foreign
currency obligations associated with imports of essential commodities, and excludes shareholdings, members
of the Board of Directors and their family members, subordinated debt and depositor and creditor claim of
controlling shareholders, and deposits offset by bad loan. The guarantee, which will remain in place for at
least two years and. will be terminated only after six months of advance notice, includes a fee (based on the
value of the liabilities of the covered banks) to help defray the possible costs of the guarantee. The guarantee
agreement signed with all locally-incorporated banks requires that all banks party to this guarantee will be
subject to operational limits and enhanced supervisory oversight. In addition, the guarantee was made
retroactive to cover large depositors of the 16 private banks that were closed in early November, 1997.
(b) Strengthening Bank Indonesia Supervisory and Regulatory Capabilities
21.   A critical element of the program will be the strengthening of the supervisory capabilities of Bank
Indonesia. Over the next two years, internationally recognized experts will provide active support in on- and
off-site supervisions, in order to transfer best practices and international experience on bank examination
techniques. Loan classification and provisioning rules and the role of collateral have been tightened. More
specifically, loan classifications and provisioning rules are now being based on risk assessment rather than
solely on delinquency. Reporting requirement for foreign exchange and credit risk will be strengthened with
the help of outside specialists.
(c) Establishment of the Indonesian Bank Restructuring Agency (IBRA) and
Privatization of the State Banks
22.   On January 27, 1998, the Government announced the establishment of the Indonesian Bank
Restructuring Agency (IBRA) that will operate under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance and will decide
on the best course for restructuring unsound banks, including recapitalization, mergers, takeovers, or
liquidation. In February, 54 banks (comprising 39 private banks, 4 state banks and 11 regional development
banks) were transferred from the regulatory oversight of Bank Indonesia and placed under the auspices of
IBRA. By the end of June 1998, the Government will appoint an independent review committee, with high-
profile foreign participation, and assisted by an international audit firm, to regularly review IBRA
preparations and ensure its sound and transparent functioning.
23.   On April 4, IBRA took significant action to protect the banking system and contain the flow of
liquidity support from Bank Indonesia to the banks under IBRA supervision. The operations of seven small
to medium-sized banks (comprising some 1 percent of the assets of the commercial banking system) were
frozen immediately. The operations of these banks were frozen because they had used central bank liquidity
support in excess of 500 percent of their total equity and at least equal to 75 percent of their total assets.
- 46 -



Depositors' accounts at these banks, fully benefit from the government guarantee, and were automatically
transferred overnight to the nearest branch of Bank BNI, the largest bank in the country.
24.   On the same day, IBRA also placed seven banks under IBRA management with immediate effect.
These seven banks (whose assets account for approximately 20 percent of the assets of the commercial
banking system) include some of the largest private banks (e.g., BDNI, Danamon) and one state bank. These
banks were placed under I]BRA management because they have used liquidity support of more than Rp.2
trillion (comprising 75 percent of total Bank Indonesia lending to the banking system) and in excess of 500
percent of their total equity.  These banks will continue their business as usual, but their majority
shareholders represented as Commissioners and Directors have signed powers of attorney conferring
authority to IBRA to operate the banks. As a next step, IBRA plans to restrict the foreign exchange
transactions, increase surveillance and closely monitor the liquidity position of other banks under its
supervision.
25.   Banks under IBRA.'s umbrella will prepare rehabilitation plans and IBRA will have diagnostic
reviews conducted by internationally recognized auditors. By the end of June 1998, portfolio reviews will be
completed for banks whose assets total at least 80 percent of the total combined assets of these 54 banks.
Findings of diagnostic reviews and rehabilitation plans will be made public. Staff from Bank Indonesia have
been placed under temporary secondment with IBRA and have been put in strategic positions in each bank
that IBRA supervises. Depending on the review of the rehabilitation plans, IBRA will either monitor the
rehabilitation process of the bank according to the plan or will proceed with its restructuring. Under its wing,
IBRA will develop a specialized asset management capability to manage and collect the assets acquired in the
course of bank restructuring. IBRA will initially be funded by government bonds issued specifically for this
purpose, but will hopefully become more self-financing as recoveries increase. IBRA will take over and
suspend shareholder rights of banks that fail to meet criteria based on liquidity and solvency ratios. Legal
action will be taken against the current shareholders if fraud or malpractice are revealed.
26.   IBRA, in coordination with Bank Indonesia and the Directorate General of State Enterprises of the
Ministry of Finance will also be responsible for overseeing the announced merger plans of state banks. The
Government will seek to increase the strength and efficiency of state banks and to privatize them. To begin
the process, Bapindo and Bank Bumi Daya are to be merged, and their good assets separated from their bad
assets; the bad assets are to form the basis for IBRA's Asset Management Company, which will specialize in
debt collection with the objective of minimizing IBRA's fiscal costs.
27.   In preparation for the next steps, the state banks are being subjected to portfolio and system reviews
from internationally recognized auditors. The reviews will establish loss provision according to international
best practice, and will provide critical information for the segregation of good and bad assets. Strategic
partners will be sought for the remaining state banks, to assist in attracting other private sector participation
and eventual privatization to the fullest extent permitted under the law. Portfolio reviews will be conducted
each subsequent year to assess the evolution of the portfolio quality and will be complemented by financial
reviews, the scope of which will be gradually increased to prepare for a full audit to be conducted by
internationally recognized auditors, before privatization.
28.   The state banks that were not placed under IBRA will also be subject to portfolio reviews, as well as
limited financial reviews. The scope of the financial reviews will be increased with time so that a full
financial audit can be performed before privatization.  Reviews and audits will be conducted by
internationally recognized auditors.
- 47 -



29.   Until their privatization, the Governnent will set the financial and, operational objectives of state
banks and monitor their implementation. The Government as majority shareholder in the state banks is
responsible for ensuring that the state banks perform according to agreed benchmarks. To this end, the State
Minister for Empowerment of State Enterprises will prepare perfornance contracts, including suitable
incentives for superior performance, in consultation with the management of state banks. The agreed
contract will be the basis against which the above State Minister will judge future performance and determine
rewards and/or penalties. State banks that do not meet Bank Indonesia minimum prudential standards will be
required to perform in accordance with a regulatory contract drawn up by Bank Indonesia. These contracts
will be drawn up annually and separately for each legal state bank entity.
(d) Improving the Legal and Supervisory Framework for Banking
30.   A critical step in strengthening the policy and institutional infrastructure for banking will be
improvements to the legal and regulatory environment for banking. After a thorough review of all banking
laws and regulations, the Government will rectify any identified deficiencies and shortcomings. Likely areas
of focus would include bankruptcy, banking disclosure, taking and realizing collateral security interests,
company law implementation including shareholder rights and governance, and laws and regulations on
financial instruments and insurance. Action plans to improve the legal framework will be initiated by end-
September 1998 with the assistance of the World Bank.
31.   Similarly, in order to increase transparency, quality of information and disclosure in banking, the
Government will immnediately require all corporations (including banks) to publish audited financial
statements annually. Bank Indonesia will also review the adequacy of data provided in banks' condensed
biannual balance sheets with a view to improving the dissemination of information on the financial condition
of individual banks. The Government will also require banks to regularly publish comprehensive data on
their operations, after a transition period that is expected to be less than 2 years. Banks wishing to publish
such data prior to the end of the transition period will be encouraged to do so.
32.   Finally, the Government will level the playing field for foreign investors in banking. As part of its
WTO negotiations for liberalizing trade in financial services, the Government has decided to: lift restrictions
on branching (foreign banks are currently allowed to open only one branch in each of the eight major cities
of Indonesia); and bring limits to foreigners' holdings of listed banks in line with government policies for
non-fimancial corporations by amending the relevant laws to eliminate restrictions on foreign investment in
banks by end-June, 1998 (foreigners can not currently buy more than 49 percent of a listed bank).
IV. CoRPORATE DEBT RESTRUCTURING
33.   The restructuring of private sector debt is critical to restoring the health of the private sector and
relieving pressure on the foreign exchange markets. On January 27, 1998, the Govermnent announced an
initiative to facilitate the restructuring of corporate debt. The Government supported a temporary pause in
foreign currency debt service (of interest and principal) that started immediately to allow borrowers and
lenders time to negotiate a new schedule of principle and interest payments. A "steering committee" of
lenders and a "contact committee" of borrowers were formed to facilitate discussion and communication
between the two groups. Major lenders to Indonesia comprise banks from Japan, Singapore, the United
States, Germany and the United Kingdom. The contact committee represents some 800 of the largest
external private sector corporate debtors. A number of proposals concerning the Government's financial
involvement in corporate debt workouts were considered by the steering and contact committees, as well as
by governnent representatives. The Government has adopted the principles that the final scheme will
-48 -



minimize the potential loss to the budget, ensure that lenders alone bear the commercial risk, and allow
debtors and lenders to renegotiate debts on a bilateral basis.
34.    The Government is considering a scheme with features broadly similar to that of the FICORCA
scheme adopted by the Mexican authorities in 1983 and which proved to be a powerful tool to encourage
debtors and creditors to negotiate and reach agreement on the rescheduling of private debt.  Under the
scheme, the government wvould sell dollars through a trust (with the central bank as trustee) to private sector
debtors who reach agreement with their creditors to restructure their debt on terms that include a minimum
grace period for the repayment of principal and a minimum maturity. The dollars would be sold at a price
based on current market exchange rates and the trust would provide local currency financing for the
purchase. The local currency financing would be repayable in constant monthly installments in real terms
(escalating nominal amounts), with the possibility of capitalization of a portion of the interest in the early
years. Thus, cash flow requirements for the borrower would be significantly more favorable than under
standard market terms. The trust would be obligated to deliver dollars to the debtor (or directly to the
creditors if instructed to do so by assignment on behalf of the debtor) as required to meet the repayment
terms of the restructured debt as long as, and only as long as, the debtor is not in default of its obligations to
service to local currency financing provided by the trust. Thus, the trust and the government would not take
any private sector credit risk. The trust would invest the proceeds received by it from the sale of dollars in
local currency instruments, such as SBIs. If domestic interest rates remain positive in real terms, the trust
(and therefore the government) bears no foreign exchange risk to the extent that the local currency retains its
value in real terms.
35.    Sound laws and regulations of general application are required to permit the orderly restructuring of
corporate debt and operations. For example, the law needs to contain clear guidelines for ranking of
creditors. The specialized accounting, valuation, liquidation and legal services required in connection with
restructuring, foreign and domestic firms, are available in Indonesia and regionally. The capital market is
sophisticated. The expertise is available to design restructuring packages and raise additional financing for
the restructured firms. For these reasons direct government involvement in day to day management of the
restructuring process could be kept at a minimum.
36.    While private markets in Indonesia should be able to manage the process and specific transactional
details of restructuring, there are areas where government action or involvement is necessary to facilitate this.
These include:
* Immediate modification and strengthening of the Bankruptcy Law. The existing law is being modified to
provide adequate protection to debtors and creditors during the bankruptcy process. It will include adoption
of transparent rules for the evaluation and confirmation of reorganization plans for failing firms and their
conversion to liquidation procedures. A final version of the law is expected to be presented to Parliament
for approval by end-April, 1998.
* Establishment of special-purpose legal institutions. The government is considering the advisability of
establishing special commercial tribunals/courts and simpler procedures to facilitate bankruptcy proceedings.
These decisions will be talken in concert with the modifications to the bankruptcy law itself. Taking such
steps will create strong incentives for Indonesian corporates to maintain payments to creditors. At the same
time, it will enhance the confidence of creditors that they have legal recourse if all else fails.
* Provision of special suipport for small debtors. Of the 800-900 Indonesian firms with external debts
greater than US$1 million, only about 150-200 owe in excess of $50 million. These corporates have the
expertise, or access to the expertise, for debt and operations restructuring. Smaller debtors, however, have
-49 -



neither the skills nor the funds to contract specialized professionals. Government support will consist of
information dissemination, seminars, workshops, and limited technical assistance as required. The ADB has
expressed an interest in funding such a component.
* Strengthening corporate disclosure and governance mechanisms. The pace of adopting new disclosure
standards will be accelerated.  In the case of firmns undergoing reorganization and undertaking debt
restructuring, compliance with these new disclosure standards will be made mandatory as a quid pro quo for
forbearance from creditors. Such an approach will enhance the willingness of creditors and financial markets
to accept debt-forgiveness and rollover arrangements.
V. STRUCTURAL POLICY REFORMS
37.   The program of structural policy reform includes:
* trade and investment policy changes to increase private sector productivity;
* actions to increase the efficiency and transparency of public sector activities; and
* policy changes to promote the environmental sustainability of development.
(a) Trade and Investment Policy Changes to Increase Productivity
38.   Import policy. The Government has already made considerable progress with implementing this
policy reform program to open up the economy and to increase competition. BULOG's import monopoly
over wheat and wheat flour, soybeans, sugar and garlic has been eliminated. Moreover, to ensure that final
consumers obtained maximum benefits from this reform, all restrictions on domestic marketing of these items
have been lifted, and subsidies are being extended to all market participants by mid-April. Farmers have
already been released from the formal and informal requirements to plant sugar cane. This will rationalize
sugar production, allowing inefficient mills to close and giving farmers freedom to switch from growing
sugar cane to producing higher valued rice. The only item that BULOG still has an import and marketing
monopoly over is rice. Ensuring adequate supplies of rice at affordable prices has become BULOG's priority
for the coming months and will be very important in view of the ongoing drought.
39.   Second, the medium-term tariff reduction program has been extended to cover chemicals, metal
products and agricultural goods, thus leaving motor vehicles and alcohol as the only exceptions from the
program to reduce the maximum tariff to 10 percent by 2003. Import tariffs of 15 percent or more were
reduced by 5 percentage points in February 1998. To ensure that food price increases are as modest as
possible, the Government has reduced tariffs on all food items to a maximum of 5 percent, and has abolished
local content regulations on dairy products. At the same time, tariff rates on non-food agricultural products
will be reduced by 5 percentage points, and will gradually be reduced to a maximum of 10 percent by 2003.
40.   To ensure competition and low prices for inter-island shipping and to encourage efficiency in local
ship-building, import restrictions on all new and used ships have been abolished. Excessive exploitation of
fishery resources is being avoided by concurrently strengthening the management of fishing. All other
remaining quantitative import restrictions, other than those which may be justified for health, safety,
environment and security reasons, and other non-tariff barriers that protect domestic production, will be
completely phased out by the end of 2000. All special tax, customs and credit provisions for the national car
project have been discontinued, and the local content program that provides producers with higher local
content with customs concessions will be phased out by the end of 2000.
- 50 -



41.   Export policy. Punitive export taxes are being phased out to help export growth and to increase
efficiency in resource use. Accordingly, export taxes on leather, cork, ores and waste aluminum products,
have already been abolished. For other products, however, export taxes cannot simply be eliminated, since
they serve as an important means of discouraging over-exploitation of Indonesia's natural environment and
ensuring that the Government receives appropriate returns for the use of these resources. In such cases,
therefore, export taxes will be replaced by resource royalties, which would protect the environment, while
eliminating the bias against production for export, rather than for domestic use. As a first step, by April 22,
1998, export taxes on logs, sawn timber, rattan, and minerals will be reduced to a maximum of 30 percent ad
valorem, and appropriate resource royalties imposed. The maximum export tax will be reduced to 20 percent
by end-1998, 15 percent by end-1999, and 10 percent by end-2000. Quantitative restriction on the export of
palm oil, olein and stearin will be replaced by an export tax not exceeding 40 percent ad valorem by April
22, 1998, and this rate will be reviewed regularly, with a view to reducing it to 10 percent by end-Dec.,
1999.
42.    The Government will also eliminate all other types of export restrictions, such as quotas, by the end
of 2000. The only exceptions, will be either for health and security reasons, or time-bound, temporary,
measures introduced in the event of occasional domestic shortages.
43.   Investment and pricing policy. Another pressing need in the current circumstances is to encourage
foreign investment. Accordingly, the Government has decided that in June 1998 it will issue a revised and
shortened negative list of activities closed to foreign investors. As part of this process, the Government has
removed restrictions on foreign investment in palm oil plantations and in retail and wholesale trade. These
changes will not only compress distribution margins and thereby contain price increases; increased freedom
for foreign investment in wholesale trade will help small scale exporters. In November 1997, the
administrative retail pricing of cement was eliminated, thus increasing competition in the industry.
44.   Domestic marketing and trade reforms.  Domestic trade is being deregulated to promote domestic
competition and expand the scope of the private sector. As a first, bold step, all of the existing formal and
informal restrictive marketing arrangement, including those for cement, paper, and plywood, have been
dissolved. Henceforth, no firm will be forced to sell its products through a joint marketing organization, nor
be required to pay fees or commissions to it. Neither will any organization be allowed to assign exclusive
marketing areas, or to dictate production volumes or market shares to individual enterprises. In the case of
cement, restrictions have also been eliminated, so that traders are now free to purchase and distribute all
brands of cement in all provinces and export without acquiring permits other than a general exporters'
license.
45.    Similarly, trade in agricultural products is also being deregulated. Traders have been granted freedom
to buy, sell, and transfer all commodities across district and provincial boundaries, including cloves, cashew
nuts, oranges, and vanilla. In particular, traders are now able to buy and sell cloves at unrestricted prices to
all agents, effective immediately. The Clove Support and Marketing Board will be eliminated by July 1
1998, and the system of quotas limiting the sale of livestock will be abolished by September 30 1998.
Furthermore, provincial governments have been prohibited from restricting interprovincial or intraprovincial
trade.
46.   To support export expansion the Government is now enforcing the prohibition of retribusi (local
taxes) at all levels on export goods. To strengthen competition and market integration, the Government will
abolish taxes on interprovincial and inter-district trade by April 1, 1999. Any loss of local government
revenue will be addressed through a combination of local fuel taxes and transfers from the central
government. This deregulation of domestic trade and marketing will integrate the domestic market and
- 51 -



provide the poor in outer islands with freedom to pursue the highest possible market return for their goods
and labor.
47.    Strengthening competition laws. Government is committed to back these structural reforms targeted
at specific monopolies and cartels with reform of legislation and regulations relating to corporate
restructuring and competition policy. The key objective of these changes is to achieve and maintain an
improvement in economic efficiency and consumer benefits. This reform will make anti-competitive conduct
illegal, including monopolist and monopsonist behavior.  The changes will facilitate the merger and
acquisition of failing firms by other firms so long as such a merger does not result in a substantial lessening
of competition. These provisions will help expedite corporate restructuring through mergers and acquisition
and yet provide safeguards against anti-competitive and predatory practices. Considerable work has already
been completed with bilateral assistance. Work has begun on draft legal and regulatory reforms to facilitate
corporate restructuring (mergers, acquisitions etc.) and to strengthen and preserve competition. An action
plan for completing this preparatory work and implementing planned changes will be completed by June
1998.
(b) Policy Changes to Promote the Environmental Sustainability of Development
48.   To strengthen overall environmental management, the Government will issue the implementing
regulations for Indonesia's new environment law, Law No. 23 of 1997 Concerning Environmental
Management (UU23/97). As this involves up to 19 regulations and decrees, they will be issued in stages. At
least four of the highest-priority regulations (air quality, water quality, hazardous waste management and
AMDAL (environmental assessment)) will be issued by June 30, 1998. Issuance of the remaining regulations
will be completed by June 30, 1999.
49.   To improve urban air quality, the President has already announced the phasing out of lead as an
additive in gasoline. The Government will formalize this by April 30, 1998 in a Presidential decree that sets
December 31, 1999 as the deadline for achieving phaseout of leaded gasoline sales in Java and Bali, and
December 31, 2001 as the deadline for achieving phaseout of leaded gasoline sale nationwide. To encourage
use of unleaded gasoline, the Government will ensure, with effect from April 30, 1998, that its pump price is
less than that for leaded gasoline with a similar octane number. The Government will also amend the
specifications for diesel and gasoline fuels so as to reduce other harmful emissions, will develop and
implement a fuel pricing plan, and take other necessary actions to promote the greatly expanded use in
motor vehicles of other clean fuels such as compressed natural gas (CNG) and liquefied petroleum gas
(LPG). By October 1, 1998, the Government will prepare a comprehensive and carefully costed action plan
for implementing its urban air quality improvement plan, issue its revised fuel specifications, and take
appropriate steps to reduce impediments that discourage conversion of vehicles to use CNG and LPG.
50.   A resource royalty will be introduced for forestry products when export taxes are reduced (i.e., by
April 22, 1998) to prevent over-exploitation of natural forest resources and capture a high portion of resource
rent as public revenues. The total forestry resource rent tax may include both current log royalty and
reforestation levy charges. It will be based on a formula which will relate unit revenues directly to f.o.b.
values of logs, and independently estimated efficient cost of their extraction and delivery. Allowances will be
incorporated for species, quality and location differentials, on the basis of classifications in existing
government regulations governing revenues from logs. This will make the system of fees charged for the use
of forestry resources much more like that applying to revenue sharing from oil and gas production. These
resource royalties will depend on best estimates of f.o.b. values and operational costs, and be the same for all
buyers. The cost and price data, and the resulting royalties figures will be re-estimated at intervals no greater
- 52 -



than six months. Moreover, the Government will develop and implement a reliable system for monitoring
the collection of these fees.
51.   To further improve forest resource management, the Government will, by June 30, 1998: lengthen
substantially the period of new logging concessions, enact regulations to allow for the sale of concession
rights, enact regulations defining a transparent process for concession award, and remove the current
requirement that a company must possess a wood processing facility in order to qualify for a concession.
Finally, by the end of 1998, the Government, in consultation with other levels of government and other
stakeholders, develop an improved methodology for allocating forest land for logging, plantation forestry, or
conversion for agriculture, mining, or other uses based on suitability and carrying capacity; complete an
updated map showing the correct outer forest boundary; reform the concession system so that forest land is
properly valued; develop an effective and independent system for monitoring, controlling and reporting on
the management of operations on all forest land, with specific time bound targets for implementation, and
with provisions to encourage participation by local communities, and protection of indigenous forest
dwellers. The Government will not issue any new licenses and permits for forest land conversion until the
system just described is implemented.
52.   The Government will develop a policy and strategy to reduce and control pollution caused by
domestic wastewater, with particular attention to urban areas, for inclusion in Repelita VII. The strategy will
include among other things provision of incentives, resources and capacity for local government to manage
domestic wastewater. To avoid overfishing of coastal fish stocks and to control illegal fishing in Indonesian
waters, the Government will, by December 1999, develop and implement an effective monitoring, control
and surveillance (MCS) system for fishing activities. The Government has just completed negotiating a coral
reef rehabilitation and management project (including fishery surveillance) with the World Bank, and will
seek additional support ais needed from the World Bank, Asia Development Bank and bilateral agencies, to
ensure sustainable management of fishery resources. Until the MCS is in place, the Government is restricting
the operation of newly imported fishing boats and new locally manufactured ones above 60 tons to the
Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). This policy, together with the liberalization of boat imports, will increase
the competitiveness of Indonesian fishing fleets in the EEZ which is currently dominated by foreign vessels.
VI. INITIATIVES TO SHIELD THE POOR AND SUSTAIN HUMAN INVESTMENTS
53.   Indonesia's advances during the last 30 years in poverty reduction and human development have
drawn praise, and the Government is determined to use its policy instruments, including the structural reform
package, to protect and to continue to build on these achievements. Many aspects of the reform package,
e.g., export tax cuts, reductions in tariffs, and the deregulation of domestic markets, will have pro-poor
effects by enabling farmers, informal sector workers, and small scale businesses to benefit from exchange
rate depreciation and more attractive market prices. The relaxation of import and marketing monopolies
together with increased competition in wholesaling and retailing will result in more efficient food markets.
However, the Government is aware that such results may not occur instantaneously and that the current
economic crisis will reduce the purchasing power of many Indonesians. The economic crisis is already
increasing unemployment and threatens to increase the number of poor. Reductions in income for some are
inevitable. The Government, has taken, or is initiating a range of measures to contain these possible adverse
direct and indirect effects. In this context, the Government plans to use much of the resources provided
under the Bank's proposed Policy Reform Support Loan to import food and medical supplies to cushion
adverse effects of the crisis and drought on the poor.
54.   Providing purchasing power through public works. Late in 1997 the Government increased support
for labor-intensive public works projects by allocating an additional Rp. 33 billion in the 1997/98 budget.
- 53 -



This has been continued with Rp. 1.7 trillion in the 1998/99 budget in anticipation of rising needs associated
with the drought and the economic crisis. The Government will continue to allocate additional funds for
various urban and rural job creation schemes (Padat Karya, various infrastructure investments) and for the
best of the country's different micro-credit programs, to provide minimal purchasing power to the poor. The
Government is working closely with Local Community Organizations (LCOs) to extend the coverage of
infrastructure and micro credit programs, and will organize a series of national and provincial workshops to
develop understanding and to improve the working relationships.
55.   The Central Govermnent is helping to build the capacity of local community based organizations to
implement public works and rural development schemes. The INPRES scheme is already being used to
decentralize decision making for these employment creating schemes. Each year, an increasing share of
INPRES funds are going to community managed projects. The ceiling amount of funds for projects in any
one village has been increased more than four-fold in the 1998/99 budget and the Government is committed
to reviewing and consolidating INPRES amounts to move as much as possible to community and sub-district
levels. To ensure that these employment creation projects are established quickly, decision making has been
decentralized to the district and sub-district level. The Government is reviewing Kabupaten procurement
procedures to expand the scope for local participation in these development projects. This expansion of
public works programs to provide minimum income for the very poor is being done with financial support
from the World Bank and bilateral agencies. Existing rural development projects are also being restructured
to free up funds for community-based works through the Pembangunan Prasarana Pendukung Desa
Tertinggal (P3DT) system (village infrastructure projects). For people living in isolated areas that have been
particularly hard hit by drought, the Government have and will continue to provide grant food assistance.
The Government will work closely with community-based organizations and development LSMs (non-
government organization) to achieve this.
56.   Ensuring the continued availability of key goods with only modest price increases. Rice production
declined about 4 percent in 1997 and is projected to decrease by another 2 percent in 1998. This decrease in
production and the depreciation of the Rupiah have combined to increase rice prices by about 30 percent
during the last 12 months. The Government, through BULOG, has tried to protect the most vulnerable
groups of the population by guaranteeing the supply of rice at reasonable prices. In addition to domestic
procurement, BULOG has already ordered 2.5 million tons of rice, of which 1.6 million arrived before the
end of March, 1998. BULOG plans to import an additional 2.85 million tons of rice between April 1, 1998
and March 31, 1999. To smooth price changes, BULOG will sell this rice in the market at a lower price
than its international cost. Because BULOG is focusing on imports of lower priced rice, the subsidy involved
in this approach is expected to be concentrated on the most vulnerable groups of the population. Special
efforts are also being made to enhance domestic food production.
57.   Pertamina is required to supply petroleum fuels to the domestic market at prices set by the
Government, with any consequent financial losses being financed from the state budget. Prices were last
increased in January 1993, and in FY1996/97 the subsidy totaled over Rupiah 1.4 trillion. The Rupiah's
sharp depreciation has meant that this subsidy increased dramatically in FY1997/98. All products are now
being sold at prices well below their international market levels; thus for example, at Rupiah 7,500 to the
US$, the VAT-inclusive prices of automotive diesel fuel and kerosene are around 5 cents and 3.7 cents US$
equivalent per liter, respectively. The Rupiah's depreciation has also impacted the electricity sector, with
PLN's tariff having been reduced from an already insufficient US 6.7 cents equivalent per KWh in mid-1997
to only around US 2.5 cents equivalent per KWh at the above exchange rate. The Government has
committed to phasing out subsidies on oil fuels and electricity by the end of 2000 in a manner that will soften
the impact on the poor and vulnerable. In particular, the initial increases for kerosene and diesel oil-the
fuels whose prices most affect the lower income groups-will be lower than for gasoline and other products.
- 54 -



58.   Maintaining service delivery in basic education and health. The direct consequences of the
economic crisis and the drought are likely to bring adverse education and health effects in their wake. For
instance, primary and junior secondary enrollment will fall if parents find they cannot afford various costs
associated with school attendance. Meanwhile, income reductions, price increases and food shortages may
result in greater malnutrition and vulnerability to communicable disease and other health problems linked to
micronutrient deficiencies. Income cuts and price increases may make contraceptives less accessible and
could result in fertility increases, especially among low income groups. The Government is committed to
allocating sufficient resources to sustain delivery of basic education and health services, each of adequate
quality, to the poor, and to safeguarding health through communicable disease control efforts. In these
sectors, resources will be used not only to preserve present levels of coverage by health and education
facilities and staff, but to ensure that the quality of services provided remains adequate. To this end, the
Government is committed to allocating substantially increased resources to finance essential drugs provided
through the country's network of rural and urban health centers and public hospitals together with the
vaccines and drugs needed for commuXnicable diseases control. Due to their high import content, the prices
of essential drugs have risen sharply and inventories and stocks have been depleted. Increased allocations
will also include resources required to finance a long planned inclusion of hepatitis-B in the group of
childhood diseases covered by publicly provided immunization services. In response to price increases,
funding will also be directed to reagents and materials required for drug and vaccine quality control and for
hospital and health center laboratory work; equipment and crucial consumables needed to sustain hospital
emergency room services; and the purchase of oral pills and other contraceptives
59.   In order to design a sustainable medium term health strategy, the Government, with assistance from
the World Bank, will (a) assess the sustainability of Government health service delivery; (b) evaluate the
competitiveness of pharmaceutical/vaccine production; and (c) develop a strategy to extend pre-paid health
finance mechanisms. All three parts will be done by about the end of 1998.
60.   The Government is also committed to maintaining high rates of participation in education and
improving learning achievement, especially in basic education (grade 1-9), in both public and private schools.
One key initiative concerns the continued enrollment of children from poor households. About 4.5 million
primary school students (15 percent of enrollment) and 800,000 junior high school students (10 percent of
enrollment) need financial assistance to remain in school.  Existing allocations and programs are not
sufficient to cover even half this need. The Government is determined to provide the funds required to cover
the 3 million needy primary students and 0.5 million needy junior high school students not currently covered.
To achieve this, the Government will provide expanded funding for scholarships for needy primary and
junior secondary school students.
61.   The Government also reaffirms its intention to proceed with other major initiatives directed at
strengthening basic education enrollment and quality. These include improving the management of schools,
upgrading teaching quality and strengthening management of teacher recruitment and allocation. These
measures will also inclucle operationalizing the decision to make the local government responsible for the
coverage and quality of basic education.
VII. ADMINISTRATION AND MONITORING
62.   President Soeharto himself is heading up the implementation team for this policy reform program.
He has appointed and chairs a Council composed of senior advisor Prof. Dr. Widjojo Nitisastro (Deputy
Chairman), Antony Salim (Secretary General), the Coordinating Minister for Economics, Finance and
Industry, Minister of Finance, Governor of Bank Indonesia, Minister of Industry and Trade, Minister of the
-55 -



State Secretariat, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister for Empowerment of Public Enterprises, Mr.
Subowo, and Mr. Radius Prawiro.
63.   Day-to-day work on implementation is being led  by the Coordinating Minister for Economic,
Finance and Industry and a team of experts. In response to the serious nature of this economic crisis, the
majority of structural reforms included in this program have already been implemented. Financial sector
reform and restructuring of private corporate debt is underway. The Government is determined to fully
implement this program and to monitor both progress with reform and social development. To this end, the
Government welcomes independent monitoring of the program provided by the World Bank and by the other
international financial institutions and bilateral.
64.   The Government is committed to monitor transitional effects of the economic crises (currency and
drought related) in order to be in a position to regularly modify programs so that they achieve the best
possible results. To do this, the Government will regularly compile up-to-date information on changes in key
indicators of household welfare and the availability of basic services during the coming months, and will
make it public in a timely manner. The Central Bureau of Statistics is being given responsibility for this
monitoring effort and will collaborate with the Ministries of Social Welfare, Education and Culture, Health,
and Manpower, other Ministries as appropriate, and the National Family Planning Board. They will seek
assistance from the World Bank, ADB and bilateral donors, as needed, to undertake this important task.
65.   The Government will regularly collect information on the realization of public expenditures for health
and education, the effects of policy changes outlined in this letter, and on social and economic developments
more generally. This monitoring will cover at least the following information:
*  actual spending on drugs, vaccines, and contraceptives, as well as primary and junior secondary school
scholarships targeted at the poor;
*  availability and quality of essential drugs (including contraceptives) and vaccines;
*  educational enrollment, especially in grades 1 through 9;
*  inmmunization rates;
*  nutritional status of children under 5 years old;
*  income and/or consumption;
*  employment and wages;
*  prices of essential commodities; and
*  food production.
66.   This monitoring effort will draw on existing data resources as much as possible. Only when there is
no currently available data source will additional surveys be initiated. Monitoring may also involve
participatory techniques to assess the nature of social changes in more depth and the implementation of
community-based public works programs and food subsidies. The Government will seek World Bank
assistance while designing questions and survey instruments for this purpose, including the frequency of
reports. Information will be made publicly available quarterly and within 3 months of the collection date. The
first report will be no later than June 1998.
- 56 -



