Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19800
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
POLICY REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
(Loan No. 4368-IND)
March 1, 2000
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 2000)
Currency Unit        Rupiah
1 Rupiah   =   US$ 0.0001345
US$1.00   =    7435 Rupiahs
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB    -   Asian Development Bank
BI   -   Bank Indonesia
BKPM    -   Capital Investment Coordinating Board
BULOG    -   National Logistic Affairs Agency
DFI   -   Direct Foreign Investment
GOI   -   Government of Indonesia
IBRD    -   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IBRA    -   Indonesian Bank Restructuring Agency
LMF    -   International Monetary Fund
INDRA    -   Indonesian Debt Restructuring Agency
MOF    -   Ministry of Finance
PRSL    -   Policy Reform Support Loan
SCL    -   Single Currency Loan
TOR    -   Tenns of Reference
WB    -   World Bank
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
Vice President                                   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director                                 Mark Baird
Sector Director                                  Homi Kharas
Staff Member                                     Thang-Long Ton



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
POLICY REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
(Loan No. 4368-IND)
CONTENTS
Preface
Executive Summary ............... .i
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment .1
A.      Project Data ....................................................1
B.      Principal Performance Ratings ....................................................2
C.      Assessment of Development Objectives, Design and Quality at Entry ..............2
D.      Achievement of Objectives ....................................................4
E.      Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ......................9
F.      Project Sustainability ...................................................                          11
G.      Bank Performance ...................................................                                11
H.      Borrower Performance .................................................... 12
I.      Assessment of Outcome ...................................................                           12
J.      Future Operations ...................................................                               12
K.      Key Lessons Learned ...................................................                             13
Part II.        Statistical Tables ..............................................                                   15
Table 1.    Summary of Assessments ..........................................                               16
Table 2.    Related Bank Loans/Credits ..........................................                           17
Table 3.    Project Timetable ..........................................                                    17
Table 4.    Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ...................... 17
Table 5.    Key Indicators for Project Implementation ..........................................   18
Table 6.    Key Indicators for Project Operation ..........................                 ................ 18
Table 7.    Studies Included in Project ..........................................                          18
Table 8A. Project Costs .18
Table 8B. Project Financing .18
Table 9. Economic Costs and Benefits .19
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants .19
Table 11. Compliance with Operations Manual Statements .19
Table 12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .19
Table 13. Bank Resources: Missions .20
Appendix A. Borrower's comments .21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
POLICY REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
(Loan No. 4368-IND)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Policy Refonn
Support Loan (PSRL) to the Republic of Indonesia. This Loan (No. 4368-IND), in the
amount of US$1 billion equivalent, was approved and signed on July 2, 1998 and made
effective on the same day.
The loan was closec on June 1, 1999, the original closing date. The first tranche,
released upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed by July 2, 1998. The second tranche was
fully disbursed on February 8, 1999.
The ICR was prepared by Thang-Long Ton (Economist, EASPR) and reviewed by
Mr. Sudarshan Gooptu (Senior Country Economist, EASPR), Mr. Lloyd McKay
(Principal Economist, EACIF), Mr. Vikram Nehru (Lead Economist, EACIF), and Mr.
Homi Kharas (Sector Director, EASPR).
Preparation of this ICR was started in August 1999. It is based on material in the
project files in Washington and in the Country Office. The ICR also incorporated
comments from the Borrower. There was no separate mission for the ICR, but field-
based staff provided extensive comments and inputs. The Borrower provided comments
on the ICR but did not prepare a separate evaluation. These comments are included as
Appendix A to the ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
POLICY REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
(LOAN NO. 4368-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction.
1.    In a concerted and continuing effort to assist the Government of Indonesia to address the economic
crisis that began in 1997, the World Bank approved the Policy Reform Support Loan (PRSL) in July 1998,
following the Banking Reform Assistance Loan approved in December 4, 1997. The PRSL was one of the
important bricks designed within the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) to respond to the rapidly
changing economic and social situation in Indonesia. It was a critical component of an overall package of
external assistance provided by the IMF, the World Bank, the ADB, and bilateral donors, aiming first to
meet critical and immediate needs of the country, to restore confidence in the economy, and then to build a
sound platform for a return to sustainable and equitable growth.
2.    The PRSL was signed and made effective on July 2, 1998. The disbursement of the first tranche
($600 million) was made the same day. The second tranche was released on February 8, 1999 when the
actions specified in Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement were completed.
The Policy Reform Support Loan
3.    The Loan, as part of an integrated package of external assistance coordinated with other
international financial institutions and bilateral donors, was designed to:
*  Increase the efficiency and transparency of public sector operations;
*  Rebuild an efficient, competitive, and properly supervised banking sector;
* Improve governance, increase private sector productivity, and ensure environment sustainability;
*  Shield the poor and vulnerable groups and continue priority investments in basic education and health.
4.    The operation was to assist the Government of Indonesia during the first stage of implementing
policy reforms to address the economy's free fall, to mitigate the effects of the economic crisis and drought
on the poor, and to set a sound foundation for medium-term reform policies. The PRSL specifically
supported increased transparency and improved governance in the public sector and a series of structural
reforms to rebuild confidence and restore growth in the financial sector, including financial and corporate
debt restructuring and reducing the risks arising from the build up of private debt. Funding from the PRSL
was to support the budget during a period of sharp revenue decline, large budget deficit and lack of
domestic financing sources. The PRSL also helped with the transitional needs for public expenditures on
social safety net programs. During the PRSL preparation, organizations representing the private sector
(e.g., the Chamber of Commerce) were also consulted within the context of the loan and the overall reform
program.



ii
Achievement of Objectives and Implementation Experience
5.    The loan was prepared during a period of continued political uncertainty following the outbreak of
the economic crisis in 1997. Thus, the worsening social and political situation presented some substantial
risks for the operation, both during its appraisal and implementation. However, the overall performance of
the PRSL was satisfactory and the major objectives of the loan were achieved. Further, close coordination
between the Bank and other donors and an integrated financial assistance package built a firm foundation
for the support of the Government in implementing the reform program.
6.    There were two sets of actions for the PRSL. Prior to the effectiveness of the loan, the
Govemment undertook a series of activities that provided a positive environment for further
implementation of the reform program supported by the operation. These aimed to increase the efficiency
of public sector activities and confronted pressures for an unsustainable large fiscal deficit. In the financial
sector, the Government implemented a series of measures to restore the confidence and trust in the banking
sector. Several steps were also undertaken to increase private sector efficiency and to improve governance.
Lastly, several programs were implemented to shield the poor from the adverse effects of the crisis.
7.    The PRSL's second tranche included a set of conditions on sustaining and deepening
implementation of the reform program in four areas: (i) maintenance of a sound macroeconomic policy
framework; (ii) discipline in public expenditure management with increased transparency and efficiency of
public sector activities; (iii) rebuilding of an efficient financial sector, containing bank losses and
protecting corporate productive assets; and (iv) improvement in govemance and transparency, provision
for increased competition, and more market-friendly policy environment.
8.    The condition for maintaining a sound macro-economic framework was fulfilled satisfactorily in
consultation with the Bank, IMF and ADB. Bank staff intensified the monitoring of economic
development and policy reforms since the crisis and during the supervision of the loan. The Government
also established the official monitoring mechanism which contributed positively to the maintenance of
official focus on the program implementation. Since the third quarter of 1998, key economic indicators
have responded well to the government's cautious monetary policies amidst an improving international
economic environment. Modest GDP growth was recorded in 1999. However, economic recovery has
remained fragile throughout the project and required close monitoring.  The Government made
considerable efforts to protect the poor through expansion of public expenditures toward priority social
safety net programs, including subsidies, grants, and public works.
9.    The Government strengthened the transparency and effectiveness of the framework for private
participation in the provision of infrastructure. Privatization proceeded, albeit slowly, due to depressed
market conditions and privatization opponents. With Bank and ADB technical assistance, several steps
were undertaken to stabilize the banking sector, including bank reorganization, recapitalization, and new
prudential regulations. The Government assembled a number of complementary initiatives to achieve
corporate and debt restructuring and return productive assets back to work. Measures were undertaken to
make the policy environment more market-friendly by enhancing the competitiveness of the economy,
including abolishment of monopolies in production and trade.
10.   Despite political difficulties and the high-risk environment, the program was implemented with
reasonable progress. It highlighted and supported many issues across the board, including policy on
forestry and agriculture, in addition to the normal activities covered by an operation of this kind. At the
same time, the operation dealt with some institutional changes, such as the removal of some monopolies in
the hand of the Govemment, while establishing new appropriate ones to carry the reform program forward.
The PRSL also helped mitigate the effects on budgetary resources allocated to the social sector which
would have been cut more deeply due to sharp decline in revenues, and thus helped protect the poor.



iii
11.   Over the past months, broad macro-economic indicators have shown encouraging improvements,
accompanied by indications of some return in investor confidence. However, the pace of recovery is still
uncertain. The sustainability of the overall reform program remains fragile due to still significant existing
risks. The banking and corporate restructuring and governance remain a risk and could undermine the
sustainability of the program. On the one hand, the fulfillment of all the conditions in the PRSL
demonstrated official commitment to reforms, despite the uncertainty in the political environment and the
change in govemment. The project sustainability depends very much on the continuing reforms to be
undertaken and additional measures still being specified as part of an ongoing reform program. Thus,
though the reforms supported by this operation constituted a sound beginning, the eventual sustainability of
the program will depend on on-going and follow-up reforms.
Bank Performance
12.   Overall, the Bank responded flexibly and substantially along with the international donor
community through intensified coordination with the IMF, ADB, and bilateral donors to ensure a
consensus in the diagnosis and development of remedies and their distinct but mutually supportive role in
helping the Government implement reforms. The CAS was adjusted to respond to the rapidly changing
economic and social situation and helped to restructure the Bank's program of assistance to meet critical
and immediate needs and build the foundations for a return to sustainable growth. The Bank also modified
significantly the nature and type of Bank's lending, technical assistance, and non-lending services to meet
the new priorities of its revised assistance strategy. During the loan preparation, Bank staff faced some
uncertainty as the Government experienced an unprecedented political crisis and subsequent changes in the
top officials. However, the PRSL benefited from an experienced regional staff and close coordination with
headquarters staff. The identification, preparation, and appraisal of the PRSL was done under the
responsibility of the Country Director according to the newly decentralized administration of the Bank.
This operation demonstrated the benefits of a decentralized administration of the Bank in the field through
timely response of Bank staff to the country's needs. The results also demonstrated the successful
implementation of the PRSL despite severe difficulties and time constraints.
Borrower Performance
13.   As measured by its commitments to a wide ranging reform agenda and activities fulfilled under the
PRSL, the Government performance is considered satisfactory. The Government was committed to a
detailed timetable of actions in its Letter of Development Policy, accomplished all policy reforms specified
in the loan, and acted swiftly to shield the poor from the adverse effect of the crisis, despite a very difficult
and unprecedented political situation. Uncertainty in the political sphere undoubtedly created difficulties
and delays in the preparation and implementation of the reform program. However, the fact that the PRSL
was completed with modest delays was a testimony to the performance of the agencies and ministries and
their officials who contributed greatly to the eventual completion of the conditions for effectiveness and for
the second tranche's release.
14.   However, the maintenance of a sound macro-economic framework was a difficult challenge for the
Government with many factors outside its control. The implementation of bank and corporate restructuring
to address fundamental problems of debt and non-performing loans remained a challenge for the
Government, similar to the situation in other crisis countries. Banking reforms affected not only the
financial and banking sector, but other productive sectors of the economy as well. Thus a strong political
will was needed along with committed banking officials to carry out the required reforms.



iv
Assessment of Outcome
15.   The overall performance and outcome of the PRSL was satisfactory, as the vast majority of
specific measures, and therefore the major objectives of the loan, were achieved. This rating is consistent
with the rating by EASPR of meeting development objectives (Project Status Report) at project closure
(satisfactory). However, while the trend in the economy in the past year has been unmistakingly better, the
sustainability of the overall reform program is assessed to be uncertain, as the risks covered in the SAR are
still significant and depend on many exogenous and political factors..
Future Operations
16.   Following this operation, the lending program includes two or three additional fast disbursing
operations totaling US$ 1 billion. Two concurrent adjustment loans -- a PRSL 2 ($500 million) and a
Social Safety Net Adjustment Loan (SSNAL $600 million), approved by the Board in May 1999 --
constitute the second phase of World Bank's support to Indonesia's on-going reform effort. The PRSL 2
supports further reforms in three key areas: maintenance of a sound macroeconomic policy framework;
progress with banking reforms and corporate restructuring; and actions to improve governance and
increase transparency and efficiency. The SSNAL supports improved design and implementation of social
safety net programs.
Key Lessons Learned
17.   The major lessons from the PRSL are:
*  Stable macroeconomic environment is essential but difficult to achieve amidst acute political
uncertainty. A stable macroeconomic environment is necessary and fundamental to structural reforms.
Once the strategy was decided, the Government was committed and has achieved macroeconomic
stabilization, but Indonesia's experience demonstrated how difficult it is to achieve timely successful
implementation without widely respected political leadership.
•  Counterpart quality is important to success. The presence of capable policy makers and implementers
is a prerequisite to a successful reform program, in addition to the commitment from responsible
agencies and ministries, in spite of the difficulties and political uncertainties facing them during the
operation.
*  Crises create opportunity for important but difficult reforms and for good building blocks to help the
reform program.. Opportunities for reforms often have the greatest potential for implementation at the
peak of a crisis. Some of the broad reforms in public administration and transparency were achieved.
The Government undertook some important reforms which faced strong opposition from specific
interest groups, especially in the elimination of monopolies. The PRSL also supported the creation of
new institutions, e.g. IBRA, which contributed to the realization of the reform program.
*  A second tranche can help maintain the reform effort . It provides an incentive to implement the
reforms which need time and appropriate environment to be carried out and allow the Government to
take a longer view of the reform process and more time to make adjustments.
*  Close coordination among multilateral lenders is important. The success of a recovery operation with
multiple institutions and donors requires coordination, agreement on the best course of action, and
appropriate division of responsibility. The importance of teamwork between the international financial
institutions and bilateral donors cannot be underestimated.



v
* Up-to-date and accurate macroeconomic data and analyses is necessary for good policy design. With
the continuously changing economic situation such as that experienced in Indonesia, the importance of
up-to-date analyses of the current situation cannot be discounted.
*  Close monitoring and supervision from the Bank and by the Government through an official monitoring
mechanism played a positive role in reinforcing and maintaining official commitment and focus to the
implementation of the program.
*  Close working relations between the decentralized Country Department with continuous presence of
staff in the country and Government institutional counterparts improve the value of World Bank
assistance. The PRSL preparation was an example of cooperation and coordination between Bank staff
and government officials in bringing about the desired outcomes in a policy-based lending operation.
Intensive supervision of the loan, made possible by the continuous presence of field-based Bank staff in
the country, contributed to the successful completion of the loan. Consultations with the private sector
added a positive dimension to the preparation of the loan.
*  Improvement in transparency and good governance, supported by the loan have provided, firm
foundation for better government. The PRSL helped to institutionalize transparency and better
governance in the new administration.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
POLICY REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
(LOAN No. 4368-IND)
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
A. Project Data
Report Date:         March 1, 2000
Name:                Implementation Completion Report for the Policy Reform Support Loan
Country/Department:  Indonesia Country Department
Sector/Subsector:    Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Loan Number:         No. 4368-IND
Key Dates                                             Original                  Revised/Actual
Project Concept Document                       February 2, 1998                February 2, 1998
Appraisal                                      February 3, 1998                February 3, 1998
Approval                                      February 26, 1998                    July 2, 1998
Effectiveness                                    April 29, 1998                    July 2, 1998
Mid-Term Review                                 Non-applicable                  Non-applicable
Closing                                              June 1999                       June 1999
Borrower:     Republic of Indonesia
Implementing Agency: Resilience Committee
Other Partners: none
Staff                           At ICR preparation              At Appraisal
Vice President                  Mr. Jean-Michel Severino        Mr. Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director                Mr. Mark Baird                  Mr. Dennis de Tray
Sector Director                Mr. Homi Kharas                  Mr. R. Kyle Peters, Jr. (Acting)
Team Leader of Appraisal        Mr. Lloyd McKay                 Mr. Lloyd McKay
ICR Principal Author            Mr. Thang-Long Ton              None
Team Reviewer of ICR            Mr. Lloyd McKay                 None



B. Principal Performance Ratings
The principal performance ratings are as follows:
Outcome:                          Satisfactory
Sustainability:                  Uncertain
Institutional Development Impact:    Partial
Bank Performance:                 Satisfactory
Government Performance:           Satisfactory
ICR                 QAG (if available)
Quality at entry                        Satisfactory         not available
Project at Risk at any time             yes                  not available
C. Assessment of Development Objectives, Design and Quality at Entry
Introduction and Background
1.    The Policy Reform Support Loan (PRSL) was approved by the Board of Executive Directors of
the Bank in the amount of US$1 billion to the Republic of Indonesia on July 2, 1998. The Loan was
signed and made effective on the same day as well as the disbursement of the first tranche ($600 million).
The second tranche was released on February 8, 1999 when the actions specified in Schedule 3 to the
Loan Agreement were completed.
2.    In a concerted and continuing effort to assist the Government of Indonesia to address the
economic crisis that began in 1997, the World Bank approved the PRSL in July 1998, the second loan
that followed the Banking Reform Assistance Loan approved in December 4, 1997. The PRSL was one
of the initial and important bricks designed within the framework of the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) to respond to the rapidly changing economic and social situation in Indonesia. It was a
critical component of an overall package of external assistance provided by the IMF, the World Bank, the
ADB, and bilateral donors. The purpose of the assistance program was first to meet critical and
immediate needs of the country, to restore confidence in the economy, and to build a sound platform for a
return to sustainable and equitable growth. Without strong external support, the policy reform program
under implementation could be undermined by continued uncertainty, large private capital outflows, and
collapse of the corporate sector and the banking system.
3.    The loan was prepared during a period of continued political uncertainty following the outbreak
of the economic crisis in 1997. The worsening social and political situation presented some substantial
risk for the operation. The change of government in May 1998 happened following the resignation of
President Suharto and Mr. Habibie was appointed as successor, after the loan documents were distributed
to the Board on April 28, 1998. This watershed event necessitated a delay in the Board presentation to
July 1998 with a supplement report to the original SAR to cover the changes. The Coordinating Minister
for Economy Finance and Industry of the new government subsequently provided a June 24, 1998 letter
to reaffirm the Govemment's continued commitment to the reform program.
Project Objectives
4.    The loan was part of an integrated package of external assistance coordinated with other
international financial institutions and bilateral donors. It was designed to:



- 3 -
*  Increase the efficiency and transparency of public sector operations;
*  Rebuild an efficient, competitive, and properly supervised banking sector;
* Improve governance, increase private sector productivity, and ensure environment sustainability; and
*  Shield the poor and vulnerable groups and continue priority investments in basic education and
health.
5.    Within the framework of the CAS-defined program and as a critical component in the overall
international external assistance package, the PRSL was to support the Government of Indonesia's policy
reforms to address the immediate priorities of helping to brake the economy's free fall, to mitigate the
effects of the economic crisis and the drought on the poor, and to set a sound foundation for medium-term
reform policies. To address the key domestic causes of the crisis, the PRSL operation specifically
supported the increased transparency and improved governance in the public sector and structural
reforms to rebuild confidence and restore efficient growth. The financial sector reforms and corporate
debt restructuring, coupled with sound fiscal and monetary management, were to help overcome
weaknesses in the financial sector and reduce the risks arising from the build up of private debt. As the
crisis unfolded and tax revenues declined sharply, resulting in large public deficits, the Government had
to resort to external support. The PRSL therefore provided needed funding for the budget and helped
with the transitional needs for public expenditures on social safety net programs.
Project Components and Description
6.    The PRSL was designed to support a program of policy actions in two tranches. The first tranche
supported actions already taken by the Government. These included (i) measures to increase efficiency
in public sector activities and to tackle pressures on an unsustainably large fiscal deficit; (ii) reforms to
rebuild an effective and competitive financial sector; (iii) actions to increase private sector efficiency and
improve governance; and (iv) programs to shield the poor from the effects of the current crisis.
7.    While the above reforms were front-loaded, it was recognized that there was a need to sustain
and deepen the implementation of the program, as it would take time to achieve a stable and lasting
recovery. Many reforms measures could not be done instantaneously but needed reasonable time and
appropriate sequencing. The PRSL included a set of second tranche release conditions that focused on
helping the Government to maintain this reform momentum. The conditions included: (i) maintenance of
a sound macroeconomic framework; (ii) maintenance of discipline in public expenditure management,
increase in public efficiency and transparency in public sector management; (iii) rebuilding an efficient
financial sector while containing further bank losses, and protecting assets of corporations; and (iv)
improvement in governance and transparency, increased competition, and more market-friendly policy
environment.
8.    The PRSL assisted the Government of Indonesia in the reform program described in the Letter of
Development Policy. The first tranche was $600 million, disbursed at effectiveness and a second one of
$400 million was disbursed against expenditures except those specified in Schedule 1 of the Loan
Agreement.
9.    In keeping with the Bank's Indonesia CAS, the PRSL was expected to be the first in a series of
adjustment operations that would continue financial, corporate reforms and structural policy reforrns,
improve governance and increase transparency. During the preparation of the loan, organizations
representing the private sector (e.g., the Chamber of Commerce) were also consulted within the context
of the loan and the overall reform program.



-4 -
Quality at Entry
10.   The performance rating for quality at entry for this operation is rated satisfactory by the ICR.
The PRSL was consistent with the CAS objectives. The operation contributed to lessen the adverse
impact of the economic crisis on the most vulnerable section of the population. It was one in a series of
Bank's lending activities to assist the Government in the long road toward restoring economic stability.
The PRSL accurately highlighted substantial risks to the operation due to the political uncertainty facing
the country during the appraisal and the implementation of the program.
D. Achievement of Objectives
11.   Summary of Actions. There were two set of actions for the PRSL: those undertaken up to the
declaration of effectiveness of the loan and those to fulfill the second tranche's release conditions.
Actions undertaken up to effectiveness
12.   The Government undertook a series of activities prior to the effectiveness of the loan. These
prepared a positive environment for further implementation of the reform program supported by the
operation and enhanced by the conditions for the second tranche release.
13.   To increase the efficiency of public sector activities and confront pressures for an unsustainable
large fiscal deficit, many public investments were deferred or canceled. The Investment Fund was
incorporated into the state budget; budgetary support for IPTN (the airplane manufacturer) was
discontinued; and Keppres 7/1998 -- rendering procedures for project evaluation and bidding more
transparent and competitive -- was issued. In the financial sector, the Government closed a series of
banks and merged two others. It created the Indonesian Bank Rehabilitation Agency (IBRA) to
restructure unhealthy banks. IBRA placed seven banks under its management in April 1998 and
conducted portfolio reviews of all banks by internationally recognized firms. Loan classification and
provisioning regulations were revised. To increase private sector efficiency and to improve governance,
the customs duty rates for about 2000 items were reduced, key monopolies (clove and plywood
marketing) abolished, special privileges granted to the national car program discontinued, import
monopolies (wheat, wheat flour, sugar, garlic and soybeans) terminated, and restrictions on foreign
investment in oil palm plantations and in wholesale and retail trade removed. The Government
implemented programs to shield the poor, such as price subsidies for key food items and expansion of
labor-intensive public works.
Actions to fulfill the second tranche release
14.   The PRSL included a second tranche with a set of conditions on sustaining and deepening
implementation of the reform program in four areas: (i) maintenance of a sound macroeconomic policy
framework; (ii) discipline in public expenditure management with increased transparency and efficiency
of public sector activities; (iii) rebuilding of an efficient financial sector, containing bank losses and
protecting corporate productive assets; and (iv) improvement in governance and transparency, provision
for increased competition, and more market-friendly policy environment.



-5 -
i. Recent Macroeconomic Performance
Table 1. Selected Key Economic Indicators
1996/97   1997/98   1998/99   1999/00   2000/01
Actual                  Projection
Growth rates (%):
Real GDP Growth                                 8.3       1.9     -14.2        3.0       3.5
Consumption                                    10.8       6.5      -5.8       -2.6       4.3
Gross fixed investment/GDP                     11.1      -9.2     -46.0       19.3      25.0
Inflation (CPI) (annual average)                8.2      12.1      64.8        8.5       6.5
Share in GDP (%)
Investment                                     32.6      28.3      11.7       13.5      16.3
Domestic private savings                      21.6      22.5      15.6       17.4      19.2
Govermment deficit (-)/GDP                      0.9      -0.4      -3.4       -3.8      -5.0
Balance of payments (US$ billion)
Exports (fob)                                  52.0      56.2      48.4       55.5      43.1
Imports (fob)                                  50.4      47.4      33.8       37.7      30.9
Current account balance                        -8.1      -1.7       4.6        4.7       2.6
Gross official reserves (month-imports)         4.4       3.6       7.6        8.3       8.5
Note: 1. Nine-month fiscal year, April to December.
Source: World Bank Country Office, Jakarta, Indonesia.
15.    The condition of maintaining a sound macro-economic framework was fulfilled satisfactorily in
consultation with the Bank, IMF and ADB. Bank staff intensified the monitoring of economic
development and policy reforms since the crisis and during the supervision of the loan. The Government
also established the official monitoring mechanism which contributed positively to the maintenance of
official commitment to the program implementation. Since the third quarter of 1998, the exchange rate,
inflation, and interest rates responded well to the government's sustained commitment to cautious
monetary policies amidst an improving international economic environment. Modest GDP growth was
recorded in 1999 (Table 1 and Chart 1). However, economic performance remained mixed. Economic
recovery remained fragile and domestic demand and investment depressed. Export earnings improved
with the first quarter's seasonal upswings and some improvement in the market conditions, especially for
oil; but exports of manufactures remained sluggish. Imports appeared to have bottomed out in the first
half of 1999 but still at low levels. Bank and corporate restructuring to address fundamental problems of
debt and non-performing loans has been slow. Political uncertainties remained and social apprehension
continued to adversely affect and even undermine public confidence.
16.    The Government made considerable efforts to protect the poor. The revised FY98/99 budget
realigned and expanded significantly public expenditures toward priority social safety net programs, and
sought additional financing from the international community to cover the larger fiscal deficit. Education
subsidies and grants, and a targeted rice subsidy program were established. Labor-intensive public works
programs were expanded to employ the poor. Important though these programs are, they were not able to
prevent a rise in poverty, however. At the height of the crisis, the incidence of poverty almost doubled,
but maybe as much as half this rise in poverty has since been halted, mainly due to a fall in the rice price.



-6-
Chart 1. Key Economic Indicators
GDP Growth Rate (%)                                  CPI Change and
8%                                              CPI      Exchange Rate Movements   Rp/US$
60/o                                ~~~~~~~~30%,    ,,,,       ,16,000
4%                         25%  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'l)14,000
2%                                 ~~~~~~~~~~20%                            1,0
-2%                                             10%                                      ,000
4'       4~~~,000
-6%                                 ~~~~~~~~~~0%200
-9%                                 -~~~~~~~~~~~5%  F,"'0
-10%                                                    ->      =               
N~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ _  _, _5 20 _~ _ 
-i *,CPI Change (end-perod, %)
+    Rupiah/UJS$ (end-period)
Balance of Payments (USS bil.)                              Budget
20                                          I                   (Trillion Rupiah)
. 151 1                          l               100 l  j
go
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
-5 
-10    -20
I        ~~~c    i        cC       - og            -   I I~ - >                -   -   a 
I  N__- t-I1-  aE  c C         C'>a z )c 
)  xorts (fob)         l ot fh                               
-I-- Expoi        ,orts fa) .            ,       -4-- Revenues -U-Expenditures       Balance
Gross Foreign Assets (US$ bil.)                Total External Debt and Public Debt
I=         and BI Certificate(%)           a                       (US$ bil.)
0                             80    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~160
25                                         70    140  &,         '
60    120
~20                                                0
15~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
101                                                2
':S1
-~~~~~~~~  -    I --  ---                                 -
I noross foreign asset          i
|    i   + Bank Indonesia certificate (SBI)     f11Total Extemal Debt EP.Mc Debt]
Source: World Bank Country Office, Jakarta, Indonesia.



-7 -
17.   Progress with developing a system of monitoring social indicators has been slow. The UNDP
provided technical assistance to improve the information timeliness. To strengthen monitoring of social
programs, the World Bank, along with other donors and extensive involvement by NGOs, had launched a
Social Sector Monitoring and Early Response Unit with research staff throughout Indonesia. It has
already produced two dual language newsletters and a special report on subsidized rice distribution.
18.   The Bank proceeded with the reform program in close partnership with the international financial
institutions and bilateral donors. Close coordination among the international donors and integrated
financial assistance package built a firm foundation for the support of the Government in implementing
the reform program (Table 2).
Table 2. International Financial Flows to Indonesia, 1998-99
(US$ million)
Donor                                      1998              1999
Japan                                      1,571            1,942
Asian Development Bank                      600               820
IMF                                        5,805            1,373
World Bank                                  600               950
Grand Total                                8,576            5,085
Note: Amount includes all quick-disbursing loans during each year.
Source: World Bank Country Office, Jakarta, Indonesia.
Hi. Discipline in public expenditure management with increased transparency and efficiency
19.   A Public Expenditure Review (PER), completed in 1998, was presented to the Consultative
Group Meeting on Indonesia in Paris.  The Government quickly incorporated most of the
recommendations on general revenue and expenditure, education, health, social programs and agriculture
into the revised FY98/99 budget. Further analysis on other suggestions was incorporated into ongoing
sectoral dialogue and contributed to the preparation of the FY99/00 budget. A second PER was
completed in 1999 for discussion with government officials in February 2000.
20.   The Government strengthened the transparency and effectiveness of the framework for private
participation in the provision of infrastructure by issuing implementation guidelines to complement
Keppres 7 of January 1998. These guidelines clarified the scope of the Keppres; further developed the
principles governing cooperation arrangements, in relation to tariffs and dispute settlement; elaborated
criteria and institutional arrangements for project screening, selection and review, and provided a
framework for establishing consistent sector-specific norms.
21.   Privatization has proceeded, albeit slowly, due to depressed market conditions and privatization
opponents. A plan to partially privatize 12 enterprises by end March 1999 was announced, but it was
only partly implemented. The Govemment also announced a plan to divest additional shares in five listed
state-owned enterprises (SOEs) by March 1999, but this too was only partly implemented. A
comprehensive Masterplan for the Reform of SOEs was launched on December 18, 1998, establishing a
framework for the reform (including restructuring and privatization) of all SOEs, together with action
plans and schedules for each. Despite further economic deterioration, the May 1998 riots, and a general
backlash against privatization and opposition to selling assets to foreigners at what were perceived to be
very low prices, the Government concluded an agreement to sell an additional 14 percent of Semem
Gresik (a cement company) for $ 114 million, thus bringing private shareholding to 49 percent. During
1999, the Govemment sold additional shareholding from Telcom and part of several ports.



- 8 -
iii. Banking Reform and Corporate Sector Restructuring
22.   With Bank and ADB technical assistance, comprehensive asset portfolio reviews were conducted
at all 55 of the IBRA banks by mid 1999. Due diligence reviews were completed for two state banks not
under IBRA supervision (BNI and BRI) and 15 non-IBRA private banks. Three banks were nationalized
and four others "frozen" or closed. In 1998, a comprehensive bank recapitalization plan was announced
to draw fresh capital into the banking system. The Government chartered a new bank (Bank Mandiri) to
consolidate four capital-deficient state-owned banks into one bank. Major legislation was passed in mid-
October 1998, to substantially empower IBRA to fulfill its mandate. To provide independent review of
IBRA's performance, a committee of five experts - two Indonesian and three foreign - was set up in
1998. The committee agreed on terms of reference for its operations and discussed the need for a
Secretariat. In December 1998, the management of each of these four state-owned banks was replaced to
prepare for their actual merger.
23.   In an effort to reestablish effective credit flow to sound enterprise as quickly as possible, Bank
Indonesia identified 16 relatively well-managed banks and retained international accounting firms with
ADB's financial assistance to conduct portfolio reviews and assess their financial situation. The plan was
to recapitalize those banks willing and eligible to participate in the program by end-March 1999. Eight
banks were actually recapitalized under this program in April 1999.
24.   Implementing expeditiously banking sector reforms remained a major challenge and concernin
1999. Implementing regulations for the banking law approved by Parliament on October 16, 1998 were
delayed for months and IBRA's Asset Management Unit (AMU) -- a central institutional element in the
bank-restructuring picture - was not functional until 1999.
25.   The Government assembled a number of complementary initiatives to achieve corporate and debt
restructuring and return productive assets back to work. These included (i) establishment of a suitable
framework for restructuring external debt with the Frankfurt Agreement on June 4, 1998; (ii)
establishment of the Indonesian Debt Restructuring Agency (INDRA) to provide an avenue for
eliminating foreign exchange risk on future debt service payments; (iii) enactment of a new bankruptcy
law and special commercial court to encourage recalcitrant debtors to come to the negotiating table and
for debtors and creditors to pursue more timely solutions; and (iv) announcement of the September 9,
1998 Jakarta Initiative to provide an overall framework for corporate and corporate debt restructuring
while removing impediments to corporate restructuring. A successful conference to explain and publicize
the Jakarta Initiative was held in Jakarta in November 1998. Under this Initiative, the Government
played a limited, but important, role in achieving out-of-court negotiations between debtors and creditors.
iv. Improving Governance and Increasing Transparency and Competition
26.   The Government has increased transparency and made the policy environment more market-
friendly by: (a) abolishing some key monopolies; (b) beginning a program of forestry sector reform; (c)
withdrawing restrictions on foreign investment in wholesale and retail trade; (d) shortening the list of
activities closed to foreign investment; (e) reducing domestic regulations; (f) reducing import tariffs and
export taxes; and (g) removing import subsidies previously provided to BULOG (National Logistic
Affairs Agency).
27.   To improve forest management and make it more market oriented, export taxes on logs, sawn
timber and rattan were reduced to a maximum of 30 percent in 1998, and then 20 percent in early 1999.
The system of forestry resource royalties -- linked to international raw material price, inversely related to



9-
the cost of efficient extraction, and independent of the end use of the raw material -- was introduced in
May 1998. But amendments to regulations covering forestry concessions could not be made so simply.
An existing law (PP21 of 1970) had to be amended, and this took more time than originally expected. An
agreed decree was issued in January 1999 (PP6 of 1999) after some iterations, going beyond the second
tranche condition to establish the framework for a performance bonding system to increase incentives for
sound forest management.
28.   To strengthen competition, an anti-monopoly and competition policy was approved by Parliament
in February 1999. A Commission and implementing regulations for this new law have now been
established.
29.   The ban on palm oil exports was replaced with an export tax and taxes on related commodities
(20 to 40 percent) in April 1998. Continued upward pressure on domestic prices forced a 60 percent rise
in the maximum export tax rate in July 1998. With the Rupiah appreciation during the second half of
1998, the export tax was reduced to a maximum of 40 percent in February 1999, and has since been
reduced to 5 percent.
30.   As part of a move against monopolies, the Clove Support and Marketing Board was abolished in
May 1998 and its stocks transferred to cooperatives. Since then, the right of traders to buy and sell cloves
at unrestricted prices and to transport cloves across district and provincial boundaries has been
maintained and the market price for cloves has risen.
31.   The right of traders to import goods other than rice has also been maintained. Since September
1998, BULOG no longer imported wheat and wheat flour, soybean and sugar, providing a foundation for
genuine competition in importing these commodities. On September 29, 1998 Capital Investment
Coordinating Board (BKPM) Administrative Regulations No. 11 and No. 12 of 1998 were revoked, thus
allowing foreign investment in wholesale and retail trade (PP No. 15 and 16, 1998).
E. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
32.   The PRSL focussed on the immediate priorities of the Government in its reform agenda but was
prepared on a fairly tight timetable against the backdrop of political uncertainty and potential difficulties.
As the loan was being implemented, the economy initially continued its decline, political uncertainties
remained the order of the day, and social anxiety continued to undermine the confidence in the market.
The worsening economic and social situation in May 1998 exacerbated the difficulty of achieving the
program objectives in the near term. Elections were finally held in June 1999 and a new President and
government installed in October, but latentpolitical uncertaintypersists. Social uncertainty, coupled with
pressures for increased autonomy for outlying regions, continue. Consequently, substantial risks existed
throughout the implementation of the program and remained important after its completion.
33.   Despite the political difficulties and high-risk environment, the program was implemented with
reasofiable progress, however. First, the pre-Board measures were completed at effectiveness in July
1998. The conditions for the second tranche's release were also implemented in a reasonable time frame,
despite some delays in the fulfillment of conditions. The vast majority of these actions were completed
by the end of September 1998, as was originally anticipated. The action on bank and corporate
restructuring was slow and may have affected the speed of recovery. Privatization was also slow.
34.   There were two actions that were delayed until the end of January 1999. To avoid upward
pressure on local palm oil prices during the holiday period, the planned reduction in export taxes on palm



- 10-
oil was delayed until after January 1999. Second, part of the forestry reform was delayed by protracted
consultations. Both of these were however completed by the end of January 1999, enabling the release of
the second tranche in early February 1999.
35.   The PRSL is but one slice of a broad-based program that supported the Govermment of Indonesia.
It highlighted and supported many issues across the board, including the policy on forestry and
agriculture, in addition to the normal activities covered by an operation of this kind. At the same time,
the operation dealt with some institutional changes, such as the removal of some monopolies in the hand
of the Government. The PRSL helped mitigate the effects on budgetary resources allocated to the social
sector which would have been cut more deeply, and thus helped protect the poor.
Factors not subject to government control
36.   The country was faced with an important political juncture dominated by concerns about
succession and transition, including social tension and rising threat of societal breakdown from slower
growth, rising unemployment, rising prices (especially for food) and declining real incomes. The drought
in 1997 encouraged rural migrants to compete for jobs in the cities. These tensions manifested in local
violence which threatened the social fabric of the country. At the same time, violence scared foreign
investors and domestic entrepreneurs away. Furthermore, the Asian crisis had shaken the confidence of
the investors in the region, from Thailand to Korea, from Singapore to Japan, exacerbating the situation
facing Indonesia.
37.   The Government also faced the downturn in the regional economy, with lower export demand
and increased competition in these markets. The fall in oil prices -- and commodity and export prices in
general -- affected the country's foreign exchange earnings and exports, both with negative effect on
budget revenues. Amid social unrests coupled with uncertain political outcome, there was serious private
capital flight as well as that of human capital.
Factors subject to government control
38.   Leading up to the crisis, the Government's adherence to a managed exchange rate resulted in the
overexposure of many borrowers in short-term obligations who were hence vulnerable to large losses if
the Rupiah depreciated, which it did. Weak bank supervision and low capital adequacy provisions
contributed to the severity of the crisis by leaving many banks vulnerable to corporate losses. Only after
the crisis began did the Government undertake urgent measures to deal with the difficult challenge.
Progress in implementing these policies can be attributed to the efforts of the Government and the
coordinating framework of assistance among the aid donors.
39.   At the beginning of the crisis, the Government's econo;nic team did try to demonstrate ownership
of the reformn program, but as the political crisis deepened, the level of government commitment was
increasingly questioned. This concern was re-enforced by slow implementation of bank restructuring and
growing general concern on government commitment adversely affected the success of reform efforts.
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
40.   The implementing Council was composed of competent advisors with established reputation,
including the Coordinating Minister for Economics, Finance and Industry, Minister of Finance, Governor
of Bank Indonesia, Ministry of Industry and Trade, Minister of the State Secretariat, Minister of Foreign
Affairs, Minister for Empowerment of Public Enterprises. The day-to-day implementation was led by the



- 11 -
Coordinating Minister for Economic, Finance and Industry and a team of experts who worked
assiduously with Bank and IMF staff. While uncertainty in the political sphere delayed the preparation
and implementation of the reform program, these agencies and their officials contributed greatly to the
eventual implementation of reforms within a reasonable timeframe, amid difficult working conditions and
uncertainty beyond their control.  Their efforts resulted in the completion of the conditions for
effectiveness and for the second tranche's release, with only modest delays.
F. Project Sustainability
41.   For the past two years, Indonesia has gone through unprecedented economic, social, and political
crisis. But over the past several months, broad macro-economic indicators have shown encouraging
improvements, accompanied by indications of some return in investor confidence. However, the pace of
recovery is still uncertain. The sustainability of the overall reform program is uncertain and remains
fragile as the risks covered in the SAR are still significant. The banking and corporate restructuring and
governance remain a risk and could still undermine the sustainability of the program. On the one hand,
the fulfillment of all the conditions in the PRSLdemonstrated official commitment to reforms, despite the
uncertainty in the political environment and the change in government.
42.   As stated earlier, the PRSL is but a brick in the overall foundation of economic reforms in
Indonesia. The project sustainability depends very much on the continuing reforms to be undertaken and
additional measures still being specified as part of an ongoing reform program. Thus, though the reforms
supported by this operation constituted a sound beginning, the eventual sustainability of the program will
depend on on-going and follow-up reforms.
G. Bank Performance
43.   This section reviews the major issues in Bank performance on the basis of what was a reasonable
standard at the time as well as what would have been the best course in retrospect. Overall, the Bank
responded flexibly and substantially along with the international donor community through intensified
coordination and close partnership with the IMF, ADB, and bilateral donors to ensure a consensus in the
diagnosis and development of remedies and their distinct but mutually supportive role in helping the
Government implement reforms. The Bank adjusted the CAS to respond to the rapidly changing
economic and social situation in Indonesia. This helped to restructure the Bank's program of assistance
to meet critical immediate needs and build the foundations for a return to sustainable growth. The Bank
also modified significantly the nature and type of Bank's lending, technical assistance, and non-lending
services to meet the new priorities of its revised assistance strategy.
44.   The identification, preparation, and appraisal of the PRSL was done under the responsibility of
the Country Director according to the newly decentralized administration of the Bank. The PRSL was
done on a compressed timetable within the overall program of stabilization and structural reform. During
the loan preparation, Bank staff faced some uncertainty as the Government of Indonesia experienced
unprecedented political crises and subsequent changes in senior officials. However, the work on the
PRSL benefited from an experienced regional staff and close coordination with headquarters staff. The
results demonstrated the successful implementation of the PRSL despite severe difficulties and time
constraints in the preparation schedule. This operation also demonstratedthe benefits of a decentralized
administration of the Bank in the field through timely response by staff to the country's needs.



- 12 -
H. Borrower Performance
45.   As measured by its commitments to a wide ranging reform agenda and activities fulfilled under
the PRSL, the Government performance is considered satisfactory. The Government committed to a
detailed timetable of actions in its Letter of Development Policy and accomplished all policy reforms
specified in the loan and acted swiftly to shield the poor from the adverse effect of the crisis. Official
consultations were also made with the private sector (e.g., the Chamber of Commerce) during the loan
preparation.
46.   The Government operated in a very difficult and unprecedented political situation. Uncertainty in
the political sphere created difficulties and delays in the preparation and implementation of the reform
program. The fact that the PRSL was completed with modest delays was a testimony to the performance
of the agencies and ministries and their officials who contributed greatly to the eventual completion of the
conditions for effectiveness and for the second tranche's release.
47.   The PRSL helped the Government to implement difficult measures, such as the dismantling of
monopolies in production and trade. Government officials also understood the necessity to increase the
efficiency of public sector activities and acted decisively to confront pressures for large fiscal deficits by
deferring or canceling many public investments, despite their political sensitivity.
48.   However, the maintenance of a sound macro-economic framework was a difficult challenge for
the Government with many factors outside its control. The implementation of bank and corporate
restructuring to address fundamental problems of debt and non-performing loans remained challenging
for the Government, similar to the situation in other crisis countries. Banking reforms affected not only
the financial and banking sector, but other productive sectors of the economy as well. Thus a strong
political will was needed along with committed banking officials to carry out the required reforms.
I. Assessment of Outcome
49.   The overall performance and outcome of the PRSL was satisfactory, as the vast majority of
specific measures, and therefore the major objectives of the loan, were achieved. This rating is consistent
with the rating by EASPR of meeting development objectives (Project Status Report) at project close
(satisfactory). Because it was not an investment operation, calculation of benefits in terms of net present
value and economic rates of return is not applicable.
50.   While the trend in the economy in the past year has been unmistakingly for the better, the
sustainability of the overall reform program is assessed to be uncertain as the risks covered in the SAR
are still significant and depend on many exogenous and political factors.
J. Future Operations
51.   The lending program was redesigned to provide Indonesia with quick disbursing support.
Following this operation, the lending program includes two or three additional fast disbursing operations
totaling US$ 1 billion. Two concurrent adjustment loans - a PRSL 2 ($500 million) and a Social Safety
Net Adjustment Operation (SSNAL, $600 million) approved by the Board in May 1999 constitute the
second phase of World Bank support to Indonesia's on-going reform effort. These jointly build on the
experience gained with this first PRSL. The PRSL 2 supports further reforms in three key areas:
maintenance of a sound macroeconomic policy framework; progress with banking reforms and corporate



- 13 -
restructuring; and actions to improve governance and increase transparency and efficiency. The SSNAL
supports improved design and implementation of social safety net programs.
K. Key Lessons Learned
52.   The major lessons from PRSL are:
*  Stable macroeconomic environment is essential but difficult to achieve amidst acutte political
uncertainty. A stable macroeconomic environment is necessary and fundamental to structural
reforms. Bringing this about requires coordination and high level commitment from the Government
to stay its course once the strategy was decided. The Government did show commitment and has
achieved some degree of macroeconomic stabilization, but Indonesia's experience demonstrated how
difficult it is to achieve timely successful implementation without widely respected political
leadership.
.  Counterpart quality is important to success.  The presence of capable policy makers and
implementers is a prerequisite to a successful reform program.  The responsible agencies and
ministries in the government have shown strong commitment to carry out the program by fulfilling all
required conditions for the operation in spite of the difficulties and political uncertainties facing the
Government during the operation.
*  Crises create opportunity for important but difficultreforms andfor good building blocks to help the
reform programn. Opportunities for reforms often have the greatest potential for implementation at the
peak of a crisis. The PRSL achieved some of the broad reforms in public administration and
transparency and in the elimination of government monopolies which might not be possible
otherwise. The Govemment of Indonesia undertook some important reforms which have strong
opposition from  specific interest groups.  Examples include forestry royalties, elimination of
monopolies in clove and special trading rights. The PRSL supported the creation of new and
appropriate institutions, e.g. IBRA, which contributed to the realization of the reform program.
-  A second tranche can help maintain the reform effort. The PRSL enjoyed the advantage of a focused
and flexible approach to provide support for structural reforms in a rapidly changing situation and the
advantage of allowing the Government to take a longer view of the reform process and more time to
make adjustments. A second tranche also provides an incentive to implement the reforms which need
time and appropriate environment to be carried out.
*  Close coordination among multilateral lenders is important. It is important to the success of a
recovery operation with multiple institutions to agree on the best course of action which includes an
appropriate division of responsibility. The importance of teamwork between the international
financial institutions and bilateral donors cannot be underestimated.
*  Up-to-date and accurate macroeconomic data and analyses is necessary for good policy design.
With the continuously changing economic situation such as that experienced in Indonesia, the
importance of up-to-date analyses of the current situation cannot be discounted. Accurate analyses of
the situation would allow for recommendation of appropriate and timely reforms as occasions
demand. Availability of accurate and up-to-date data would also serve as the basis for sound analyses
would also be needed. At the same time, clear, open, and consistent objective communications on



- 14-
potential crises would contribute to the ability of the decision-makers to adopt timely and sound
measures to meet the challenges.
*  Close monitoring by the Government through an official monitoring mechanism played a positive role
in reinforcing and maintaining official commitment and focus to the implementation of the program.
*  Close working relations between the decentralized Country Department with continuous presence of
staff in the country and Government institutional counterparts improves the value of WorldBank
assistance. The PRSL preparation was an example of cooperation and coordination between Bank
staff and government officials in bringing about the desired outcomes in a policy-based lending
operation. Consultations with the private sector during the loan preparation were also a positive
feature of the PRSL. Intensive supervision of the loan, made possible by the continuous presence of
field-based Bank staff in the country, contributed to the successful completion of the loan.
Consultations with the private sector added a positive dimension to the preparation of the loan.
* Improvement in transparency and governance, supported by the loan, have provided firm foundation
for better government. The PRSL helped to institutionalize transparency and better govemance in the
new administration.



15
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
POLICY REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
(LOAN No. 4368-IND)
Part II. Annex Tables
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments ..................................................                           16
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits ..................................................                       17
Table 3:   Project Timetable ..................................................                                17
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual ......... 17
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation ........................................ 18
Table 6:   Key Indicators For Project Operations ............................................... 18
Table 7:   Studies included in Project ..................................................                      18
Table 8a: Project Costs ..................................................                                     18
Table 8b: Project Costs ..................................................                                      18
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits ..................................................                        19
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ..................................................                         19
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ............................ 19
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..................................................                      19
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ..................................................                          20



16
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial     Partial    Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                4
Sector policies                                       4
Financial objectives                                  4
Institutional development                             4
Physical objectives                                                                 4
Poverty reduction                                     4
Gender issues                                         4
Other social objectives                               l
Environmental objectives                              4
Public sector management
Private sector development                            4
B. Project Sustainability                Likely             Unlikely           Uncertain
C. Bank Performance                  Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory       Deficient
Identification                                                     4
Preparation assistance                                             4
Appraisal                                                          4
Supervision                                                        4
D. Borrower Performance               Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory      Deficient
Preparation                                                        4
Implementation                                                     4
Covenant compliance                                                4
Operation (if applicable)         __
Highly         Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory      Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome     Satisfactory                                      Unsatisfactory
_                        W                        _~~~~~~



17
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                   Purpose                          Approval      Status
Banking Reform Assistance Loan   To address the banking reforms    December  Disbursing
arising from the crisis            1998
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                                Date planned              Date actual
Identification                                           10/1997                 12/1997
Preappraisal
Appraisal                                                11/1997                 02/1998
Negotiations                                             12/1997                 04/1998
Board presentation                                       4/1998                  7/2/1998
Signing                                                 7/2/1998                 7/2/1998
Effectiveness                                           7/2/1998                 7/2/1998
Project completion                                                               2/1999
Loan closing                                                -                     5/1999
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
(US$ million)
FY99
Appraisal estimate                                         1,000
Actual                                                     1,000
Actual as % of adjusted estimate                           100
Date of final disbursement                                 2/99



18
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Estimated                     Actual
Key implementation indicators in SAR        Start     Complete           Start     Complete
See Matrix of Policy Actions in the SAR and
the Second Tranche Release Review
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
Estimated                     Actual
Key implementation indicators in SAR        Start     Complete           Start     Complete
See Matrix of Policy Actions in the SAR
and the Second Tranche Release Review
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study                Purpose as defined at            Status            Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
NO STUDIES
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million)
Appraisal estimate             Actual/atest estimate
Item                                  Local  Foreign    Total            Local  Foreign     Total
1. Balance of Payments Support                 1,000     1,000                   1,000     1,000
Total                                          1,000      1,000                  1,000     1,000
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million)
Appraisal estimate             Actual/latest estimate
Source                                Local  Foreign    Total            Local  Foreign     Total
1. IBRD                                      1,000      1,000                  1,000      1,000
Total                                        1,000      1,000                  1,000      1,000



19
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Costs         Benefits         NPV          ERR (%)
Not Applicable                                            N/A
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Cove-              Original     Revised
Agree-                    nant    Present  fulfillment  fulfillment
Ment        Section       type     Status     date         date         Description of covenant      Comments
DCA                         I         C         n.a.        n.a.             Progress report
DCA                         9         C         n.a.        n.a.             Progress report
Covenant Class:                                                                    Status:
I = Accounts/audits                 8 =Indigenous people                        C   = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue    9 =Monitoring, review, and reporting       CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries  10 = Project implementation not              CP  = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project      covered by categories 1-9
funds                          II =Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 = Counterpart funding                  budgetary or other resources
5 = Management aspects of the            allocation
project or executing agency    12 =Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants              regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement       13 =Other
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual Statement (OD or
OP/BP)
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS 1/
Actual
Stage of Project Cycle                   SW                           $ ('000)
Preparation                              48.0                           197.8
Appraisal                                 4.8                           13.0
Negotiations                              0.5                            6.6
Supervision                              70.0                          121.5
Completion                                4.4
TOTAL                                    127.7                         338.9
Note: 1. Figures do not include Trust Funds.



20
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating
Specialized staff   Imple-         Devel-
Stage of project cycle       Month/   Number of    Days   skills represented    mentation        opment        Type of
year      persons    in field        /a            status /b     Objectives   Problems /c
Supervision                     d/          8          d/       EC, FA, LC           S              S
/a DO: Disbursement Officer; EC: Economist; EN: Engineer; FA: Financial Analyst; LC: Legal Counsel; 00: Operation Officer; RA:
Research Analyst; RS: Resettlement Specialist; TE: Transport Economist; TS: Transport Specialist.
/b 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory.
/c Typical problems included: implementation delays in technical assistance and studies.
/d Supervision is done by staff of the World Bank Office Jakarta, Indonesia. There were no supervision missions from headquarters.



- 21-                               APPENDIX A
ANNEX A: BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON THE ICR
RwUCS OF mIDonzA
NAMD0NALnF VELO       t    *LA 4 SAGENCY
JAMATAJZ4DOI4EW
Oar Ref. lo&t.ZlflJ/I 999                             SN rJaka. I     November I99Y
Mr. Llyod Mctay. jr
Principal Ecengmist
Residalt Staff indonsia
world Bank
arSubjecet  Impi anon ccmp]euws flpor (Rn toe tolcy Rcfiinn Supparr
Loan I 1RSL I)
Dear Mr McKay,
Refing t your lettr dated 26 Ocxobcr £999 wgprge the sbjeet meng&oaaod ablt
we have sevan xespwzsn t* le pnprd dRft of Ebe X  as folows.
I   Prncipally. we aree with te drft of th ICR  Mr P1SL L Regarding o the prognmn's
achievtrwn, te are iu ine with te Bank's opinion c   imptoEMSL I on the irSm
agenda addresstig to ccb~ c c  s, It is ldloard by the Ibiilffmm of rim rform agunda
for txsxthtf ei. Rowevg we belicrr t  some autiws ccuid aol be Mlilled o chl2e
becaue of the backdrop of*pobal uacetin* amd odr diffidulues.
2   Trhe susrLinhiliy of the programn is, of co4rse. detetnid by the Goveaunte's strong
conrnmbcnt to the cetbn. We belieue ta nitontCZg meohamtn of the progc
implanenedmu  is oat of may smpect cxpmed to tnainta such a cmimnent and to
accelerae th pogram ilewui. Theteibre, we mgges   to mclude the uieed to
*stablish Ike mechnism as a key lesso leaurnd
Now. Boppn  he. intiated to dewlp the tebwane &os will ats the Governme  to
detcGt. m*jtipar, and sepon the pmgess of The proasm lo0n regulaly soch  s Poley
Reform Support Loan M (SL Ill) i FT imO9     .
3.  We alM hAve mre conrcudns on Table I (pap 4) reprding to the selected key ecmnoric
ndicamrs descrbig Mm     emuc famework as ached Besids, cc pae 6. p6int ito.
25 lArt swaxcee. it should be stated as follaws: as of VMr4brr t 4 J99   abou 21
compunies. w*k toWfotit indebAw 0'nboir $ ZI blion....
Oa pagc 1, point no. 30, we suggest t usn the 5rst 4antcn   as follows ro wmgrhen
compertion, am anid-mnopoly &ad  opedtion policy tws approved by Prdiwnem  za
February 19PP,
I hope tba; thesc rsposee are able to enrich O)e ICR report fr PRSL- I and other
proxThmt AS well.
iank you fbr your kkid attution and cooplration.
cc Vice Chairmen ~fBappcmon
s:,c viticrChairmin of Bavppns 



