The World Bank                  r                    Street N.W.        (202) 473-1000
INTERNA7ONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIOIA :L         asNngton, D.C. 20433   Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERN/ AIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION          U.S.                    Cable Address: INDEVAS
JA      ~    , 2012
Her Excellency
E. Viviana Caro Hinojosa
Minister of Development Planning
Ministry of Development Planning
Avenida Mariscal Santa Cruz Esquina Oruro #1092
Ex Edificio Comibol,
La Paz, Bolivia
Re: Plurinational State of Bolivia: Credit No. 4379-BO (Lake Titicaca Local
Sustainable Development Project)
Second Amendment to the Financing Agreement
Excellency,
We refer to the Financing Agreement between International Development Association
(the "Association") and the Plurirational State of Bolivia (the "Recipient") dated February 11,
2008, as amended on September 20, 2010, with respect to the above-captioned Project
("Agreement").
Pursuant to your letters dited April 2 and May 30, 2012 requesting the Association to
amend the Agreement, including extending the Project Closing Date, and based on our recent
discussions on the subject, we ar: pleased to inform you that the Association agrees to amend
the terms of the Agreement as follows and set forth in Attachment A to this letter (the Amended
and Restated Financing Agreemert):
1. Section 3.01 of Article Ill to the Agreement is hereby amended and replaced in its
entirety to read as follows:
"3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Recipient shall cause FPS, and FPS shall cause the Implementing Entities, to
carry out the Project with the assistance of the Recipient's Ministry of Environment
and Water through its Vice-Ministry of Water and Basic Sanitation, in accordance with
the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
2. Parts 1, 2 and 3 of Schedule I to the Agreement are hereby amended and replaced in
their entirety to read as follows:
"Part 1. Support to Tourism Development and Cultural Protection
(a)    Carrying out by Implementing Entities of infrastructure investments to
facilitate the enhancement of cultural, social, economic and environmental
assets, including inter alia: (i) the improvement of tourist sites and (ii) the
establishment of interpretation centers and small docks.


﻿2
(b)    Carrying out of a valuation study for a cultural heritage monument in Lake
Titicaca's Isla de Luna.
Part 2. Basic Services
(a)    Carrying out of: (i) water and sanitation infrastructure for Lake Titicaca's small
rural communities; and (ii) training and provision of technical assistance to the
EPSA.
(b)    Provision of technical assistance, works and goods to develop water supply
systems, sanitation facilities and the rehabilitation of existing sewerage
networks and treatment plans in the cities of Copacabana, Tiquina, Achacachi,
Tiwanaku and Viacha.
(c)    Provision of technical assistance, works and goods to improve solid waste
collection for the cities of Copacabana, Achacachi, Tiwanaku and Tiquina,
including: (i) street cleaning; (ii) transportation; (iii) recycling; and (iv) final
disposal in sanitary landfills.
(d)    Provision of technical assistance to ensure sustainable service provision,
through the creation of EPSA that will manage water, wastewater and solid
waste services and whose operating and maintenance costs are to be covered by
the users fees by the end of the Project.
(e)    Provision of FPS Operating Costs for the carrying out of basic service activities
under Parts 2 and 1 (a) of the Project and financing of audits for the Project.
(f)    Provision of technical assistance, goods and works for the implementation and
supervision of the Resettlement Framework. .
Part 3. Institutional Strengthening and Project Management
Provision of technical assistance to promote the Recipient's international tourism
potential, through inter alia, the participation of VMT in tourism fairs."
3. Section I.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is hereby amended and replaced in its
entirety to read as follows:
"1.    To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient shall make part of the
proceeds of the Financing available to FPS through a subsidiary agreement
between the Recipient and FPS, under terms satisfactory to the Association
("Subsidiary Agreement"), including, inter alia, FPS's obligation to provide all
the necessary information and documentation to the Recipient related to FPS's
responsibilities under the Project (including but not limited to, the information
required for compliance with Section III.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement)."
4. Section I.B. 1 of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is hereby amended and replaced in its
entirety to read as follows:
"1.    The Recipient shall cause FPS, and FPS shall cause the Implementing Entities,
to carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of:


﻿3
(a)    this Agreement;
(b)    the Subsidiary Agreement;
(c)    the Implementation Agreements; and
(d)    the Operational Manual.
2.     The Recipient sLall ensure that appropriate mechanisms, acceptable to the
Association, are in place for the provision of administrative, technical and
financial support to FPS for the carrying out of the Project activities formerly
under the mandate of VMT, during the transition period and thereafter.
3.     At all times during the execution of the Project, the Recipient shall cause FPS
to maintain qualified staff responsible for the implementation of the Project
with staffing qualifications, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Association. The above-mentioned staff shall carry out quality control
activities, coordination, monitoring and oversight of the Project."
5. Section I. C.1 of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is hereby amended and replaced in its
entirety (and the existing Section I.C.2 to this Agreement is renumbered Section I.C.4)
to read as follows:
"1.    The Recipient shall cause FPS to, no later than June 30, 2012, update the
Operational Manual, in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
2.     The Recipient shall cause FPS, and FPS shall cause the Implementing Entities,
to carry out the Project, in accordance with the Operational Manual.
3.    Immediately after the Operational Manual shall have been updated as provided
in Section C.1 above, the Recipient shall cause FPS, and FPS shall cause the
Implementing Entities, to carry out the Project, in accordance with said updated
Operational Man ial. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Recipient shall nct amend, waive or fail to enforce the Operational Manual (or
the updated Operational Manual, as the case may be) or any provision thereof.
In case of any conflict between the terms of this Agreement and those of the
Operational Manual, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail."
6. Section II.B.3 of Scheduk 2 to the Agreements is hereby amended and replaced to read
in its entirety as follows:
"3.    The Recipient shall, and shall cause FPS to, have the Financial Statements for
each part of the Project to be audited in accordance with the provisions of
Section 4.09 (b) 3f the General Conditions. For those Financial Statements
prepared by VMT, the audit of said statements shall be completed and
furnished to the Association no later than June 30, 2012. For those Financial
Statements prepa:ed by FPS, each audit of said statements shall cover the
period of one fiscal year of the Recipient or such other period to be agreed with
the Association, commencing with the earlier of: (a) the fiscal year in which
the first withdrawal under the Project Preparation Advance was made; and (b)
the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under this Agreement was made.


﻿4
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
Association not later than six months after the end of such period."
7. Section III.B. 2 of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is hereby amended and replaced to
read in its entirety as follows:
"2.    Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and
non-consultant services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used:
Procurement Method
(a)  National Competitive Bidding, subject to the
additional provisions set forth in Section I of Annex
A to this Schedule 2.
(b)  Shopping (only in emergency cases).
(c)  Direct Contracting.
(d)  Community Participation in Procurement."
8. Section III.D.2 (a) of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is hereby amended and replaced in
its entirety to read as follows:
"2. Annual Procurement Audits. The Recipient shall cause FPS to:
(a)    not later than April 30 of each year during the implementation of the Project,
contract independent auditors with experience and qualifications satisfactory to
the Association, operating under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, to perform a procurement audit of all the procurement records and
documentation for the Project, relating to the Recipient's previous fiscal year
of implementation of the Project, in accordance with procurement auditing
principles acceptable to the Association ("Procurement Audit");"
9. Section III.D.2(b) of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is hereby amended and replaced in
its entirety to read as follows:
"(b)   not later than July 31 of each year during the implementation of the Project,
and continuing for each year thereafter during the implementation of the
Project, furnish to the Association the report, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Association, on the Procurement Audit completed for the Recipient's
prior fiscal year;"
10. Section III.D.2(d) of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is hereby amended and replaced to
read in its entirety as follows:


﻿5
"(d) not later than September 30 of each year during the implementation of the
Project, exchange views with the Association on the results of the Procurement
Audit completed for the Recipient's prior fiscal year and thereafter implement
such recommended measures, taking into account the Association's views on
the matter."
11. Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is hereby amended and replaced in its
entirety to read as follows:
"2. The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing ("Category"), the allocations of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:
Percentage of
Amount of the Credit      Expenditures
Allocated           to be Financed
CategorV                  (expressed in SDR)     (inclusive of Taxes)
(1) (a) Works, Goods, Training.             2,288,590         100%
consultants services under Part [of the
Project; and
100% (Expenditures
(b) Works, Goods, Training, Consultants      180,073         incurred and/or paid
Services and VMT Operating Costs under                       by VMT under
former Parts I (b), (c) and (d) of the                       Category (1)(b) before
Project                                                      and/or on December
3 1,2011)
(2) Works, Goods, Consultants Services      8,719,356         100%
and Training under Part 2 of the
Project, including audits
(3) Goods, Consultants Services,
Training and VMT Operating                686,506         100% (Expenditures
Costs under Part 3 of the Project,                        incurred and/or paid
including audits                                          for by VMT under
Category 3, before
and/or on June 30,
2012)
(4) FPS Operating Costs                      598,954          5% of the total cost of
the Investment
Subprojects paid in
tranches as set forth in
the Operational
Manual


﻿6
Percentage of
Amount of the Credit      Expenditures
Allocated           to be Financed
Category                  (expressed in SDR)     (inclusive of Taxes)
(5) Refund of Project Preparation            326,522         Amount payable
Advance                                                   pursuant to Section
2.07 of the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT                           12,800,000
12. Section IV.A.3(a) of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is hereby amended and replaced in
its entirety to read as follows:
"(a) Training" means reasonable expenditures (other than those for consultants' services)
incurred for the purposes of the Project and directly related to training activities
described in the Project, including, inter alia, costs related to workshops, seminars,
conferences, study tours, training registration fees, facility rentals, and travel costs and
per diems for FPS civil service officials or employees as well as for other
stakeholders;"
13. Section IV.A.3(c) of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is hereby amended and replaced in
its entirety to read as follows:
"(c) "VMT Operating Costs" means reasonable recurrent expenditures (other than those
for consultants' services) incurred by VMT and/or paid for by VMT before and/or on
June 30, 2012 for the purposes of the Project and directly related to the activities
described in the Project, including, inter alia, office materials and supplies, operation
and maintenance of office equipment, insurance, vehicle and equipment operation,
bank charges on the Designated Account, utilities, rental of office space, transportation,
phone and fax charges, media campaigns, travel and per diem of VMT and the
Recipient's Vice Ministry of Water and Basic Sanitation Services officials for purposes
of Project supervision and printing of materials."
14. Section IV.B.5 of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is hereby amended and replaced to read
in its entirety as follows:
"5. The Closing Date is February 2, 2015."
15. Section IV.B.7 of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is deleted.
16. Section I of Annex A of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is hereby amended to include
three additional paragraphs to read as follows:
"16.Recipient State-owned enterprises shall be allowed to participate in bids only upon
their compliance with the provisions of paragraph 1.8 (c) of the Guidelines.
17. No contractor or supplier shall be denied fair and equitable treatment in any resolution
of dispute with the Recipient and/or any of its executing agencies.


﻿7
18. Bidding documents for NCB shall include Anticorruption Clauses that shall be
substantially identical to those pertaining to the Association Standard Bidding
Documents for ICB."
17. Section II of Annex A of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is hereby amended to include
three additional paragraphs to read as follows:
"5. Consultants, either firms or individuals, shall not be required to present bid and
performance securities as a condition to present proposals and sign an award contract.
6. No consultant, individually or as a firm, shall be denied a fair and equitable treatment
in its resolution of dispute with the Recipient and/or any of its executing agencies.
7. Request for proposals documents for consultancy contracts shall include anti-
corruption clauses identical to those of the SBD."
18. Section I of the Appendix to tl-e Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
(a) The following definition is added, placed in alphabetical order, (and the existing
definitions are consequently renumbered to keep the alphabetical order) to read as
follows:
""Investment Subprojects" means any specific subproject which meets the eligibility
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual and consists of any of the basic services
activities to be carried out by FPS under Parts 1(a) and 2 of the Project."
(b) The following definition is deleted and the existing definitions are consequently
renumbered to keep the al .habetical order.
""Technical Project Team" means the unit referred to in Section I.B.2 of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement."
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing, dating and
returning to us the enclosed copy of this amendment letter. This amendment letter shall be
executed in two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.
The provisions set forth herein shall become effective upon receipt by the Association of:
a) a fully executed original of this amendment letter;
b) evidence, satisfactory to the Association, that the Subsidiary Agreement has been
amended to reflect the new responsibilities of FPS; and has been duly executed on
behalf of the Recipient and FPS; and
c) evidence that the Procurement Plan has been updated in a manner satisfactory to the
Association.


﻿8
Please note that the restructuring paper dated June 13, 2012 will be disclosed on the
Association's external website.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Susan . Goldmark
irector
Bolivia, Chil , cuador, Pers and Venezuela
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
PLURINATIONAL STATE OF BOLIVIA
By:    Viviana Caro Hinojosa
(Authorized Representative)
Title: Minister of Development Planning
Date:     1 5 AGO 2012


﻿Attachment A
AMENDED AND RESTATED
CREDIT NUMBER 4379-BO
Financing Agreement
(Lake Titicaca Local Sustainable Development Project)
between
PLURINATIONAL STATE OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 11, 2008, as amended on September 20, 2010, and amended and
restated on       e    -    , 2012


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 4379-BO
FINANCING AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated February 11, 2008, as amended on September 20, 2010 and
amended and restated on     (\-f  ,2    _, 2012 between the PLURINATIONAL
STATE OF BOLIVIA ("Recipient") and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION ("Association"). The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01.  The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II - FINANCING
2.01.  The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to
twelve million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
12,800,000) (variously, "Credit" and "Financing") to assist in financing the
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02.  The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03.  The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
2.04.  The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
2.05.  The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.


﻿-2-
2.06. The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07.  The Payment Currency is Dollars.
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
3.01.  The Recipient declares it; commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Recipient shall cause FPS, and FPS shall cause the Implementing
Entities, to carry out the Froject with the assistance of the Recipient's Ministry of
Environment and Water through its Vice-Ministry of Water and Basic Sanitation,
in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
3.02.  Without limitation upon :he provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
4.01. The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a)    FPS or the Implementing Entities shall have failed, in the opinion of the
Association, to perform any of their obligations under the Subsidiary
Agreement or the Implementation Agreements, as the case may be.
(b)    The Procurement Supreme Decree has been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repea ed or waived so as to render its Article 42 (a)
ineffective, in the opinion of the Association, and no provision analogous
to such Article 42 (a) has been adopted to replace said provision.
(c)    Any Implementation Agreement or any of its provisions has been
amended, suspended, abrogated, terminated, waived or not enforced, so
as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Association,
the ability of the FPS and the Implementing Entities to perform their
obligations as contemplated under the provisions of this Agreement.
4.02.  The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that any
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Association to
the Recipient.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01.  The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a)    The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient
and FPS.
(b)    The Operational Manual has been adopted in a manner satisfactory to the
Association.
5.02.  The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the
Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Recipient and
FPS and is legally binding upon the Recipient and the FPS in accordance with its
terms.
5.03.  Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this
Agreement, but in no case later than the eighteen (18) months after the
Association's approval of the Credit which expire on June 22, 2009.
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01.  The Recipient's Representative is its Minister of Development Planning.
6.02.  The Recipient's Address is:
Ministerio de Planificaci6n del Desarrollo
Avenida Mariscal Santa Cruz Esquina Oruro #1092
Ex Edificio Comibol
La Paz, Bolivia
Facsimile:
011-591-2-231-7408 (with a copy to: 011-591-2-239-2891)


﻿-4-
6.03.  The Association's Address is:
International Developmert Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable:              Telex:               Facsimile:
INDEVAS             248423 (MCI)         1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
PLURINATIONAL STATE OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Mario Gustavo Guzmdn Saldafia
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ C. Felipe Jaramillo
Authorized Representative


﻿-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to contribute to local sustainable
development in the Recipient's side of the Lake Titicaca watershed.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1. Support to Tourism Development and Cultural Protection
a)     Carrying out by Implementing Entities of infrastructure investments to
facilitate the enhancement of cultural, social, economic and
environmental assets, including, inter alia: (i) the improvement of tourist
sites; and (ii) the establishment of interpretation centers and small docks.
b)     Carrying out of a valuation study for a cultural heritage monument in
Lake Titicaca's Isla de Luna.
Part 2. Basic Services
a)     Carrying out of: (i) water and sanitation infrastructure for Lake Titicaca's
small rural communities; and (ii) training and provision of technical
assistance to the EPSA.
b)     Provision of technical assistance, works and goods to develop water
supply systems, sanitation facilities and the. rehabilitation of existing
sewerage networks and treatment plans in the cities of Copacabana,
Tiquina, Achacachi, Tiwanaku and Viacha.
c)     Provision of technical assistance, works and goods, to improve solid
waste collection for the cities of Copacabana, Achacachi, Tiwanaku and
Tiquina, including: (i) street cleaning; (ii) transportation; (iii) recycling;
and (iv) final disposal in sanitary landfills.
d)     Provision of technical assistance to ensure sustainable service provision,
through the creation of EPSA that will manage water, wastewater and
solid waste services and whose operating and maintenance costs are to be
covered by the users fees by the end of the Project.
e)     Provision of FPS Operating Costs for the carrying out of basic service
activities under Parts 2 and I (a) of the Project and financing of audits for
the Project.
f)     Provision  of technical assistance, goods and   works  for the
implementation and supervision of the Resettlement Framework.


﻿-6-
Part 3. Institutional Strengthening and Project Management
Provision of technical ass istance to promote the Recipient's international tourism
potential, through inter alia, the participation of VMT in tourism fairs.


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I.    Implementation Arrangements
A.     Subsidiary Agreement and Implementation Agreements
1.     To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient shall make part of the
proceeds of the Financing available to FPS through a subsidiary agreement
between the Recipient and FPS, under terms satisfactory to the Association
("Subsidiary Agreement"), including, inter alia, FPS's obligation to provide all
the necessary information and documentation to the Recipient related to FPS's
responsibilities under the Project (including but not limited to, the information
required for compliance with Section III.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement).
2.     The Recipient shall maintain all of the necessary conditions for FPS to comply
with its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement.
3.     Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph I above, FPS shall enter into an
agreement with each of the Implementing Entities ("Implementation
Agreement"), under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including those set forth in the Operational Manual, with respect to the role and
responsibilities of the Implementing Entities.
4.     The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement, and cause
FPS to exercise its rights under the Implementation Agreements, in such a
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to
accomplish the purposes of the Financing. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to
enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions.
5.    In the case of a conflict between the provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement or
the Implementation Agreements and the provisions of this Agreement, the
Recipient will ensure that the provisions of this Agreement will prevail.
B.     Institutional and Other Arrangements
1.     The Recipient shall cause FPS, and FPS shall cause the Implementing Entities,
to carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of:
(a)    this Agreement;
(b)    the Subsidiary Agreement;
(c)    the Implementation Agreements; and


﻿-8-
(d)     the Operational Manual.
2.     The Recipient shall ensure that appropriate mechanisms, acceptable to the
Association, are in place for the provision of administrative, technical and
financial support to FPS for the carrying out of the Project activities formerly
under the mandate of VMT, during the transition period and thereafter.
3.     At all times during the execution of the Project, the Recipient shall cause FPS to
maintain qualified staff responsible for the implementation of the Project with
staffing qualifications, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Association. The above-mentioned staff shall carry out quality control activities,
coordination, monitoring and oversight of the Project.
C.     Operational Manual
1 .    The Recipient shall cause FPS to, no later than June 30, 2012, update the
Operational Manual, in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
2.     The Recipient shall cause FPS, and FPS shall cause the Implementing Entities, to
carry out the Project, in accordance with the Operational Manual.
3.    Immediately after the Operational Manual shall have been updated as provided in
Section C. I above, the Recipient shall cause FPS, and FPS shall cause the
Implementing Entities, to carry out the Project in accordance with said updated
Operational Manual. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Recipient shall not amend, waive or fail to enforce the Operational Manual (or
the updated Operational Manual, as the case may be) or any provision thereof. In
case of any conflict between the terms of this Agreement and those of the
Operational Manual, the te,rms of this Agreement shall prevail.
4.     The Operational Manual shall include provisions detailing procedures and
guidelines for the carrying out of the Project, including, inter alia:
(a)    the procedures for the preparation, review and approval of reports
pursuant to the Prject's financial management arrangements;
(b)    procurement and contracting procedures consistent with Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, to be applicable to the contracts for the works, goods,
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit;
(c)    Project impact and implementation indicators and the procedures for the
monitoring and evaluation of the Project, including for compliance with
Section II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;


﻿-9-
(d)    the procedures for the Recipient's preparation, review and approval of
Credit proceeds withdrawal applications to the Association, in
conformity with the instructions that the Association may give to the
Recipient in this respect; and
(e)    the environmental management criteria and procedures for the carrying
out of rehabilitation and construction works under the Project, the
Resettlement Framework, and the mechanisms to address the culturally
specific needs of the Aymara to ensure that the benefits of the Project are
culturally appropriate and that there is broad community support for the
Project.
D.     Anti-Corruption
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
E.     Other Covenants
1.     Not later than one year after the Effective Date, the Recipient and the
Association shall carry out a comprehensive review of the Project
focused on Project performance. After said review is completed, the
Recipient shall take, if necessary, any actions recommended to remedy
any problems identified during the review.
2.     The Recipient shall maintain throughout the implementation of the
Project, the units referred to in paragraph B.4 of Section IV to this
Schedule.
Section II.   Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A.     Project Reports
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
or cause to be prepared Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of
Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the Indicators. Each
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
furnished to the Association not later than one month after the end of the period
covered by such report. The Recipient shall review the most recent Project
Report with the Association during the Association's semi-annual meetings with
the Recipient, or on such later dates as the Association may request.


﻿- 10-
B.     Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. The Recipient shall maintain (or cause to be maintained) a financial management
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General
Conditions.
2.     The Recipient shall prepare (or cause to be prepared) and furnish to the
Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim
un-audited financial reports for each Part of the Project covering the calendar
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association
3.     The Recipient shall, and shall cause FPS to, have the Financial Statements for
each part of the Project to be audited in accordance with the provisions of Section
4.09 (b) of the General Conditions. For those Financial Statements prepared by
VMT, the audit of said statements shall be completed and furnished to the
Association no later than June 30, 2012. For those Financial Statements prepared
by FPS, each audit of said statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of
the Recipient or such other period to be agreed with the Association,
commencing with the earlier of: (a) the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal
under the Project Preparation Advance was made; and (b) the fiscal year in which
the first withdrawal under this Agreement was made. The audited Financial
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Association not later
than six months after the cnd of such period.
Section III.  Procurement
A.     General
Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Services. All goods, works and non-
consultant services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth
or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions
of this Section.
2.     Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the
Consultant Guidelines, with the provisions of this Section and with the provisions
of Section II of Annex A to this Schedule.
3.     Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.


﻿- 11 -
B.     Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant
Services
1.    International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of International Competitive Bidding.
2.     Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant
Services. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and
non-consultant services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances
under which such methods may be used:
Procurement Method
(e)  National Competitive Bidding, subject to the
additional provisions set forth in Section I of Annex
A to this Schedule 2.
(f)  Shopping (only in emergency cases).
(g)  Direct Contracting.
(h)  Community Participation in Procurement.
C.     Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1 .   Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
2.     Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection,
which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan shall specify
the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a)  Quality-based Selection.
(b)  Selection under a Fixed Budget.
(c)  Least Cost Selection.


﻿- 12 -
(d)  Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications.
(e)  Single Source Selection.
(f)  Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of
the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
(g)  Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of
Individual Consultants.
D.     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1 .    The Procurement Plan shzll set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
Association's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review
by the Association, except for those contracts terminated by the Implementing
Entities for which the Recipient shall seek the Association's no objection prior to
the proposed termination.
2.     Annual Procurement Audits. The Recipient shall cause FPS to:
(a)    not later than April 30 of each year during the implementation of the
Project, contract independent auditors with experience and qualifications
satisfactory to the Association, operating under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association, to perform a procurement audit of all the
procurement records and documentation for the Project, relating to the
Recipient's previDus fiscal year of implementation of the Project, in
accordance with procurement auditing principles acceptable to the
Association ("Procurement Audit");
(b)    not later than July 31 of each year during the implementation of the
Project, and continuing for each year thereafter during the
implementation of the Project, furnish to the Association the report, in
form and substan.e satisfactory to the Association, on the Procurement
Audit completed for the Recipient's prior fiscal year;
(c)    at all times during the implementation of the Project, furnish to the
Association and 1o the auditors performing a Procurement Audit, such
other  information  concerning  the  procurement  records  and
documentation for the Project as the Association or the auditors may
from time to time reasonably request; and
(d)    not later than September 30 of each year during the implementation of
the Project, exchange views with the Association on the results of the


﻿- 13 -
Procurement Audit completed for the Recipient's prior fiscal year and
thereafter implement such recommended measures, taking into account
the Association's views on the matter.
Section IV.   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A.     General
1. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
the provisions of Article 1I of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient
(including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2.     The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing ("Category"), the allocations of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:
Percentage of
Amount of the Credit     Expenditures
Allocated          to be Financed
Catepory                (expressed in SDR)   (inclusive of Taxes)
(1)(a) Works, Goods, Training,           2,288,590              100%
Consultants Services under Part lof the
Project; and
100% (Expenditures
(b) Works, Goods, Training,               180,073        incurred and/or paid
Consultants Services and VMT                             by VMT under
Operating Costs under former Parts 1                     Category 1(b) before
(b), (c) and (d) of the Project                          and/or on December
31, 2011)
(2) Works, Goods, Consultants            8,719,356              100%
Services and Training under Part 2 of
the Project, including audits


﻿- 14 -
Percentage of
Amount of the Credit     Expenditures
Allocated          to be Financed
Category                (expressed in SDR)   (inclusive of Taxes)
100% (Expenditures
(3) Goods, Consultants Services,                         incurred and/or paid
Training and VMT Operating             686,506        for by VMT under
Costs under Part 3 of the Project,                    Category 3 before
including audits                                      and/or on June 30,
2012)
5% of the total cost
(4) FPS Operating Costs                    598,954        of the Investment
Subprojects paid in
tranches as set forth
in the Operational
Manual
(5) Refund of Project Preparation          326,522        Amount payable
Advance                                               pursuant to Section
2.07 of the General
Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT                         12,800,000
3. For purposes of the table in paragraph 2 above, the terms:
(a) "Training" means reasonable expenditures (other than those for consultants'
services) incurred for the purposes of the Project and directly related to training
activities described in the Project, including, inter alia, costs related to
workshops, seminars, conferences, study tours, training registration fees, facility
rentals, and travel costs and per diems for FPS civil service officials or
employees as well as for other stakeholders;
(b) "FPS Operating Costs" means reasonable recurrent expenditures (other than
those for consultants' services) incurred by FPS for the purposes of the Project
and directly related to the activities described in the Project, including, inter alia,
salaries of staff, office materials and supplies, operation and maintenance of
office equipment, insurance, vehicle and equipment operation, bank charges on
the Designated Account, transportation, phone and fax charges, media
campaigns, travel and per diem of FPS officials for purposes of Project
supervision and printing cf materials; and
(c) "VMT Operating Costs" means reasonable recurrent expenditures (other than
those for consultants' services) incurred by VMT and/or paid for by VMT before
and/or on June 30, 2012 f:r the purposes of the Project and directly related to the


﻿- 15 -
activities described in the Project, including, inter alia, office materials and
supplies, operation and maintenance of office equipment, insurance, vehicle and
equipment operation, bank charges on the Designated Account, utilities, rental of
office space, transportation, phone and fax charges, media campaigns, travel and
per diem of VMT and the Recipient's Vice Ministry of Water and Basic
Sanitation Services officials for purposes of Project supervision and printing of
materials.
B.     Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1 .    Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawals shall be
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent may
be made for payments made one year prior to such date but in no case before
November 9, 2007 for Eligible Expenditures.
2.     No withdrawals shall be made for payments under Categories (1) and (2) of the
table in paragraph A above, until the respective Implementation Agreement with
each Implementing Entity has been executed.
3.     No withdrawals shall be made for payments under Categories (1) (b) and (3) of
the table in paragraph A above, until a financial management system within
VMT, satisfactory to the Association, is operational. .
4.     No withdrawals shall be made for payments under Categories I (a) and 2 of the
table in paragraph A above, until FPS has established to the satisfaction of the
Association: (i) the control and monitoring unit under FPS's executive office; (ii)
the environmental unit; and (iii) the procurement monitoring unit.
5.     The Closing Date is February 2, 2015.
6.     The Recipient shall review and adjust annually, or at any other time agreed with
the Association, the FPS Operating Costs. Such adjustment shall be unnecessary
if the Association is satisfied that said review reveals no change in FPS
Operating Costs.


﻿- 16-
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 2
Additional Provisions Relating to
Particular Methods of Procurement
Section I.   Goods and Work
Without limitation upon the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement or the
Procurement Guidelines, the following additional provisions shall apply to all goods and
works procured for the Project (pursuant to Section III.A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement) under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding
("NCB Contracts"):
1.    A merit point system shall not be used in the pre-qualification of bids.
2.     The award of goods and works contracts shall be based exclusively on price and,
whenever appropriate, siall also take into account factors similar to those
referred to in paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid
evaluation shall always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively,
and the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to
bid.
3.     The Recipient shall open all bids at the stipulated time and place in accordance
with a procedure satisfactory to the Association.
4.     The Recipient shall use a single envelope procedure.
5.     Whenever there is a discr.pancy between the amounts in figures and in words of
a bid, the amounts in words shall govern.
6.     Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the bidding process shall not be
declared void if only three (3) bids or less have been submitted unless such bids
have been determined not to be responsive.
7.     Any standards and technical specifications (quoted in the bidding documents)
that are at least substantially equivalent to the national standards and technical
specifications shall be acceptable.
8.     Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate.
9.     Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize any documentation related to
their bids with Bolivian authorities as a prerequisite for bidding.


﻿- 17 -
10.    No margin of preference shall be granted for any particular category of bidders.
11.    The auction procedure (Puja Abierta) shall not be used.
12.   In the event that a bidder whose bid was evaluated as the bid with the lowest
evaluated price withdraws its bid, the contract may be awarded to the second
lowest responsive evaluated bid.
13.    Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required to enter
into a joint venture agreement with local bidders.
14.    No other procurement rules or regulations of the Recipient's agencies or of any
state-owned entity shall apply without the prior review and consent of the
Association.
15.    Resolution of dispute between the contractor or supplier and any of the
Implementing Entities shall follow a dispute resolution mechanism that is
satisfactory to the Association.
16.    Recipient State-owned enterprises shall be allowed to participate in bids only
upon their compliance with the provisions of paragraph 1.8 (c) of the Guidelines.
17.    No contractor or supplier shall be denied fair and equitable treatment in any
resolution of dispute with the Recipient and/or any of its executing agencies.
18.    Bidding documents for NCB shall include Anticorruption Clauses that shall be
substantially identical to those pertaining to the Association Standard Bidding
Documents for ICB.
Section II.   Selection of Consultant Services
Without limitation upon the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement or the Consultant
Guidelines, the following additional provisions shall apply to all consultants' services
procured for the Project (pursuant to Section III.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement):
1.     As a condition for participating in the selection process, foreign consultants shall
not be required to enter into a joint venture agreement with local consultants,
unless the conditions stated in paragraph 1.1.2 of the Consultant Guidelines are
met.
2.     As a condition for participating in the selection process, foreign consultants shall
not be required to legalize their proposals or any documentation related to such
proposals with the Recipient's authorities.


﻿- 18-
3.     Foreign consultants shal not be required to be registered in the Recipient's
National Registry of Consultants (Registro Nacional de Consultoria).
4.     Resolution of dispute between the consultant and any of the Implementing
Agencies shall follow a dispute resolution mechanism that is satisfactory to the
Association.
5.     Consultants, either firms or individuals, shall not be required to present bid and
performance securities as a condition to present proposals and sign an award
contract.
6.     No consultant, individua ly or as a firm, shall be denied a fair and equitable
treatment in its resolution of dispute with the Recipient and/or any of its
executing agencies.
7.     Request for proposals documents for consultancy contracts shall include anti-
corruption clauses identical to those of the SBD.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Repayment Schedule
Principal Amount of the Credit
repayable
Date Payment Due                         (expressed as a percentage)*
On each February 15 and August 15:
Commencing February 15, 2018                              1.25%
to and including August 15, 2027.
Commencing February 15, 2028, to and including           2.50%
August 15, 2042.
* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of
the General Conditions.


﻿- 20 -
APPENDIX
Section I.   Definitions
1. "Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006.
2.     "Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
3.     "Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in May 2004 and
revised in October 2006.
4.     "Departmental Autonomous Government " means Gobiernos Aut6nomos
Departamentales, the local representations (Departamentos) of the Recipient's
executive branch, an entity with legal personality established pursuant to the
Recipient's Law No. 031 (Ley Marco de Autonomias), dated July 19, 2010 and
published in the Recipieni's Official Gazette on the same date, as amended to the
date to this Agreement.
5.     "EPSA" means Entidad Prestadora de Servicios de Agua Potable y
Alcantarillado Sanitario, a public or private legal entity providing water and
wastewater services in the Recipient's territory, established and operating
pursuant to the Recipient's Law No. 2066, dated April 11, 2000, and published in
the Recipient's Official Gazette on the same date, and Recipient's Law No. 3602,
dated January 1, 2007, and published in the Recipient's Official Gazette on the
same date, both as amended to the date of this Agreement.
6.     "FPS" means Fondo Nac,onal de Inversi6n Productiva y Social, the Recipient's
national productive and social investment fund established pursuant to Article 14
of the Recipient's Suprcme Decree No. 25984 of November 16, 2000 and
published in the Recipient's Official Gazette on the same date, and the
Recipient's Supreme Decree No. 29152 (Decreto Supremo) dated June 6, 2007
and published in the Recipient's Official Gazette on the same date.
7.     "General Conditions" means the "International Development Association
General Conditions for Credits and Grants", dated July 1, 2005 (as amended
through October 15, 2006).
8.     "Implementation Agreements" means the agreements referred to in Section I.A.3
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to be entered between FPS and the
Implementing Entities.


﻿-21 -
9.     "Implementing Entities" means any of the Recipient's Municipal Autonomous
Governments, Departmental Autonomous Governments, other public entities and
non-government organizations, which meet the eligibility criteria set forth in the
Operational Manual to carry out activities under the Project.
10.    "Indicators" means the impact and implementation indicators set forth in the
Operational Manual.
11.    "Investment Subprojects" means any specific subproject which meets the
eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual 'and consists of any of the
basic services activities to be carried out by FPS under Parts 1(a) and 2 of the
Project.
12.    "Ministry of Culture" means Ministerio de Culturas, the Recipient's Ministry of
Culture, established and operated pursuant the Recipient's Supreme Decree No.
29894 dated February 7, 2009 and published in the Recipient's Official Gazette
on the same date, and the Recipient's Supreme Decree No. 0429 (Decreto
Supremo) dated February 10, 2010 and published in the Recipient's Official
Gazette on the same date, or it successor or successors thereto.
13.    "Ministry of Environment and Water" means, Ministerio de Medio Ambiente y
Aguas, the Recipient's Environment and Water or it successor or successors
thereto.
14.    "Municipal Autonomus Goverment" means Gobierno Autdnomo Municipal, an
entity with legal personality established pursuant to the Recipient's Law No. 031
(Ley Marco de Autonomias), dated July 19, 2010 and published in the Recipient's
Official Gazette on the same date, as amended to the date to this Agreement.
15.    "Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section I.C of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
16.    "Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in
October, 2006.
17.    "Procurement Plan" means the Recipient's procurement plan for the Project,
dated November 8, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.
18.    "Procurement Supreme Decree" means the Recipient's Supreme Decree No.
29190 (Decreto Supremo No 29190) of July 11, 2007, as amended and as in
effect on the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 22 -
19.   "Project Preparation Advance" means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 of
the General Conditions, granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to
the letter agreement signed on behalf of the Association on December 20, 2006
and on behalf of the Recipient on January 22, 2007.
20.    "Resettlement Framework" means Marco de Reasentamiento, dated October 4,
2007, published in the VMT's webpage (http//lago.titikaka.googlepages.com) on
October 4, 2007.
21.    "State of the Lake Report" means Reporte del Estado del Lago, an annual report
published by VMT that includes annual social, environmental and tourism
indicators for the Recipient's region of Lake Titicaca.
22.    "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section I.A.1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, pursuant to which the Recipient shall make part of
the proceeds of the Financing available to FPS.
23.    "Vice-Ministry of Water and Basic Sanitation" means Viceministerio de Agua
Potable y Saneamiento Bdsico, the Recipient's Vice-Ministry of Water and Basic
Sanitation or it successor or successors thereto.
24.    "VMT" means the Recipient's Vice Ministry of Tourism, formerly ascribed to
the ministry of production and micro enterprise in the Agreement, and now
included in the Recipient's institutional framework into the Ministry of Culture
(hereinafter defined) pursuant to the Recipient's Supreme Decree No. 0429
(Decreto Supremo) dated February 10, 2010 and published in the Recipient's
Official Gazette on the sa-ne date, with same functions and institutional mandate
assigned to it by the Recipient's Supreme Decree No. 29894 dated February 7,
2009 and published in tie Recipient's Official Gazette on the same date, or
successor or successors thereto.


