      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      BO- Lake Titicaca Local Sust Dev (P101426)



                                                                                                                    Report Number : ICRR0020013


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                              Project Name
 P101426                                                 BO- Lake Titicaca Local Sust Dev

 Country                                                 Practice Area(Lead)
 Bolivia                                                 Social, Urban, Rural and Resilience Global Practice



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                       Closing Date (Original)                                        Total Project Cost (USD)
  IDA-43790                                              30-Jun-2013                                                                23,010,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                     Closing Date (Actual)
  20-Dec-2007                                            02-Feb-2015

                                                               IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                     Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                              20,000,000.00                                                               0.00

  Revised Commitment                                               10,925,009.45                                                               0.00

  Actual                                                            9,379,814.44                                                               0.00




 Sector(s)
 Other Industry, Trade and Services(35%):Wastewater Treatment and Disposal(18%):Sanitation(17%):Water supply(15%):Central
 Government(15%)

 Theme(s)
 Rural non-farm income generation(33%):Urban services and housing for the poor(33%):Cultural Heritage(17%):Pollution management and
 environmental health(17%)

 Prepared by                         Reviewed by                          ICR Review Coordinator               Group
 Justine Marie Kluijskens            Christopher David Nelson             Christopher David Nelson             IEGSD (Unit 4)




2. Project Objectives and Components

a. Objectives
    The Project's Development Objective in the Legal Agreement was: to contribute to local sustainable development in the Bolivian part of the
    Lake Titicaca watershed. (Loan Agreement, page 5) The PAD (page 8) has the same development objective as mentioned in the Legal
    Agreement.
    The PAD, page 8, includes two expected outcomes:

       1 facilitating local activities that support tourism development and cultural protection in the communities surrounding the Lake, and
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          BO- Lake Titicaca Local Sust Dev (P101426)



          2 improving basic water and sanitation services.




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     Yes


     Did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
     No



c.   Components
     There were three components:

          1 Support to Tourism Development and Cultural Protection


     Appraisal cost estimated at: US $ 8.91 million (US $8.25 million Bank financing; US $ 0.66 million counterpart financing). Actual cost: US$
     4.52 million (US$ 3.86 million Bank financing; US$ 0.66 million counterpart) ( ICR, page 4 and 5 and PAD, page 9).
     This component was to support activities that promote quality of life, strengthen cultural identity, provide critical tourism infrastructure, and
     improve economic development for local communities within the Lake Titicaca Basin. Most of the activities were dropped at the second
     restructuring and some of the remaining funds were used to add activities to component 2, as outlined below.

          1 Basic Services


     Appraisal cost estimated at: US$ 11.09 million (US$ 8.74 million Bank financing; US$ 2.35 million counterpart) Actual cost: US$ 15.97
     million (US$ 13.62 million Bank financing; US$ 2.35 million counterpart) ( ICR, page 4 and 5 and PAD, page 9).
     This component was to facilitate access to improved services and infrastructure in prioritized municipalities and communities within the
     Lake Basin through the Vice Ministry of Tourism and Basic Services. At the second restructuring a subcomponent was modified to include
     technical assistance, goods and works to develop water supply systems in the five cities and more Bank funding was made available.
     3. Institutional Strengthening and Project Management
     Appraisal cost: US$ 3.01 million (US$ 3.01 million Bank financing; US$ 0.00 million counterpart) Actual cost: US$ 2.51 million (US$ 2.51
     million Bank financing; US$ 0.00 million counterpart) ( ICR, page 4-5 and PAD, page 9)
     This component was to: i) enhance the land-use planning and management capacity of municipalities within the Lake Titicaca Basin
     through the municipal strategic and land-use plans, and ii) enhance the development and annual updating of technical and social data –
     the Lake’s water quality and natural habitat, as well as quality of life indicators for the communities. The Inter-Institutional Committee
     created to advise and support implementation was replaced with bi-annual workshops. M&E is also included in this component but not
     costed.
     The First Restructuring in September 20, 2010 reflected the reorganization of the implementing agency to a different ministry in order to
     speed up the process; and the inter-institutional committee was replaced with bi-yearly inter-institutional workshops. In addition, turn-key
     and public academic institutions contracting were introduced to improve procurement. (ICR, page 6). A subcomponent was modified to
     include Tiquina, a strategic tourist community that benefitted from improved solid waste management. At this stage no changes were
     made to the financing of components.
     The Second Restructuring in June 13, 2012 was a result of low disbursement rates (a total of $2.39 million or 11.95% of the total loan
     amount since effectiveness - second restructuring paper, page 4). The Project’s implementation was unsatisfactory and led to the
     restructuring, including changes in components, allocations, and corresponding changes in indicators. Most of component 1 (Tourist
     Development and Cultural Protection) and some of component 3 (Institutional Strengthening and Project Management) activities
     and investments were dropped while component 2 (Basic Services) was strengthened with additional investments. The National
     Productive and Social Investment Fund (FPS) became the sole agency implementing Project investments and technical assistance. As a
     consequence, all those components and activities that were previously under the responsibility of the Vice Ministry of Tourism (VMT) but
     had not yet been initiated were either dropped or reduced in scope. In addition, some subcomponents were substituted in the Basic
     Services component that were outside the original scope of the targeted investments but supported the PDO. ( ICR, page 6, para 20-29)
     The ICRR notes changes to the component Tourist Development and Cultural Protection and Institutional Strengthening and
     Project Management.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       BO- Lake Titicaca Local Sust Dev (P101426)




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
    Project Cost
    The total cost of the project at appraisal was US$23.01 million and at closure only US$12.68 was disbursed which is 55% of the original
    appraisal costs (ICR, page 25). The significant drop in disbursements was a result of dropping most activities in component 1.
    Financing
    The financing was from an IDA credit for US$9.89 which is 49% of the estimated credit at appraisal of US$20 million. (ICR, page 25). IDA
    was the sole financier.
    Borrower contribution
    The Borrower’s contribution was (ICR, page 25) US $ 2.79 million which is 93% of the estimated contribution at appraisal of US$ 3.01
    million.
    Dates
    The project was approved on 12/20/2007, and was effective on 03/01/2008 (three months after approval which was due to delays in
    signing documents and other procedural matters). Original closing date was 06/13/2013, and final closing date was 02/02/2015 (eighteen
    months after the original closing dates due to slow implementation and restructuring as well as the Recipient’s request to extend it (from
    June 30, 2013 to February 2, 2015, Second restructuring paper, page 4).). The project was Restructured on 09/20/2010 and 06/13/2012.
     It took four years into implementation before the first restructuring took place. The Project Development Objective was not revised.
    Financing:
    There was no external financing apart from the borrower’s contribution.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   Relevance of the objectives under both the original and revised targets is rated Substantial
   The Objectives of the project are relevant and in line with both National and Bank strategies and policies at appraisal and this continued to be
   the case at the restructuring and closing. The project is in line with national development objectives as stipulated in the National Plan for Basic
   Sanitation 2009-2015 and a National Tourism Plan which considers tourism as the overarching and cross-cutting theme that can support
   development in the country. It is also in line with the priorities in the Bank’s CPS for 2010-15. The project meets two of the four CAS priority
   areas in a loose, but connected way: sustainable productive development (CAS, 2012- 2015, page ii, 18, 19, ); and human development and
   access to basic services ( CAS, 2012- 2015, page ii, 20,22). The activities set out to achieve the outcomes in the CAS are relevant, if
   somewhat distant from the broad ambition outlined against improving basic services.




   Rating                                                                               Revised Rating
   Substantial                                                                          Substantial


b. Relevance of Design

   Relevance of the design under the original and revised targets is rated Modest. The project components reflect certain aspects of the necessary
   steps required to achieve the objective; tourism and small business development; water supply and sanitation infrastructure, waste, solid waste
   and water treatment; institutional strengthening at national and decentralized levels of government, project management and M&E, but the
   disparate nature of how they fit together and work in tandem to achieve the objective is difficult to see. The ICR points to the limitations of the
   design, acknowledging that the dual sector approach did not make sense given the government's commitments and the Bank's strategic
   approach. In addition, the ICR correctly points out that the dual approach intended for the project did not align to national planning approaches,
   nor to the way line ministries worked. These shortcomings were important to the difficult coordination of the project and the disconnect in
   program logic in how the objective was to be fulfilled. The shift of focus from a dual sector approach to a single focus on water, sanitation and
   waste could still be considered contributing to the development objective but no new intermediary outcome indictors were introduced to reflect
   the changes and the necessary steps to be taken to ensure a contribution to basic services. Therefore, there is a significant gap in how the
   outputs will lead to the outcomes and in turn how the outcomes contribute to the development objective before and after restructuring.
   Quality of the Results Framework
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                    Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            BO- Lake Titicaca Local Sust Dev (P101426)



       As formulated in the PDO, the project’s overarching development objective to contribute to local sustainable development in the Bolivian part of
       the Lake Titicaca watershed was to be achieved through two outputs; “tourism development” and “improved water and sanitation,” in turn
       leading to fostering sustainable development of the Lake Titicaca Region. The design did not take into account that both the Bank and the
       government’ were working in large single sector approaches. (ICR, page 17, para 89). The causal chain between Bank funding, activities,
       outputs and intended outcomes is clear but there is limited discussion in the ICR around why the two aspects of the project were combined and
       this makes it difficult for IEG to identify the theory of change for the project.It is not clear from the formulation of the objective or from the results
       framework how tourism development and access to clean water and sanitation will lead to sustainable development. It is assumed that this is
       the case. The PDO indicators are not chosen to provide evidence about the final development objective and the intermediate outcome
       indicators (ICR, pp 18, para 95) are all output-based. These were only indicators used to monitor and evaluate the project; they would not have
       provided sufficient information about whether the project achieved its objective of contributing to sustainable development.
       After restructuring It became more evident that a dual sector approach was not responding to the CAS and government’s way of working. Two
       of the three PDO indicators were dropped leaving only one indicator for water and sanitation and waste management. Some activities
       continued in the Tourism component without a rationale. The revised number of output indicators continued to only monitor and evaluate the
       project; they still would not have provided sufficient information about whether the project achieved its objective of contributing to sustainable
       development. Knowing that the PDO indicators were not being met before restructuring it would have been necessary to identify new ones in
       order to assess the outcome in basic services. The numbers for the total of beneficiaries increased considerable but it is not clear from the ICR
       whether this is a result of the project (the investment in sewage is part of a larger investment outside the project) while some of the
       implementation of the works was ongoing at project closure. There is no reporting on the few activities left in tourism. In addition, since the
       coordination parts between the sectors were no longer in place there was no effort undertaken to define other monitoring and evaluation tools.
       The quality of the Results Framework did not improve after restructuring.




       Rating                                                                                  Revised Rating
       Modest                                                                                  Modest




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     Facilitating local activities that support tourism development and cultural protection in the communities surrounding the Lake

    Rationale
    Outputs:

        • Tourism improvement projects. The target was set at 100 tourism improvement projects and 2 were achieved at the end of the project.
        • Cultural sites protected: the target was 20 and 0 achieved.
        • Small businesses supported. The target set at 100 and there were no achievements
        • The project under the component institutional strengthening had an output of tourism studies completed of 4 and 2 were completed
        at closure. The information in the ICR is inconsistent in reporting on this target and contradicting tables suggest that the target was
        eliminated at restructuring but that nevertheless one study was completed.


    Outcome
    The outcome was not achieved to any significant degree and the evidence provided in the ICR is very limited. Tourism as an engine for
    development combined with improved water, sanitation and waste services for local communities would provide these communities with
    considerable opportunities to improve their lives (health) and income from tourist activities. The ICR fails to explain, for example, why the
    support to small business related to the tourist sector did not receive the necessary investment.
    There is no discussion in the ICR, nor evidence from project as to who benefitted from the few tourist improvement projects that were
    completed.
            Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
            BO- Lake Titicaca Local Sust Dev (P101426)




    Rating
    Negligible




    Revised Objective
    Facilitating local activities that support tourism development and cultural protection in the communities surrounding the Lake

    Revised Rationale
    Outputs:

        • Tourism improvement projects - The target was set at 100 tourism improvement projects and 2 were achieved at the end of the
        project. The target was revised to 31 at restructuring, but was still high given that the project was so close to closure. Only 2 tourism
        improvement projects were completed after restructuring.
        • Cultural sites protected. The target was 20 and at restructuring the achievement was 0 and the output was dropped at restructuring.
        • Small businesses supported. The target and outputs were dropped at restructuring.
        • The project under the component institutional strengthening had an output of tourism studies completed. The target was 4 and at
        restructuring the target was reduced to 2 which was achieved at closure. The information in the ICR is inconsistent in reporting on this
        target and contradicting tables suggest that the target was eliminated at restructuring but that nevertheless one study was completed.
        • At restructuring, activities aimed at promoting the region were added as an output and the original target of three studies was
        achieved but these studies have had no follow up and were not tracked to assess their impact on the outcome in any significant way.


    Outcome

        • Targeted cultural heritage investments and Community demand driven small-scale investments for tourism.


    The outcome was not achieved to any significant degree and the evidence provided in the ICR is very limited. Tourism was to improve
    lives, but there is no evidence that this in fact occurred. Moreover, adding an output at restructuring like “Activities aimed at promoting the
    region’s international tourism potential” does not make sense if the tourist sites had not been improved and local communities were not in a
    position to provide the services required of tourists.


    Revised Rating
    Negligible

PHEFFICACYTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     The basic services in water, sanitation and waste services improved for rural and urban communities.

    Rationale
    Outputs:

        • Small scale water and sanitation structures had a target of 20 which was exceeded since 39 were achieved.
        • Urban communities with adequate wastewater services was set at 5. The ICR is inconsistent in its reporting: the achievement is 1 (
        ICR page, viii) versus achieved 0 ( ICR, page 19, para 95)
        • Cities with adequate solid waste management was targeted at 3, This was exceeded at project closure with 4.


    For all three outputs the World Bank Core indicators overview provided in the ICR ( page 27) does not link a specific output to the
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       BO- Lake Titicaca Local Sust Dev (P101426)



 component outputs but to the project. This makes it impossible to assess what has been achieved per component.
 In sum the achievements are:

    • Rural Water Supply Systems: 34 communities in 4 municipalities benefiting and 8,414 people
    • Rural Sanitation Systems: 3 municipalities benefitting a population of 2,536.
    • People provided with access to “Improved Water Sources” under the project 8,414
    • New piped household water connections that are resulting from the project intervention 1,974
    • Water utilities that the project is supporting 31
    • People provided with access to “improved sanitation facilities” under the project 2,536
    • Improved latrines constructed under the project 634
    • Sub-projects or investments for which arrangements for community engagement in postproject sustainability and/or operations and
    maintenance are established 100%
    • Industrial and municipal waste disposal capacity created under the project (tons) 16,617
    • Contaminated land managed or dump sites closed under the project (ha) 0.75
    • People in urban areas provided with access to regular solid waste collection under the project 19,362


 Based on the above outputs it is impossible to verify how the targets have been achieved : it is a mixture of different outputs.
 The ICR reports that ‘in the last year, the Project would implement what was ready to be implemented in the time period and could consider
 new projects that were outside the original scope of the targeted investments but supported the PDO’. (ICR, page 12,13, para 61,62) The
 ICR indicates that 10 new works were added works in rural water supply systems in two municipalities; rural sanitation systems in two
 municipalities; additional solid waste equipment in four municipalities; and a sewerage system in one municipality.
 The total beneficiary population for basic services was 27,776 two years after restructuring ( 2012-2014). The project entered a third phase
 introducing the additional works increasing the number of benefiacies benefitted under the project from 30,041 to 57,817.
 Achievement to improved basic services in water, sanitation and waste services for rural and urban communities is achieved is
 rated modest under the original target.


 Rating
 Negligible




 Revised Objective
 The basic services in water, sanitation and waste services improved for rural and urban communities.

 Revised Rationale
 Outputs:
 In sum the achievements are the same as under the original rating, though many more had been completed and the disbursement rate
 increased significantly following the restructure.
 At restructuring it was clear that the project could not deliver satisfactorily in both components and that is was very unlikely that sustainable
 development in the Lake Titicaca region would be achieved.
 The ICR does not address the extent to which – after restructuring – the project contributed further to the development objective.
 The results framework and output indicators were not revised and there is little information on how the reduction in PDO indicators provides
 a better overview of the project's achievements.




 Revised Rating
 Modest




5. Efficiency

No comprehensive economic rate of return analysis was calculated either at appraisal or at closure.
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         BO- Lake Titicaca Local Sust Dev (P101426)



 Different types of economic analysis were conducted for the components at appraisal :
 For Component 1, the Project benefits were calculated based on projected increases in the volume of tourist visits based on historical trends,
 the average length of stay in the area and the average expenditure per tourist in the Region. (PAD, page 20 and ICR, page 9 Annex 3).
 Disappointingly, this approach was subsequently dropped and we do not see what impact, if any, the project had on the tourism sector with
 regards to costs and benefits.
 For Component 2, a detailed economic cost benefit analysis was conducted from a sample of 21 potential subprojects (PAD, page 20). The
 main benefits of these projects are improved water services to 5,545 beneficiaries in 21 small communities in the municipality of Laja. Of the
 21 pilot projects, 12 were found to be economically viable with a NPV average of US$44.85 and an average of IRR of 29 percent. This
 calculation covers only part of the basic services component. Several assumptions underpin this analysis, including investment, economic,
 maintenance and operations costs, incremental benefits and discount rates. The conclusion is that the economic analysis is a conservative
 estimate of the economic impacts of the financed investments. ( PAD, page 85). At appraisal the timing of the project was considered ‘good’
 since the Government prioritized tourism as one of the key sectors for the country’s economic development. (PAD, page 86).
 The ICR did not undertake an economic analyses for small activities in the Tourism component since most of the outputs were dropped.
 There is no analysis for the few activities that remained.
 For the ICR ( page 19) an economic analysis was undertaken covering the subproject investments under the basic services component (
 Water Supply Projects, Solid Waste Management Systems and the Sewerage Project) but all used different methods and values compared to
 the PAD. Moreover, the Sewerage Project is part of a larger investment which was not yet completed. The ICR (page 19), however, reports
 that a net present value (NPV) of USD 2.1 million and an internal rate of return (IRR) of 15.8% were obtained.
 The economic analysis of the investments reported in the ICR indicated the investments met the standard based on economic efficiency or
 cost-benefit analysis. These analyses are sub component specific and do not correspond to the economic analysis at appraisal. Moreover,
 some works were added outside the Bank’s investment which is not reported upon and therefore it is not clear whether these are included in
 the calculations. The ICR, however, provides costs per community or town per activity and calculate the costs per beneficiary. User fees were
 expected to cover O&M costs ( PAD, page 11) and the ICR reports on work undertaken to assess the willingness to pay for such services. It is
 uncertain, however, whether that willingness still exists after a considerable delay of implementing the works. An additional assumption is that
 water and waste companies are fully functioning which is not commented upon.
 Administratively, the project was expensive to administer and was plagued by various delays that made it difficult to achieve the PDO. The
 preparation and supervision costs of 23% are unreasonably high and there is little evidence that the project sought to find ways to efficiently
 administer what was an overly complex project. The project suffered from a very slow disbursement rate and the studies were delayed or
 cancelled which affected the design and procurement of works. After restructuring most of the earlier prepared works were finally being
 pushed forward to procurement stage but not all were completed at closure. The project closed 18 months after the estimated closing date at
 appraisal. Due to slow implementation, two restructurings and extremely low disbursement rates; insufficient economic analysis, the Efficiency
 is rated at Modest before and after restructuring.




Efficiency Rating
Modest


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                              Rate Available?             Point value (%)                  *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                           0
 Appraisal                                                                0
                                                                                                           Not Applicable

                                                                                                           0
 ICR Estimate                                                             0
                                                                                                           Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         BO- Lake Titicaca Local Sust Dev (P101426)




Outcome under original indicators /targets: Unsatisfactory
Relevance of the project objectives both before and following the restructure is rated as Substantial. However, the relevance of design was weak
and is rated modest both before and after the restructure.
Efficacy of the first objective is negligible in both periods, with little progress made against the outcome even after the changes that took place
during the restructure. Efficacy against the second objective did improve following the restructure and is reflected in the improvement from
negligible prior to the restructure to modest post restructure.
Efficiency is rated Modest as benefits were only partially realized, the project closed 18 months after the original project closing date and there
were considerable administrative inefficiencies.
Thus, the outcome rating both before and after restructuring is Unsatisfactory even with the slight improvement in the achievement of Objective
2.



a.     Outcome Rating
       Unsatisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

The risk to sustainability is substantial despite the project’s capacity building and increased experience in water and sanitation management in
the country. There is no reporting on how financial and human resources are secured in the future and whether beneficiaries are prepared to pay
for the services. It is not clear from the ICR whether funding and future commitments are secured, including at the decentralized levels of
government and from the water companies.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Substantial


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     Preparations in the PAD were substantial, including employing a participatory approach to assess needs in the communities, ensuring that
     targeting investments would bring positive change in terms of access to water and sanitation and creating income opportunities for
     communities in tourism. The Bank team included social objectives as part of the social safeguards identifying ways in which a long-term vision
     and development for the Lake and its communities could be developed, including an understanding of the socio-economic characterization of
     the zone, the analysis of the principal socio-cultural characteristics of the central beneficiaries and the organizational structure could be
     included.
     The logical chain and ways of measuring between outputs and outcomes was not clear and not addressed at restructuring when the focus
     shifted to one sector. The various strands of the project had tenuous links at best and there was only limited articulation of why the various
     parts of the projects looked the way they did.
     The ICR lists several significant shortcomings, including that no pre-investment studies were carried out, leaving the project with targeted
     projects without any guarantee of their viability or timely implementation. The project design and the multiple sectors the project covered did
     not adequately match the mandates and priorities and capabilities of the national institutions that would implement them, and another Bank
     Project used in the design, the Vilcanota Project from Perú, was experiencing serious difficulties. Yet the corresponding lessons learned do
     not appear to be reflected in the design. ICR, page 26.
     The efforts undertaken at restructuring to reduce the focus to one sector increased the level of achievement regarding outputs in the basic
     services sector, but the logic and structure of the project remained problematic.



     Quality-at-Entry Rating
     Moderately Unsatisfactory
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       BO- Lake Titicaca Local Sust Dev (P101426)



b. Quality of supervision
   Semi-annual supervision missions visited the field. Additional targeted supervision missions were added as a result of the slow implementation
   and preparation of restructuring. These also responded to issues with regards to safeguards, design deficiencies and contracting difficulties
   (ICR, page 21) but the implementation delays went on too long without adequate response from the Bank’s team. The team provided, however,
   necessary support to the implementing agency, including training in Bank procedures. In the last year of the project a resident technical
   specialist helped the project implementation move forward but this was too late to have any significant impact.
   The ICR identifies many of these shortcomings, including that the project was restructured only after four years of implementation, despite
   constant warnings that the implementation arrangements were not functioning. Similarly the decision to pursue alternative projects was made
   late in project implementation. Safeguards supervision was limited in the first four years of the project when VMT was preparing projects. While
   it did not result in non-compliance, the lack of planning for these issues delayed implementation and limited the outcomes that could be
   achieved. This limited the rate of progress on subprojects, considering the technical capacity shortcomings and consistent problems with
   contracting. As a consequence, the monitoring of results was not systematically carried out. ICR, page 26.



   Quality of Supervision Rating
   Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   The Government of Bolivia was supportive during appraisal and undertook a comprehensive sociocultural and organizational assessment
   as part of the development of a long-term strategic vision for the Lake Titicaca watershed. (PAD page 7). Counterpart funding was
   satisfactory and on time.
   The Government of Bolivia preferred that several agencies and ministries were to be included in the implementation and oversight roles
   given the political situation at the time. In addition, two different sectors were involved and different actors had to coordinate and support
   project implementation. The key oversight body was the Ministry of Production and Micro Enterprise (MPME) and its Vice Ministry of
   Tourism (VMT) which would act as the operational unit implementing the project, assisted and advised by the Inter-institutional Committee
   for the Sustainable Development of Lake Titicaca (ICSDLT). The VMT also had a PCU as key project coordinator while the investments in
   infrastructure would be administered by the Social and Productive Investment Fund (FPS). (PAD, page 15,16). It was the first time that the
   Ministry of Tourism was to execute a Bank financed Project and it experienced challenges. (PAD, page 13).
   It was assumed that resolving the implementation issues would bring the project back on track, but a lack of political commitment to the
   project, the lack of experience in project implementation and its scarce coordination capacity severely affected the project implementation,
   leading to an eventual standstill in contracting and subsequent elimination of the PCU in VMT. At the second restructuring in 2012,
   additional deficiencies in the Project’s implementation arrangements were rectified and FPS became the sole agency implementing Project
   investments and technical assistance activities and the Project closing date was extended to February 2, 2015. (Second restructuring
   paper, page 8).
   The first restructuring came late in the project cycle and the second restructuring could only support investments related to the project while
   having little impact on the achievement of the objective. (ICR, page 8).



   Government Performance Rating
   Unsatisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   There were two implementing agencies at effectiveness of the project: the Vice Ministry of Tourism (VMT) and the National Productive and
   Social Investment Fund (FPS). At restructuring in 2012 FPS became the sole implementing agency due to lack of performance of the VMT
   and its Project Coordination Unit (PCU).
   The ICR discusses their performance separately on page 23. The VMT was responsible for implementation of the tourism component
   except for infrastructure investments which was the responsibility of the FPS. The lack of political commitment and experience combined
   with scare capacity led to a standstill in contracting. The FPS, however, despite its efforts in taking responsibility and improving contracting,
   could not prevent delays and ensure proper implementation.
   Given that multiple sectors were involved and capabilities of the national institutions was weak, the PCU under the VMT had major
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       BO- Lake Titicaca Local Sust Dev (P101426)



   challenges. The project as originally envisioned, expected to build institutional capacity in VMT and other agencies and stakeholders
   through a coordinative mechanism. With the lack of coordination, and the eventual dissolution of the PCU in VMT capacity was not built.
   (ICR, page 23)
   The ICR reports that the institutional setup in the design did not maintain the anticipated political support in VMT or in other levels of
   Government which resulted in poor project performance and coordination between the different government entities. (ICR, page 22). This
   also caused substantial delays resulting in low disbursements at year 4 of project implementation.



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The project included a set of indicators to measure the outputs (intermediary outcomes in the PAD and ICR) and three indicators to measure
   progress on outcomes related to tourism, service delivery and on coordination and information sharing.
   The indicators to measure outputs were clear and relevant but this is not the case for how outputs lead to outcomes and the PDO. Three
   indexes were identified to measure outcomes: the Geo-Tourism Score the Urban Environmental Sustainability Index and Quality of State of the
   Lake Report. Apart from the latter index, the two others do not present a logical chain between outputs and outcomes and neither can the
   attribution of the project to the PDO be assessed. Target values for the Outcome and Intermediary indicators were identified and the targets for
   the Intermediary indicators (these were outputs as discussed under the components above) were adapted at both restructurings. At the second
   restructuring both the Geo Tourism and Lake report were dropped and at closure the targets for the Urban Environmental Sustainability Index
   were not achieved.
   Both restructuring papers revised the outputs and the key output indicators, but remained largely inappropriate with regards to the achievement
   of the PDO. The indexes were also dropped and no indicators were provided to measure the contribution to the PDO. ICR, page 14.




b. M&E Implementation
   The project included a set of indicators to measure the outputs and three indicators to measures progress on outcomes related to tourism,
   service delivery and coordination and information sharing. After the restructuring in 2010 some of the output targets were revised to allow for
   more realistic monitoring of results (ICR, page 6) and again in 2012 with dropping most of the outputs for components.
   Since implementation was so slow there was little to monitor and measure while the VMT and PCU were low in capacity. It was only under the
   FPS that subproject progress was monitored and some of the outputs measured. The ICR reports on subproject development projects after
   the restructuring in 2012 and works introduced in 2014. For the three indexes, one State of the Lake Report was produced as a baseline with
   the assistance of the World Bank team but no additional reports were produced due to insufficient ownership and continuity. The
   Environmental Sustainability Index was monitored but failed to meet the 4 of the 5 indicators. (ICR, Annex 2 page 26). The inter-institutional
   committee (ICSDLT) and workshops that were intended for monitoring and communication were never put into operation. (ICR, page 14) The
   ICR concludes that the monitoring of results indicators was not systematically carried out. ICR, page 22.




c. M&E Utilization
   Given the unsatisfactory performance of the two key actors responsible for M&E and cancelling activities, the use of M&E was limited. The
   ICR does not report on this aspect. Use of this monitoring framework to measure intermediate outcomes and evaluate Project impacts was
   limited in Bank and FPS monitoring reports until the time of the ICR. This was due to limited results until the last year of the Project and the
   indicators did not reflect the outputs of subproject preparation, contracting and execution which was the focus of the supervision. (ICR, page
   13 and 14 )
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      BO- Lake Titicaca Local Sust Dev (P101426)




  M&E Quality Rating
  Negligible


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
  The project was a category B project and triggered OP/ 4.01 Environment Safeguards; OP/BP 4.10 Indigenous People, OP 4.01 Natural
  Habitats, OP 4.11 Physical Cultural Resources, OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement and OP 7.50 Projects on International Waterways.
  OP/ 4.01 Environment Safeguards
  An Environmental Management Framework (EMF) was developed with implementation arrangements.
  OP/BP 4.10 Indigenous People. The PAD, also refers to social safeguards (page 89) and a social cultural analysis and organisational
  assessment was undertaken by the government. This triggered the OP/BP 4.10 Indigenous People but the appraisal concluded that a
  stand-alone Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP) was not necessary since the Project document itself was considered an IPP and that the
  principles and elements of an Indigenous Peoples Plan (PP) have been incorporated into the Project design. (PAD, page 89) The ICR
  concluded that it was complied with through the project’s social assessment and the process of consultations during the sub project
  development. (ICR, page 15).
  OP 4.01. Natural Habitats and the Screening criteria and management mitigation measures were included in the environmental assessment
  process for each subproject.
  OP 4.11 Physical Cultural Resources. For subprojects near potentially important sites and monuments, archaeologists were included as
  part of the design teams but the tourism component was largely dropped avoiding any impact.
  OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement. At appraisal it was anticipated that the activities under the tourism and basic services components would
  not have an impact on people and property but as a precaution an Abbreviated Resettlement Plan would be prepared (PAD, 100) in the
  unlikely eventuality that this would occur. At restructuring in 2012, the majority of the works would involve such impacts and FPS guidelines
  and manuals on resettlement were revised and updated in compliance with Bank policies.
  OP 7.50 Projects on International Waterways. The procedures outlined in the policy including prior notification to the Peruvian Government
  (via a letter from the Bank Country director) were undertaken. ICR, page 14 and 15)
  Just before the first restructuring the Bank’s team visited Bolivia and a safeguards specialist was added to the team. No additional reporting
  was in the ICR.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
  Financial Management.
  As part of the preparation process of the Project, a preliminary financial management assessment was performed to determine the adequacy of
  the Vice Ministry of Tourism-PCU financial management arrangements to support Project implementation. This was essential since the PCU
  had not dealt with Bank projects before. In addition an action plan to strengthen FPS was developed since it lacked project and procedural
  capacity. (PAD, page 157). The FPS was, amongst others, responsible for investment in waste and sanitation infrastructure. Both the Public
  Financial Management (PFM) risk rating and the Project inherent and control risks were rated as substantial (PAD, pages 61 and 62). The
  project experienced serious implementation issues but there are no specific details on whether financial management was an issue. There is no
  reporting on the number of audits but the ICR concludes that External audits were all carried out as expected with no major issues raised (ICR,
  page 15) as well as all fiduciary controls were monitored and complied with and external audits were undertaken. ( ICR, page 21). The
  restructuring paper mentions that overall operational arrangements (financial management, procurement, etc.) remain the same namely
  moderately satisfactory (Restructuring Paper 1 page 4 and the second restructuring paper page 4).
  Procurement
  The overall Project risk for procurement was high and an action plan was designed to mitigate the risks, notably in improving capacity of
  agencies responsible for procurement: the VMT and FPS. (PAD, page 78). Moreover, for some works the procurement was done through
  municipal governments which would be in charge of signing contracts for investments in infrastructure. The market for contractors and suppliers
  and their preferred packaging and terms of contracts were not known and procurement considerably affected implementation of the project.
  Turn-key contracting and contracting of public academic institutions were introduced in reaction to difficulties in the market environment. (ICR,
  page 6). The Bank assisted the FSP in launching and awarding contracts but with limited mixed results. For example, of the 19 subprojects that
  launched a bid, 10 were able to award contracts for the nine set of docks. Nevertheless, the ICR reports that no major financial or procurement
  issues were faced during the Project’s life. ICR page, 15)
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          BO- Lake Titicaca Local Sust Dev (P101426)




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
     The ICR reports that the Lake´s pollution has become a high profile issue and some of the Project studies and designs have been used as
     inputs into a new strategy of MMAyA to reduce contamination in Lake Titicaca. The studies that were undertaken are being used as inputs to
     investments being considered by some of the local governments to mitigate further pollution. This is an unintended positive effect. ICR, page
     20. The effective impact of these studies are not further analysed and no examples are provided.




d. Other
     NA




12. Ratings
                                                                                                                Reason for
Ratings                                    ICR                                IEG
                                                                                                                Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                    Unsatisfactory                    Unsatisfactory                     ---
Risk to Development Outcome                Substantial                       Substantial                        ---
Bank Performance                           Unsatisfactory                    Unsatisfactory                     ---
                                                                                                                Both the government and
                                                                                                                implementing agency had serious
Borrower Performance                       Moderately Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory
                                                                                                                shortcomings with regards to the
                                                                                                                project.
Quality of ICR                                                               Substantial                        ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons


     1 Implementation Support in Low Capacity Environments ( Bolivia is an IDA country) should be better identified at appraisal and
     project supervision, including direct technical support using practical international experience should be offered from the start in order to
     avoid delay in implementation and provide hands-on assistance when bottlenecks occur.
     2 Adopting appraisal stage readiness criteria for subprojects to avoid delays in implementation and in reducing risks.
     3 Taking the market of contractors and suppliers into account with regards to contracting and their preferred packaging and terms of
     contracts is important in order to avoid project risks and ensure timely implementation.
     4 Learning from other projects in country and applying lessons both at the design stage and during implementation, particularly if
     they face the same implementation challenges.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       BO- Lake Titicaca Local Sust Dev (P101426)




15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The quality and breadth of evidence presented in the ICR varies considerably and in particular the details on the analysis and discussion of the
M&E framework are incomplete. The ICR is candid and acknowledges the shortcomings of the project but reports insufficiently on the Bank’s
contribution to assist the project and in particular in terms of improving project implementation following the restructuring. The shortcomings
and issues leading to an unsatisfactory rating are sufficiently reflected upon and presented. The lessons presented are based on evidence and
analysis and the ICR is generally well written.




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Substantial
