                                                 Document of
                                         The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: ICR00003497



               IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                (IDA-43790)



                                             ON A

                                            CREDIT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.8 MILLION

                                (US$20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                            TO THE

                             PLURINATIONAL STATE OF BOLIVIA

                                             FOR A

              LAKE TITICACA LOCAL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                          July 27, 2015




Urban, Rural and Social Development Department
Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador, Perú and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region




                                                  i
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective 06/30/2015)

                         Currency Unit =        BOB Boliviano
                             BOB 6.96 =         US$1
                                 US$1 =         BOB 0.14


                                   FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1    –      December 31


                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ALT       Autoridad Binacional del lago Titicaca – Binational Lake Titicaca Authority
APL       Adaptable Program Loan
BSTC      Basic Services Technical Committee
CAF       Corporación Andina de Fomento
CDD       Community Driven Development
CMU       Country Management Unit
CPF       Country Partnership Framework
EMF       Environmental Management Framework
ENAPA     Entidad de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado Sanitario – Drinking Water and
          Sanitary Sewer Agency
EPSA      Entidad Prestadora de Servicios de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado Sanitario –
          Drinking Water and Sanitary Sewer Service Provision Agency
FPS       Fondo Nacional de Inversión Productiva y Social – National Productive and
          Social Investment Fund
GIS       Geographic Information System
GOB       Government of Bolivia
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICSDLT    Inter-institutional Committee for the Sustainable Development of Lake Titicaca
IDA       International Development Association
ISR       Implementation Status& Results Report
MDG       Millennium Development Goals
MEPF      Ministry of Economy and Public Finances
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MMAyA     Ministerio de Medio Ambiente y Agua
MPDPE     Ministry of Productive Development and Plural Economy
MPME      Ministry of Production and Microenterprises
NDP       National Development Plan
NGO       Nongovernmental Organization
OTB       Organizaciones Territoriales de Base – Grassroots Organizations
O&M       Operation and Maintenance
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PCN       Project Concept Note
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
PDCR      Proyecto de Desarrollo de Comunidades Rurales – Rural Development Project




                                           ii
PDO      Project Development Objectives
PLP      Prefecture of La Paz
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
PPU      Project Preparation Unit
PROASRED Programa de Agua, Saneamiento, Residuos Sólidos y Drenaje Pluvial)
SIL      Sector Investment Loan
SIC      Specific Investment Credit
TDPS     Titicaca-Desaguadero-Poopó-Salar de Coipasa Hydrologic Basin
TPT      Technical Project Team
UNESCO   United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization
VMBS     Vice Ministry of Basic Services
VMBWR    Vice Ministry of Basins and Water Resources
VMDC     Vice Ministry for the Development of Cultures
VIPFE    Vice Ministry of Public Investment and External Financing
VMT      Vice Ministry of Tourism
WBG      World Bank Group
WSS      Water and Sanitation Services


                Senior Global Practice Director: Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez
                               Sector Manager: Anna Wellenstein
                          Project Team Leader: John Morton
                             ICR Team Leader: John Morton




                                               iii
                                                BOLIVIA
                           Lake Titicaca Local Sustainable Development Project



                                                          CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 1
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 2
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome........................................................... 3
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ....................................................... 3
  6. Lessons Learned ......................................................................................................... 3
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ............ 3
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ............................................................................ 5
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................... 6
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................... 7
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .............. 8
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 10
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 11
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 12
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 13
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 14
  MAP




                                                                   iv
                                   BOLIVIA
              LAKE TITICACA LOCAL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOMENT DATA

                                               SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                               Lake Titicaca Local
Country:                 Bolivia                     Project Name:
                                                                               Sustainable Development
Project ID:              P101426                     L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-43790
ICR Date:                07/27/2015                  ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                               GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:      SIL                         Borrower:
                                                                               BOLIVIA
Original Total
                         XDR 12.80M                  Disbursed Amount:         XDR 6.33M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:          XDR 6.33M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Fondo Nacional de Inversion Productiva y Social
Viciministerio de Turismo, Ministerio de Culturas y Turismo
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                     Revised / Actual
      Process               Date                Process            Original Date
                                                                                         Date(s)
Concept Review:          01/18/2007       Effectiveness:              03/01/2008          12/01/2008
                                                                                          09/20/2010
Appraisal:               10/29/2007       Restructuring(s):
                                                                                          06/13/2012
Approval:                12/20/2007       Mid-term Review:            05/12/2010          06/05/2011
                                          Closing:                    06/30/2013          02/02/2015

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                            Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                         Substantial
Bank Performance:                                    Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings              Borrower                            Ratings
                                                                               Moderately
Quality at Entry:        Unsatisfactory              Government:
                                                                               Unsatisfactory




                                                     v
                             Moderately                  Implementing                  Moderately
Quality of Supervision:
                             Unsatisfactory              Agency/Agencies:              Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                             Overall Borrower              Moderately
                             Unsatisfactory
Performance:                                             Performance:                  Unsatisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
                               Indicators                                                      Rating
      Performance                                      any)
 Potential Problem Project                               Quality at Entry
                               Yes                                                 None
at any time (Yes/No):                                    (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                                  Quality of Supervision
                               Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                           (QSA):
DO rating before
                               Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                            Original               Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                            15                         5
Other industry                                                               35                         5
Sanitation                                                                   17                      30
Solid waste management                                                                               30
Wastewater Treatment and Disposal                                            18
Water supply                                                                 15                      30


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Cultural Heritage                                                             17                        5
Pollution management and environmental health                                 17                        30
Rural non-farm income generation                                              33
Rural services and infrastructure                                                                       30
Urban services and housing for the poor                                       33                        35

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                              At ICR                                 At Approval
Vice President:                Jorge Familiar Calderon                 Pamela Cox
Country Director:              Alberto Rodriguez                       Carlos Felipe Jaramillo
Practice Manager/Manager: Anna Wellenstein                             Laura Tuck
Project Team Leader:           John Morton                             Daniel A. Hoornweg
ICR Team Leader:               John Morton
ICR Primary Author:            Rodrigo Cisneros




                                                     vi
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project's original development objective was to contribute to local sustainable development in the
Recipient's (Bolivian) side of the Lake Titicaca watershed.

     By facilitating local activities that support tourism development and cultural protection in the
communities surrounding the Lake, the Project sought to support improvements in local tourism services
  and cultural heritage protection. The Project also aimed to support the sustainable provision of basic
      services (water supply; wastewater collection and treatment; and solid waste management).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The Project Development Objective was not revised. Two PDO indicators were eliminated from the project
due to a reduction in scope of the project to focus on works and the elimination of the coordination and
information sharing role of the project.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

 A. Geo-Tourism Score: The score is based on a percentage; with 100% the highest score.
                                                        Target for each tourism area
     Target Year    Copacab      Islas del                 TSY       CKT      TKCHAH      Pto.                 TCC
                                              Sampaya                                             Tiwanaku
                      ana       Sol y Luna                  (1)       (2)       (3)      Perez                  (4)
       Baseline
                      53%          49%          46%        45%        46%        52%      40%       50%        40%
      12/202007
        Target
                      65%          65%          60%        60%        60%        65%      55%       65%        55%
      6/30/2013
 (1) TSY: Titicachi-Sicuani-Yampupata Route
 (2) CKT: Copacabana-Kasani-Tiquina Route
 (3) TKCHAH: Tiquina-Kompi-Chua-Huatajata-Achacachi-Huarina Route
 (4) TCC: Taraco-Coacollo-Chiripa Circuit

 This indicator was eliminated from the Project as part of a restructuring on June 13, 2012 as the project
 no longer targeted these tourism outcomes.
 B. Urban Environmental Sustainability Index: The index score is based upon the coverage and quality of
 water supply, wastewater, and solid waste services, as well as the financial sustainability of the service
 provider (The index ranges from 1-4, with 1 being the highest score).
                                                                    Target Index Score
          Target year            Copacabana       Achacachi           Tiquina          Tiwanaku           Viacha
       Baseline 12/20/2007           4                3                  4                 4                 4
        Target 6/30/2013             2                2                  2                2                  2
         Target 2/2/2015             2                2                  2                 2                 2
        Actual 7/23/2015             4                2                  4                 4                 4




                                                            vii
 C. Quality of State of the Lake Report: The annual State of the Lake Report would be evaluated based
 upon its scope, quality of the data, depth of the analysis, and policy impact.

        Target                                        Target for Quality of Report
         Year
       Baseline    Poor: Limited scope, partial data, little analysis, and limited policy impact
      12/20/2007
        Target     High: Covers all key environmental and social issues, in-depth scientific and policy analysis; serves
      6/30//2013   as the key management document for guiding the management of Lake Titicaca in Bolivia.

This indicator was eliminated from the Project as part of a restructuring on June 13, 2012 as this
coordination and communication function was eliminated from the project.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                                          Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                                Values (from                                             Achieved at
    Indicator            Baseline Value                        Revised Target
                                                  approval                                              Completion or
                                                                  Values
                                                 documents)                                             Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Tourism improvement projects completed
Value
(quantitative                      0                               100                    31                    2
or Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/20/2007                         06/30/2013                 02/02/2015         02/02/2015
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      Cultural heritage sites protected
Value
(quantitative                      0                               20                     0                     0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/20/2007                         06/30/2013                 02/02/2015         02/02/2015
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      Small business supported
Value
(quantitative                      0                               100                    0                     0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/20/2007                         06/30/2013                 02/02/2015         02/02/2015
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      Rural towns with improved water and sanitation services
Value
(quantitative                      0                               20                     20                    39
or Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/20/2007                         06/30/2013                 02/02/2015         07/23/2015
Comments
(incl. %




                                                            viii
                                                Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                                 Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                          Revised Target
                                                   approval                        Completion or
                                                                   Values
                                                 documents)                        Target Years
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Urban communities with adequate wastewater services
Value
(quantitative                  0                         5              5                 0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/20/2007                  06/30/2013          02/02/2015     07/23/2015
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Cities with adequate solid waste services
Value
(quantitative                  0                         3              3                 4
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/20/2007                  06/30/2013          02/02/2015     07/23/2015
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Tourism studies completed
Value
(quantitative                  0                         4              2                 2
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/20/2007                  06/30/2013          02/02/2015     02/02/2015
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Municipal land-use management plans completed
Value
(quantitative                  0                         12             0                 0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/20/2007                  06/30/2013          02/02/2015     02/02/2015
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                    ix
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

         Date ISR                                                                 Actual Disbursements
 No.                            DO                               IP
         Archived                                                                    (USD millions)
  1     01/29/2008          Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     09/22/2008          Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                       0.00
  3     11/24/2008    Moderately Unsatisfactory       Moderately Unsatisfactory                0.00
  4     05/03/2009     Moderately Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                 0.58
  5     07/27/2009     Moderately Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                 0.63
  6     11/17/2009     Moderately Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                 0.73
  7     04/15/2010     Moderately Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                 1.02
  8     02/23/2011    Moderately Unsatisfactory       Moderately Unsatisfactory                2.13
  9     09/14/2011    Moderately Unsatisfactory       Moderately Unsatisfactory                2.29
 10     04/11/2012    Moderately Unsatisfactory       Moderately Unsatisfactory                2.37
 11     11/15/2012    Moderately Unsatisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                 2.87
 12     07/08/2013    Moderately Unsatisfactory       Moderately Unsatisfactory                3.34
 13     03/17/2014        Unsatisfactory                  Unsatisfactory                       3.51
 14     11/07/2014        Unsatisfactory                  Unsatisfactory                       5.25


H. Restructuring (if any)

                            ISR Ratings at     Amount
                  Board
 Restructuring              Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring & Key
               Approved PDO
    Date(s)                                 Restructuring            Changes Made
                  Change     DO      IP
                                           in USD millions
                                                           Institutional changes and
  09/20/2010                 MS      MS           1.78
                                                           additional contracting modalities
                                                           Institutional changes, reallocation
  06/13/2012                 MU      MU           2.46
                                                           of funds and project extension.




                                                  x
I. Disbursement Profile




                          xi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1     Context at Appraisal

1.       Country Context. The project was prepared and appraised in October 2007 in the
backdrop of the beginning of a period of relative political stability and significant reforms in the
Country. In the five years before President Morales came to power in January 2006, four different
presidents ruled the country. In May 2006 the National Development Plan was initiated to: increase
state participation in strategic sectors; channel resources to labor-intensive sectors; develop specific
geographic areas; introduce new social programs while scaling up existing ones; ensure greater
country ownership of Bolivia’s development process and self-sufficiency in food and energy
production; and undertake a profound social and political reform through a new Constitution.
Subsequently the Morales administration implemented an array of economic and social policies to
empower indigenous peoples and reduce poverty and inequality. A new Constitution was enacted
in February 2009 and President Morales was sworn in for a second term in January 2010.

2.       Sector Background. Lake Titicaca is a water body shared between Peru and Bolivia. It is
part of a hydrologic basin with an extension of 140,000 km2 on the Altiplano1. The Lake, with an
altitude of 3,800 m and a drainage area of approximately 58,000 km2, plays an important role in
the large bi-national watershed. The Bolivian portion the Lake supports a population of
approximately 324,000 people, 93% of which have unmet basic needs. The population is mainly
indigenous Aymara, dedicated to agriculture, livestock, tourism, trading, fishing, and mining ,
activities that rely on the natural resources of the Lake and its surrounding area.

3.       Lake Titicaca is an important ecosystem and a world-class attraction 2 . At the time of
Appraisal, tourism was the fourth most important component of Bolivia’s GDP, with a share of
4.6%, generated by national and international tourists3. In spite of its unique natural history and
preserved cultural integrity, pollution had started threatening the health of the Lake and the
sustainability of the communities that depend on the Lake for their livelihoods and economic
activities. Wastewater discharges from urban areas and mining activities in the basin were the two
main causes of contamination to the Lake, which due to the altitude experiences a significant level
of solar radiation and a high rate of evaporation, making the system very vulnerable. In 2007 there
were already some eutrophication problems encountered close to the coastal villages.

4.       Despite numerous studies on the Lake, there were no accepted or consistent baseline data,
nor community consensus on priorities for local economic development or ecosystem protection.
International donor assistance in the Lake-area was often fragmented and complicated by joint
Peru-Bolivia jurisdiction.



1
  Lake Titicaca is part of the hydrologic basin that includes the Desaguadero River, Lake Poopó, and Salar
de Coipasa.
2
  Parts of Lake Titicaca are designated as a UNESCO World Heritage site, or national reserves under IUCN
Category VI, and the entire Lake is a designated Ramsar site of vulnerable ecosystems and ancient cultures.
The entire basin contains six Ramsar sites of global importance. Lake Titicaca has over 25 endemic species.
3
  Almost half of the international tourists came from Latin-America (49%), followed by European countries
(32%) and American (11%). Prior to Appraisal, in the first half of 2006, tourism had increased by 21%
compared to the same period in 2005.


                                                    1
5.       Rationale for Bank Assistance. Prior to Appraisal, the Government of Bolivia had
requested assistance from the Bank to support a strategy that would improve the quality of life of
the basin’s residents through protection of the Lake’s water quality and ecology as well as through
local economic and social development opportunities for the communities surrounding the Lake.
Bolivia, at the time of Appraisal, was an IDA borrower with limited borrowing capacity and access
to international finance, therefore the Government expected that with the Bank’s relatively modest
support through the proposed Project, additional donor funds could be leveraged to complement
and expand the overall scope of work.

6.      The Bank’s 2006 Interim Strategy Note for Bolivia supported the Government’s 2006-
2010 National Development Plan and included the following strategic objectives: (i) fostering jobs
through inclusive growth; (ii) providing better services to the poor and greater social inclusion
through improved public service provision; and (iii) enhancing good governance and transparency.
The Bank was positioned to bring specific knowledge in social development, waste water
management, infrastructure provision, cultural heritage, sanitation, and housing, considering its
worldwide experience in these topics and ongoing involvement in other sustainable tourism
projects in the Latin America Region4.

7.      Higher Level Objectives to which the Project contributes. The Project aimed to
contribute to sustainable development in the region and as part of this integrated strategy was to
contribute to the following higher level objectives:

Poverty alleviation through the provision of increased opportunities for economic and social
development through tourism expansion and local business development.

Social Development by building upon existing social and cultural capital.

Achievement of MDG coverage goals for water supply and sanitation.

Environmental Improvement through investments in sanitation and wastewater treatment, that
would directly improve the environment, and through the provision of a credible baseline for
monitoring trends in Lake water quality.

1.2      Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

8.      The Project’s development objective was to contribute to local sustainable development in
the Recipient’s (Bolivian) side of the Lake Titicaca watershed.

9.      This would be done through facilitating local activities to develop tourism and cultural
protection and improving water and sanitation services. The tourism investments would focus on
investments in tourism improvement projects throughout the region (including tourist circuit
development, docks, bathrooms, bike paths and visitor centers); upgrading cultural sites; and
support to small businesses related to tourism. The basic services investments would support water
and sanitation in priority communities and improving basic services (solid waste, water and
wastewater) in five of the major urban centers.




4
 Vilcanota Valley Rehabilitation and Management Project in Perú (P082625) and the Regional Development in the
Copan Valley Project in Honduras (P081172).


                                                       2
10.       Other broader objectives including contributing to the protection of the Lake’s long-term
water quality and ecological integrity; greater social inclusion and participation; improved quality
of life; increased tourist arrivals; and agreement on a ‘shared vision’ for the Lake development,
were to be supported and monitored but were not expected to be fully attributed to the Project. The
Project’s contribution to local sustainable development was expected to be modest but provide an
important starting point.

11.       Key Indicators linked to the PDO were:
      -   Improvement of the Geo-Tourism Score over the 2007 baseline geo-tourism survey5.
      -   Improvement of the Urban Environmental Sustainability Index6.
      -   Quality improvement and updating of the State of the Lake Report7.

1.3       Revised PDO

12.     The PDO was not revised during the Project. After the restructuring of June 2012, two of
the PDO indicators, those referring to the Geo Tourism Score and the State of the Lake Report,
were eliminated to be consistent with the reduced scope of the project and the removal of the
information sharing and coordination role of the Project.

1.4       Main Beneficiaries

13.      As stated in the PAD, those that would benefit directly were: (i) municipal governments
through the establishment of tourism units; (ii) indigenous and peasant communities through basic
services improvements; (iii) productive agriculture and livestock organizations by linking the local
economic production chain with tourism activities;(iv) artisanal organizations through the
production of authentic indigenous art; (v) organizations in the road transportation sector through
capacity building to improve the quality of their services; (vi) organizations in the Lake
transportation sector through expansion of itineraries to new tourist destinations; (vii) organizations
of traders and vendors as important allies for the Project; (viii) organizations of hotelkeepers and
lodging services through the improvement of their services; (ix) restaurants and food service
industry through the introduction and consumption of nutritional products and the improvement of
their services; and (x) tourist guides through the expansion of tourist activities.

14.      The indirect beneficiaries were the institutions to be strengthened: (i) the Vice Ministry of
Tourism (VMT) as the implementing agency; (ii) the Vice-Ministry of Cultures would benefit from
the cultural protection activities; (iii) the Prefecture of La Paz would improve its expertise in the
tourism sector; (iv) the Lake Mancomunidad (association of municipalities) would be oriented
towards a common goal; (v) the National Tourist Police and tourist operators would benefit from


5 Geo-Tourism Score: This score is based upon a methodology developed by National Geographic which considers a

number of different factors in determining the attractiveness of a tourist destination. The methodology is based on a
percentage; with 100% the highest score. During Project preparation the Bank supported the first baseline survey.
6 Index is based upon the coverage and quality of water supply, wastewater, and solid waste services, as well as the

financial sustainability of the services provider (The index ranges from 1-4, with 1 being the highest score).
7 Before Appraisal, through a World Bank Netherlands Water Partnership Program Trust Fund, the Bank supported the

development of a framework for Lake Titicaca’s first State of the Lake Report which summarized existing information
on the Lake, including sources of contamination, habitat degradation and an additional water modeling exercise that
shows impacts of current pollution trends. A second one was produced during implementation.




                                                         3
the adoption of land-use plans, regulations and tourism norms; and, (vi) foundations, universities,
NGOs, consulting firms, professionals, social and productive organizations would able to better
coordinate their activities with the Municipal Governments.

1.5     Revised Beneficiaries

15.     The Project Beneficiaries changed after the restructuring due to the reduction in scope of
the project and the removal of the coordinative and information sharing role of the project. In
particular:

16.      The direct beneficiaries became the local government and the communities benefitting
from the basic service improvements and the beneficiaries of the dock works and the visitor centers
(transportation operators and communities where the docks would be located and tourism operators
that use the two border crossings where the visitor centers would be constructed).

17.    The indirect beneficiaries became the two sector Vice-ministries (Vice-ministry of
Tourism and Vice-ministry of Basic Sanitation).

1.6 Original Components

18.     The Project had three main components:

19.     Component 1. Support to Tourism Development and Cultural Protection - USD 8.91
million (USD 8.25 million Bank financing; USD 0.66 million counterpart)

Tourism Development Support. Community demand driven small-scale investments for
tourism.

Cultural Heritage Program. Restoration of pre-hispanic agricultural landscapes and
trails, and artistic and historic assets in colonial churches.

Support to Productive Activities for Tourism. Small scale grant financing for handicrafts,
textiles, and cultural events linked to tourism.

Administrative Cost for FPS.

20.    Component 2. Basic Services - USD 11.09 million (USD 8.74 million Bank financing;
USD 2.35 million counterpart)

Community Water and Sanitation. Small-scale water and sanitation infrastructure for
rural communities.

Sewerage and Waste Water Treatment. Sanitation facilities for rural communities and
improvement of sewerage systems in five cities, including appropriate wastewater
treatment.

Solid Waste. Solid waste investments and management in three cities.

Administrative Cost for FPS.



                                                4
21.     Component 3. Institutional Strengthening and Project Management - USD 3.01
million (USD 3.01 million Bank financing; USD 0.00 million counterpart)

Institutional Strengthening for national government agencies, municipalities, communities, and
the prefecture.

Monitoring and Evaluation. Annual updating of the State of the Lake Report, development of a
communication strategy, project management, PCU fees and third party auditing.

1.7 Revised Components

22.     The institutional arrangements changed in January 1, 2012 as part of a formal restructuring.
FPS became the sole agency implementing Project investments and technical assistance. As a
consequence, all those Components and activities that were previously under VMT responsibility
but had not yet been initiated by said date, were either dropped or reduced in scope, resulting in the
following revised components:

23.    Revised Component 1, Support to Tourism Development and Cultural Protection-
USD 4.52 million (USD 3.86 million Bank financing; USD 0.66 million counterpart)

Tourism Development Support. Completed activities and infrastructure to be carried out through
FPS (works related to border visitor centers and small docks).

Cultural Heritage Program. Design for the protection of cultural heritage monuments in Isla Del
Sol and Isla de la Luna.

Administrative Cost for FPS.

24.     Revised Component 2. Basic Services- USD 15.97 million (USD 13.62 million Bank
financing; USD 2.35 million counterpart)

Community Water and Sanitation, was revised to be consistent with updated target communities.

Sewerage and Waste Water Treatment, was not revised.

Solid Waste, was not revised.

Administrative Cost for FPS, was revised to include all audits for the Project.

25.     Revised Component 3. Institutional Strengthening and Project Management – USD
2.51 million (USD 2.51 million Bank financing; USD 0.00 million counterpart)

Institutional Strengthening. Reduced focus and added support to the VMT to participate in tourism
fairs.




                                                  5
1.7 Other Significant Changes

26.      First Restructuring: On September 20, 2010 a first amendment was signed. The
amendment: (i) reflected the reorganization of the Ministries, most significantly the VMT being
transferred from the Ministry of Production, Development and Plural Economy (MPDPE)8 to the
Ministry of Culture and Tourism9; (ii) replaced the inter-institutional committee (Inter-institutional
Committee for the Sustainable Development of Lake Titicaca-ICSDLT), proposed for sharing
information and coordination, with bi-yearly inter-institutional workshops; and (iii) renamed the
PCU the Technical Project Team (TPT).

27.     In addition, turn-key contracting and contracting of public academic institutions were
introduced in reaction to difficulties detected in the market environment to recruit qualified
contractors. Some of the targets for intermediate results were revised to allow for more realistic
monitoring of results.

28.      Second Restructuring: On June 13, 2012 a second restructuring paper was signed to
rectify deficiencies in the Project’s implementation arrangements and to focus on executing works.
As of January 1, 2012, FPS became the sole agency implementing Project investments and
technical assistance activities and the Project closing date was extended to February 2, 2015. This
combined with the updating the estimated costs of works to reflect the increasing costs of
construction in the country, led to the change in components, allocations, and corresponding
changes in indicators as outlined earlier (see Sections 1.3 to 1.6).

29.     Substitution of subprojects: In January 2014, a decision was made that the project could
consider adding new projects that were outside the original scope of the targeted investments but
supported the PDO. After a screening of potential new projects, a list of additional subprojects was
added to the Project. The chosen works focused on water and sanitation investments including a
sewerage system; rural water supply systems and rural sanitation systems. No restructuring was
needed to make these changes.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

30.      At the time of Project design there were many issues that needed to be addressed to foster
sustainable development of the Lake Titicaca Region: (i) communities felt excluded from national
economic growth and the political decision making process; (ii) the National Tourism Plan was
predicated on broad stakeholder participation; (iii) long-term strategic planning was absent in the
involved municipalities; (iv) there was a considerable backlog in infrastructure and basic services
and solid waste management was sporadic and unsustainable; (v) there was a lack of tourism
infrastructure; (vi) few economic activities existed to provide incentives to retain the population;



8
  On February 2009, after the new Constitution was approved, the Ministry of Production and Microenterprises (MPME)
had been renamed as Ministry of Production Development and Plural Economy (MPDPE) retaining the Viceministry of
Tourism within its organizational structure. In February 2010, the VMT was transferred to the Ministry of Culture and
Tourism.
9 The Republic of Bolivia was renamed as the Pluri-National State of Bolivia; the Ministry of Water was replaced by the

Ministry of Environment and Water; the Vice Ministry of Basic Services was renamed as Vice Ministry of Basic
Sanitation; the Prefectures changed to Departmental Autonomous Governments; and the Municipalities became
Municipal Autonomous Governments.


                                                          6
(vii) the watershed was environmentally sensitive; (viii) there were multiple threats to the Lake10;
and, (ix) the Lake was shared between Peru and Bolivia with a bi-national lake-management
agency (ALT) with limited impact.

31.      Taking into account the Government interest in an integrated approach that touched on all
the above listed issues, a larger investment focusing on water and sanitation was not considered
and instead, a comprehensive development approach was decided for the Project thereby including
multiple types of activities and multiple stakeholders as well. The Project was originally conceived
as an APL, but it was agreed that the most appropriate instrument for the Project was a SIL that
would provide sufficient targeting to implement a set of important investments which could be
expanded and continued as government priorities evolve. The project preparation thus focused on
strategic targeting of investments, building community consensus, identifying activities that could
fill gaps in planning and coordination in the regions’ tourism and basic services and arriving at
implementing arrangements that could respond to the diverse needs of sustainable development in
the region in the short and medium term in the context of executing the project.

32.      Overall, the elements of the project design that affected implementation and outcomes
included a comprehensive and participatory planning exercise that communicated, socialized and
identified priority interventions; the complex institutional arrangements; the lessons considered
from other projects and the limited subproject preparation undertaken. During appraisal some but
not all of the risks associated with these elements were identified.

33.      Community Socialization and Communication: A participatory planning process was
initiated with communities and in parallel the Government undertook a comprehensive socio-
cultural and organizational assessment as part of the development of a long-term strategic vision
for the Lake Titicaca watershed. These consultations that convened numerous stakeholders from
local and national levels, revealed a pressing need to initiate a process of revaluing the cultural
patrimony assets found in the area.

34.      The social analysis reviewed the existing historical and cultural studies and current tourism
activities and worked toward developing a consensus on the role of tourism to generate additional
economic and social benefits. Primary information was gathered with the help of young Aymara
professionals living in the region, who assisted in interviews with community leaders, municipal
authorities and representatives of producer associations and social organizations in the area. In a
first phase, 25 workshops took place with approximately 851 participants followed by community
consultations in several workshops that were conducted in a second phase. A third phase of
community consultations was developed with the objective to identify and estimate the value of the
proposed cultural and tourist investments in the Lake region. The consulting firms, assisted by the
Aymara-speaking facilitators, visited more than 300 communities, where meetings were held with
more than 500 indigenous authorities and participation of more than two thousand local residents.

35.      The process successfully built awareness of the project and helped identify priorities,
building local ownership of the project. At that same time it raised expectations which, combined
with the small size and limited scale of the impacts of the proposed interventions, was considered
to be a high risk at appraisal. Preparation activities and the inclusion of a communication strategy
were intended to be mitigation measures. The process built significant ownership of the strategic



10
   Climate variability and climate change; inadequate water resources regulations; organic and industrial pollution;
sediment loading; invasive species; habitat destruction; heavy metal contamination from mining; nitrates from fertilizer
run-off; land-use changes; over-fishing.


                                                           7
focus of the targeted interventions that was sustained through the project but the expectations raised
affected project implementation. In particular, because of the potential negative reaction of the
communities to project cancellation or other changes, it limited the options for adjustments in the
Project that could be undertaken.

36.     Investment Prioritization and Targeting: Substantial work during Project preparation
and just after approval was undertaken to identify needs and target investments. The social
assessment study and a participatory planning process that involved communities developed an
inventory of tourist products, assessed demand, designed itineraries and identified projects.
Tourism studies for each of the four Lake zones were carried out during preparation and priorities
defined consensually for the Region. In addition, a strategic prioritization process was able to
identify the cities where the sewerage and wastewater treatment plants and solid waste landfills
would be implemented and a process was undertaken to prioritize rural communities in the region
based on the need for “emergency” sanitation investments. Overall the needs were much larger than
the investment amount and therefore a systematic targeting was an important exercise. The
targeting of the investments was thoroughly done and as a result, their relevance to local
governments and communities was high and maintained throughout the project lifetime.

37.      Subproject Preparation: While the preparation completed substantial work in targeting
investments, no upfront work was undertaken to prepare the subprojects. Only one study to consider
the feasibility of multi-municipal landfills in Copacabana and Tiwanaku was under execution. In
addition, the technical designs for the prioritized ¨emergency¨ services had been recently contracted
by the respective municipal governments. The Project was appraised without any feasibility studies,
designs, locations and associated land availability and acquisition completed. Land acquisition was
not anticipated to be a significant issue and technical capacity was identified as a moderate risk.
The Project intended to prepare the investments through consultancies contracted by the PCU in
VMT. The lack of readiness of projects at appraisal combined with the poor quality (both
technically and safeguards) and slow rate of subproject preparation resulted in the execution delays.
Additionally, the combination of targeted investments that were promised to communities and the
lack of pre-feasibility work created expectations many of which could not be met because the
projects did not have available land or had poor or incomplete designs.

38.      Institutional Arrangements: The Project´s conceptualization considered a
comprehensive view of sustainable development in the Lake Titicaca region, including multiple
activities of different types and scopes, as well as a relatively large number of different
stakeholders, thereby making the implementation and monitoring a complex challenge that was
considered during preparation. The issue that confronted the project was that there was not a clear
umbrella agency that had the capacity and mandate to manage such diverse activities in multiple
sectors. What was included in the design was the implementation of many key components
overseen by a variety of relevant agencies and municipalities but with overall responsibility under
VMT. This was complemented by coordination mechanisms among various stakeholders.

39.      In particular, as stated in the PAD, the Project would be implemented by Ministry of
Production and Microenterprises (MPME), through VMT which would operate the Project under
the supervision of MPME. An inter-institutional committee (ICSDLT) would be created to gather
all Project stakeholders and to provide advice to the Project and assist in coordination. All oversight
of contracting and execution of major infrastructure would be administered by FPS 11. The VMT


11
 With the exception of very specific investments in productive and tourism infrastructure which would be
managed by the PCU.


                                                   8
through a PCU, would be in charge of the overall Project coordination; the implementation of the
institutional strengthening program; the development and execution of Bolivia’s tourism strategy
for the Lake; the preparation of an annual update of the “the State of the Lake Report”; and the
procurement of VMT components. VMT and the Prefecture of La Paz would sign an agreement
that established the conditions for coordinated interventions in the area.

40.     FPS would rely on the municipalities for the execution of sub-projects, i.e. the
municipalities would carry out all procurement activities and would be in charge of signing the
contracts for investments in infrastructure. In order to secure the technical quality of infrastructure
designs in basic sanitation; FPS, VMBS and the PCU would form a quality review committee. Once
reviewed, the PCU would send the subprojects to FPS for their implementation and would
thereafter, monitor FPS work.

41.     Several risks were identified at appraisal including the limited technical capacity of the
VMT to implement the Project and ensure successful coordination across sectors (rated moderate)
and the potential overlapping roles between and among national authorities, the Prefecture and
municipalities (rated high). The risks related to VMT were realized and significantly affected
implementation. VMT institutional weaknesses affected the technical implementation and pace of
the project. The fact that VMT was implementing activities for which they did not have clear
competency and mandate was not able to be overcome through a clear description of roles, and the
formation of the PCU. The coordination mechanisms including signing of MoUs and forming of
coordination committees had very limited operational impact, and the inter-institutional committee
(ICSDLT) never met.

42.      Another risk that was identified (as high) was “Discrepancies between the Vice Ministry
of Tourism and the Vice Ministry of Basic Sanitation for overseeing Project components”. VMBS
was not included significantly in the implementation arrangements with the exception of a joint
technical review due to the fact that the Ministry was new and had limited capacity. While this
conflict never affected the project, the limited involvement of VMBS in the original institutional
arrangements combined with the fact that the technical review committee never became functional
manifested itself in scarce support coming from the VMBS up until the final two years of
implementation (through what at that time was Ministry of Environment and Water). The lack of
direct responsibility in the project and involvement in review and technical support for the
investments by VMBS may have affected the quality and progress of the technical designs for the
integrated urban water projects which were never implemented due to contracting delays and
quality issues.

43.      Lessons from other projects. The Project design reflected the lessons learned from Peru’s
Vilcanota Valley Rehabilitation and Management Project and the Copan Tourism Project in
Honduras, where Bank financing was used for strategic and catalytic investments to leverage
further investment by other donors and the private sector. The Project design relied heavily on the
Peruvian Project with similar institutional arrangements; an integrated development approach
including a variety of stakeholders and numerous types of small activities. At the time of Appraisal,
the Vilcanota Project had already undertaken a Mid Term review (in June 2007) which showed the
delays and difficulties due its complexity. These issues were not incorporated as lessons or risks in
the Lake Titicaca Project.

44.      The Honduras Project was already successfully closed by the time of Appraisal. Being a
similar tourism project, it had less ambitious scope and a simpler institutional set-up (apart from
the involved municipalities, no other government stakeholders but the tourism authorities were
involved). In addition, the implementing unit that had been established in Honduras for project


                                                  9
implementation, remained unchanged over the life of the project. In general, most design concepts
were retrieved from the Peruvian Project, but not the lessons learned during implementation.

2.2 Implementation

45.      The implementation of the project lasted a period of just over seven years from December
2007 until February 2015. The project implementation strategy changed significantly from the
original plan after the second restructuring in June 2012 and again in the last year of implementation
beginning in 2014. The factors that affected implementation can thus be best described in the
corresponding three project phases.

46.    Phase 1: Integrated Regional Development Program (December 2007 - January
2012): This phase focused on implementing the project as an integrated regional project as
designed including the targeted tourism and basic services activities; and using the proposed
implementing, information sharing and coordination arrangements with VMT as the focal point.

47.      During these four years of implementation, cumulative disbursements amounted to USD
2.2 million or 11% of the total loan amount. The project implementation was affected by
institutional uncertainty and arrangements that did not function as designed. The major activities
that were undertaken were the development of feasibility and design studies for a portion of the
works; the implementation of a small portion of the tourism activities (most significantly, studies,
the improvement of two tourist sites and completion of signage on the tourist circuits), and the
production of the State of the Lake report for one year.

48.     The major factors affecting implementation included:

49.     Delay in Reaching Effectiveness: After the Project was approved in December 2007, it took
12 months until it became effective in December 2008, a time period which is common for many
projects in Bolivia. The reasons were because the Congress did not approve the credit until June
2008 and institutional changes in MPME. The institutional changes included changes in the PCU
staff which ultimately delayed the production of the operations manual and the signing of the
subsidiary agreements.

50.      Coordination Mechanisms: The envisioned coordination mechanisms, with VMT as the
focal point did not become operational due to the lack of ownership of the project by VMT and
their lack of authority over the diverse issues and stakeholders addressed under the project. In
particular, the inter-institutional committee (ICSDLT) was never convened. As part of the project
restructuring in September 2010 this committee was substituted with bi-yearly inter-institutional
workshops, which equally never were undertaken. Coordination between VMT and FPS was not
strong which also impeded the transition of the studies into viable and executable works.

51.     Institutional Uncertainty and Changes in VMT: The first years after approval saw constant
changes within the MPME and in VMT including frequent changes of Ministers, threats to the
mandate of VMT through the formation of another institution with similar functions, and wavering
views of the relevance of the project within the MPME and VMT. In addition, 14 months after the
Project had become effective, in February 2010, the VMT was transferred to the Ministry of Culture
and Tourism. The changes reduced continuity of staffing and contributed to the fluctuating activity
of the PCU and eventually led to a standstill in the contracting of consultants during 2011.




                                                 10
52.      Phase 2: Focus on realizing previously targeted works under the responsibility of FPS.
(January 2012 – Febuary 2014): With the lack of progress in the project and the difficult
institutional environment, in June 2011, a mission was undertaken with the Sector Leader, current
and future task managers, a senior safeguards specialist who was previously not part of the team,
and the core team members (financial management, procurement, tourism and water and sanitation
specialists). The Country Manager also participated actively in the mission and its outcomes. The
major issues discussed included the request of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism that the Project
be removed from its responsibility on the premise that Project activities lied outside the VMT’s
mandate and the Bank recognition that this project was going through the same issues as the
Vilcanota Valley Project in Peru had gone through years earlier and a similar change in institutional
arrangements was warranted along with a potential partial cancellation of the credit.

53.      Based on concerns of social unrest in light of raised expectations in this Region that has a
history of volatility, a cancellation of project resources was not a viable consideration for the
Government. The delivery of the promised works in order to meet expectations was the overriding
concern in the scope of the restructuring. It was agreed that the project would be executed by FPS
as the sole implementing agency and it would focus on executing targeted works that are outside
the mandate of VMT. Project investments including subproject pre-investment studies and
technical assistance activities were reduced to: activities already completed; activities already
initiated by VMT but not completed and to be transferred to FPS; and other works originally
assigned to FPS for implementation which had to be completed by the extended Project closing
date of February 2, 2015. The social safeguards review also highlighted the need to pay greater
attention to compliance with social safeguards as part of subproject preparation and
implementation.

54.      After two years of implementation under this strategy, cumulative disbursements for the
project increased to USD 3.3 million or 17% of the total loan amount. The implementation during
this phase focused on delivering the promised works under the revised scope of the project through
FPS. Because the majority of the works were not ready for contracting at the time of the
restructuring, work focused on ensuring readiness of the works and undertaking bidding and
contracting procedures. The major activities that were achieved were developing and rectifying
project design and safeguards; bidding and contracting works; and executing the works. Of the 28
sets of previously targeted works, 19 were prepared and underwent bidding and 10 were eventually
executed under the Project. (see Annex 2). These included solid waste landfills and equipment in
four municipalities, and rural water supply systems in two municipalities. The total beneficiary
population was 27,776.

55.     The major factors affecting implementation included:

56.      Increased focus on bidding and contracting works: The direct engagement of FPS which
is a contracting entity, eliminated the impact of political and institutional changes of the Ministry
of Culture and Tourism on project execution. It also allowed a more practical focus on how to
execute the works under Bank rules and in the Bolivian context, which in the past was impeded by
a lack of coordination with FPS under the previous arrangements. This was complemented by a
more collaborative, problem solving supervision approach that the project team was able to develop
under this new institutional environment.

57.    The need to undertake further subproject preparation by FPS was outside their normal
mandate but was largely accommodated. One exception was the seven urban water projects which
were the most costly works under the credit (water supply for three cities and, sewerage and
wastewater treatment works in four cities), the designs of which were partially completed by VMT.


                                                 11
The launching of the re-bidding the designs was delayed a year, leaving inadequate time for
completion of the long bidding process, completing the study and bidding and constructing the
works. Therefore these seven works were not executed.

58.      Ensuring quality of designs and technical specifications for developed works: Of the
projects that were developed by VMT, many had deficiencies in the quality and appropriateness of
the designs. Out of 28 subprojects, 19 subprojects needed to improve the technical designs. FPS
with in collaboration with technical experts mobilized by the World Bank, improved designs for
the majority of these projects and adequate designs were developed for 23 of the 28 subprojects.
Two designs were not technically viable for implementation under the project and three (a portion
of the integrated water projects) never underwent design.

59.      Identifying land and associated acquisition and compensation arrangements: As
highlighted at the time of restructuring, it was necessary to identify, confirm and document the land
acquisition arrangements and related compensation in compliance with Bank safeguards policies.
This delayed subproject finalization and made it impossible to execute some projects as designed.
Of the 24 subprojects to which land issues applied12, 15 subprojects confirmed land acquisition
arrangements and 9 were not able to confirm viability from this perspective.

60.      Procurement: For many of the works undergoing bidding during this period no contractors
showed interest in the works due to the saturated market and limited number of contractors that
were involved in public works in Bolivia nationally. Contributing to the unattractiveness of the bids
were their size, the unusual nature of some of the works, and the rural locations. For most of the
works the bidding responsibilities were transferred from the municipalities to FPS. Adjustments
were also made in the bidding modality after revising contractor’s eligibility criteria in accordance
to what was learned from market demand consultations and reviews. Fourteen subprojects had
failed bids and after these adjustments were taken five of those works were able to award contracts.
Overall of the 19 subprojects that launched a bid, 10 were able to award contracts. Despite many
attempts and effort by the Bank team and FPS were not able to award the bid to a firm that could
execute the contract for the nine sets of docks13.

61.      Phase 3: Focus on realizing works that were ready or in process (previously targeted
and new works) (February 2014 - February 2015): After it became clear that only a portion of
the targeted works that were part of the restructuring could be executed, an action plan was outlined
in June 2013. The action plan, indicated the status of projects and actions to be taken to improve
the status over the next six months. After that time, it would be updated to form a basis to decide
on cancellation or extension of the Project. In January 2014, a review of the status was undertaken
with MPD and Bank Management and it was decided that the Project would not be extended further
and that, in the last year, the Project would implement what was ready to be implemented in the
time period and could consider new projects that were outside the original scope of the targeted
investments but supported the PDO. A partial cancellation would only be considered just before
closing which would allow time for MPD and FPS to communicate this to local governments and


12Subprojects included at the time of restructuring were docks in 9 municipalities (9); urban water supply in 3
municipalities (3); urban sewerage and wastewater in 4 municipalities (4); landfills in 4 municipalities (4); landfill
equipment in 4 municipalities (4); visitor centers in 2 municipalities (2); and rural water supply in 2 municipalities (2).
Review of land acquisition and compensation arrangements were needed for all but the landfill equipment.

13 The docks were bidded 3 times by the munciipalities, and 4 separate times as a consolidate package of projects by

FPS.




                                                           12
communities. After a review of potential new projects that were proposed by MMAyA (Ministry
of Environment and Water) based on designs and feasibility studies they undertook under other
financing and screening them for readiness and eligibility, a list of additional subprojects was added
to the Project. The chosen works focused on water and sanitation investments including a sewerage
system; rural water supply systems and rural sanitation systems.

62.      After one year of implementation under this strategy, cumulative disbursements for the
project increased to USD 9.9 million or 49% of the total loan amount. The major activities that
were achieved were executing the previous works already contracted; and packaging, bidding,
contracting and executing the new works. Communicating the closing date and the associated
implications on subprojects execution or cancelation to municipalities was also undertaken. The 10
newly introduced works included rural water supply systems in two municipalities; rural sanitation
systems in two municipalities; additional solid waste equipment in four municipalities; and a
sewerage system in one municipality benefitting an additional population of 30,041 making the
total population benefitted under the project 57,817. (see Annex 3)

63.     The major factors affecting implementation included:

64.     Selection of new works: A screening process was undertaken on a long list of works
ensuring the safeguards were complied with, the land was available and the designs were of
adequate quality. The project types chosen were also common in Bolivia. This screening and the
common nature of the subprojects significantly improved the success of the subprojects relative to
the previously targeted works. Of the 12 works chosen, 10 were eventually contracted and
implemented.

65.     Re-enforcement of the local Bank team: A senior technical specialist was assigned to the
local Bank team that undertook the day to day coordination and technical advice on the project,
improving the responsiveness to challenges faced by FPS, and providing an additional level of
technical expertise and review for the project bidding and contractual management.

66.      Time and budget to execute the works in full: Many of the contracted works could not be
completed within the Project’s time period, hence counterpart funding was identified to finance the
contracts that would go beyond the closing date and others were reduced in their scope (e.g, number
of latrines and solid waste equipment). The effort that went into the agreements between FPS and
the municipalities to provide counterpart funds after the closing date required extensive
negotiations with the municipal governments, and in some cases, involved significant additional
counterpart funding from the municipalities. All works were able to be delivered before July 2015.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

67.      Project Results Indicators: The project included a set of indicators to measure the outputs
and three indicators to measures progress on outcomes related to tourism, service delivery and
coordination and information sharing. After the restructuring in 2012 and the concomitant focus on
executing works, the key indicators were adjusted according to the restructured Project scope. Use
of this monitoring framework to measure intermediate outcomes and evaluate Project impacts was
limited in Bank and FPS monitoring reports until the time of the ICR. This was mainly due to the
fact that there were very few results to report until the last year of the Project and the indicators did
not reflect the outputs of subproject preparation, contracting and execution which was the focus of
the supervision.




                                                   13
68.     Subproject Progress Monitoring: Under the restructured project, FPS used their internal
monitoring and evaluation mechanisms to monitor subproject progress during the implementation.
The monitoring system was useful in the last three years of the project, identifying bottlenecks and
feeding into the major decisions made on allocating effort on different elements of the subproject
cycle and eventually in including further subprojects.

69.     Other Monitoring Mechanisms: The original project had included in addition to monitoring
of project indicators and progress by VMT, the broader communication on the Lake status and the
State of the Lake Report. One State of the Lake Report was produced with the assistance of the
World Bank team but the process did not have sufficient ownership to have continuity and no more
reports were produced. The inter-institutional committee (ICSDLT) and workshops that were
intended for monitoring and communication were never put into operation.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

70.    Safeguards: Over the life of the Project the compliance with safeguards was rated as
Moderately Satisfactory.

71.      OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment. The Project was categorized as B for environmental
assessment at appraisal as the project did not present any large-scale works of an unprecedented or
irreversible nature, had a relatively narrow range of impacts with known mitigation and
management measures. This continued to be the case during implementation. A framework was
created for VMT at appraisal and at the time of the 2012 restructuring, FPS manuals and guidelines
were approved by the Bank. The frameworks ensured that the applicable infrastructure project
obtains an environmental license in accordance with Bolivian and Bank regulations. The project
complied with this framework.

72.     OP 4.01 Natural Habitats. The Project did not degrade any critical natural habitat.
Screening criteria and management mitigation measures were included in the environmental
assessment process for each subproject.

73.      OP 4.11 Physical Cultural Resources. The Project did not involve works that affected a
national protected site or monument since most of the tourism component, which contained
upgrading of these monuments, was not implemented. For subprojects near potentially important
sites and monuments, archaeologists were included as part of the design teams to avoid these types
of impacts..

74.     OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement. At appraisal it was anticipated that the activities under
the tourism and basic services components would not have an impact on people and property in
terms of acquisition of land, houses and/or access to property. However, a resettlement policy
framework was prepared for use in case any of these impacts were found. In reaction to the
recognition at the time of the 2012 restructuring that the majority of the of the works would involve
these impacts, FPS guidelines and manuals on resettlement were revised and updated in compliance
with Bank policies. As of the closing date, affected beneficiaries had accepted and signed
agreements with their municipal governments, which in some cases had offered additional benefits
above those that were required under the Bank policy.

75.    OP 4.10 Indigenous Peoples. Since 93% of the population identified themselves as Aymara
and the remainder non-indigenous, the project triggered OP/BP 4.10 with the principles and
elements of an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan incorporated in the project design. This was



                                                 14
complied with through the project’s social assessment and the process of consultations during the
subproject development.

76.     OP 7.50 Projects on International Waterways. The procedures outlined in the policy
including prior notification to the Peruvian Government (via a letter from the Bank Country
director) were undertaken.

77.     Financial and Procurement Management. No major financial or procurement issues
were faced during the Project’s life. As recommended at Appraisal, semi-annual supervision
missions visited the field to carry out review of procurement and financial management. External
audits were all carried out as expected with no major issues raised.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

78.     Integrated Regional Development: There are no plans to continue with multi-sector
integrated regional development approach in Lake Titicaca Region. However, an environmental
strategy for improvement of Lake Titicaca has been developed by MMAyA and presented June 20,
2015, that supports a parallel high level dialogue with Peru. The strategy focuses on sewerage,
treatment and solid waste works to reduce contamination in the Lake.

79.     Completion of Works: For those subprojects that remained under implementation at the
closing date, counterpart funds had been secured by FPS through financial agreements that were
signed with each corresponding municipal government, hence all subproject contracts had
delivered their works by July 2015.

80.      Operational and Financial Sustainability: All works, because of the limited capacity of
the municipalities and service utilities, have a substantial sustainability risk. To help mitigate this
risk, as part of all the infrastructure projects, a complementary contract for “community
development and institutional strengthening” was undertaken. In addition to communication and
consultation activities, the activities developed with the municipalities or water utilities the
institutional and organizational framework and the capacity needs and operational procedures to
administer and operate the facilities. In addition, a tariff structure was established in consultation
with the communities. For the solid waste landfills, support was provided during construction and
the beginning of operation through a South-South Exchange with a municipality in Colombia of a
similar size. The exchange included visits to Colombia and two visits of the Colombians to Bolivia
and was supported by regional experts in the operation of landfills.

81.     Completion of the Viacha Wastewater Treatment Plant: The construction of the
wastewater treatment plant that would receive and treat the wastewater from the sewerage
investment financed under the Project has an estimated cost of USD 3.3 million. It is being
financed through the USD 109 million PROASRED (Programa de Agua, Saneamiento, Residuos
Sólidos y Drenaje Pluvial) Project financed by Corporación Andina de Fomento (CAF). The design
is in the final stages of approval with bidding expected to begin in August 2015 with completion
of works in 2016, at which time the sewerage connections will become operational.




                                                  15
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

82.     Rating: Modest.

83.     The Relevance was rated modest as the objectives remained relevant but the design and
implementation approach, which involved a small, regional and integrated development project
covering two sectors, did not maintain substantial relevance in light of World Bank and
Government strategies and priorities. The restructuring in 2012 and related changes did not
overcome these deficiencies in the relevance of the design and implementation.

84.    Objectives: The Project Development Objective, ¨contribution to local sustainable
development in the Borrowers (Bolivian) part of the Lake Titicaca watershed¨, was and has
remained relevant for the communities and municipalities in the region as the needs remain.

85.     In terms of the national relevance of the objectives, the objective to improve tourism as an
engine for development maintained its overall relevance as evidenced in the National Tourism Plan
which considers tourism as the overarching and cross-cutting theme that can support development
in the country. In terms of the provision of water and sanitation services and protecting the
environment of Lake Titicaca, this sub-objective was relevant before the start of the Project and
increased its relevance during the course of the Project. In particular during the time period of
implementation the Government declared access to water and sanitation as a ¨ fundamental human
right¨ and recognized of the rights of “Mother Earth” in the new State Political Constitution.
Consequently, national budget allocations to improve and expand water and sanitation services
have been the largest among the social sectors over the last decade. In addition, MMAyA has
recently launched a strategy to reduce contamination in the Lake which been recently presented to
Perú at a Presidential-level bilateral meetings.

86.     The relevance of the objectives in light of the Bank’s engagement under the Country
Partnership Strategy (2010-2015) also continued. The Strategy included the pillars of sustainable
productive development; and human development and access to basic services. It also emphasized
the catalytic impact of key areas that included: (a) supporting sustainable employment and
production regions, particularly in rural areas; and (b) enhancing institutional capacity in
decentralized areas to deliver basic and social services. The project objectives supported these
agendas and thus remained relevant in the context of the Bank’s engagement with Bolivia.

87.     Design and Implementation: In terms of the design, the needs targeted were and remain
relevant for the communities and municipalities, however, the small size of the project and the dual
sector approach to integrated regional development were less relevant in the context of the
Government’s priorities and the World Bank’s engagement in the country. In particular:

88.     Local Relevance of Targeted Interventions: The detailed needs assessment and
participatory planning process undertaken at appraisal was able to identify a set of targeted
interventions that were important and remained relevant throughout implementation. This was
evidenced by the continued community and municipal pressures for executing the project and



                                                16
individual subprojects during supervision and the unfulfilled need for improved tourism
infrastructure and improved basic services in this region.



89.      Integrated, Regional, Multi-Sector Approach: The project was designed to be a small
project that responded to important needs in regional tourism and basic services. The relevance of
taking this dual sector strategic approach in a given region was not maintained in national planning
or in the and among the relevant line ministries, as evidenced in the dialogue on the project and the
nature of its restructuring. In the context of the Banks Country Partnership Strategy, the approach
of using a small project to work in two sectors in a sub-region in the country was not consistent
with the growing focus on engagement beyond the traditional sector approach, working at the
national level and through larger projects. This was evidenced in the Country Partnership Strategy
as well as in the discussions on proposed extensions of the Project which highlighted the need to
focus on larger operations at a more national level in the portfolio.

90.      Effect of restructuring on Relevance: The restructuring in June 2012 caused the project
to become more concentrated on basic services and eliminated the activities related to coordination
and information sharing. On balance though it maintained the regional approach and included
tourism investments. Implementation did not align itself with ongoing strategies enough to
significantly change the relevance rating. The introduction of the additional investments in the last
year of the project did not reduce the relevance of the interventions at the local level as they were
responding to needs for which there was a large unmet demand.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating against original indicators: Negligible
Rating against revised indicators: Modest

91.     The Project did contribute to the local sustainable development in the Bolivian part of the
Lake Titicaca watershed. This was done to a significantly lesser degree than anticipated. When
compared against the original indicators before the restructuring in June 2012, the achievement of
the objectives was negligible and when compared against the revised objectives the achievement
of the objectives was modest.

92.      Against original indicators: When compared against the indicators originally approved,
the PDO indicators were not achieved and only a portion of the results indicators were achieved.
In particular, the tourism portion of the project had achieved almost nothing while the basic services
component underperformed.

93.      PDO indicators: Of the three PDO indicators, the Geo-tourism indicator was not achieved;
the targets of the Urban Environmental Sustainability Index were only able to be achieved for one
city and the production of the State of the Lake report was not done annually as anticipated, rather
was produced once with good quality.

94.     Activities that support tourism development and cultural protection. Was not achieved to
any significant degree.

95.     Improvement of basic water and sanitation services. Was partially achieved in comparison
to what was originally planned. More water supply projects and solid waste projects were achieved,




                                                 17
however, the integrated urban water projects which were the largest investments and the focus of
the project PDO indicators were not undertaken with the exception of one sewerage project.

Intermediate Outcomes and Project Targets

    Component                          Indicator                    Target    Target       Final
                                                                              revised      Result
 Component 1:      Tourism improvement projects                      100         31          2
 Tourism and       Cultural sites protected                           20     Eliminated      0
 Productive        Small businesses supported                        100     Eliminated      0
 Development
 Component 2:      Rural towns with improved water and sanitation    20         20          39
 Basic Services    services
                   Urban communities with adequate wastewater         5          5           1
                   services
                   Cities with adequate solid waste services          3          3           4
 Component 3:      Tourism studies completed                          4      Eliminated      1
 Institutional
 Strengthening     Municipal land-use management plans completed     12      Eliminated      0
                   Activities aimed at promoting the region’s         0      3 (added)       3
                   international tourism potential



96.     Against revised indicators: When compared against the indicators that were revised as
part of the June 2012 restructuring, the remaining PDO indicator (the Urban Environmental
Sustainability Index) was not achieved. The intermediate outcome indicators were, however,
achieved with the exception of the large urban water and wastewater projects and the tourism
works.

97.      PDO indicators: The PDO indicator, the Urban Environmental Sustainability Index was a
composite indicator made of up target improvements in services and financial performance for five
cities. Of the five cities, only one city was able reach its targets.

98.     Activities that support tourism development and cultural protection. The revised indicators
focused on the construction of the docks and the visitor centers. None of these were achieved
although the modest support to promoting international tourism potential was undertaken.

99.     Improvement of basic water and sanitation services. Was partially achieved with some
indicators exceeding expectations. More water supply projects and solid waste projects were
achieved than originally targeted. The integrated urban water projects, which were the focus of the
project PDO indicators, were not undertaken with the exception of one sewerage project.

3.3 Efficiency

Rating: Modest

100.     The efficiency was considered modest based on the combination of the economic analysis
of the works undertaken and the time for the Project to undertake these small works. The economic
analysis of the investments undertaken indicated the investments met the standard based on
economic efficiency or cost-benefit analysis. The subprojects took seven years to develop and
implement and the costs of preparing and supervision under that project amounted to 23% of the
total costs of the investments. While the project began implementing investments at a more rapid




                                                     18
rate after restructuring, the dependence of the works on the studies undertaken as part of the original
project does not allow an improved efficiency rating to be credited after restructuring.



101.     Economic Analysis: At appraisal, an economic analysis was undertaken on the tourism
component using projected increases in tourist visits based on historical trends; the average length
of stay; and the average expenditure per tourist in the Region. For the basic services component an
economic analysis was also undertaken on a set of water supply projects to arrive at a level of cost
efficiency that could be used in the development of these types of subprojects.

102.     For the ICR, an economic analysis was undertaken covering the subproject investments
under the basic services component. A cost efficiency analysis was undertaken on the water supply
projects using actual costs and updated reference values. Cost effectiveness was also done for the
landfills and a cost-benefit analysis was undertaken for the sewerage project.

103.     Water Supply Projects: As the reference values for cost effectiveness were no longer
applicable considering the economic changes in the country and increased construction costs, the
cost effectiveness analysis was based on the cost per beneficiary when compared to 35 recent rural
water supply projects undertaken separately in Bolivia. The results indicate the costs per
beneficiary for the water supply systems under the project (USD 322 per beneficiary) are the same
as those reference values (USD 316 per beneficiary).

104.     Solid Waste Management Systems: The cost-effectiveness analysis was based on a
comparison of the costs of the established services of sweeping, collection and disposal when
compared to reference values for these types of services established for Colombia, taking into
account the dimension of the service in each locality, the nature of the investment activities under
the project and differences in labor costs 14 . The results indicate that the costs of the services
established are comparable to what is considered economically efficient15.

105.     Viacha Sewerage Project: The Viacha sewerage subproject financed the sewerage system
in a district of the city of Viacha. The sewerage system benefits are tied to a large investment in
wastewater treatment in the City which has confirmed financing and ongoing. It is scheduled to
finish in the second half of 2016. As the benefits are dependent on the project as a whole, the cost-
benefit analysis of the sewerage investment was considered as with the wastewater treatment plant
project. A net present value (NPV) of USD 2.1 million and an internal rate of return (IRR) of 15.8%
were obtained.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Unsatisfactory




14 Reference prices were established based the “Comisión de Regulación de Agua Potable y Saneamiento Básico”

formulas for the services of sweeping; collection and final disposal that, calculate the level of costs that is considered
economically efficient for individual service providers.

15 Achacachi: USD348/day vs a reference value of USD485/day; Copacabana: USD367/day vs USD437/day;

Tiwanaku: USD 156/day vs USD 169/day. See annex 2 for details.




                                                           19
106.     As described above, the Project Development Objective and related tourism and basic
services needs remained relevant along with the targeted interventions. The design and
implementation, specifically the regional approach along two sectors lines, did not maintain its
relevance for the Government or the World Bank strategy. The PDO indicators were not
substantially achieved as many activities were not fully implemented. Those that were implemented
had important economic benefits locally which were achieved in a long time period with significant
transaction costs. The restructuring and subsequent changes in the indicators and scope of the
project did increase the efficacy of the project but overall did not change the rating.

Overall outcome rating analyzed before and after 2012 restructuring
                                 Against original project        Against restructured project
                                                                         (June 2012)
  Relevance                              Modest                             Modest
  Efficacy                              Negligible                          Modest
  Efficiency                             Modest                             Modest
  Overall Rating                      Unsatisfactory                   Unsatisfactory



3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

107.    While the impact did not have the anticipated outcome, the participatory decision making
process in the targeting of investments was an excellent example of inclusive, participatory
planning. The implementation of basic services projects contributed to the achievement of MDG
goals for water supply and sanitation.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

108.    The project as originally envisioned, expected to build institutional capacity in VMT and
other agencies and stakeholders through a coordinative mechanism. With the lack of coordination,
and the eventual dissolution of the PCU in VMT capacity was not able to be built in this way.
Capacity was built in relation to the works that were executed. In particular, FPS was strengthened
in various areas related to project implementation, such as safeguard policies and instruments and,
technical design. In addition, local communities benefited from the institutional strengthening
program related to the works implementation and operation provided under the project. As the solid
waste landfills were among the first for cities of this size in Bolivia, the implementation with the
support of a Global South- South Trust Fund was able to build capacity in MMAyA, FPS and the
local governments.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

109.    Recently the Lake´s pollution has become high profile issue. Some of the Project studies
and designs have been used as inputs into a new strategy of MMAyA to reduce contamination in
Lake Titicaca. In addition, the studies that were undertaken are being used as inputs to investments
being considered by some of the local governments.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable.



                                                20
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

110.     For the infrastructure projects that were implemented, the main risk is future sustainability.
The institutional strengthening programs were thorough, developing the institutional arrangements,
tariffs and undertaking capacity building. This combined with the continued involvement of
MMAyA in the subprojects and their sustainability will help mitigate this risk. While the risk is
important, it should be noted that there is more experience in managing water supply projects in
the Country. The risk is higher for the solid waste services as facilities such as those constructed
under the project are largely new to the Country. The completion of the other components
(wastewater treatment plant) of the Viacha subproject is also a risk. The steady progress on these
works including the availability of funding, designs and political support mitigate this risk
substantially.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Unsatisfactory

111.    The project underwent a thorough participatory planning process and targeting of
investments that responded to a set of local priorities and the gap in integrated planning that existed
in the Region and that leveraged Bank knowledge and convening power. However, the design was
lacking key fundamental elements. In particular:

        - No pre-investment studies were carried out, leaving the project with targeted projects
without any guarantee of their viability or timely implementation.

       - The project design and the multiple sectors it covered did not adequately match the
mandates and priorities and capabilities of the national institutions that would implement them.

        - Another Bank Project used in the design, the Vilcanota Project from Perú, was
experiencing serious difficulties. The corresponding lessons learned were not well reflected in the
design.

        - The overall risk ratings as stated in the PAD were underestimated.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

112.     Supervision was hindered by institutional changes at the beginning of the project, however,
the effectiveness of supervision improved steadily over the course of the project. During the seven
years of Project implementation and in the six months after closing (to supervise ongoing works)
at least bi-yearly missions were organized with dedicated project team leaders and members. In
addition, all fiduciary controls were monitored and complied with and external audits were
undertaken. The team mobilized additional targeted supervision support in particular in response



                                                  21
to safeguards, design deficiencies and contracting difficulties, and exercised flexibility in the
implementation in procurement processes and subproject eligibility. In addition, the team
developed a strong collaborative relationship with FPS in confronting project difficulties on the
ground. Some of the shortcomings were:

    -   The project was restructured only after four years of implementation, despite constant
        warnings that the implementation arrangements were not functioning. Similarly the
        decision to pursue alternative projects was made late in project implementation.

    -   Safeguards supervision was limited in the first four years of the project when VMT was
        preparing projects. While it did not result in non-compliance, the lack of planning for these
        issues did delay implementation and limited the outcomes that could be achieved.

    -   A dedicated Bolivia-based focal point in the Bank who could resolve technical and project
        issues on a day to day basis was only appointed in the last year. This limited the rate of
        progress on subprojects, considering the technical capacity shortcomings and consistent
        problems with contracting.

    -   The monitoring of results indicators was not systematically carried out.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory

113.     Both the preparation and supervision of the Bank was diligent and with specific efforts that
in many ways went beyond what was expected including the strategic planning work done at
preparation and the effort and flexibility made during supervision to resolve what were constant
and ongoing issues. At the same time, several strategic issues related to institutional and subproject
readiness and the timing of the institutional changes made in the 2012 restructuring and the
introduction of alternative subprojects, if more proactively addressed with the Government at an
earlier stage, could have improved project performance.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

114.      The institutional setup in the design did not maintain the anticipated political support in
VMT or in other levels of Government resulting in poor project performance and coordination
between the different government entities. This was not resolved until the institutional changes
were undertaken four years into the project. The strategic decision of allowing implementation of
alternative projects was similarly made very late in the Project implementation. During the period
after this 2012 restructuring MPD was actively involved in pressuring FPS to implement the
targeted interventions and in the last year in promoting alternative projects for implementation and
facilitating counterpart funding.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory




                                                 22
115.    VMT: The lack of political commitment to the project, the lack of experience in project
implementation and its scarce coordination capacity severely affected the project implementation,
leading to an eventual standstill in contracting and subsequent elimination of the PCU in VMT.
Rating: Unsatisfactory.

116.     FPS: After the 2012 Project restructuring the FPS became the sole implementing agency
for the Project. FPS was experienced and diligent in pursuing the contracting of works and worked
collaboratively with the Bank in resolving issues for those projects at the contracting stage and
executing those works. Because of the circumstances of the project, in many ways they made
unusual efforts including: taking responsibility for contracting from the municipalities; improving
subproject designs; directly intervening on safeguards issues; negotiating additional counterpart
funding after the closing date and supervising those contracts. Limitations included, competing
priorities with other investment programs and the lack of institutional focus and experience in
preparing subprojects which contributed to delays; most significantly the delay in contracting and
lack of focus on executing the urban water supply, sewerage and wastewater treatment project
studies. Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

117.   The borrower’s overall performance is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory based on the
combination of the above ratings.

6. Lessons Learned
118.     Respecting existing institutional mandates and avoiding project-specific institutional
roles and coordination mechanisms. The project’s regional, multi sector focus had no supporting
institutions with the mandate and interest to undertake such an approach. In particular, the project
had an implementing agency that had a sector mandate over only a portion of the types of
investments and did not have sufficient ability to convene and coordinate with groups with these
mandates. Limiting the involvement of MMAyA to coordination and having FPS implement the
pre-investment studies was also contrary to normal mandates and may have affected
implementation. The project may have had more success if it was more practical in the scope
interventions and worked with institutions with corresponding mandates such as a provincial
government or by implementing two or more separate projects through separate line ministries.

119.     Taking early action on fundamental restructurings: The project removed itself from
what was a non-functional institutional arrangement only after four years of implementation, the
timing of which ultimately reduced the degree to which the project development objective could
be reached and provided little time contingency for unforeseen delays and adjustments. The need
for a major project restructuring should be promptly identified as project issues would need to be
rapidly resolved if a project is to be put back on track.

120.    Implementation Support in Low Capacity Environments: The project experienced
bottlenecks due to limited capacity throughout implementation. Although undertaken late in
implementation, solutions were found for many of these bottlenecks, providing lessons that can be
used in Bolivia and other low capacity environments. In particular, challenges in the quality of
technical designs for works that are relatively uncommon in a country should be expected and thus
project supervision should consider direct technical support using practical international
experience. In addition, general capacity constraints were able to be overcome in the last few years
by moving beyond the typical World Bank implementation support model to a more direct, hands-


                                                23
on relationship with the client and providing personnel that can work in collaboration with clients
to confront particular challenges (safeguards, technical designs) as well as respond to day to day
issues.

121.    Adopting appraisal stage readiness criteria for subprojects: The project relied on
works, none of which were ready at the time of appraisal. This, combined with the underestimation
of the complexity of preparing such projects, delayed implementation and in many cases created
commitments to projects that could not be undertaken. Appraisal readiness criteria applied to a least
a portion of the subprojects along with a rigorous analysis of timelines would have mitigated this
risk.

122.     Incorporating contingency planning to manage investment uncertainty: The project
targeted important investments that were committed to early-on but because of their level of
preparedness had uncertainty as to their viability. Many of the sub-projects as designed were not
viable in the time period of the project, and in the last year contingency projects that met readiness
criteria were introduced with many of them successfully implemented. Considering at appraisal it
was known that the investment needs were much larger than the project lending envelope, preparing
additional subprojects and allowing for the substitution of these subprojects as needed as part of
project design could have managed this uncertainty at an earlier stage and allowed the development
objective to be more substantially achieved within the time period of the project.

123.   Taking into account contracting risks in design: One of the major delays and
impediments for realizing some of the works was the experience of consultants, contractors and the
demand for such contracts in the Bolivia context especially when the procurement was done
through municipal governments. The market of contractors and suppliers and their preferred
packaging and terms of contracts should be analysed at the preparation stage and considered as
much as possible in project risks and planning.

124.    Following up participatory planning with continued communication: The planning
process responded to a clear need at the beginning of the project, allowing for regional planning to
be done in a participatory manner, which was never done before. It provided a well-organized
means to get feedback and input from the communities in this Region. This did not continue with
the same organization and effort during implementation, which, when combined with the slow
implementation, led to real and perceived local discontent. The associated concerns of community
reaction to cancelation or changes ultimately limited practical adjustments that could be made in
the project execution. A strong communications strategy throughout implementation would have
provided a forum to better manage expectations and make more timely adjustments with the
involvement and broad consent of the community.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Comments received are summarized in Annex 5. The points made by FPS on their efforts as part
of the project were incorporated in the document and considered in their individual rating. In
response to MPD comments, the ICR included material on the need to look at timelines at
preparation as part of the lessons learned.

(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)


                                                 24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                         Appraisal
                                                       millions)
Component 1                               8.91              0.28             3%
Component 2                             11.09              10.39            94%
Component 3                               3.01              2.01            67%
      Total Financing Required          23.01              12.68            55%

(b) Financing
                                                 Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                     Type of     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
         Source of Funds
                                   Cofinancing    (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                 millions)   millions)
Borrower                           Counterpart     3.01        2.79        93%
International Development
                                                   20.00         9.89          49%
Association (IDA)




                                          25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

PDO indicator:
Environmental Sustainability Index
               Financial Indicator      Water Supply             Waste Water            Solid Waste 
                                                                                                                      Index Score (5)
                       (1)              Indicator (2)            Indicator (3)         Indicator (4)
     City
               Baseline     Result    Baseline     Result     Baseline    Result    Baseline     Result     Baseline  Target          Result 
                2007         2015      2007        2015        2007       2015       2007        2015        2007      2013            2015
Copacabana  Low    Low                  Low         Low        Low    Low             Low         High            4          2          4
Achacachi  Medium Medium                High        High      Medium Medium           Low         High            3          2          2
Tiquina     Low    Low                  Low         Low        Low    Low             Low         High            4          2          4
Tiawanacu   Low    Low                  High        High       Low    Low             Low         High            4          2          4
Viacha      Low    Low                  High        High       Low    Low             Low         Low             4          2          4
(1): High, 100% of O&M costs covered by users’ fees. Medium, more than 75%. Low, all others.
(2): High, 16 hours of service & 75% coverage. Medium, 8 hours of service & 50% coverage. Low, all others.
(3): High, functional waste water treatment plant (WWTP) and 75% coverage. Medium, functional WWTP and 50% coverage. Low,
all others.
(4): High, 75% collection coverage & disposal in a sanitary field. Medium, 50% collection coverage & disposal in a sanitary field.
Low, all others.
(5): Level 1: All indicators are High. Level 2: Financial Indicator is Medium and all others High or Medium. Level 3: Financial
Indicator is Medium and one other indicator is Low. Level 4: All others.


Eliminated PDO Indicators:
Geo-tourism Score---no measurable results
Quality of the State of the Lake Report: Not completed. One report produced of high
quality but not done annually.

Intermediate Results Indicators
     Component                                    Indicator                             Target            Target            Final Result
                                                                                                          revised
 Component 1:              Tourism improvement projects                                   100                31                   2
 Tourism and               Cultural sites protected                                        20            Eliminated               0
 Productive                Small businesses supported                                     100            Eliminated               0
 Development
 Component 2:              Rural towns with improved water and sanitation                   20               20                  39
 Basic Services            services
                           Urban communities with adequate wastewater                       5                5                    1
                           services
                           Cities with adequate solid waste services                        3                3                    4
 Component 3:              Tourism studies completed                                        4            Eliminated               1
 Institutional
 Strengthening             Municipal land-use management plans completed                    12           Eliminated               0
                           Activities aimed at promoting the region’s                       0            3 (adtaded)              3
                           international tourism potential




                                                                 26
World Bank Core Indicators
                                        Indicator                                          Number
 Direct Project Beneficiaries (number) of which female (%)                                  57,817,
                                                                                          54% female
 People in urban areas provided with access to regular solid waste collection under the     19,362
 project (number).
 People provided with access to “improved sanitation facilities” under the project (#)      2,536
 Improved latrines constructed under the project (#)                                         634
 Sub-projects or investments for which arrangements for community engagement in post-       100%
 project sustainability and/or operations and maintenance are established (percentage)
 Industrial and municipal waste disposal capacity created under the project (tons)          16,617
 Contaminated land managed or dump sites closed under the project (ha)                       0.75
 People provided with access to “Improved Water Sources” under the project (number)         8,414

 New piped household water connections that are resulting from the project intervention     1,974
 (number)
 Water utilities that the project is supporting (number)                                     31


Summary of Subprojects and Designs Completed

Solid Waste Management Systems: The solid waste management projects were based on planning
and pre-investment studies that analyzed the current system that undertook a participatory process
to identify sites for the landfills and designed the investments including the environmental and
social plans. These subprojects upgraded and introduced services of urban cleansing (sweeping);
waste collection; and waste disposal. It included equipment and works to help modernize these
services including vehicles for collection, sweeping equipment, and the construction of disposal
sites. It also included technical assistance for communication and institutional strengthening to
establish the organizational structure and financing for that would allow the system to operate. The
projects were implemented in four municipalities, Copacabana, Achacachi, Tiquina and Tiwanacu
with a total beneficiary population of 19,362.

Rural Water Supply Systems: These systems provided water supply systems for rural households.
They included the works to provide the source, storage and delivery through household connections
of the water supply. It also included the community outreach and institutional strengthening to
support the operation, establishment of tariffs and to strengthen the community based water utilities.
The project established systems in 34 communities in 4 municipalities (Puerto Perez, Laja,
Achacachi y Huatajata) benefiting 8,414 people and 31 water utilities.

Rural Sanitation Systems: These systems provided basic sanitation for rural households through
the construction of ecological sanitation systems. It also included the community outreach and
institutional strengthening to support the operation of the system. The project established 634
systems in 5 communities located in 3 municipalities (Acacachi, Huatajata, and Santiago de Huata)
benefitting a population of 2,536.

Sewerage Project in Viacha: The Project financed a sewerage system in a two districts of the city
of Viacha which is part of a larger investment in sewerage in the other districts in the city and a
wastewater treatment which is ongoing with confirmed financing through CAF, designs and will
be bidded out in August 2015. The works financed by the Project include the collection systems
for two districts with a population of 27,505 and the community communication and institutional



                                                        27
strengthening program. Once the wastewater treatment plant is completed, the connections will
become functional. This is expected in 2016.

Tourist Site Upgrading: The project completed upgrading two small tourist sites and placed signage
in several tourist circuits in the Lake Titicaca region. The signs provide directions, and maps of
the main tourist areas in the region and can be found in the city centers and in key locations around
the tourist attractions.

Design Studies Completed: In several cases the project finished technical design studies that could
not be executed under the project but may be used in future investments. In particular the project
completed designs for: (i) urban water supply in Copacabana; (ii) urban wastewater treatment in
Copacabana; (iii) 26 docks in 9 municipalities; (iv) two tourist centers on the border with Peru; (v)
upgrading of ruins on Isla Del Sol and Isla de la Luna and (vi) tourism circuits and attractions for
the lake.

Subproject development process for works under the 2012 Restructuring

     Project       # locations      Adequate   Safeguards     Bidding     Contracted    Completed
    category     (municipalities)    designs   completed     launched
 Landfills              4               4           4            4            4              4
 Solid waste            4               4          NA            4            4              4
 equipment
 Rural Water            2              2           2             2            2              2
 supply
 Integrated
 urban water
 projects
 -Water supply          3              1           0             0            0              0
 -Sewerage-             4              1           0             0            0              0
 wastewater
 Docks                  9              9           9             9            0              0
 Tourist                2              2           0             0            0              0
 centers
 Total                 28              23         15            19            10            10 



Subproject Development Progress for works introduced in 2014
     Project       # locations      Adequate   Safeguards     Bidding     Contracted    Completed
    category     (municipalities)    designs   completed     launched
 Rural Water            3               2           2            2            2              2
 Supply
 Ecological             4               4           4            3            3              3
 sanitation
 Additional             4               4           4            4            4              4
 solid waste
 equipment
 Sewerage               1               1           1            1            1              1
 system
 Total                 12              11          11           10            10            10 




                                                 28
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

At appraisal the project economic analysis considered both tourism and basic services benefits.
The tourism benefits were calculated using projected increases in tourist visits based on historical
trends, the average length of stay and the average expenditure per tourist in the Region. The
economic analysis involved an assessment of the Project costs and benefits as compared to a
realistic “without-Project scenario”.

The basic services investments were considered as a positive externality with expected additional
economic benefits for the direct users: resource services (time savings and savings that result from
the elimination of individual water treatment –e.g. the cost for boiling water; benefits from
increased water consumption estimated by the willingness to pay for increased consumption for
users who without the Project would use less effective and more costly alternatives such as river,
bottled water, etc). At appraisal an economic cost benefit analysis was conducted from a sample
of 21 water supply subprojects to establish a reference value for cost effectiveness. These results
indicated that US$240 per beneficiary cost was a reference value below which a project could be
considered cost-effective.

For the ICR, given the Project restructuring during implementation removed the tourism outcome
indicators, no analysis was undertaken for the tourism component whereas for the basic services
component a cost efficiency analysis was carried out on the investments on water supply, latrines
and landfills using actual costs and updated reference values, and a cost-benefit analysis was
undertaken for the sewerage project.

Cost-effectiveness of Water Supply Projects: As the reference values for cost effectiveness
defined at Appraisal were no longer applicable considering the economic changes in the country
and construction costs increases 16 , the cost effectiveness analysis was based on the cost per
beneficiary of water supply subprojects when compared to a separate set of 35 rural water supply
projects undertaken recently in Bolivia17. To allow direct comparison, the costs of the Project-
related subprojects did not consider the costs for communication and capacity building activities.
The results indicate the costs per beneficiary for the water supply systems under the Project (USD
322 per beneficiary with a standard deviation of 171) are statistically the same as the reference
values (USD 316 per beneficiary with a standard deviation of 208).




16
     INE (National Statistics Institute) construction cost index increased 62% between 2006-2014

17
     From FPS project database.




                                                      29
Cost per beneficiary for project water supply investments


                                                                                         Cost per
  Location                                             Cost (USD)       Beneficiaries
                                                                                        beneficiary
                                                                                          (USD)
  AYATA AJLLATA (ACHACACHI)                            1,290,369.68         405            411
  CORPAPUTO BAJA (ACHACACHI)                           1,611,320.99         306            724
  CORPAPUTO CENTRO, JANCO AMAYA Y KHOANI
  (ACHACACHI)                                          3,803,950.19        1,284           405
  KENAMARINI - KELAHUARANCA (ACHACACHI)                1,781,478.46         491            492
  ANTAJAHUA (LAJA)                                      504,148.66          140            383
  PUCHUNI (LAJA)                                        379,365.01          162            245
  WICHI WICHI (LAJA)                                    262,403.73          134            202
  CHIRI (LAJA)                                          497,073.26          140            360
  COLLPAJAHUA (LAJA)                                    403,937.27          166            262
  AVICAYA (LAJA)                                        373,980.71          171            224
  MACHACAMARCA ALTA (LAJA)                              489,276.98          268            205
  MACHACAMARCA BAJA (LAJA)                              748,184.73          224            391
  TAMBILLO (LAJA)                                      1,776,339.96         761            290
  KALLUTACA (LAJA)                                      521,139.60          263            195
  PUCHUCOLLO ALTO (LAJA)                                326,044.79          191            188
  PUCHUCOLLO BAJO (LAJA)                                269,152.10          185            159
  PUCHUCOLLO BAJO SUR (LAJA)                            358,150.16          140            280
  QUELLANI (LAJA)                                      1,077,260.81         138            868
  SULLCATACA ALTO (LAJA)                                968,908.80          331            352
  SULLCATACA BAJA (LAJA)                                913,579.52          289            337
  KARAPATA ALTA (PUERTO PEREZ)                          698,133.89          380            225
  KARAPATA BAJA (PUERTO PEREZ)                          510,605.92          232            282
  KHANAPATA (PUERTO PEREZ)                              361,991.45          363            128
  QUEHUAYA (PUERTO PEREZ)                               830,224.69          565            159
  TOKE AJLLATA (STGO DE HUATA)                         1,487,441.04         685            280



Cost-effectiveness of Solid Waste Investments: The project invested in modernized systems
solid waste management including collection, sweeping and disposal services. The project provided
equipment, works and technical assistance in order to setup the new services in four municipalities.




                                                30
An analysis was undertaken for three of the four municipalities to understand if the basic services
established were cost-efficient18.

Cost Efficiency Reference Values: These cities are among the first locations of this country of this
size to have modernized their solid waste services and therefore no reference solid waste
management systems upon which one could base cost-efficiency exist for Bolivia. The analysis
took advantage of the reference prices established as part of the Colombian Tariff System for these
services. On the basis of cost data collected from municipalities and economic models the
“Comisión de Regulación de Agua Potable y Saneamiento Básico” 19 (CRA) in Colombia has
established formulas for the services of sweeping; collection and final disposal that, calculate the
level of costs that is considered economically efficient for individual service providers.

The costs include the necessary investment and operational costs for a given municipality based on
the size of the municipality, and dimension of each of the services (tons collected and disposed; km
swept). The formulas were adjusted to include the labor costs based on the 2015 Government
salaries of Bolivia.

Dimension of services established under the project

         City            Sweeping (Km/day)              Collection (tons/day)           Disposal (tons/day)

     Achacachi                     23.4                             4.2                            4.2
     Copacabana                     30                              3.0                            3.0
     Tiwanaku                       7.5                             1.5                            1.5


Reference costs per day based on CRA formulas.

                                                     Calculated Reference costs

         City                 Collection              Disposal             Sweeping                Total Costs
                              (USD/day)              (USD/day)            (USD/day)                (USD/day)

     Achacachi                   154.44                 143.93               186.68                   485.04
     Copacabana                  198.00                 103.98               134.87                   436.86
     Tiwanaku                     49.50                  51.65                66.99                   168.14


Cost-effectiveness: The costs for the services introduced under the project included the investment
costs, reinvestment costs over 20 year project lifetime and operational costs (personnel, fuel and
other costs). As the administration and personnel for the services is consolidated, the costs were


18
  No analysis was undertaken for the case of Tiquina because of the unusual nature of the service established which
involves collection in two urban areas separated by a waterway with transport of the garbage by boat. No reference costs
for this type of systems were available to understand its cost efficiency.

19
   Derived unit reference costs were: USD6.6/km swept; USD34.4/ton collected; USD 44.7/ton disposed. Formulas used
are from the Marco Tarifario de Aseo 2015 available at www.cra.gov.co.




                                                          31
not disaggregated but rather presented as the total for all three services. The results indicate that for
the three cities the services established are cost-effective.

Actual costs for services established under the project.

                       Investment costs (USD)               Operational Costs (USD/Yr)            Total Costs
                                                                                                  (USD/day)
                       Project        Reinvestment         Personnel      Fuel        Other
                     investments       over project
                        costs            lifetime


 Achacachi             333,798           447,565            47,040       19,489       21,485        348.17

 Copacabana            350,345           849,984            32,340       22,312       19,174        366.69

 Tiwanaku              242,122            93,432            24,696        7,171        8,236        155.84


Cost-Benefit Analysis of the Viacha Sewerage Project. The Project financed a sewerage system
in a district of the city of Viacha which is part of a larger investment in wastewater treatment in the
City. The wastewater treatment plant project execution is ongoing with other financing and is
expected to be finished in 2016. As the benefits of the Project sewerage system are dependent on
the operation of wastewater treatment plant and the completion of this investment, the cost-benefit
analysis of the sewerage investment was considered as part of this broader project.

Estimation of Benefits: The benefits were estimated through a contingent evaluation method based
on the maximum willingness to pay of the potential project beneficiaries20. Focus group discussions
were organized in four different districts including the district that the project investments took
place in order to create awareness on the project and to find out about the different perceptions of
the overall population regarding the construction of the proposed wastewater treatment plant.
Among other variables, the willingness to pay and the corresponding payment ranges were
collected. Based on the results of the focus group discussions 401 different households were
surveyed to understand their perception of the project, willingness to pay and payment capacity.

Of the 401 households that were surveyed 17 were not be willing to pay and 366 would be willing
to pay between Bs.2 and Bs10 depending on their income level. The final calculated value for the
monthly willingness to pay was Bs.8.19. The willingness to pay is interpreted as the amount of
benefits perceived by the beneficiaries because of the project, hence they constitute the project
benefits. From the survey the following main data was obtained, among others: monthly family
income Bs.2,848.80, monthly family expenditures Bs.1,376.64, monthly payment for electricity
Bs.43.82, monthly payment for water supply services Bs.19.97, monthly payment capacity
Bs.1,533.




20 This was based on the socioeconomic study for the Viacha wastewater treatment plant project undertaken by

independent consultants hired by MMAyA (Ministry of Environment and Water) in April 2015 with IADB (Inter-
American Development Bank) and AECID (Spanish International Development Cooperation Agency) co-financing.




                                                      32
The benefits were calculated as the willingness to pay added to the current tariffs the beneficiaries
pay for the current water supply services multiplied by the projected beneficiary population over
20 years. of the project lifetime.

Costs: The total investment costs for the project sewerage investments (Bs 30,663,056; USD
4,292,828) and the wastewater treatment plant infrastructure (Bs 24,049,949; USD 3,366,993) is
Bs 54,713,005 (USD 7,659,821). The yearly costs for operation and maintenance of the complete
system, including the current services, were estimated and projected for the next 20 years.

                                 Inputs for the economic analysis
              Beneficiary population                            62,688
              Annual rate of population growth                   4.9%
              Capital Cost (Bs)                     Bs 54,713,005 (USD 7,659,821)
              Average benefits/yr                   Bs 15,205,532 (USD 2,128,774)
              Average operational costs/yr            Bs 832,006 (USD 116,481)
              Interest rate                                    12.67%
              Project lifetime (yrs)                           20 years

Cost-benefit: A net present value (NPV) of Bs. 15,025,067 (USD 2,128,774) and an internal rate
of return (IRR) of 15.8% were obtained at market prices.




                                                 33
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

   (a) Task Team members

                                                                      Responsibility/
           Names                            Title             Unit
                                                                        Specialty
Lending
                                                                  Social
Stefania B. Abakerli B     Senior Social Development Spec   GSURR
                                                                  Development
Roberto Chavez             Consultant                       GSURR Project support
Maria Elizabeth Dasso      Consultant                       GTIDR Project support
Ana F. Daza                Language Program Assistant       GSURR Project Assistant
Maria Ruth Llanos Vda De
                           Consultant                       GPVDR Indigenous Peoples
Navarro
                                                            LCSUW-
Natalie Palugyai           Junior Professional Associate            Project Support
                                                               HIS
                                                                    Environmental
Renan Alberto Poveda       Senior Environmental Specialis   GENDR
                                                                    Safeguards
Fernanda Ruiz Nunez        Senior Economist                 GCPDR Economist
                                                            UDRUR
Ephim Shluger              Consultant                               Project support
                                                              - HIS
Dan Hoornweg               Sr. Environmental Specialist      LCSUR TTL
                                                            LCSEG -
Alejandro Marcos Tapia     Energy Spec.                             Project support
                                                               HIS
David Tuchschneider        Senior Rural Development Speci   GFADR Rural development
                                                                    Water and
Miguel Vargas-Ramirez      Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.      GWASL
                                                                    Sanitation and TTL

Supervision/ICR
                                                            LCSUW-
Juan Arenas Lizana         Consultant                              Solid waste
                                                              HIS
                                                            LCSUW-
Chrystel Cancel            Consultant                              Project support
                                                              HIS
Francisco Carranza         E T Consultant                   GWASL Project support
Miriam Cespedes            Program Assistant                GGODR Project support
Guang Zhe Chen             Country Director                  AFCE3 Sector Manager
Ana F. Daza                Language Program Assistant       GSURR Project assistant
Dilma Elizabeth Flores
                           E T Consultant                   GWASL Project support
Gamboa
                                                                     Procurement
Maria Lucy Giraldo         Consultant                       GGODR
                                                                     Specialist
                                                            LCSSO -
Kristine M. Ivarsdotter    Senior Social Development Spec           Social development
                                                              HIS
                                                            TWIWA
Alejandro Labbe Fluhmann Consultant
                                                             - HIS
Menahem Libhaber           Consultant                       GWASL Wastewater Expert




                                             34
Lourdes Consuelo Linares                                               Financial
                           Sr Financial Management Specia      GGODR
Loza                                                                   Management
Maria Ruth Llanos Vda De
                           Consultant                          GPVDR Social Safeguards
Navarro
Marjolein Ooijevaar        Consultant                          LCCBO Project support
                                                               LCSDU -
Alvaro M. Orozco           Consultant                                  Wastewater Expert
                                                                 HIS
Diana Ortiz Zuluaga        E T Consultant                      EACVF Project support
                                                               LCSUW-
Margaret Rose Pajaro       Consultant                                  Project support
                                                                 HIS
 Naya Ponce Fortun         Consultant                          GWASL Project support
 Jorge Quiroga             E T Consultant                      GWASL Project support
Joaquin Aguilar            E T Consultant                      LCCBO Technical specialist
 Navid Rahimi              E T Consultant                      GSURR Project support
                                                               LCSEG -
Alejandro Marcos Tapia     Energy Spec.                                Project support
                                                                 HIS
                                                                       Co-TTL, technical
Jorge Trevino              Sr Water Resources Spec.            GWADR
                                                                       specialist
 David Tuchschneider       Senior Rural Development Speci      GFADR Rural Development
Jose Zevallos              Sr. Social Development Specialist   GSURR Social Safeguards
Kimberly Vilar             Social Development Specialist       GSURR Social Safeguards
Rodrigo Munez              Consultant                          GSURR Social Safeguards
                                                                       Environmental
Juan Carlos Uria           Consultant                           GENR
                                                                       Safeguards
John Morton                Sr. Urban Development Specialist    GSURR TTL
Adam Behrendt              Country Operations Officer          GSURR Social Safeguards
                           Sr. Financial Management                    Financial
Tatiana Guerra                                                 LCSFM
                           Specialist                                  Management
Jose Rasumussen            Sr. Procurement Specialist          LCCBO Procurement
Marco Navarro              Consultant                          GSURR Technical expert
Shirley Leigue             Program Assistant                   LCCBO Project assistant
                                                                       Solid waste
Gabriela Guisbert          Consultant                          GSURR
                                                                       specialist
                                                                       Solid waste
Ondina Rocca               Consultant                          GSURR
                                                                       specialist
                                                                       Wastewater
Julio Moscoso              Consultant                          GSURR
                                                                       specialist
                                                                       Solid waste
Leandro Sandoval           Consultant                          GSURR
                                                                       specialist
Pedro Fernandez            Consulant                           GSURR Docks specialist




                                            35
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY07                                    71.41                      259.17
  FY08                                    50.65                      225.78
                          Total:         122.06                      484.95
Supervision/ICR
 FY08                                     20.84                       49.78
 FY09                                     42.12                      149.82
 FY10                                     20.04                      144.75
 FY11                                     17.89                      108.46
 FY12                                     16.63                       85.53
 FY13                                     11.58                       69.36
 FY14                                     17.86                       96.83
 FY15                                     43.58                      163.24
                          Total:         190.54                      867.77




                                       36
Annex 5: Summary of Borrowers ICR and Comments on the Draft ICR

Comments on the Draft ICR
 
The draft ICR was shared with FPS, the Ministry of Planning for Development and the Ministry
of Culture and Tourism for their comments and the contents of the ICR were also presented in a
workshop. The following comments were received:

Comments by FPS
The significant effort undertaken to obtain the counterpart funding should be highlighted. The
effort that went the agreements to provide counterpart funding after the closing date required
extensive negotiations with the municipal governments, and in some cases, involved significant
additional counterpart fund.

Asked to consider the extraordinary effort taken by them on many points in evaluating the rating
of their performance. In particular, they:
      Took responsibility and executed contracting processes which were originally the
         responsibility of municipal governments, and were able to award many of them.
      Took responsibility to improve subprojects designs, in particular the designs of docks and
         sanitary landfills.
      Were proactive in implementing safeguards. For example, in the Laja water supply
         subprojects, the FPS’s social team assumed initial responsibilities for the social
         consultancies until the consulting firm was be hired.
      Continued supervision of contracts after the closing date of the Project, with a lower
         operating cost (less than the normal 5% given to FPS to supervise works).
      Leveraged complementary resources of municipal governments to ensure the completion
         of works subsequent to project closure.
      Proactively assumed tasks to consolidate a correct management of Sanitary landfills
         promoting workshops with the MMAyA and municipal governments.

Comments from Ministry of Planning for Development

Delays in some processes like effectiveness which are common for all projects in Bolivia, should
be discussed with the government and other financial agencies, in order to achieve greater
efficiency.

Recommended an exhaustive risk analysis of deadlines, as some projects like this suffer time
extensions that affect the overall cost of the project.




                                               37
Client Final Report

FPS developed a final report on the project that included: the background of the program; a
summary of the execution of the project components; environmental and social safeguards
implementation and compliance; financial execution of program including disbursements and
cancellation; internal and external limitations in the execution of the project; and actions taken.
FPS developed a summary of the conclusions and lessons learned of the report and these are
translated below:

Conclusions:
The prioritized final portfolio consists of 40 projects, of which 39 are completed. All of them are
located in the department of La Paz distributed in 9 municipalities surrounding Lake Titicaca and
Viacha.

After the effective date of the contract (February 2, 2015), 15 projects representing 37.5% of the
total projects executed were pending completion. The conclusion of these projects was assured
through the Financial Transfer Agreement established with the subproject municipalities who
increased their municipal contribution with additional financial resources. In some cases, this
additional contribution was significant.

From the 40 subprojects under execution, 39 (97.5%) were completed with only one (2.5%) is still
in the process of execution. The conclusion of this project is planned for July 2015.

The type of projects considered responded to the population demands and preferences (e.g., small
docks, centers for visitors and landfills). However, in the preparation of studies it was necessary to
assess the real possibility of implementation of these subprojects.

Studies to identify potential social conflicts related to land acquisition for particular types of project
infrastructure (potable water, sanitary landfills, etc.) will help avoid conflicts during execution that
might impede the realization of the subproject.

Lessons Learned:
During the structuring of the loan the initial guidelines for implementation should be well
developed. For example, the strategies to be undertaken by the implementing agency in the case of
land acquisition and ensuring social and legal staff are part of the program to help minimize these
problems.

In developing the project pre-investment studies should confirm the existence of valid
documentation to support the ownership of the land by the municipality. This will help facilitate
the execution of the works.

The modality and threshold values for procurement can be different in the credit agreements of the
World Bank, a situation which is important to clarify and manage in order to provide different
options under the loan for contracting depending on the subproject type and needs.

All actors involved in implementing a program (financier, FPS, sector ministries) should have
specialists in the areas of intervention of the subprojects (e.g., landfills and docks).

The fluid and regular communication with the project manager improved process of approval of
different requirements such as non-objections, queries and other performance.


                                                   38
39
                                                             BOLIVIA

                LAKE TITICACA LOCAL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                               Source: Ministerio de Producción y Microempresa Viceministerio de Turismo.




                                                                                                                                               LAKE
                                                                                                                                               TITICACA




                   Lake
                 Titicaca
DECEMBER 2007




                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 35808




                                                                                                            The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                            shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                            Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                            endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
41
