                                        Document of
                                    The World Bank

                              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                 Report No: ICR0000807




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                      (IBRD-45590)




                                           ON A

                                           LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$516.0 MILLION


                                            TO

                                           INDIA

                                         FOR THE

                     THIRD NATIONAL HIGHWAYS PROJECT




                                      October 1, 2008




Sustainable Development Unit
India Country Management Unit
South Asia Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective 09/30/2008)

                          Currency Unit   : Indian Rupee (INR)
                      Indian Rupee 1.00   : US$0.021
                                US$1.00 = INRs.46.56

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                                 April 1 ­ March 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABP   Allahabad Bypass Project              M&E        Monitoring & Evaluation
ADB   Asian Development Bank                MOSRTH Ministry of Shipping, Road Transport
                                                       and Highways
AM    Aide Memoire                          MOST       Ministry of Surface Transport
ATMS  Advanced Traffic Management System    MTR        Mid-term Review
BOT   Build-Operate-Transfer                NH         National Highway
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy           NHAI       National Highways Authority of India
CMU   Corridor Management Unit              NHDP       National Highways Development
                                                       Program
COS   Committee of Secretaries              PAD        Project Appraisal Document
DoRTH Department of Road Transport and      PDO        Project Development Objectives
      Highways
EMP   Environmental Management Plan         PIU        Project Implementation Unit
ESDU  Environmental and Social Development  PPP        Public-Private Partnership
      Unit
GOI   Government of India                   PSR        Project Status Report
GQ    Golden Quadrilateral                  PWD        Public Works Department
GTRIP Grand Trunk Road Improvement          QAG        Quality Assurance Group
      Project
HDM   Highway Design and Maintenance        RAP        Resettlement Action Plan
      Standards Model
IERR  Internal Economic Rate of Return      TNHP       Third National Highways Project
ISR   Implementation Status and Results     VOC        Vehicle Operating Cost
      Report
LMNHP Lucknow-Muzaffarpur National          ICRR       Implementation Completion and Results
      Highway Project                                  Report



                         Vice President: Isabel Guerrero
                     Country Director: Rachid Benmessaoud (Acting)
                       Sector Manager: Michel Audigé
                  Project Team Leader: Rajesh Rohatgi
                   ICRR Team Leader: Tawia Addo-Ashong

                                                         INDIA
                                  Third National Highways Project

                                                   CONTENTS

Data Sheet

B. Key Dates........................................................................................................................ i
C. Ratings Summary............................................................................................................ i
D. Sector and Theme Codes................................................................................................ii
E. Bank Staff.......................................................................................................................ii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ....................................................................... iv
I. Disbursement Profile...................................................................................................... v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes................................................................................................ 9
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome............................................................. 12
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 12
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 14
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners.............. 16
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.............................................................................. 17
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 18
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis..................................................................... 19
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 21
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results............................................................................... 23
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results....................................................... 24
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICRR and/or Comments on Draft ICRR.................... 25
Annex 8. Comments of Co-Financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders......................... 33
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 34

MAP
IBRD 30824


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.

A. Basic Information

Country:                  India           Project Name:      THIRD NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
                                                             PROJECT
Project ID:               P009972         L/C/TF Number(s): IBRD-45590
ICRR Date:                10/01/2008      ICRR Type:         Core ICRR
Lending Instrument:       SIL             Borrower:          REPUBLIC OF INDIA
Original Total
Commitment:               USD516.0M       Disbursed Amount: USD403.93M

Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: National Highways Authority of India
Co financiers and Other External Partners: None


B. Key Dates
     Process           Date          Process            Original Date        Revised/Actual Date(s)
Concept Review: 07/21/1999 Effectiveness:                10/02/2000               10/02/2000
Appraisal:          01/31/2000 Restructuring(s):                                  01/08/2007
Approval:           06/08/2000 Mid-term Review:           11/15/02                11/29/2002
                               Closing:                  06/30/2006               12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICRR
Outcomes:                                           Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                        Substantial
Bank Performance:                                   Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICRR)
            Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                     Ratings
 Quality at Entry:             Moderately      Government:                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                                    Satisfactory
 Quality of Supervision:       Moderately      Implementing                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory    Agency/Agencies:                Unsatisfactory
 Overall Bank                  Moderately      Overall Borrower                Moderately
 Performance:                  Satisfactory    Performance:                    Unsatisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
      Implementation                                     QAG Assessments (if
        Performance                  Indicators                   any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project at
any time (Yes/No):            No                       Quality at Entry (QEA): Satisfactory

Problem Project at any time                            Quality of Supervision  Moderately
(Yes/No):                     Yes                      (QSA):                  Satisfactory
DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:      Moderately Satisfactory




                                                   i

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                       Original               Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                           3                    3
Roads and highways                                                         97                   97



Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                                   Secondary            Secondary
Other urban development                                                  Primary             Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                                        Primary             Primary
Social safety nets                                                     Secondary             Secondary


E. Bank Staff
          Positions                       At ICRR                                At Approval
Vice President:              Isabel M. Guerrero                      Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:            Rachid Benmessaoud (Acting)             Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager:              Michel Audigé                           Jonathan S. Kamkwalala
Project Team Leader:         Rajesh Rohatgi                          Christopher J. Hoban
ICRR Team Leader:            Tawia Addo-Ashong
ICRR Primary Author:         J. Matthew Mitchell (Consultant)


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

1.       To reduce transport constraints on economic activity and reduce transport costs.
2.       To improve institutional capabilities to manage road programs, assets and service.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority):

The PDOs were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                        Original Target Values          Formally         Actual Value

    Indicator       Baseline Value           (from approval          Revised Target       Achieved at

                                               documents)                 Values         Completion or
                                                                                         Target Years
For Objective 1: Reduce transport constraints on economic activity and reduce transport costs.
Indicator 1 :    Travel time on project corridor from Delhi to Kolkata
Value
quantitative or  About 5 days for      Reduced to 15 % on project About 4 days        About 3 days for

Qualitative)     trucks                roads by end of project       for trucks      trucks

Date achieved     11/29/02             06/30/06                      06/30/06        12/31/07
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)     The project surpassed the target, reducing travel time by an additional day.




                                                     ii

                                        Original Target Values         Formally         Actual Value

    Indicator      Baseline Value            (from approval         Revised Target       Achieved at

                                               documents)                Values         Completion or
                                                                                        Target Years
Indicator 2 :   Vehicle operating cost on project roads
Value
quantitative or Rs. 11.00 per          Vehicle operating costs      Rs. 9.90 per truckRs 9.1 per truck km
Qualitative)     truck km              reduced by 10 %.             km

Date achieved   11/29/02               06/30/06                     06/30/06          12/31/07
Comments
(incl. %        The actual cost per truck km. project surpassed the target, reducing vehicle operating

achievement)    costs by 17 percent of the baseline figure, instead of by 11 percent.

For Objective 2: Improve institutional capabilities to manage road programs, assets and services.
Indicator 3 :   Reduction in the share of the core road network in poor condition.
Value
quantitative or                                                      NA              NA
Qualitative)    40%                    20 %

Date achieved   05/12/00               06/30/06                     NA               NA
Comments
(incl. %        During the restructuring of the project, the Bank and the Borrower agreed to replace this

achievement)    indicator with Indicator No. 5 below.

Indicator 4 :   Percentage of contracts under implementation that are delayed
Value
quantitative or 21%                    None                          10 %            49%
Qualitative)
Date achieved   10/31/06               NA                           12/31/07         12/31/07
Comments
(incl. %        Target was not achieved because 93 contracts (out of about 188) that NHAI was

achievement)    supervising experienced delays, compared to their original completion schedule.

Indicator 5 :   The percentage of NHAI core road network (Golden Quadrilateral, the North/South
                Corridor and the East/West Corridor) under maintenance contracts
Value
quantitative or 30%                    None                          45%              55%
Qualitative)
Date achieved   10/31/06               Not Applicable               12/31/07         12/31/ 07
Comments
(incl. %         The project surpassed its target.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                                Original Target         Formally        Actual Value

    Indicator          Baseline Value             Values (from                           Achieved at
                                                   approval         Revised Target      Completion or
                                                  documents)             Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   National Highways widened to four lanes under the project
Value
(quantitative    None                         475 km.                None            458 km.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   Not applicable                06/30/06              Not applicable 12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        The project achieved 96 percent of its target.
achievement)



                                                   iii

                                                Original Target          Formally        Actual Value

    Indicator          Baseline Value             Values (from                            Achieved at
                                                    approval         Revised Target      Completion or
                                                   documents)             Values         Target Years
Indicator 2 :    Corridor Management Units (CMUs) established
Value
(quantitative     None                        2                      NA               9
or Qualitative)
Date achieved    Not applicable               06/30/06               NA              12/31/07
Comments
(incl. %          The project exceeded the target significantly, establishing more than double the number

achievement)     of corridor maintenance units planned.

Indicator 3 :    Pilot maintenance contracts awarded and results evaluated
Value
(quantitative     None                        3                      Not applicable 1
or Qualitative)
Date achieved    Not applicable               06/30/06               NA              12/31/07
Comments
(incl. %           NHAI awarded one such long­term performance-based contract due to change in

achievement)       GoI's policy.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


 No.       Date ISR                                                                 Actual Disbursements
           Archived                DO                               IP                  (USD millions)
   1      08/02/2000            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
   2      02/09/2001            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   30.16
   3      08/08/2001            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   43.94
   4      02/12/2002            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   59.03
   5      08/22/2002            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   76.41
   6      01/29/2003            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   91.09
   7      08/28/2003            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                  126.24
   8      02/27/2004            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                  141.69
   9      08/31/2004            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                  193.83
  10      02/25/2005      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             237.56
  11      08/26/2005      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             318.53
  12      03/01/2006      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             337.21
  13      10/31/2006      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             391.02
  14      05/14/2007      Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Unsatisfactory             399.58
  15      09/24/2007      Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Unsatisfactory             402.80




                                                    iv

H. Restructuring (if any)

                            ISR Ratings at   Amount
 Restructuring       Board
                            Restructuring  Disbursed at   Reason for Restructuring & Key
    Date(s)    Approved PDO
                    Change                Restructuring in          Changes Made
                             DO      IP    USD millions
                                                          (a) Savings in the costs of civil
                                                          works for the Highway Upgrading
                                                          Component.

                                                          (b) Changes in conditions
                                                          surrounding the implementation of
   01/08/2007                MS     MU         391.48     the Corridor Management and
                                                          Road Safety Works Component
                                                          due to GOI's decision to widen GQ
                                                          to six lanes.

                                                          (c) Need to strengthen the result
                                                          monitoring framework.


I. Disbursement Profile




                                          v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country/sector background

When the Bank appraised the Third National Highway Project (TNHP) in January 2000, India's
per capita gross national product was about US$440 dollars. Nearly 35 percent of the country's
nearly one billion people were living below the national poverty line. Prospects for expanding
economic growth were strong, but inadequate transport infrastructure was constraining
expansion.

India's road transport system depended heavily on a small number of congested, poorly
maintained, two-lane highways. About 1.6 percent of national road system was carrying over 40
percent of total road traffic1. The highway network had deteriorated substantially due to the
heavy traffic load and inadequate maintenance, with the budget meeting only about 40 percent of
the maintenance needs. Transport costs, travel delays and accidents were high. The resulting
economic loss was about US$3-4 billion annually based on higher vehicle operating costs alone.

The Government of India had established an institutional framework and investment program to
accelerate highway development. It had created the National Highway Authority of India
(NHAI) in 1988 to consolidate responsibility for national highway (NH) development in the
country, which had previously been the responsibility of the Ministry of Surface Transport with
delegated implementation to the public works departments of the India's states.                                       The
Government also had established the National Highway Development Program (NHDP) to
accelerate expansion and improvement of the highway system over a ten-year period, beginning
in 2000.

NHDP consisted of the upgrading, from two lanes, to four or six lanes, of about 14,000 km of
national highways. It included highways connecting Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata,
known as the Golden Quadrilateral (GQ), and the North-South (N-S), East-West (E-W) corridors
connecting, respectively, Srinagar to Kanyakumari, and Silchar to Porbandar.

The Bank began its support of NHDP with TNHP. It later approved three complementary
projects, all with similar objectives, during the period 2001-2004. TNHP and the Grand Trunk
Road Improvement Project (GTRIP) have financed the upgrading of stretches of about 475 km
and 420 km respectively, along the northern arm of GQ National Highway 2 (NH2) corridor
from Agra to Barwa Adda. The Allahabad Bypass Project (ABP) is supporting new construction
of a bypass of about 87 km for Allahabad town. The Lucknow Muzaffarpur National Highway
Project (LMNHP) is financing the upgrading to four lanes of about 480 km along E-W corridor
(NH28).




1      India's road system spanned nearly 3.3 million kilometers (km) but of that total, the national highways accounted for
       52, 000 km.



                                                          1

Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)

TNHP supported the Bank's Country Strategy (CAS) for India (February 1999). A key objective
of the CAS was to remove infrastructure bottlenecks to economic growth and reduce road
transport costs through: (a) improved funding for road investment and maintenance; (b) better
institutional and financial performance in the management of the road sector; and (c) an
increased role for the private sector in all aspects of road development ­ engineering,
construction, operations, maintenance, and financing.

Key Issues and Strategic Choices

In support of the CAS objective, TNHP addressed the issues constraining national highway
development. First was the deterioration of highway capacity and inadequate funding for the
upgrading and maintenance of road assets. Also of concern were outdated highway construction
technologies and capacity constraints in India's private road construction industry. The third was
NHAI's lack of strategic planning and focus on meeting road user needs. The project's design
incorporated several strategic choices to resolve these issues including the provision of support
to improve a priority section of NH2 and assistance to NHAI in improving its overall
management capability in road construction and maintenance.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

                          Objective                                      Indicators (End of Project)
Physical Objective: reduce transport                         · 15 percent reduction of travel time
constraints on economic activity and reduce                  · 10 percent reduction of vehicle operating
transport costs.                                                costs
Institutional Objective: improve the                         No more than 20 percent of NHAI's core
institutional capabilities (of NHAI) to manage               network in poor condition compared to a
road programs, assets and services across the                baseline of about 40 percent at the time of
entire network for which NHAI is responsible.                project appraisal.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The Bank did not revise the project's development objectives. However, as part of project
restructuring and a reallocation of loan proceeds, the outcome indicators evaluating the
achievement of the project's institutional objective were revised. These indicators were: (i) an
increase in the share of NHAI's core network2 under maintenance contracts from a baseline of 30
percent in October 2006 to 45 percent; and (ii) a decrease in the number of delayed contracts for
road expansion/construction from a baseline value of 21 percent of all such contracts in October
2006 to not more than 10 percent by the end of project.




2       Defined as the GQ plus the East/West and North South Corridors, totaling about 13, 146 km.



                                                           2

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The project's primary beneficiaries were users of national highways who would gain from
reduced travel time, transport costs, traffic separation in towns and improved pavement quality.
Secondary beneficiaries were roadside communities and businesses as well as the cities, towns
and rural areas in the states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand.3

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

 Component                                            Description                                           Cost
                                                                                                         (US$ million)
Highway             Civil works for the widening and strengthening of about 475                             610.80
Upgrading           km. of National Highway No. 2 (NH2), from two lanes to
                    four-six lanes divided carriageway and service roads where
                    required.
Corridor            Pilot contracting of management and maintenance to the                                   24.00
Management          private sector along with the creation of two Corridor
and Road            Management Units (CMUs) and minor road improvements to
Safety Works        reduce traffic delays and accidents.
Institutional       Studies and technical assistance for the capacity-building of                            10.00
Strengthening       NHAI, including a GIS-based road information system
and Training        (RIS); corridor management units; proposals for minor road
                    works to improve travel conditions; a road safety policy; and
                    staff training/development.

1.6 Revised Components

Corridor Management and Safety Works Component. A reallocation of funds from this
component was necessary due to a change in the Government's program for upgrading a
highway stretch designated for a pilot operations and maintenance (O&M) contract. While the
bidding process for an O&M contract for a four-lane highway stretch was in progress, the
Government decided to expand the specific highway stretch to six lanes instead of four. This
decision changed the bid specifications, resulting in cancellation of the bids. NHAI selected
another highway stretch for the pilot O&M contract. However, this change occurred late in the
project's implementation and NHAI decided to fund the contract with its own resources. The
Bank and NHAI agreed to reallocate the remaining US$20 million to other components.

Institutional Strengthening and Training Component.                            The Bank and NHAI agreed to
conduct the planned study of India's construction industry, initially planned under TNHP, as part
of the Bank's sector work program. As a result, the Bank and NHAI agreed to cancel the funds
originally allocated for the study.




3      Jharkhand, the 28th State of India came into existence on November 15, 2000 (post project appraisal)



                                                              3

1.7 Other Significant Changes

Schedule. NHAI requested an extension of 18 months due to delays in the completion of civil
works. The Bank initially extended TNHP's loan closing date for four months, pending
satisfactory completion of a Financial Management Action Plan (FMP). Based on satisfactory
progress with the FMP, the Bank agreed to extend the closing date an additional 14 months.

Funding Allocations/Cancellations. The initial loan amount was US$516 million. At the
request of the Borrower, the Bank cancelled US$25.16 million and US$83.05 million in January
2007 and April 2008 respectively. In May 2008, the Bank cancelled the balance of US$3.85
million that remained at the end of the four-month grace period following loan closure.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project Preparation

The project's preparatory work was substantial. In particular, the project's preparation benefited
from the 1996 India Infrastructure Report, which recommended an ambitious program for
upgrading India's arterial road network from two to four lanes. Detailed feasibility studies
identified, as a priority, the upgrading of nearly 1,000 km of NH2. There was considerable
background work on institutional strengthening, including a PHRD grant to help NHAI identify
institutional development needs. All major construction packages were ready for bid invitation
by the time of project negotiations. A social safeguard assessment with site readiness was a
precondition for contract award. The project's preparation also included a working group to
evaluate industry constraints that could adversely affect the highway sector and the project.

Adequacy of the Participatory Process

The participatory process established state-level project coordinating committees in Bihar and
Uttar Pradesh. TNHP also formed an advisory group of external stakeholders to periodically to
review the overall highway development program and the project's strategy. However, the
participatory process was not fully satisfactory because it did not hold sufficient public
consultations on the detailed design work. This deficiency contributed to design inconsistencies,
disputes and delays.

Project Design

TNHP was the first Bank-financed project with NHAI as the implementing agency. Overall
implementation arrangements were satisfactory with the planned technical assistance to NHAI,
adequate functioning of coordination arrangements with the states involved, and consultations
with key stakeholders. The project's design focused on incorporating the major lesson learned in
past projects, which was that delays in the implementation of road projects are costly in India. To
avoid delays, the project's design incorporated: (i) technical assistance to build NHAI's capacity



                                                 4

for project management and with engineering design by experts with international experience;
(ii) a comprehensive environmental management plan (EMP) and Resettlement and
Rehabilitation Action Plan (RAP); and (iii) a stakeholder workshop with representatives from the
construction industry.

Risk Assessment and Mitigation Measures

The PAD cites the overall risk rating for TNHP as moderate. Most risks identified were
evaluated as moderate. The exceptions were the risk of delay in site readiness, rated substantial,
and inadequate funding, rated negligible. The Bank underestimated the risks of unsatisfactory
contractor/consultant performance and inadequate cooperation, rating them as moderate and not
substantial. Although the risk mitigation measures outlined were adequate, it appears that in
some cases the Bank did not take sufficient actions to ensure adherence.

Overall Quality at Entry

The Quality Assessment Group (QAG) prepared a Quality-at-Entry Assessment (QAE) for the
project, and rated it satisfactory. The cited strengths were a suitable fit with CAS objectives;
substantial attention, during project preparation, to social safeguards; and timely completion of
civil works packages. The weaknesses were the lack of measurable, well-defined results
indicators and insufficient focus on coordinating the technical assistance and training elements in
building NHAI's capacity.

2.2 Implementation

The project's implementation received mixed ratings. Progress was rated as satisfactory during
the first four years. But the rating declined to moderately satisfactory rating for two years, and
the project closed with a moderately unsatisfactory implementation rating. The following
sections outline the key factors underlying the final performance rating.

Key Factors that Affected Project Implementation

(a) Factors Contributing to the Project's Success

The project benefited from dedicated NHAI directors in the Project Implementation Units
(PIUs). Interviews with selected directors, during ICRR preparation, showed a high level of
professionalism, interest in the project, and appreciation of the supervision team's technical
assistance. The ICRR has incorporated some observations of these directors in the section on
lessons learned. The keen attention of Bank staff to safeguards helped to improve compliance
performance. Project files indicate that the Bank raised compliance issues at the highest level of
NHAI, even proposing delays in some payments to contractors and consultants if Environmental
Officers were absent from a project site.




                                                 5

(b) Factors contributing to the Project's Implementation Problems

The project's main problems were delays in the implementation of physical and institutional
components. These problems resulted from factors within the control of NHAI as well as
changes in sector developments outside its control.

The factors within NHAI's control were poor design and evaluation procedures, protracted pre-
construction activities, and inadequate attention to the institutional strengthening component, and
the routinely appealing decisions on disputes with contractors.          Factors outside of NHAI's
control included NHAI's increased workload due to expanded responsibility for development of
the national highway system, constraints in India's construction industry, and law and order
problems in certain areas of the project's operations.

Poor design and Evaluation Procedures. A design and construction review identified
significant deficiencies in design and NHAI's capabilities/processes for design review. The main
problems were inadequate coordination between NHAI and its consultants working on the
detailed design for each highway upgrading package and the lack of public consultation on
detailed design reports, producing deficient designs. This led to the lack of consistency in
specifications across the different carriageway stretches and cost variations.

Protracted Preconstruction Activities. The coordination between NHAI and the participating
state entities in key activities such as tree cutting and land acquisition was often ineffective.
NHAI lacked in-house capacity to manage these activities. This led to the shifting of utilities
and land acquisition for highway widening taking much longer than anticipated. MOSRTH staff
have suggested that the Bank's resettlement policies were too difficult to implement in the Indian
context and may have caused delays.

Insufficient Attention to Institutional Strengthening Activities. Project documents show that
NHAI set up a Transition Management Team to coordinate institutional studies and training in
support of the organization's institutional objective. It is not clear how active this team was
during TNHP's implementation. The project team suggested that NHAI management tended to
emphasize `building kilometers' rather than developing the institutional capabilities.

Frequent Appeals of Decisions on Disputes. In disputes with contractors, NHAI regularly
disagreed with the decisions of the Dispute Resolution Board (DRB) when they should have
done so selectively, in cases unfair decisions. Appeals to higher authorities contributed to delays
in contract implementation.

NHAI's Increased Workload due to Expanded Responsibility. The near doubling of NHAI's
responsibility for national highway development, from 14,000 to 27,000 km. between 2000 and
2008 vastly increased the organization's workload. Staffing constraints limited the amount of
attention that NHAI staff could give to the project.

Constraints in India's Construction Industry. Key industry constraints, included shortages
and high prices of construction materials, a lack of skilled manpower in consulting and
contracting, and slow mobilization of the work by some contractors.



                                                 6

Law and Order Difficulties in Some Project Areas. There was deterioration in the law and
order in the states of Bihar and Jharkhand during project implementation.                               These included
disruption of work activities, violent attacks and kidnappings, exacerbating the difficulties in
retaining contractor staff on site.

Contribution of the Mid-Term Review (MTR)

An MTR workshop took place, with the participation of MOSRTH, the World Bank, consultants,
contractors and other stakeholders. The key contributions of this review were validation of the
project's objectives in terms of sector priorities and modification of the monitoring framework
for more measurable indicators.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design

The design of the project's M&E framework evolved during the project's implementation period,
increasing the number of measurable indicators.

The outcome indicators for the physical objective of removing transport constraints --reduced
travel time and lower vehicle operating costs ­were standard for transport projects, designating
the users of national highways the primary beneficiaries.                4



The sole measurable outcome indicator, in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), to measure
the institutional objective of NHAI's improved capability to manage their assets across their
network, was the decline in the share of the core network in poor condition. This indicator was
not particularly meaningful as most of NHAI's network was under construction during project's
implementation period. The PAD's M&E framework did not capture other aspects of NHAI's
institutional capacity, such as management of pre-construction activities and construction
contracts. During project implementation, the Bank and NHAI developed more appropriate
outcome indicators for institutional development ­ a reduction in the share of NHAI's delayed
contracts and the share of its core network covered by maintenance contracts.

The M&E framework in the PAD had measurable output indicators for the highway upgrading
and corridor management and safety works components. For highway upgrading the output was
the completed upgrading of 475 km of highway. Other new indicators were: resettlement of
about 13,000 families and planting of at least 190,000 trees. For corridor management and safety
works, there were two quantitative indicators -- the establishment of two corridor management
units and the award of at least three pilot corridor management and maintenance contracts.
However, there were no quantitative output indicators for the multifaceted institutional
strengthening component. During the MTR, the Bank increased the number of measurable output
indicators. The most important of these were on the institutional side, including the training of


4       The project did not have any direct outcome indicators for the secondary beneficiaries ­roadside communities that
        might benefit from the highway, as the project did not directly support any higher-level income-generating or poverty
        reduction objectives.



                                                            7

90 percent of NHAI's officers by the end of the project and the convening of two stakeholder
meetings each year.

Implementation and Utilization

Annex 2 reviews the output indicators and the extent to which the project achieved planned
targets. The ICRR has reviewed the output indicators that appeared in the PAD rather than those
of the MTR for three reasons. First, the Bank did not consistently monitor the additional output
indicators of the MTR. Second, the final supervision report reviewing these indicators reverts to
those in the PAD. Third, it is not clear from the project files that the Borrower was aware of any
changes in output indicators.

During the project's implementation, the Bank changed the format for reports on project
implementation status, tracking outcome indicators and related intermediate outcome indicators
but not output indicators. Three of the output indicators were changed into intermediate outcome
indicators--completed widening of highway stretches to four lanes, the establishment of CMUs
and the number of pilot maintenance contracts awarded. The team's attention to meeting
reporting requirements on the indicators in the M&E framework varied during the project's
implementation, improving after the MTR. However, their utilization as a meaningful input to
decision-making is not evident in the supervision reports.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards

The Bank rated safeguards compliance as moderately satisfactory at project closing.           The
project's major achievement was the establishment the Environmental and Social Development
Unit (ESDU), to handle land acquisition, resettlement, rehabilitation and environmental issues.
However, the ESDU remains understaffed. It has five staff working at ESDU handling the entire
NHDP with only one staff member specifically responsible for environmental aspects of
highway projects.

By the end of 2005, about 98 percent of the project's resettlement and rehabilitation activities
were complete. The remaining two percent consisted of households that had requested higher
compensation from the courts, claimants whose land ownership was in dispute, and shopkeepers
entitled to compensation for removal of a market area.

There were occasional lapses in the implementation of the Environmental Management Plan
(EMP). These concerned deficiencies in the management of construction campsites, disposal of
some industrial wastes, etc. Although TNHP is closed, NHAI still must comply with the agreed
EMPs and the RAP. The Bank's environmental and social safeguards team will continue to
provide support to NHAI and monitor progress as part of the ongoing engagement with NHAI in
the ongoing GQ projects.




                                                 8

Fiduciary Aspects

Financial Management. At project closure, NHAI's financial management was rated
moderately satisfactory. The main compliance issues during implementation were delays in
submitting audit reports, periodic inadequate financial controls, and the lack of sufficient
permanent staff. These were resolved when NHAI took actions including the appointment of a
professional accountant to compile the audit report, the updating of the Accounting Manual for
the Project Implementation Units (PIUs), regular training of PIU staff, appointment of internal
auditors and the procurement of project financial management system (PFMS).

Procurement.      The procurement of works, goods and equipment, consulting services and
training component took place in accordance with the Bank guidelines. For civil works,
International Competitive Bidding was the preferred form of procurement while for most of the
consulting services Quality and Cost Based Selection criteria applied

Legal Covenants. During most of the project's implementation, NHAI complied with the
covenants in the project's legal agreements. However, because of the delay in completion of the
road information system (RIS), for a period of time, NHAI did not comply fully with the
requirement for submission of an annual report on the condition of NHAI's assets and projected
user costs. However, the installation of the RIS resolved this issue.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

At loan closing, TNHP had completed six out of eight highway upgrading packages. The
remaining works involve short stretches scheduled for upgrading, but delayed due to difficulties
in land acquisition. The conditions causing the delays have not improved and the work is likely
to continue into 2009. For almost all upgraded highway stretches, NHAI has procured private
sector services for O&M. These services consist of routine maintenance, safety enhancements
and provision of incident support services, including a highway patrol, a crane and an
ambulance. Questions as to the effectiveness of these services remain and will be monitored.
The addition of two lanes has reduced traffic congestion, allowing increased travel speeds.
However, the increased speeds remain a concern due to high accident rates and are the subject of
ongoing discussion.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Based on the most recent CAS (September 14, 2004), the project's objectives are still relevant.
The CAS priorities for infrastructure development, include roads and transport; a focus on
innovative public-private partnerships (PPPs); and attention to India's poorest states. TNHP
addressed all of these priorities.




                                                 9

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Objective 1: Reduce transport constraints on economic activity and reduce transport costs

The project met this objective through the project's component for highway upgrading. The
upgrading of 458 km of highway from two to four lanes has reduced traffic congestion. Increased
speeds due to the reduced traffic congestion led to travel time for trucks along between Delhi and
Kolkata declining from a baseline of five days to three days, compared to the target reduction of
four days. The related cost of truck transport has decreased from a baseline of Rs.11 per truck-
km to Rs.9.1 per truck-km, a slightly lower cost than the planned target of Rs.9.9 per truck-km.,
thus exceeding the two outcome indicators.

Objective 2: Improve institutional capabilities to manage road programs, assets and
service

The project's components for corridor management and institutional strengthening supported the
achievement of this objective. However the causal linkages between the outputs/intermediate
outcomes and the final outcome indicators are less explicit than for the physical objective. The
project established nine CMUs, surpassing the intermediate outcome target of two CMUs but
executed only one pilot O&M contract compared to an intermediate outcome indicator of three.
Nevertheless, the project surpassed its final outcome indicator for improved institutional
capability in O&M contracting, with 55 percent of NHAI's core highway network under O&M
contracts by the end of the project compared to a target of 45 percent. With regards to the
second outcome indicator ­ the reduced share of delayed contracts in NHAI's total number of
upgrading/construction contracts, the share of delayed contracts increased substantially to 49
percent from a baseline of 21 percent to instead of the decreased target of 10 percent.

3.3 Efficiency

The PAD estimated the internal economic rate of return (IERR) at 31 percent, well above the
cost of capital in India. A post-construction cost/benefit analysis resulted in IERRs for
investment in highway upgrading to four lanes ranging from about 28 percent to 40 percent for
each of the eight highway stretches included in the project. The average IERR for all highway
stretches combined, was about 32 percent, slightly higher than the appraisal estimate. Annex 3
outlines the key assumptions in the analysis.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The evaluation of project takes account of three key elements --relevance, efficiency and
achievement of objectives. Sections 3.1 and 3.3, respectively, show that the project is still
relevant to the CAS and has met planned efficiency criteria for a satisfactory outcome.
However, while the project slightly surpassed the target indicators for its physical objective,
TNHP's performance in meeting its institutional objective was mixed with moderate
shortcomings, overall. While it met the target indicator for the share of the core highway network



                                                10

under maintenance contracts, the quality of this maintenance work is uncertain. The project also
fell short of the other target indicator for the institutional objective. The share of delayed
contracts in NHAI's total contracts more than doubled instead of declining by about half as
planned.

The ICRR's assessment of outcome has attached greater weight to the institutional objective for
two reasons. First it concerns the operation and preservation of the entire 14,000 km. network
under NHAI's supervision, whereas the physical objective affects about 475 km. of road.
Second, a major focus of the project was to reduce delays in road development given its
importance to the Indian economy. Therefore, the ICRR has rated the overall project outcome as
moderately satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The overall impact of implementation of RAP has been positive. In many cases, it has improved
the living standards of the people affected. At the minimum it has ensured the restoration of
living standards for all the affected populations with a few exceptions where RAP
implementation had not been completed at project closing. The positive impacts include the
following:

·       Improved Livelihoods and Income Levels.             The average household income has
        increased marginally among all the households (7%). The number of income earning
        members in households has also risen. More than 50% of the affected people benefited
        from various training programs to improve their livelihood.

·       Quality of Life. An evaluation report has shown improvement in the post-project quality
        of life among the project-affected people. It indicated that the resettlement program has
        improved access to drinking water, markets, health centers, education and entertainment
        facilities and notes improvements to sanitary conditions.

·       Economic Resettlement. The project compensated 203 commercial squatters for their
        loss through the provision of a new market place. These squatters now have become
        titleholders. This improved legal status will enable them to access institutional credit and
        develop more organized business activities.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project had a major impact on NHAI's initial development. NHAI has gained in experience
in procurement and management of large civil works and consultancy contracts. The technical
assistance and studies for institutional strengthening have caused NHAI to revisit its
organizational structure in view of the expanded mandate, considering various options for PPPs.
NHAI now has a GIS-based road information system, and sett a dedicated unit for handling the
social and environment safeguards aspects of highway development projects. Although NHAI
did not use the funds for the corridor management component, the Authority is well aware of the
need to maintain the physical assets and has benefited from technical assistance in corridor



                                                11

management and maintenance that the project has provided. NHAI never implemented the
training plan prepared under the project. Bank supervision reports have indicated that NHAI has
conducted training with its own funds on an ad-hoc basis but have not provided details for
comparison with the training plan. However its expanded mandate and capacity constraints may
continue to hamper its highway development programs.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

The evaluation of risk to development outcome has taken into account the sustainability of the
investments in highway upgrading and the institutional development of NHAI as envisioned at
project appraisal. NHAI has set up more CMUs than planned. The Authority also has more
O&M contracts with the private sector than envisioned. However, the award of these contracts
takes place on an ad-hoc basis in the absence of a comprehensive maintenance strategy. Also
NHAI is understaffed, especially for managing pre- construction activities. Because of the
increasing volume of PPP contracts in its portfolio, NHAI needs a comprehensive training
program aligned to this development, most notably in the areas of financial management, risk
analysis, toll operations and maintenance. Given the uncertainties surrounding the maintenance
program for investments and the future role of NHAI, the ICRR has rated the risk to
development outcome is rated as substantial.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank's performance at preparation stage with regards to technical, economic and financial
analysis, as well as the design of safeguards was satisfactory. The project's design incorporated
lessons learned in previous projects. However, the institutional component, although small in
financial terms in comparison to the investment in highway upgrading, had a greater breadth of
impact, affecting the entire NHAI institution and highway network.           Although the PAD
contained an action plan there were no explicit linkages to a phased development plan for NHAI
and the various possibilities for private/public partnerships that the institutional study during
project preparation had identified. In particular, the implementation framework did not give
sufficient attention to monitoring the staffing and training needs in order for NHAI to fulfill
mandate. It also provided no measurable output indicators for technical assistance and training.
Furthermore, the two-year timeline in the PAD's action plan for NHAI's transformation was
unrealistic. Therefore the ICRR has rated quality at entry as moderately satisfactory.



                                               12

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank supervised the project with a multi-disciplinary team that had an adequate skill mix
(Annex 4). The team successfully resolved financial management issues. It diligently monitored
safeguards. The project team also showed flexibility in restructuring the project, responding to
NHAI's changing needs. However there was not always pro-active follow-up on the technical
side and the team did not give enough priority attention to the project's institutional development
components. The Seventh Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA7) rated the project's
supervision as moderately satisfactory. However it rated the candor and quality of performance
reporting as moderately unsatisfactory.       The ICRR review also found deficiencies and
inconsistencies in monitoring and evaluation. Taking account of strengths and shortcomings, the
ICRR has rated overall Bank performance in project supervision as moderately satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Given overall ratings of moderately satisfactory for both ensuring quality at entry and
supervision, the ICRR has rated overall Bank performance as moderately satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance


(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Government's main contribution to the project was the development of a sector framework
supportive of NHAI's development and the encouragement of the private sector to participate in
the development of the national highway system. Prior to the project, the Cabinet approved the
implementation of the NHDP by NHAI. It also approved the Authority's restructuring, providing
it with substantial financial and administrative powers. However, the Government could have
done more to improve inter-agency co-ordination to prevent project delays and support the
institutional development of NHAI. Given these shortcomings, the ICRR has rated Government
performance as moderately satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

NHAI demonstrated a strong initial commitment to the project during its preparation. The
Authority successfully mobilized consultants for feasibility and engineering studies as well as
preliminary studies on institutional development. NHAI also prepared all of the construction
packages and bid documents for the highway-upgrading component. During project



                                               13

implementation, NHAI showed improvement in financial management and safeguards
performance. However, NHAI did not ensure proper coordination of the design consultants, nor
the various state-led pre-construction activities. The Authority also could have made a greater
effort to improve the quality of public consultations in the design phase. This would have helped
ensure the timely completion of contracts for highway upgrading, some of which were still
incomplete at project closure. NHAI also gave relatively little attention to the implementation
and timely completion of the project's institutional development components and to the M&E
framework. With regards to the maintenance contracts, there is little evidence of their
effectiveness.   The ICRR has rated overall performance moderately unsatisfactory because the
shortcomings in performance during project implementation were considered significant.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The ICRR ratings for the Borrower are mixed, with a moderately satisfactory government
performance and a moderately unsatisfactory performance of the implementing agency.
Although the project's overall outcome was moderately satisfactory, the ICRR has rated overall
Borrower performance as moderately unsatisfactory, due the fact that weight of responsibility
for delivery and outcomes rested on NHAI.

6. Lessons Learned

Project-Specific Lessons

Framework for Institutional Change. The absence of measurable indicators for the
institutional development of an implementing agency focused on more on the physical works can
reduce the visibility of key technical assistance and training required to sustain the physical
assets. While the institutional development of NHAI was likely to be dynamic requiring some
flexibility of approach, a more detailed monitoring framework could have served as a focusing
mechanism, which the Bank and NHAI could have fine-tuned in response to NHAI's changing
needs.

State of the Construction Industry. Insufficient knowledge on the state of the construction
industry (manpower, raw materials, machinery, etc.), can constrain the performance of a
highway investment project even if its design and implementation framework are adequate. . Had
the study of India's construction industry taken place early in the project, as planned, it might
have been possible to reduce factors outside the project that had an adverse impact on its
performance (See Section 2). However, the draft study, after years of delay when it was part of
the project, finally took place outside it but was not completed until about two months prior to
the project's closing date.

Coordination of Development Partners. The lack of coordination among development partners
in can result in missed opportunities for meeting common objectives. Such coordination can not
only avoid duplication of effort but increase leverage to manage and preserve physical assets and
share ideas on how to improve the M&E framework. Both the Bank and ADB apparently



                                                14

supported institutional strengthening of NHAI during the project's implementation period but
coordination of their efforts was not apparent in project supervision reports.

Responsibility for Institutional Development. The assignment of responsibility for sector
studies and technical assistance to the implementing agency instead of the sector ministry can
reduce the attention to a highway project's broader institutional and sector development aspects.
NHAI was primarily concerned with implementing the Ministry's policy by building roads. It is
not clear that the organization had the capability to concentrate on monitoring and evaluating the
various institutional studies. Also, policy and planning in the roads sector are the responsibility
of the ministry and the studies under the project were more in line with this mandate than that of
NHAI.

Human Resource Development. The lack of attention to human resource development in a
period of rapid change in the highway sector can constrain project development implementation.
The current shortage of qualified manpower is out of phase with the enormous demand of large
infrastructure projects. The Government and industry need to create incentives and facilities for
systematic training to increase the number of qualified road engineers, and technicians. There is
also a need for competent environmental officers, an important career track not yet widely
recognized in the road sector.

Improvement needed in Project Preparation Activities. Problems with the preparation and
quality of the detailed project reports (DPRs) led to delays and cost variations in the civil works
contracts. NHAI will need to improve its internal design review process and increase public
consultations with all stakeholders, including state authorities to ensure a smooth implementation
process along project corridors.

Coordination of NHAI's Programs with the Affected States.                     The lack of smooth
coordination of key preconstruction activities that fall under the responsibility of particular state
authorities can substantially delay the execution of contracts of a highway authority operating on
a national level, depending on state support. There is a need for better coordination and simpler
implementation mechanisms, between NHAI and the state governments, to accelerate land
acquisition, forestry clearance, tree cutting, utility relocation, etc.

NHAI's Contract Management Practices. The lack of clear, consistent contract management
practices, including a model for streamlining decision making, can lead to unnecessary delays in
physical works. NHAI should examine its contract management practices and rationalize its
internal processes to improve the framework for decision-making.

Lessons of general applicability

Leverage of Bank Assistance. In developing countries such as India, where there is an increased
flow of private financial resources into highway development, the Bank's contribution to the
overall funding picture continues to diminish.          This may reduce its leverage in achieving
institutional change required to sustain the benefits of highway investments. Therefore, the Bank
may need to give greater attention to demonstrating the importance of a sustainable framework in
project design and implementation as well as its policy dialogue with the governments.



                                                   15

Resettlement Policy. Introducing the Bank's resettlement compensation policy in a country that
has a national policy which provides different levels of compensation, may introduce distortions
that affected populations perceive as unfair. In designing resettlement policies, it would be
prudent at the outset, to try and harmonize the policies of the Bank and the Borrower.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

No comments have been received from the Borrower, however their contribution to the ICRR
has been included in its entirety in the Annex 7.

(b) Co financiers
Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable




                                                16

                               Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a)      Project Cost by Component (in USD Million Equivalent)
       Components             Appraisal                    Actual/Latest    Actual/Latest    Actual/Latest
                               Estimate      Revised         Estimate        Estimate as     Estimate as
                                 (USD        Estimate      (USD million)    Percentage of    Percentage of
                               million)        (USD
                                             million)                        Appraisal         Revised
                                                                             Estimate         Estimate
Highway Upgrading                 526.74        579.10          534.60           101.5              92.3
(including civil works and
tree planting)
Corridor Management and            20.90        25.00             2.74             13.1             NA
Road Safety Works
Institutional Strengthening         9.20        10.00             0.64             6.9               6.4
Total Baseline Cost               556.84        614.10          537.98             96.6             87.6
Physical Contingencies             53.50          0.00            0.00             0.00             0.00
Price Contingencies                34.50          0.00            0.00             0.00             0.00
Total Project Costs               644.84        619.26          537.98             83.4             86.9
Front-end fee PPF                   0.00          0.00            0.00             0.00             0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                  5.16          5.16            5.16           100.0              NA
Total Financing Required          650.00        619.26          543.14             83.6             87.7

(b) Financing
  Source of Funds         Type of      Appraisal      Revised         Actual/         % of        % of
                       Co-financing    Estimate       Estimate    Latest Estimate   Appraisal    Revised
                                        (USD           (USD        (USD million)    Estimate     Estimate
                                       million)       million)
International Bank                      516.00        490.84          403.93          78.3         82.3
for Reconstruction
and Development
Government of                           134.00        128.34          134.05           101        105.4
India




                                                   17

                                       Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Components     Target Indicators                          Actual Achievement
Highway        475 km of national highways widened to     458 km widened to four lanes (as of end December 2007) or
Upgrading      four lanes, including planting of trees    96 percent of the target.
               (along full length); service roads (60 km)
               and satisfactory safety audit completed.
Corridor       Two pilot Corridor Management Units        NHAI established nine CMUs, during project
Management     established in NHAI and fully staffed and  implementation, exceeding the target.
and Road       functional
Safety Works   Technical assistance for corridor          Completed. The consultant prepared corridor management
               management in place and functional.        concept document, a model contract document, and pavement
                                                          management system protocol.
               Technical assistance for program of        Completed. The consultant prepared report identifying
               minor improvements in place and            locations for improvement and bid documents for minor
               functional.                                improvement works.
               At least 3 pilot maintenance contracts     NHAI could only award one such long-term performance
               awarded and results evaluated.             based contract due to GOI decision to widen the entire
                                                          Golden Quadrilateral corridor to six lanes. NHAI funded the
                                                          contract with its own resources. The positive experience with
                                                          the contract's performance has resulted in NHAI's
                                                          consideration of similar contracts for the maintenance of the
                                                          North /South and East /West corridors. They have begun the
                                                          preparation of bidding documents for two more contracts.
               At least 30 hazardous locations identified Achieved. These locations were identified through the
               and made safer through spot                technical assistance for minor improvements, and
               improvements.                              improvements made through annual maintenance contracts.
Institutional  Technical assistance for institutional     Completed. It led to NHAI's organizational restructuring
Strengthening  strengthening in place and functioning.    proposal.
& Training     Training program developed.                Training plan for NHAI prepared.
               Corporate strategy developed.              The development of NHAI's corporate strategy is ongoing, as
                                                          it continues to evaluate the most effective form of PPP to
                                                          execute its mandate for highway development. The
                                                          Government of India has approved a restructuring proposal.
               Reporting of NHAI's activities and         Study completed.
               performance established, functioning and
               to be reported annually.
               Financial management strengthened and      Achieved.
               improved.
               A well -functioning Management             Achieved.
               Information System in place and
               functioning.
               A road condition and operational           The Road Information System (RIS) is functioning and
               information system established and         information on road conditions is available on NHAI's
               functioning.                               website.
               A Road Safety Policy study completed.      Achieved. A report defined road safety problems and
                                                          reviewed the legal, financial, and institutional environment.
                                                          It has led to a draft National Road Safety Policy, which is
                                                          under consideration by the Government.
               A construction industry study completed.   Deleted from the project. The Bank prepared a draft study in
                                                          2007 as part of its sector work program for roads.
               NHAI and other staff trained in (a)        NHAI had been training staff but not according to the training
               Quality Management, (b) Environmental      plan that the project prepared.
               and Social management, and (c) Project
               monitoring and contract administration.




                                                         18

                              Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

                        Category                                   Appraisal                     ICRR
                                                                  US$ million                 US$ million
Benefits                                                     Economic    Financial     Economic       Financial
Reduced road user and maintenance costs                        2,094       2,324         1394           1549
Costs                                                          408          453           431            478

Road construction, land acquisition and resettlement,
utility relocation and future maintenance
Net Benefits                                                   1,686       1,871          964           1071
Internal Rate of Return (IRR)                                   31           31           31.8           31.8

A.       Assumptions

         Category                           Appraisal                                    ICRR
                                                      General
Highway Lifespan
--Asphalt                    20 years                                 20 years
--Cement                     30 years                                 30 years
Scrap value at end of        20 % of costs                            20 % of costs
project life
Discount Rate for            12 %                                     12 %
Calculating Net Present
Value
Conversion factor from       0.9                                      0.9
financial costs to
economic costs
                                    Road, vehicle, and traffic specifications
Basis of road design         Current levels of truck overloading      Current levels of truck overloading are
                                                                      assumed on the basis of DPR.
Road condition               Without project case: maintained         Without project case: maintained every
                             every five years but not improved for    five years but not improved for the
                             the evaluation period.                   evaluation period.
                             With project case: Pavement              With project case: Functional overlay was
                             strengthened every 10 years in           scheduled in the 5th and 15th years, while
                             addition to regular maintenance          structural overlay was scheduled in the
                                                                      10th and 20th years after construction.
Impact of road               Incorporated in the HDM-3 model.         Incorporated in the HDM-4 model. The
congestion                   The PAD states that "No disruptive       ICRR states that "No disruptive effect was
                             effect was assumed for road traffic      assumed for road traffic during the years of
                             during the years of project              project implementation, as by design the
                             implementation, as by design the         highway widening work will take place
                             highway widening work will take          aside the existing right-of-way."
                             place aside the existing right-of-way."
Base year traffic levels     Most recent traffic counts at time of    Base year 1998 traffic is taken from
                             appraisal, verified through field        previous DPRs whereas for 2008, from
                             inspection                               traffic counts conducted in 2008 for each
                                                                      package
Traffic growth rates         Estimated for each road package          Estimated for each package based on the
                             based on estimates of growth in          compound average growth rate from 1998
                             population and per capita income in      to 2008 and adopted for this period. From
                             the area served                          2008 onwards a suitable growth rate has
                                                                      been adopted.



                                                         19

        Category                          Appraisal                                   ICRR
Income (total GDP)         Passenger vehicle traffic: 1.8-2.0     Trend growth method was used.
elasticities of traffic    Freight vehicle traffic: 1.0-1.25
demand
Generated traffic (for the Price elasticity: 0.2                  -
first year after road      Road user benefits: 50 % of those
completion)                accruing to normal traffic
                                                      Costs
Base cost estimation       Bill of Quantities developed by        Actual costs incurred during the
                           consultants for 475 km. of roads, for  implementation obtained from respective
                           which preliminary design was           PIUs which includes costs of construction,
                           completed. Included costs of           supervision, land acquisition, resettlement
                           construction, supervision, land        and utility relocation.
                           acquisition, resettlement and utility  Unit cost per km. of road: US$1.7 million.
                           relocation.

                           Unit cost per km. of road: US$1.2
                           million
                           (Included substantial road-widening
                           and shoulder reconstruction).
Maintenance costs          Based on costs resulting from a Road   Based on the prevailing NHAI guidelines.
                           Maintenance study
                                                    Benefits
General                    Calculated using the HDM-3 model       Calculated using the HDM-4 model
Savings in road user      (1) Reduced vehicle operating costs     1. Reduced vehicle operating costs
costs                          (VOCs) calculated per vehicle         (VOCs) calculated per vehicle type
                               type based on a Road User Cost        based on a Road User Cost Study of
                               Study of 1991 updated to 2000.        1991 updated to 2000 using HDM-4
                          (2) Reduced passenger travel time          Model.
                               based on per capita income of      2. Reduced passenger travel time based on
                               average passengers, by vehicle        per capita income of average
                               type.                                 passengers, by vehicle type using
                          (3) Reduced cargo travel time, with        HDM-4 Model
                               time value based on the Road       3. Reduced cargo travel time, with time
                               User Cost Study cited above.          value based on the Road User Cost
                                                                     Study cited above using HDM-4 Model.
Savings in maintenance                                            Based on the prevailing NHAI guidelines.
costs




                                                        20

       Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


         Name                          Title                Unit            Responsibility/
                                                                                Specialty
Lending
A. K. Swaminathan      Highway Engineer                    SASIN Highway Engineer
Alberto Nogales        Consultant                          SASIN Project Costs
Alok Nath Bansal       Transport Planner                   SASIN Traffic Analysis
Anil Bhandari          Principal Transport Specialist      SASIN Task Team Leader (1997-1999)
Anil H. Somani         Sr. Environmental Specialist        EASES Environnent
Arnab Bandyopadhyay    Consultant                          SASIN Implementation Arrangements
Arun Mokashi           Transport Specialist                SASIN Institutional Reforms
Christopher Hoban      Principal Highway Engineer          SASIN Task Team Leader (1999-2000)
D. C. Mishra           Procurement Specialist              SARPS
Ernesto Corrales       Program Assistant                   SASIN
Guang Zhe Chen         Senior Economist                    SASIN Economic Analysis
I.U.B. Reddy           Social Development Specialist       SASSD Social and Resettlement
L. R. Kadiyali         Consultant                          SASIN Highway Engineering
Mridula Singh          Rural Sociologist                   SASSD Social and Resettlement
N. Raman               Consultant                          SARPS Procurement
N. S. Srinivas         Team Assistant                      SASIN
Reidar Kvam            Senior Social Scientist             SASSD Social and Resettlement
Sangeeta Anand         Team Assistant                      SASIN
Sanjay Vani            Sr. Financial Management Specialist SARFM Financial Management
Sonia Kapoor           Environmental Specialist            SASEN Environment


         Name                          Title                Unit            Responsibility/
                                                                                Specialty
Supervision/ICRR
A. K. Swaminathan      Sr. Highway Engineer                SASEI Task Team Leader (2000-2003)
A. S. Harinath         Environmental Specialist            SASDI
Alok Nath Bansal       Senior Transport Planner            SASDT
Anil Bhandari          Lead Specialist                     AFTTR Institutional
Arnab Bandyopadhyay    Sr. Transport. Engineer             SASDT
D. C. Mishra           Senior Procurement Specialist       SARPS
Debabrata Chakraborti  Sr. Procurement Specialist.         SARPS
Ernst-August Huning    Consultant                          SASEI Institutional Specialist
G. George Tharakan     Lead Transport Specialist           SASEI Task Team Leader (2006-2007)
Gaurav D. Joshi        Environmental Specialist            SASDI
Isabel Chatterton      Financial Specialist                SASEI
J. Matthew Mitchell    Consultant                          SASDT ICRR Preparation
Juan Pablo Covarrubias Consultant                          SASEI Concrete Pavement
Manmohan Singh Bajaj   Sr. Procurement Specialist          SARPS
Mridula Singh          Sr. Social Development Specialist   SASDI
N. Raman               Consultant                          SARPS Procurement
Nupur Gupta            Transport Specialist                SASEI
Piers Antony Vickers   Sr. Transport. Specialist           SASEI Institutional



                                                    21

         Name                              Title                   Unit              Responsibility/
                                                                                        Specialty
Pratap Tvgssshrk          Transport Specialist                    SASDT
Priya Goel                Sr. Financial Management Specialist     SARFM
Rajat Narula              Sr. Financial Management Specialist     SARFM
Rajesh B. S. Dongol       Program Assistant                       SASDO
Rajesh Rohatgi            Transport Specialist                    SASDT Task Team Leader (2007-2008)
Ritu Sharma               Program Assistant                       SASDO
Sally L. Burningham       Sr. Transport Specialist                SASEI
Sangeeta Anand            Program Assistant                       SASEI
Shiraz Tayabji            Consultant                              SASEI Concrete Pavements
Sonia Chand Sandhu        Sr. Environmental Specialist            SASDI
Stein Lundebye            Senior Transport Engineer               SASEI Road Safety
Sujit Das                 Senior Highway Engineer                 SASEI Task Team Leader (2003-2006)
Sushil Kumar Bahl         Sr. Procurement Specialist              SARPS
Tapas Paul                Sr. Environmental Specialist            SASDI
Tawia Addo-Ashong         Senior Transport Specialist             SASDT ICRR Team Leader
Venkata Rao Bayana        Consultant                              SASDI Social
Warren Waters             Sr. Social Scientist                    SASES

(b) Staff Time and Cost

         Stage of Project Cycle                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                No. of staff weeks                 USD Thousands
                                                                         (including travel and consultant costs)
Lending
         FY00                                           97                             0.00
         FY01                                           1                              0.87
        Total:                                          98                             0.87
Supervision/ICRR
        FY01                                            32                            71.00
        FY02                                            27                            67.00
        FY03                                            29                            80.00
        FY04                                            17                            62.00
        FY05                                            19                            70.00
        FY06                                            20                            76.00
        FY07                                            31                            78.00
        FY08                                            24                           115.00
        FY09                                            0                              7.00
        Total:                                         199                           626.00




                                                       22

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
             (if any)

          (Not applicable)




                23

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
                     (if any)


                 (Not applicable)




                        24

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICRR and/or Comments on Draft ICRR




                                25

26

27

28

29

30

31

32

Annex 8. Comments of Co-Financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


                        (Not Applicable)




                               33

                            Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Project Preparation and Appraisal

WS Atkins International Limited, National Highways Authority of India, Organization and Development,
Phase 2 Report, January 1996.

Letter from Yogendra Narain, Chairman, NHAI to Mr. Bauer, on India: Proposed Third National
Highway Project March 1996 Mission, June 5, 1996.

India : Proposed Third National Highway Project, Preparation Mission, June-July 1996: Back-to-Office
Report, August 26, 1996.

India: National Highways Project: Social Impacts and Resettlement: Principles and Policy Framework,
April 1998.

Aide Memoire, Proposed Third National Highway Project, World Bank Preparation Mission, June 1 to 6,
1998.

National Highways Authority of India, India: Third National Highway Project, Social Impacts and
Resettlement: Principles and Policy Framework, October 1998.

Project Concept Document for India, Third National Highway Project, May 2, 1999.

Prime Minister's Task Force on Infrastructure (India), Report on the Use of the Dedicated Cess Revenues
for NHDP, July 1999.

Institutional Strengthening of the National Highways Authority of India, Comments on a Discussion
Paper, dated December 21, 1999

India: Third National Highway Project, Aide Memoire of the Appraisal Mission, February 2000.

Workshop on Institutional Strengthening of NHAI, February 2000.

Memorandum from V.K. Sinha, Chief Engineer, NHAI to A.K. Swaminathan, Highway Engineer, World
Bank, regarding pre-qualification of contractors, May 1, 2000.

Agreed Minutes of Negotiations between the Government of India and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development Regarding the Proposed Third National Highway Project, May 1-5,
2000.

Project Appraisal Document on a Loan to the Government of India for the Third National Highways
Project, Report No. 20219, May 12, 2000.

Fax on Extension of the Closing Date for the Japanese Grant Agreement from June 30, 2000 to December
31, 2001, dated May 25, 2000.

India: Third National Highway Project:       Summary of Discussion at the Meeting of the Executive
Directors of the Bank and IDA, June 8, 2000.

World Bank, Final Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA4) for TNHP, April 24, 2001.


                                                   34

Project Supervision

Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) 2000 ­ 2007

Aide Memoires of Supervision Missions (by year and mission dates) 2000 -2007

Other Supervision Documents

Letter from Alok Bansal, Senior Transport Planner, to Deepak Dasgupta, Chairman, National Highways
Authority of India, Sub: Indian Road Construction Opportunities: Road show in Europe, Seminar in
France, October 11, 2000.

Project-Related Studies

Louis Berger Group, Inc., USA, National Highways Authority of India: Inception Report for Technical
Assistance for Development & Operation of Pilot Corridor Management Units, June 2002.

Price-Waterhouse, NHAI-Institutional Reform and Computerized MIS, Implementation Phase:
Performance Rating System. (Undated).

Training Plan for NHAI (Undated but reportedly sometime in 2002).

Gosh, P., and Bayana, V., Quantification of Time Overrun in Pre-Construction Activities of National
Highways Packages Funded by World Bank and Asian Development Bank, December 2007.

Sector Studies

Documenting Reforms: Case Studies from India (undated article on the results of the National Highways
Development Program, 2005 or later).

World Bank, Indian Road Construction Industry: Capacity Issues, Constraints and Recommendations,
October 2007 (Draft).

World Bank (PowerPoint Presentation), National Highway Development Program, October 2007.

Reports of Other Related Projects

Infrastructure Sector Unit, South Asia Regional Office, World Bank, Project Appraisal Document on a
Proposed Loan in the Amount of US$589 Million Equivalent to the Government of India for the Grand
Trunk Road Improvement Project, Report No. 22169-IN, May 30, 2001.

World Bank, Implementation Completion Report on a Loan/Credit in the Amount of US$153.0 Million
and SDR116.2 Million (US$153 Million Equivalent) to the Government of India for the Second National
Highway Project, May 21, 2002.




                                                 35

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 30824

                    HIMACHAL                             78°                                           80°                                            82°                                      84°                                                   86°                                          88°

                             PRADESH                                                                                                                                                                                             I N D I A
                                                                                                                C H I N A                                                   THIRD NATIONAL HIGHWAYS PROJECT

JalandharoT                        Chandigarh                                                                                                                                   2      NATIONAL HIGHWAY UPGRADING                                                    CITIES, BY POPULATION:
                                                                                                                                                                                         UNDER THE PROJECT                                                   Gorhar      <100,000
                       PUNJAB     Ambala                      Dehra Dun                                                                                                         8      NATIONAL HIGHWAYS ALREADY 4-LANED,                                   Katihar      100,000­250,000
                                            Yamunangar                                                                                                                                   OR 4-LANING IN PROGRESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Gaya
                                                                                                                                                                                       NATIONAL HIGHWAYS                                                                 250,000­500,000
30°                                               Saharanpur                                                                                                                   24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         500,000­1,000,000                   30°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Patna            1,000,000­2,500,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Kolkata                   >2,500,000

                             Panipat



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     STATE CAPITALS
10                           HARYANA1                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Agra
                                                                Haridwar                                                                                                               OTHER ROADS

                             Karnal      Yamuna                                                                                                                                        RAILROADS

                                                     Muzaffarnagar                                                                                                                     RIVERS

                                                                                           Haldwani

                                                     Meerut
                              Sonepat                             Amroha    Moradabad                                             N E P A L                                                                                                             Patna
                                                                                                                                                                                0                 100                      200
Rohtak                        New                     Hapur                      Rampur                                                                                                                                                                              NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                             24
                             Delhi                                                                 Pilibhit
                                                                                                                                                                                              KILOMETERS                                                             STATE BOUNDARIES

                             Gurgaon           Ghaziabad          Sambhal                                                                                                                                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                             Faridabad                Bulandshahr                        Bareilly

                   8                                                   U T T A R
                                                                                                                                                                                                         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                   28°                                                             Budaun                                                                                                                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                                         on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                                   28°
                                                                                                                                                                                                         judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
           JaipuroTRAJASTHAN                                  Aligarh                                  Shahjahanpur

                                               2                                   Ganga
                                                      Hathras                                                                         Ghaghara
                                                                                                                       Sitapur                 Bahraich                                                  acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                                                                             Hardoi
                                                     Mathura

                                       Bharatpur
                                                                    Firozabad       P R A D E S H
                                     11                     Agra                      Fategarh                           24
                                                                                                                             Lucknow
                                                                                Etawah                                                            Faizabad
                                                                 Chambal                                                                                           28               Gorakhpur

                                                                       Bhind                         Kanpur
                                                                                        2                           Unnao                                                                                                                                                           Biratnagar
                                                                                               Pratappur                                                                                                             Gandak
                                                                                                                                    Rae Bareli
                                                                                       Sikandra                                                                                                                              28
                                                  Gwalior                                                                                                                           29
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ghaghara                                         Darbhanga
                                                                                                   Bhognipur
26°                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Muzaffarpur
                                                                                                                           Fatehpur                                                                                                                                                                           26°
                                                                                   25                                                                                                  Maunath Bhanjan                                                                Saharsa                             BANG.
                                                                                                                                 Khaga                               Jaunpur                                        Chapra                                                          Purnea

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Arrah
                                                                   Jhansi
                                                                                                                                     Kokhraj         Allahabad                              Ganga                                                                                          Katihar
                                                                                                                                                                      Varanasi                                              Patna           31       Begusarai
                                                                                                                                                            Handia                                         30                                                                    31
                                                                                                                                                     Naini
                                                                                                                                                                                       Mohania                                           Bihar Sharif               Monghyr

                                                                                                                                                                    Mirzapur  Mughal
                                                                                                                                               27                             Sarai                                                                                            Bhagalpur
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Son
                                                                                                                                                           7                                         Dehri
                                               3                                                                                                                                           Sasaram                          Gaya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       31                              31                               Ganga
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BANG.
                                                                                                                          Satna    Rewa                                                           Aurangabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sherghati                B I H A R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Barachatti 2                                                                    34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Giridih
                                                                       26                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Berhampore

24°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Gorhar                Barwa
                                                                            Sagar                                                                                                                                                 23                                                                          24°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WEST
                                                                                                                  Murwara                                                                                                                                       Adda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Bermo            Dhanbad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Bokaro Steel City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                23                      Kulti  Asansol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Damodar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Andal
                                               Bhopal                                                                                                                                                                    Ranchi                                                        Durgapur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Barddhaman
                                                                                                        Jabalpur                                                                                                                                                                 Bankura

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BENGAL
                                                             12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Krishnanagar

                                                                                                      MADHYA PRADESH                                                                                                                      Jamshedpur                                             Howra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                33
                                                                                                                                                                                                           23                                                                          Midnapore
                                                                                                                                                                      Korba                                                                                                                       Kolkata
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Rourkela
                                                                                          7                                                                                                                                                                                        Kharagpur
                                                                                                                                                           Bilaspur                                                                                           6                                  (Calcutta)
22°                                                       78°                                          80°                                            82°                                  ORISSA
                                                                                                                                                                                               84°                                                 86 °                5                          88°        22°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MAY 2000

