RESTRICTED
FILE     COPY                   Report No. P-718
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE KINGDOM     OF THAILAND
FOR A
FOURTH NATIONAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
June 4, 1969



INTE10TATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP'4ITT
REPORT A\D RECOT-7TIDATION OF TTIE PRESIDFI\TT
TO THE ECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE KINGDOWT OF THAILAND
FOR A FOURTH NATIONAL HIGHWIAY PROJEC T
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to U.S. p23 million to
the Kingdom of Thailand.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        Of the nineteen loans which the Bank has made to Thailand, eight
have been for transportation. Two loans were for port development, three
for railway improvement and expansion; and three loans, totaling
$90 million equivalent, were for highway projects. The First Highwqay
Project loan, (3)il-TH) for $21.8 million (net of cancellations) was made
in 1963 and has been fully disbursed. The Second Highway Project loan,
(455-TH) for $36 million was made in 1966; construction is more than 50$
complete and is proceeding on schedule. The Third Highway Project loan,
(535-TH) for $29 million was made in JHay, 1968. Contracts have been awarded
for all the construction works, which are proceeding well, and the training
program of the technical staff of the Department of Highways is being
negotiated with institutions in Europe and the UJnited State. Each of the
Bank loans has included feasibility and engineering studies of roads for
subsequent projects; thus two of the highways to be constructed under the
proposed loan have been investigated and engineered under one or more of
the previous loans, while the third higihway was studied and engineered
œith Canadian assistance.
3.        Negotiations took place in Washington between May 13 and 16, 1969.
The Government of Thailand was represented by Itlr. Uthai Vodhigula, Director
General, and Mr. Nukul Prachuabmoh, Deputy Director General of the Depart-
ment of Highways.
4.        The proposed loan would be the twentieth loan to Thailand, of
which thirteen are fully disbursed. The follo,wJing is a summary statement
of Bank loans to Thailand as at April 30, 1969.



-2-
(U.S. $ mjJlf.o;i)
Principal   Un-
Year Number        Borrower             Purpose             Amount   disbursed
Thirteen loans fully disbursed                               164.9
1964  394-TH  Kingdom of Thailand  Meklong Irrigation         22.0       8.7
1966  455-TH  Kingdom of Thailand  Natiornal Highways         36.o      16.5--
1966  471-TH  Kingdom of Thailand  Vocational Education        6.o       5.4
1967  489-TH  Yanhee alectricity
Authority         Power                       5.0        .7
1967  514-TH  Kingdom of Thailand  Sirikit Dam - Irrigation   26.0o     14.4
1968  535-TH  Kingdom of Thailand  National Highways          29.0      24.3
Total (less cancellations):                                  288.9
of' which has been repaid to
Bank and others                                              55.7
Total now outstanding:                                       233.2
Amount sold:                       59 4
of which has been repaid:         10.7                       48.7
Total now held by Bank                                       184.5
Total undisbursed                                                       70.0
No IDA credits have been made to Thailand.
IFC has made two investments in Thailand. IFC holds shares worth
$192,000 in the Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand; and this year
made an investment of $22.1 million (of which $4.1 million is an equity
investment) in the Siam Cement group of companies.
5.        Disbursements under the Vocational Education project (loan 471-TH
of 1966) have been slow because of the delay in appointing consultants, under
bilateral assistance, to prepare specifications for equipment procurement.
The project is now proceeding well. Otherwise, progress in the execution of
Bank-financed projects has generally been satisfactory.
6.        A pow^Ter project, with a foreign exchange component of $23 million
to finance the power facilities of the Sirikit (Phasom) Dam now being
constructed under Loan 514-TH, is expected to be presented to the Executive
Directors in September.  The Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand has
applied for a second loan of $5 million, and an appraisal mission is scheduicau
to visit Thailand in July. A project to expand and improve the facilities sf
Kasetsart (Agricultural) University, with a foreign exchange component of
about $4.5 million, is now being prepared for the Bank's consideration. The
Government may request a loan for a railway project later this year if
satisfactory financing under suppliers' credits is not available.



- 3 -
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PRT)POSED LOAN
7.        Borrower:               Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:                 Various currencies equivalent to
U.S. $ 23 million.
Purpose:                To assist in financing the construction or
improvement of three primary highways
totaling about 294 km; consulting services
for the supervision of works and detailed
engineering of about 533 km of primary
roads; purchase of workshop equipment for
highway maintenance.
Amortization:           In 20 years, including U> year period of
grace, through semi-annual installments
beginning April 1, 197)4 and ending
October 15, 1989.
Interest:               Bs per cent per annum.
Commitment Charges:     3/4 of 1 per cent per annum.
Estimated rate of
return of the Project:  In excess of 20%.
PART III - THE PROJ.TWT
8.        An appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of a Fourth Highway
Project - Thailand" (PTR-l1a) dated June 3, 1969 is attached.
9.        Although the highway system of Thailand has improved considerably
in the last six years, it is still inadequate to handle present traffic
requirements. The Government's Second Five-Year Development Plan (1967-197])
makes provision for substantial infrastructure investments to facilitate
the growth of the national product, which is assumed to average 7.5% or
slightly more in the next few years. The transportation sector is growing
at a faster pace, and is expected to maintain an average growth rate of
about 13%. The "Highway Construction and Improvement Plan (1965-1971)",
which forms part of the Development Plan, envisages the construction and
improvement of some 4,500 lam of roads in the Plan period.



-4 -
10.       The project, which is part of the "1Highway Construction and Improv~-
ment Plan (1965-1971)", includes the inprovement or construction of three
primary highways totaling about 294 km.  The three highways are part of the
system linking Bangkok and the Northern, Northeastern and Southern regions
of the country.  The project includes consulting services for the supervision
of construction and for the detailed engineering of about 533 km of further
primary highways, if feasibility studies now in progress demonstrate that
they are economically justified. The project also includes the purchase of
workshop maintenance equipment.
11.       The estimated cost of the project is U.S.$ 48.7 million.  The
proposed loan of t23 million would finance the foreign exchange costs of
road construction and improvement, estimated at about 45L of the total cost,
and the foreign e:,cchange costs of consulting services and workshop fnainten-
ance equipment. The balance of the funds required to .complcte the pi'oj6ct
owould be provided-by the Government.
12.       The project will be administered by the Department of Highways of
the ilinistry of National Development with the assistance of consulting
engineers. The Department is responsible for the construction, improvement
and maintenance of all classes of national roads in Thailand; and has demon-
strated its ability to manage its activities. Financial and technical
assistance under the first three Bank loans, and from other sources, has
substantially increased the capacity of the Department to plan and carry out
projects included in the Second Development Plan and to maintain the National
Highway System. The reorganization of the Department of Highways, wihich
began in 1964, has been completed, and has resulted in improved operating anc'
administrative procedures.
13.       The three primary highways proposed for construction or improvement
would carry substantial volumes of existing traffic, and would generate
additional traffic as new economic activities develop. The road wJorks
included in the project are justified economically from the resulting
reduction in transportation costs.  Over a 20 year period, the rate of return
on the Thern-Lampang highway is about 25%, and on the Thonburi-Paktho highway
about 20'i7. Parts of the Chumpae-Loei highway may be flooded by the reservoir
of the proposed Pa Mong Dam, located on the KIekong between Laos and Thailand,
which is being considered as the first of the mainstream Tqekong river
projects.  Feasibility studies for the Pa Mong project will be completed
early in 1970 but the start of construction of this very large project, which
would require at least eight to twelve years to complete, is uncertain.
However, taking the earliest possible starting and completion dates, and
assuming that the Chumpae-Loei highway is flooded in either five or ten years
after completion of the dam, the useful life of the road would be long
enough to ensure rates of return of 12Z and 257 respectively.  For an
economic life of twenty years, the rate of return would be 29'7.  'ilitary
traffic was excluded in calculating the rate of return on all three highways.
14.       Construction work would be carried out by contractors under unit
price contracts awarded after international competitive bidding. There has



been widespread and keen interest by international contractors in highway
construction in Thailand, and very competitive prices have been obtained
for all contracts awarded under the first three highway loans. The contracts
to be awarded would all be of sufficient size to interest such contractors.
15.      NTYith the assistance of U.S. AID, the Government is undertaking a
comprehensive transportation coordination study to assess the optimal
allocation of resources among the competing modes of transport, and to
determine appropriate bases for user charges for the various modes. The study,
wjhich is expected to be completed by the end of 1969, will assist the Govern-
ment in drawing up a better transportation coordination policy and in setting
up the administrative framework to implement such a policy. With the
assistance of Canada, a limited transportation coordination study of the
Thonburi-Paktho region has been started, and is expected to help the
Government determine the transportation needs of the region iith particular
reference to rail and river traffic. Neither the U.S. nor the Canadian study
of transportation coordination will affect the well-established priority of
the roads included in the project.
PART IV - LEGAL PTSTRUTENTS AND AUTHORITY
16.       The draft Loan Agreerment between the Kingdom of Thailand and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a Resolution approving the
proposed Loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
17.       The draft Loan Agreement is substantially in the form customarily
used for highway projects and follows closely the documents used for the
three previous loans. In addition, the following provisions of the draft
Loan Agreement are of particular interest.
(i)    Section 2.o5 provides that no withdrawal shall be
made under the Loan for the cost of consultants' services
for detailed engineering of any highway or section thereof
included in the Project unless the economic feasibility of
such highway has been established to the satisfaction of
the Bank;
(ii)   Section 5.11 requires the Borrower to take all steps
required to ensure the improvement and extension of city
streets in Bangkok and Thonburi in order to provide congestion-
free access to the Thonburi-Paktho highway;
(iii) Section 5.12 requires the Borrower to take all measures
required to ensure that the Thonburi-Paktho highway is
operated and maintained as a controlled access highway;
(iv)   Section 5.13 requires the Borrower to consult with the
Bank regarding any plans to relocate the town of Loei or the
road leading to it in the event of flooding caused by the
construction of the Pa i4ong dam.



PART V - THE MONC'iY
18.       A report on the "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Thailand" (EAP-la) was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 12)
1969 under cover of the Secretary's memorandum R69-39.
19.       The Thai economy has grow-rn at the satisfactory rate of 8% per annua
during the past five years.  This was accomplished while agriculture and
related sectors still provide more than two-fifths of GDP. Agricultural
output grew by 3.09. a year on average between 1963 and 1968. The manufactur±n,
and mining and construction sectors taken together achieved an annual growth
rate of 13.50, increasing their share of GDP from 18'< to 23i.  Per capita
income has reached 'l1)O a year, and would have been higher but for the fact
that population has also continued to growf at 3.3,'', which is among the
higher rates in Asia.
20.       Throughout the past five years, the Thai economy has enjoyed a
strong financial position. Savings, originating largely in the private
sector, went up by 16.3?S a year, bringing the average savings rate to over
24% of GMP. At the same time, the annual growth of export earnings reached
13.-5', reflecting the expansion of agricultural output for export and, since
late 1965, military expenditures by the TJnited States. Earnings from these
sources permitted Thailand to finance the doubling of investment between
1963 and 1968, without substantial foreign assistance. The ratio of invest-
ment to GITP reached 272" in 1968.  The large U.S. expenditures for local
goods and services, enabled Thailand to build up its exchange reserves from
UOS.$ 540 million to U.S. $ 920 million, equivalent to more than eight monthzo
current payments and over three times the amount of public external debt
outstanding at the end of 1968.
21.       Since its unsuccessful foray into public industries in the early
1950's, the Thai Government has largely confined its development expendi-
tures to improving the country's infrastructure. Large and growsing amounts
went into higlways, irrigation and power development.  This corresponded
well with economic priorities. The Bank has been closely associated with
the development of these three sectors.
22.       The principal shortcoming has been the failure, after many years,
to produce workable plans for regional development, particularly in the
Northeast. Population pressure is heavy in the remoter border areas and no
family planning program has been devised.  Lack of adequate coordination
among government departments is largely responsible, and administrative
weaknesses have also reduced returns on the large investments that have beeni
made in dams and other primary irrigation facilities. On the fiscal side,
rice has long borne an undesirably heavy burden in the form of export taxes
which may prove disadvantageous if international rice prices fall. In any
case, there is a pressing need to diversify sources of government revenue.
The Government has requested the assistance of the ITF in tax administration.
and reforms, and the Bank will continue to urge action in this field.



-7-
23.        As a result of a slolwT-down in agriculture and related activities
and in consti-uction, last year 'GUP grew by only 4-5`-.  U.S. military expen-
ditures, which du.ing the three previous years had risen to a level equiv-
alent to more than 4h of GDP and one-fifth of foreign exchange earnings,
did not increase in 1968. As the present construction program is nearing
completion these expenditures may now start to decline, depending on
future developments in the area. Thus, for the economy generally, present
projections suggest a return to a more normal situation after the boom of
the recent past: a somewhat slower expansion of irnvestment and saving, a
less rapid increase in exchange earnings and a widening resource gap.
24.        Because of the countr-y's strong reserve position, the Bank has
limited its lending to Thailand since late 1966 to a fraction of the foreign
exchange costs of selected projects, the remainder being provided by the
Bank of Thailand in the form of parallel loans or participations in the
loans extended for these projects. Since 1966, the Bank of Thailand has
provided financing of $59 million for four projects in which the Bank's
net financing was only $25 mill:ion. The Bank of Thailand also holds $50
million of the Bank's two-year (entral Bank bonds and is the largest holder
of such bonds.
25.        Thailand's exchange reserves are over US -8900 million and could
be drav.m upon, if need be, to help finance the projected resource gap.
However, in the face of the likely decline in foreign exchange income, it
would not be advisable to plan any large drafts on these reserves in the
near future. Thus, after several years in which Thailand has needed little
development aid, there is nowi a good case for more Bank assistance. Accord-
ingly, I have not asked the Banlc of Thailand to participate in this proposed
loan or in the other prospective loans mentioned in paragraph 6 above.
26.        Thailand has not accuimulated a large external debt.  Projected
service on official debt at its peak is equivalent to aroand 4W of estimated
exchange earnings; service on private external debt is estimated at about
the same amoutnt.  Thlailand may thus be regarded as creditworthy for sub-
stantial additional external borrowing.
PART VI - COMIPLIANCCE ,TITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMEMT
27.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RBCO SIEI\TDATION
28.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loanL
Robert S. 1c`\Namara
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
June 4, 1969



