gR~ITUR~ Tt  t         |iRESTRICTED
PO}ThL~L~r~              FIJ[IF  flbpy          e      Report No. PTR-14a
79g 12 I| tm u 51 r  *   &MI   W W Z
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONST'RUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
TATT ANT. )
June 3, 1969
Transportation Projects Department



Abbreviations:
USAID - United States Agency for
International Development
Currency Equivalents:
Currency Unit            - Baht (g)
US$ 1                       $20.80
W 1                      =  Hj.to.oh8
$ 1 million              =  US$48,076
Fiscal Year:
October 1 - September 30
Units of Weights and Measures:
Metric
Metric: British/US Equivalents:
1 kilometer (km)       =   0.62 miles (mi)
1   4 -meteI (m)        - 3t (ft)
1 square kilometer     =   0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 liter (1)            =   0.22 imperial gallons
=  0.26 ga'Llons (uS)
1 metric ton               2,204 pounds (lbs)



THAIiAND
ArrnAISAL OF A FOLuT-in Hi-iza-wA'I rrnwiJCT--
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Psse No.
SUMYMAR  AND CONfCLUIONS   .................... ...              i - ii
1.   INTRODUCTION ............................................ .        1
2.   RECENT DEVELOPkENTS IN THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ...........            2
A. Gene!ral                .  .....................                2
B.  Tranksport Coo±dination Study .       .............. .         2
C.  Previous Bank-Financed Highway Projects ..........    .        3
3. THE PRO ECT                                                          4 o .....
A.  General Description .......... . ..    .    ..... . ...        4
B. Construction and Improvement          .       .                 4
C.  Consulting Serrices ... . . . ......                           7
D.  Worlshop Equipment for Highway Maintenance 7.
E.  Cosa; Entini'ates.            .       ...........              8
F.  Foreign Exchange Coiponents     .                              9
G.  Project Execution and Finance                                  9
4.   ECONOMIC JusTIFICATION ..................... . ............. .    11
A.  Genezral .........      ..................................    11
B.  Theirn-Lampang Highway .....   ............................   11
C.  Thonburi-Paktho Highway .............   ..   ............     12
D.  Chunpae-Loei Highway .       .........................        14
E.  Highways for Detailed Engineering          .................  15
F.  Eqilpment for Mechanical Workshops ................           16
5.   RECOMMENDATIONS .      ........................... ............   17
ANIX- I    Ex-tract from Appraisal Report ror Tnailand, Tnird Hignway
PzDject (Chapter 2)
ANNEX II   Extract from Appraisal Report for Thailand, Third Highway
Project (Chapter 3)
ANNEX III Chumpae-Loei Road:    Possible Effect of Pa Mong Dan Project



TABLE OF CONTENTS
-2-
TABLES
1. Motor Vehicle Registration
2. Civilian Consuumtion of Motor Fuels
3. Highvay Expenditures
4. Design Standards for Tvo-Lane Primarv and
Secondary Highways (Rural.)
S. Eatlats of Csat
6. Vehicle Operating Costs in Flat Country for
Tnt.ir-Tlrbn RnftAn
('HAWI'
Org-nization of D-partment of Highways
UA-P
Ail  ft"A = MV+4^o..l U4,1, . )4..
This report is based on the findings of Appraisal Missions to Thailai4d
C-~ju'.w& 'ji  a out. FD.- L. % Luu, LU JIA#UC)r LYU6 and uy Mr. Paric
(Economist) in December 1968.



Arrn8A.LOAA OF. A rVuVuW viUfWAi irn' PwzCx
SUMARY
i.        Thle Governmeht of the Kingdom of T-hailand has asked the Bank for
assistance im f^ ancing a further part of its highway investment program;,
tne proposedi project would cover:
(a)  the construction and improvement or parts of three primary
highways, totalling 294 km;
(b) engineering consultants' services for:
(i) the supervision of the works in (a) above and
(ii) detailed engineering of a further 533 km of primary
highways.
(c) the purchase of workshop equipment for highvay maintenancEl.
ii.       Thie total cost bf the project is about US$ 48.7 milion equivalent;
a loan of US$ 23.0 million is proposed, to cover the foreign exchange comit.
The executing agency would be the Department of Highways of the Ministry of
National Drevlopment.
iii.      TIis wvould be the fourth Bank loan to Thailand for highways. The
first loan of US$ 35 million (341-TE) was made in June 1963, but was redutced
at the Government's request, first to US$ 25 million in July 1964, to eliLm-
inate some roads on which improvement vork had been carried out by the
Highway Department' a oun forces, and later to US$ 22.5 million in July 1968
because the contract prices, reflecting the international competition bid-
ding, were less than those estimated. Construction work on the 330 km of
project roads was satisfactorily completed early in 1969. The purchase of
road maintenance equipment to the value of US$ 6.8 million and the trainiLng
overseas of UL engineers of the Highway Department were also financed by
the loan.
iv.       The second loan of US$ 36 million equivalent (455-TH) was made in
June 1966 for the construction and improvement of 780 km of highways and for
consulting services. Contracts for all the work have been swarded; construc-
tion is over 60% conplete and on schedule.
v.        The third loan of US$ 29 million equivalent (535-TE) was made :Ln
May 1968 for construction and improvement of highways totalling 470 km, for
consultants' services and for a program of overseas training of members of
the Departmnt of Highwaas' staff.   Contracts have been awarded for all the
construction works and the Department is preparing a program for overseas
training.
vi.       The interest of many international contractors has produced coan-
pqtitive' bididing and reasonable prices for all the projects. The quality



-2-
of the work is rood. A feature of all DroJects has been the inclusion of
feasibility studies and detailed engineering of roads which the Bank might
consider finaneina with subsequent loans. Such studies and engineerina were
finaneed under the first and second highway projects for two of the three
rnhAA  tn be eonstrueted under the nronosed fourth nrolect.
Vii.       Hlxhwav traffIe it Thailand is continuing to increase ranidlvy
and to keep pace with it the Governent has drawn up an investment program
of TTRU Inn millinn equivalnt fPnr the ennstruetton and lLior lmnrtvomant of
4500 km of roads and for paving over 3000 km of existing roads during the
.4,A 1°06-1 071     Th  U4 ih,%_r 4i nvintmerat      mmnr ntm to  bhout 20% of
the Governments' total public investment program.
viii.     The highways included in the proposed project are among the highest
pr4,      it4 - 4 n 4the +h-&        prow*mfi4  Th- v-^rhs ^b t.,onhi4t%a1 e   a,1irnA
and economically justified by the estimated reduction in vehicle operating
coz-&a -4ich ,v0A produce r-+e-z of roturn -^nig lmt--w        20% ^A 29%   qV6
wm  -WLA. J LA  W   j4  '4'&'6  4 'I W'.'4  4 W - ~-  **  4  5   -W --   --I  P-  *  4
workshop oquipment to be procured would improve the serviceability of the
U4-1-     *A    in    1 4 ..a   4
4-.Cntvt^               -iilA bc '6-           avtr^t  -w-fd ^n the bef-is of In4er=
national competitive bidding. The works are expected to take about four
.-ars --_A  to '-- ---l+wwA 4- 1973
jw  wh" 4U         U        WU4  4 # W*d%         ''      V.J  - &. 1J4a 
Xe     wit     proaJect iz6ya Bt d includ in  a  -e  perio  Td of 0grA cev  --
&lent vith a 20 year term including a 14 year period of grace.



THAILAND
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Thes Government of the Kingdom of Thailand has asked for further
Bank assistance in financing part of its US$ 400 mlllion seven-vear hiahwimr
investment program (1965-71). The proposed project consists of the con-
struction and1 imDrovement of parts of three primarv highvavs totalling
294 km, supervision of the works by consultants, the detailed engineering
of a further 533 km of primary roadc in preparation of future nr-Oects anil
the purchase of workshop equipment for highway maintenance. The cost of
the proJect le estimated to total about US$ 48.7 million: the pnropomed loan
of US$ 23.0 million would meet the estimated foreign exchange cost.
1.02      Tho Bank has made three previous loans to Thailand for highways,
details of vilch are given in Chanter 2. The first loan van made in June;
1963 and worlks under that project have been satisfactorily completed. Cona-
tracts have been awarded for all the eonstruetion And improvement works in
the second sad third loans made in June, 1966 and May, 1968; the quality of
the work is good and it In On schadne..
1. 0      D4rine the eourse of the three previour loan omteiati ontJ the fln'I1
staff has succeoeded in establishing a close working relationship with the
Thai Dnpartment of? H4ghwars, throegh which the -nunimtwvr  high-wa  needA ar-
periodically and systematically reviewed and further detailed studies comnis-
stonnd    to connlitants as required  The current proJect I a reeult 't th
continuous process. Each component of the project represents an investment
renan4 .e,,drgmet .r%4" h 4a-h ad%^ ^rn4o~r,. i'nw.4&%  w 4n +)i% 4 e fli n~mun+9  M h 4 ha-w  ~ grm
a qir.o.  t    n. hi p --    prioit    - --- Go e-     _-  hi…  P av Jro Cl
and is logically the next step in its execution.
1.04      Five other loans in the transport field have been made to Thailand.
Th. -  ra4_lvqr 1,-ans have bee.n m _ae, No. 3A5UTT ,w T$* 2 fl 417i- 4..W Oet^b::
1950, No. 128-TH for US$ 12.0 million in August 1955 and No. 280-TH for
U$ 14 A6 411       4w A-"41 1961 *lo l-.s for ,-t4 +    re U,, W 7JI  4o
US$ 4.4 million in October 1950 and No. 151-TH for US$ 3.4 million in October
195 f i,e locas ha,e Lbv- 1.L        ia'sbursd.
1 05      IWIs   ...4...1 .S1- U,t..A -- &16.  4.eAA-- --A                t&o
~.. 1.1  LILU  ;Wk1iI.L  O   6&   U43 aa 'JU&   luAU W11   SU  10   GLUC  QUeJ."WWA. "e5 L U1 U11  A  1uL
above and on the findings of Bank appraisal missions in Thailand carried out
U 'h...U    5L  U  1M6.UL/    LU 'l  JJIL .L~s  L~A .S.~~IUJU.  hI TL  - A~'UUA
1968 W.B   M-rris (EineL) '6 OCtober '968      a Parv (conMdst) in Wc-Wer
1968.



-2-
2. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. General
2.01      Thailand (see Map) has an area of about 510,000 km   and a popula-
tion of about 34 mlllion, similar to Spain in size and population. The
population is increasing at about 3.3% a year. The GDP for 1967 was about
US$ 4.8 billion, is groving at about 7.5% a year, and the per capita incom
is about $ 140. For further details, reference may be made to Chapter II
"Background" of the appraisal report (No. TO-630a) for the Third Highway
Loan No. 535-TH, which is reproduced in Annex I.
2.02      About 3,700 km (78%) of the primary highways and 2,300 km (40%)
of the secondary highwvays are paved. The Department of Highways, in the
Ministry of National Development, is responsible for the administration,
construction and maintenance of the national highway network (primary and
secondary) and of the more important feeder roads. Further details are
given in the previous appraisal report, Chapter III "The Highway Sector",
vhich is reproduced in Annex II.
2.03      The present report concentrates on those fields in which there
have been significant changes during the past year. The Government has made
only minor adJustments in its "Hiighway Construction and Improvement Plan for
1965-197l", and good progress has been continued in its implementation. With
the help of advisorv consultants, the British firm of T.P. O'Sullivan and
Partners, financed under the first two highway loans, highway maintenance
is gradually being improved and further Thai staff is belin trained.    The
Government, has recently introduced a program of periodic maintenance such as
the resurfacing of bituminous roads and the reshaping and regrrvell1na of
roads not yet paved.   Commendable efforts are being made to enforce legis-
lation for the  imitation of vehicle weightsi and diTnninns- and the colle^c-
tion and analysis of statistics on highways and highway traffic has been
started.  The Government h" undertAken to enontinue to iprmov    these actlvl-
ties.
B. Transport Coordination Study
2.04      As mentioned in the previous appraisal report (No. TO-630a paras
2.15 - 2.17) the +-hverrnnent undertook to carry out ai trap-o-rt cordiat ion
study to provide guidelines for:   (i) setting up an appropriate cpordinating
^rff*b 4WA-i4a   (4is .                           -!-4 -4---  p,gr-z.,u4  o *  , -A_ o°
transport, and (iii) improving regulation of transport activities. The
+G -M o0LP reference °LOr t .,    ..t --W  Ad b`.-4-WW.U tbhG `a. -dj   Uo-Vsr-
ments in April 1968 and a contract was signed in September 1968 between
TCTATT% anA t6e Ttr CWD'U_t--t. a..JAi.th a.a A ----.                   z .
V%JJA.LA.F  '.Au uJ.'EmWO  , N.LLJUL ~UA.U.I.L U.ULAD~U.bE JiU  501a.s
The consultants' team started field work in November 1968 and current indi-
cations ar  taLat their draft flnal report will boe completed on schedile in
August 1969.



- 3 -
C. Previous Bank-FinanCed Hi1lbway ProJects
2.05      There have bOee  three previoUs Bank loans to Thailand for, high-
ways.  The first, Loan 341-TH (mee Report No. TO-355a) wa made in rune 1963.
It was originally for US$ 35 million, but at the request of the Government
it vas reduced in July 1964 tp, US$ 25 million becaase of delas; in oagaging
consultants and letting contritcts, and improvement of sme of the soctions
of road by the Goover  ent's oun forces in the meantime. The length of rodss
to be constructed and improved was reducod from 630 km to about 330 km. 'The
other items in the Loan were retained: engineering services for the con-
struction anl improvement works. feasibility studies on about 2000 km of
feeder roads, assistance in reorganizing the Department of Highways and
trmining of 'Ehai personnel in USA, Australia and tIK, and the purchase of
maintenance eDquipment. As construction costs were lower than estimated, the
amount of the Loan was a&ain reduced to US$ 22.5 million at the request of
the Governmnat in July 1968. Because of delay in completing one of the con-
struction einntracta_ nnd in obtaLinin  deliverv of Rme of the read mainte-
nance equipmoent and spare parts, the closing date for the Lon1n was extended
freu June 30- 1068 to April MdL 1060=   All the eonstruetion and lmnrovement
work has been satisfactorily completed and all the road maintenance equip-
man+t raecea4ved  Tvher wa a snrplus otf LS$630 j00 in the Toan aceent vhi.fh
has been cancelled.
2.06      The Second Highway Loan No. 455-TH (see Report No. TO-531a) Was
-&. injsia .K.…--- IA14v41ni *m4-1n                -a-&ed +h    rn+vs%4k
and improvemnat of about TTO ki of primary higwayVs, including engineering
9ewyjCez f^   ^w.,.4,q  ^i, ,+ the, tz^v4., mv2A -Petv. #Pan41K414+-tr a+,aA4q& nv%A the
-.eO     -O --ying --- th-                  f -rk  ---- jo -eiii,   otudie  wd tho
review and revision of prvious enginpering for a further 190 km of primary
carried out, and is proceeding satisfactorily and on schedule. The closing
%&&  iL.  SJW%FF W10J5J  J'.. 1, 9L7 1 W.
c  W       Tam'W  L.LUJL-%  'L.L'iwaJ  & MJ~  m1j'.  ./j  JU  L%WFWAS  -W   ~_"' _wJ  "Ma
made in May :1968 for US$ 29 million equivalent for the construction of tvo
p_BeL _   a. a r t l 1 4SJ h7R .LIoLO - *  Vt VS ste  .       .._^e s> fo   ua_at_4in ot -b
construction and for the detailed engineering of 635 km of feeder roads,
a.2A dLOO ioveriseas trl-auAg off -MIULbrs of qthow o-miL WA -'u  Or   rWi ".B-
vays. All constructiop contracts have been awarded; the construction works
are being cwrried out   at.isfactorily, are abou-  25% complete and WU scheuule.
Proposals have been received from a number of firms of consulting engineers
for carry-ing out detasiled engineering OI the feedr ros;, thei Gvernment
has made a tBntative choice, in consultation with the Bank, of two firms
and is now nmegotiating contracts with them in aerdneo with drafts agreed
with the Bant. The Government, assisted by the advisory consultants, in
preparin a further program ror overseas training of members of the staff
of the Department of Highways.
2.08      There has been a continued keen interest by international contrac-
tors and very competitive prices nave been obtained ror al the contracts
avarded under the first three highway loans.   Contractors of the following
nationalities have been awarded contracts so far: China, Dnmark, Germany,
Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea and Sweden. Contractors from Australia, France,
Switzerland, United Kingdom and the U.S.A., have also shown interest and
sme have submitted bids.



3. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The project (see Map) consists of:
(a) The Construction and Improvement of parts of three primar*
highways, to include two-lane bituminous paving:
(i)  Thern-Lampang            95 km
(ii)  Thonburi-Paktho           87 km
(iii)  Chumpae-Loei             112 km
Total    294 km
(b) Engineering Consultants' Serrices for:
(i)  The supervision of construction of the 294 km of
highvays listed above;
(ii)  The detailed engineering of about 533 km of further
Primary highways (see Map): (a) Lanasuan-Surat-
Pattalung 340 km; (b) Sriracha-Patteya-Rayong 77 km;
(c) Pattaya-Sataheev 36 km; and (d) Bangkok (Airnort)
-Saraburi 80 km.
(a) The Purchase of Workshop Equipnent for Highway Maintenance
B. Construction and Iiprorvment
Thern-LamDs     (95 km)
3.02      The reconstruction of this 95 km section will complete the pave-
mant of the 850 km main h4righway frm  Anmok north to i0% aqen--4 near
border with Burma. Most of the remaining sections of the road are being
reconstrce;d u-nder the   econd *and third         o loan p-ojct    …    t thonot
being reconstructed are in reasonably good condition.
3.03      Reconstruction of,the Thern-Lampang road vas not included in pre-
-u'p           -   .i- w * i   wax v -  wh in s"f cient, to Justify it and studies
vere not sufficiently advanced. However the traffic has nearly doubled since
~.Aw wW ~Mym&5 ~  U ~~O~.JW ~. 1L ~W' IMA.LW r, to  .r;Xt " AWon.U3qL--XfJ Was
opened 'in February 1968; an4 further rapid increases are expected as con-
*t."UW.,u ct.l  u  *WA_ M.-,LV" U.L tUhe "UAff^lJ&-%'J.WUgrai. RoLu aire eVpJ.Ue.eQ.  one
first 20 km south of Lampang have a bituminous pavement, but it has insuffi-
cient streunth, is o-nly 5.50 M wide unU han- narrow shoulders. T'ne reaining
80 km has a gravel surface, is only 7 m wide including shoulders, and becomes
rutted and slippery during the rainy season and is rough and dusty durInq
dry weather.



-5-
3.o4      Tne new inern-Lsampang roaQ uiil follow clostLy Tw existing
alignment through 60 km of flat and gently rolling terrain but the remain:Lng
35 ki are through rolling to hilly terrain and a new alignment will be
chosen to improve curvature and gradients.   Of 24 existing bridges, 20 are
adequate in siize and load capacity, are suitably located, and vill be re-
tained; four new ones will be built. The ne road will be 5 km shorter.
It is designed to P(2) standards (see Table 4) vith a bituminous pa-ment
6.5 m wide. The right of way will be 60 m.
Thonburi-Psktho (87 km)
3.05      The proposed new highway would provide a more direct route for
the first section, between the Thonburi/Bangkok area and Paktho, of the
main highway serving the southern isthmus (see Map). It would shorten this
distance by :35 km ompared with the existing congested road via Nak;rn
Pathom and prorvide good road access to Samutsakorn and Samxtsongkhram; these
two towns, and their immadiate adjoining areas, each ha. a population of
about 250,00( and is at present poorly served by low standard secondary
and feeder type roads, canals and the Maekloug railway line (see paras 4.108
to 4.11).
3.06      The proposed route is parallel with the coast and crosses a flood
plain which consists of the deltas of the rivers Chao Phraya (at Bangkok),
Thachin (at S3amutsakorn) and Maeklona (at Samutsongkhram). There are ex-
isting bridges over the Chao Phraya and Thachln rivers but a new 600 i bridge
is needed over the Maeklong river, ad bridaes and culverts over the many
canals. The land on most of the alignment is only about 1.5 m above sea
level. Becaune of difficult soil conditions, the road embankment will have
to be constructed gradually, under careful control. Construction of the
reA il + i t.hua)rf'nr takk  about 4() 40 ths .
3407      The :Watini tr-fric nn the nei, Ihlahv 1. exnn ted   n ht bia abc,untt
1300 vehicles per day.   It will be constructed with a two-lane bit-inous
pavemant 7 a wiAe and desmgned to P(1l .stand"rds (see Talbn 4)_ The right-
of-way will be 80 m and will allow for widening to a divided four-lane high-
vvh.r n t.mF'f4 &ww,a tn iintl f irt pion ihily in amiut 1i0 vstvm ,
3.08   t.w  -Urn,1 -d of 4-he nAs%f+ rOA 4^4"a th- at^-Mt+ gy +m 4" h% 's
a. --  .n.~~   a                    _…1, *   -h-         -        -      S
at an oxisting two-lane road where the traffic is already congested; widening
00   LSi ro-A iS -1-0-A  4" - ZM%Mm Sm 4d gm ohsil-&A flwo r~ ewMl+4^"  1070.
'JA to"  CM J6.u   C%6&*  a  r- k -. W  Ii --D S che-   -  .aapy. V      y* - 
Consultants are studying the need for additional work to be carried out to
Wi UV.- A%rwAU  .4W VT.4U.".L AMA  4W  Im W   VW caA j   .  Ew Vha  A g A AY,
without congtestion as well as the additional traffic from the new Thonburi-
rWAI.LU& UgWI-.J ._ MU- o          a ..y.'  4- iDa - Ve+d 4- BWnDS&n. --9ad
the Government has undertaken to have any widening, improvements and exten-
sj.on  o-.L  roUUM.JU  .LL  ZYMA.LULJ.  CUUIA&WJ4I5iJ MALA   'C&aA6 4 W %  m  m  A. .SU&. 'L, 'W%F
sary in the light of the consultants' report.
3.09      The new highway will be located in a thickly populated area and
a number of ta(e Jama WJ.L  15 -JuacUt 'Lo &WJUS an" -.1.L U  .UJ.UJg .
western approaches to Thonburi/Bangkok. There is qonsequently a serious



- 6 -
riash- -P  ,  uIM-nirm, 'hi-Ao av^,¢A fntingf t.hQk r-nAd  d ht-inr dtiroet
access onto it. This would substantially diminish its traffic capacity and
j      ^  ^^id4AMW+0  Tho        nrnt            1w1uat4n,+in t   t nriv tho
.&~--                   Gv…- - -  --- i   A-rAt - ' -…-      "-  -  ---
Departiet of Highwvays paoers to control the siting and construction of
access.    TU4ing "o" "m~%+-lX4^a        r^a"i ann (ma'      ) to ge.i the
Bank an opportunity to comment on the draft, (ii) to present it to the
'-8-1 A^s        - Ib - Ty  cbr '1, 1°70 o"A (444 '   " to Sa1oz  +ht the Th^hinv4_
MLW@.YJ&.IJ L  -MO   '1Wm  L J w'  - -   -,,I -  - _ %,- --  - _  - 
Paktho highway is operated and maintained as a controlled access highvay
…'n accordCaI " with               aC acept.abb.le' t-o the 
CnM&_ T e. I 1 -1 r 1- N
10    X~JuJ5 rVU  VUW. 4JUULI, IUWM .LPW.L C"=" Wli..L6.AA L6Ud* Cm 1VWPULC&WIJYU JL 8&i'JW
300,000, with the existing main Bangkok-Nongkai (Laos border) highway at
Kbonkaen. Reconstruction, inc udinu    paveMUt, of. tuh  ir-Wt 8wetion, from
Khonkamn to Cnumpae, was recently completed under the Second Highway Loan
455-in .
3.11      The existing Cnumpse-Loei road iB generally on a good alignment
except for about 20 km. However the road is only 8 m wide overall, is
sunken and poorly drained, with weak and narro wooden bridges, aud baa a
gravel surface which bec;mes very soft in wet weather. The terrain is flat
to gently rol Ling.
3.12      The new road will follow tne existing alignment for most of its
length but with some sharp curves improved. Designed to P(3) standards (see
Table 4), the road will have a two-lane paved surface 6 m wide, shoulders
2 m vide and the right-of-way will be 60 m wide.
3.13      There is a possibility that the propooed Pa Mong Dam (see Map)
will affect a portion of this road at some time within the next twenty years,
but de-ailed information may not be available for several years. There is
no doubt that surveying and resettlement problems would take some time to
solve and some of the difficulties are discussed in Annex III to this report.
One of the principal problems would be the relocation of the tovn of Loei,
which would be inundated; the Government has agreed to consult with the
Bank concerning the effect of the relocation of the town, or of any flooding,
on the project road. However, under the least favorable circumstances the
economic return is still satisfactory.
Feasibility Studies 'md Detailed Engineering of Roadx
to be Constructed
3.14      Feasibility studies of the Thwzn-Lamsang ro*L were carried out bv
the Department of Highways assisted by the advisory coosultants, T.P.
O' Sullivan and Partners. vhose services are being financed under the First
and Second higbhway loans.
3.15      Detailed engineering has been substantially completed by consul-
tant-S   *rrcCpiah  to1 tha +.' 1 nk  ntl_ theA rnAAm tn -n een+vmt&+eAta n inAv- t1ia
project. The American conoultants, Sverdrup and Parcel, carried out thi
Aa+4.41a    4   .4'g jf +-h. Th -ni...T.r¶Tnfx h4rnmrntr finirkantaA viimAa,- Tjr hrZr.JTU
wt~       .…rd an                              -.n e  z  _g- o-' Me



-7-
3.16      The Canadian conbultants, General Engineering Company, have nesa-ly
complete4 the detailed engineering of the Thonburi-Paktho high1ay. The some
firm has previously completed a feasibility study of the highway and has
also been en,aged by the Government to carry oxit the review df overell tren-
port requireLents for the Thouburi-Paktho regi6n (see para 4.13); tk:eir driXt
report is expected by September 30, 1969. Both the detailed engineering of
the Thonburi-.Paktho road and the transport study are being financed under a
Canadian tecmnical assistant grant.
3.17      The, Danish consultants, KAMPSAX, carried out a feasibility study
and the detailed engineering of the Chumpae-Loei road in 1965-66, financedl
under the First Higbvha Loan 341-TH. However the Government has had the
consultants recently review and slightly amend the design in the light of
experience in constructing the adjoining Khonkaen-Chumpae section.
C. Consultirg Services
Detailed En.ineering of Further Highways
3.18      The nrojiet vould include the detailed engineering. by consultants
acceptable to the Bank, of four highways, totalling about 533 km, vhich hnve
s hiRh phriority in the Government's Development Plan.  In each case. feaseL-
bility studitos are either in progress or have been completed. Drring nego>-
tiatimos agreement was reached that for those hithwava on vhich feasibillty
studies are iLn progress no disbursement will be made until the studies in
progress axe c    lta   and econmic ju    ftifcatin-  -clusively Ammntrated.
3.19      A lffeDaabilsty stud  of the propo^A Lnnamuagins-uat.-P_ttalun  rotad
is being carried out by the American consultants Louis Berger, financed byr
TWATTM  --A 4,, --ct-d to be c,- nltedA hby Jil  1000 -  h -%  d Y n^&A   foim
WflJfl.UMg ind4     W      r -          -J--l---        -e             form- - 
part of the main road running down the southern isthmus. Preli-inary finid-
ings are that the detailed enginieriAg '4-4 "-   u-Wf"t       ,i.^4,rn i 
be economicaUly Justified.
3.20      Th. Department of Highways, assisted by its advisory consultantis,
T.P. Ot.1.ll4 -   -P-and Th.+rs  i' 4 e,ing out. fe9i4bility sntudies of tho
three roads: Sriracha-Pattaya-Rayong, Pattaya-Sataheep and Bangkok (Don !aang
AJ--..4l 0-...       D1el4..4,...  4inA4^,a+4#% a Of th_IeSe ioi  i@,ai~ta
kILAL jiJan - bt_ P/4dieU                                     , -sJo, are th_t
detailed engineering (and subsequent construction or reconstruction) would
o.2-      nLA  rep oa Ur,to    IIrskrw  v. -a   r- +. ofa.1in4        eq4
ment for road maintenance having an original cost of US$ 50 million, includ-
iJ]g th  usA, .6  0 -  AJ LV1O..A....LI_ aca   n  .U IJ...  U41-  T.. m-
1sW ub$ 6 *6 0 m1JJlio1 wrk I u      ViL  LMer    U f   JLJ.6WJ AJ.JFU 4%.4
341-TH. For the better maintenance of highway equipment in the twelve di-
visions, the Department of Highways in 1966 anbare-d on a program Aor b-IAd-
ing six nev :Divisional wvrkshops and improving existing workshops.   The
building and improvement program should be completed in 1970. The Dpart: Uea



- 8 -
has prepared a list of the equipment necessary for the vorkshops and has re-
auested Bank assistance in Durchasing it. A detailed list of the eauinment
has been provided the Bank; the items include repair vehicles, hoists, lathes,
drills, boring machines, tire changers, paint spravers   velding equipment-
hand tools, etc. The estimated total cost is US$ 700,000 all of which vould
be in foreitn exchannc.
E. Cost Estimates
3.22      The cost estimeten for ennatunctinn aT-& ,e.&intic; theo n,e bhaai-
on quantities calculated by the consultants after detailed engineering had
been subutantIallv ernmplat&d. The unit pir4it  faw the eati^rnts  MV, A_=
rived from contracts for similar work awarded on projects financed by the
Rank in i1te 1968=
3=23      The eo8&t *atba+ tea fenw wn4nein& *v-w"      bv e"-ltants for:
(i) supervision of construction have been derived from the costs of such
…e-v-e-S on f-l w-- l                                    S. .&A ./ 4n "W^#rVg '' .a 1441 A-U-.LJ
engineering of further highways have been estimated on a "per km" basis, re-
lated to the probable t v-^n nf -oAn to be AealnA"A     n t-hey a-'wr.' V.tisete.
3.24±     The  "tehtat.-4 ^o+.t eAtia4tmn8 for the proJ+et --e given 4i Table 5;
a summary is given below.
w (millions)             US$ (millions)        Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total     Local  Foreign  Total    Exchange
1. Construction and
Improvemnt      406      332     738     19.3    16.2     35.5       45
2. Engineering and
Supervision
(Consultants)    64       64     128      3.1     3.1     6.2        50
3. Purchase of Workshop
Equipment for Highway
Mai-atenance      -       14      14       -      0.7      0.7      100
4. ContinRencv Allowances:
(a) On Item 1,
15%          60       50     110      2.9     2.4     5.3        5
(i) 10% quantity
(ii)  5% nrice escalation
(b) On Item 2,
5%          10       10      2       0.5    n0.5     1.0        50
Teotsl   s4n      47n   i-nlO     25.8    22.9    48.7
(!) Roumding 0                                    n 0.1
Total Fo-i- n    ch---e Crom-ponet        23.0



-9-
F. Foreign Exchange Components
3.25      The foreign exchange component of the construction costs has been
estimated by consultants at 48%. if the work were to be awarded wholly to
foreign contractors following international competitive bidding. The foreign
exchance cost of contracts awarded to local and Joint local/foreign contrac-
tors is esttnated to be somewhat less. Of the 25 contracts financed under
the firsts three loans only one was avarded to a local contractor while four
were to ;oint contractors. It is expected that the participrition of local
tnd Joint cnntraetors will continue at about the same level as in the past.
On this basis, the foreign exchange component of the costs of constr,uction
York bovd h    reAinued to ahbnut 4% annd this i8 the proportion proposed for
Bank financing.
3.26      A contingency allowance of 15% on all items, including consultants'
services, is cos-idered reaasonable.   For construetinn, this camprisen 10%
for quantities and 5% to cover price increases above those of the recent con-
struction contracts on wh4c t      *at4mates  r  bod.
I'            ..--..+4,...  --A  W4,.a"-&.
U.  xL%ideut Ex_to      Aw_    i^
'.7       The Ml-dJAr     ofJf4 .a A, vheA               ^P Aat4^"l .all.-- 
-)*  I    Ille  hJwyJ" uJ"AAW5A   J.1  1Ue5.W,JJ n   -   ---   .-n s r, ov- -z
ment, will be in charge of the execution and administration of the project,
as il tle ease of the t4=      viU Vrv BC proA ets.  Constrcto  vad   r-WWMen
works will be carried out through contracts to be awarded on the basis of
internationl competitive bidding. SCuevisio- ill be         -A         - c-
sultants. Consulting engineers would also be engaged, in agreement with
the Bank, to carry out the detailed engineerinog of the 5°3 k    of roAdS for
future projects.
3.28      There are over 50 items in the list of workshop equipment (see
para 3.21) to be purcnased.   The larger items, or groups of items, exceeding
$50,000 in value, would be procured on an international competitive basis.
Some of the smaller i'tem  could best buc prcu" ed      .wking  u
specialized mnanufactulrers or through local agents and would not, therefore,
be the subject of international competitive biddig; such it., are e-peted
to total aboult US$ 300,000.
3.29      The works included in the project are expected to be completed in
about 4 yearis and, alloVing ror finaL payments, disburs-MentS under the loan
would take albout 4-1/2 years. Assuming the loan is made effectiVe as of
mid-1969, ths annual disbursements are forecast as:
(in US$ million)
1969    1970     1971    1972     1973         Total
2.0     5.5      9.0     4.5      2.0          23.0



- 10 -
3.30      The Government would meet the local currency requirements from
its budget, as it has done for the current projects.
3.31      Disbursements would be made to the Government by reimbursing 45%
of pqyments made to the contractors, (see para 3.25). The percentagi would
be reduced in the event of an increase in the cost of the project. Disburse-
ments for engineering services would be made against invoices covering the
paYments in foreign currency under the consultants' contracts. Disbursamnts
for the purchase of workshop equipent would be made on the basis of the
C.I.F. cost. The Department of Highways' accounts are audited by an internal
audit section and by the Goverment Audit Departmnt. Any surplus in the
loan account would be cancelled.
3.32      The right-of-way for the roads to be constructed would be acquired
by the Government under its existing powers which are ad&quat*. No signifi-
ant acqttisition problems have been encountered on previous projects and none
is anticipated on the proposed project.



- 11 -
4. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. General
4.01      The three highways for con'struction would not only serve 1important
volumes of existing traffic, but also induce new economic activities whicki
would generate additional traffic.  As a minimal stctoment of benetitc- the1
estimates of project benefits were made in terms of savings in transport
costs.  Such etsimaLtea' indieaste rateis Of rat-nirn on dinidi ual prooect high-
ways ranging between 20% and 29%. The economic evaluation also focussed con
the ontimum timing and  nti;mum design rtAndtAa for the proJ-ct aiin tIhe
resulting rates of return represent the optimum return.  In cases where thLe
trafrfie volume and/or  nsat of  a"tq+.-i+o4  . t e,^si%,m4AA.mhl  b  
ent sections of one highway, the justification of each of the individual
oza.t4rkra tam cl" e%'h&^lrmA
I.02o     The treanspot Cost savings Iwre baseA on -A-.1c3 op.r-Ing
in Thailand (see Table 6) estimated from data provided by the Thai Govern--
19nt vahd its 1o-n +ta4v8t.s. The  asis o°. tracfftic prJe-tiOn"s i-  '   -n
the subsequent paragraphs dealing with individual highways. In soae areag
of T   1ailMAd  PC, LniLAtary traffic represents an important Part Of thq
traffic volume but, for the highvays to be constructed under the proposed
oiol, M4ilitrY trU-fic i insignificant. However, ior some or the nighrayrs
included in the project for detailed engineering, military traffic may be
Of a significant proportion. B8sed on the available information, however.,
the economic viability of these highways is apparent even after deducting
an allowance oI up to one. third of total traffic as temporary military
traffic; further investigation vould be carried out before including these
highways for construction in a future Bank project.
B. Thern-LaRang    nig
14.03     Tne! proposed improvement of the T'ern-Lempang higwnay will com-
plete the upgrading of Thailand's most important north-south trunk highwWr
between Bangkok and Chiengrai. in addition to the Bangkok-Ghiengrai traffic,
the project section serves also the traffic to and from Chiengmai, the second
largest city of Thailand; the Chiengmai-Lampang highway was constructed
under the Bank's First Highway Project (341-TH) and opened to traffic in the
latter part of 1967.
4.04      Pait of the? project section traverses a rolling to hilly region,
much of it forest, where population is relatively sparse and the economic
activities are mostly related to subsistence farming. The main justification
of the project, therefore, lies in providing adequate facilities for the
through traff'ic between the northern and southern parts of the country. J>ue
to its bad ecindition, this section at present represents a bottleneck for
the north-soulth movement of traffic. The traffic volume on this section la
relatively small - about 200 to 300 vehicles per day in 1968 compared with
400 to over '500 vehicles in the adjoining sections at both ends of the
section - and, as explained in the next paragr4ph, the slow growth of trarfic
on this section is indicative of the difficult vehicle operating conditioas.



- 12 -
4.05      The consultants' traffic study indicates that during the five
years preceding 1967 the rates of traffic increase were 21% to 29% for pas-
senger cars and 5% to 11% for commercial vehicles, i.e. trucks and buses.
However, since the recent completion of the Chiengmai-Lampang highway, the
traffic has nearly doubled on the project section and the increase in the
volume of commercial traffic has been also quite high, i.e. 60% and 85% at
different points on the section. This accelerated increase is to a large
extent due to the diversion of traffic to Chiengmai-Lampang-Thern route from
the old route via Lee. It: appears, therefore, that the low rate of growth of
commercial traffic before the ovening of the Chiengmai-Lampang highvay is
no longer a realistic representation of the future rate of increase.
4.o6      The above factor was taken into consideration in making the traf-
fic oroJection which assumes that the passenger car traffic would increase
at rates ranging between 25% and-10% to the end of the first 10 years of the
economic life of the highway and 10% and 5% during the second 10 vears. For
commercial traffic the assumed rates of growth are 10% during the first dec-
ade and 10 - 5% in the seconid.  This will reduce the proportion of commar-
cial traffic from the present 75% of the total traffic volume to about 55%.
)4.07     The economic benefits of the project would be the reduction in
tranuport coat resulting mainlv from the imnrnoved road conditions- Thairn
would be some additional savings from a shortening of the driving di'tance
bhtween Thorn And T.Lmnnx yr a1nut S km. rsaulting frnm the pnArtal realIgn-
ment. The cost of road maintenance would also be reduced by about 15% to
20  a94-ar t~he 4iny-noum.v.  Thr v'h4,'i nprw$thint p8t~ aaV4ting iiii* to +.h
improved road conditions from 1972, the first year of operation of the proj-
ec  hf       4S,    mn em-4tiate °+-  ,t aLts  1 3 w,4114v+, 4n 114  van4eh -to  l  OR  .. -
the total estimated savings. The overall savings during the assumed 20-year
4aacoa.4 c. 1 4 4~ -P +h .-. 4 ~.,I.1A n..rAi-, no a  +^ -P -.a..sn . r.* C  4*t
S.ln.ic life of the proJect          ---- p.  a- .- - f r * -  25  on sing
cost of improvement.
C. Thonburi-Paktho Highway
4.o8      This now highway vill- serve the coastal plains along the Gulf of
SiA.  bew enU Whe BangkUo/ I hob"U-i metropolitan area aund the Pathof Pet cUbiI
area at the northern end of the southern isthmus of Thailand. The area at
present is poorly served uy a railway linue (MaeXLong Line) anu a system or
canals, but no modern road transport is available, Low grade feeder roads
exist but they are flooded during the rainy sesson, in some areas for several
months a year. When roads are flooded, canoes are used as alternative meams
of transportation.  Tnh population to be served Dy the higvway, not including
that of the Bangkok/Thonburi urban area, is about 1.7 million.
4.09      Agriculture and fishing dominates the area's economy. Othar 4ictiv-
ities include quarrying of stone for construction, shrimp farming and some
maaufacturing and food processing industries. The pattern of rural settle-
ment is influenced by the aumerous canals. Outside the major towns, people
generally live within easy reach of klongs (canals) or rivers, being in
large measure dependent on them for transportation, water supply and sewerage.



- 13 -
4.10      The Maeklong railway line runs betweEn Thonburi and Samutuongkhram;
it is not connected vith the liational railway ibystem at either tenlinal.
Moreover, the line is interrupted by the Thachin River at Samutsakoi-n vheir.
a ferry serviLce provides connections for passengers. freight transport by
the line is Lnsignificant and almost nil for the section between Samutsakora
and Samutsongkhram. The State Railway of Thailand is currently investigating
the possibility of improving the operation of the line, including the con.-
struction of a bridge over the Thachin River, and the extonsion of the line
westward froma Samutsongkhram to connect with the southern main line near
Paktho.
4.11      Waterway transport is important for both passenger and freight
services, bul; no reliable statistics are available. The waterway operation
is little affected by modern -.echnology and management methods and, conse.-
quently, quite inefficient and uneconomical at present.
4.12      The propohed construction of a new Thonburi-Paktho Highway wouldi
have three distinctive economic effects:  (i) diversion to this highway ot
a part of theD traffic on the congested Phetkasem Highway through Nokorn-
Pathom (see tlotails in para 4.14 below); (ii) general economic development
of the region to be served by the now highway resulting from the availabiLity
of modern roaid transport; and (iii) diversion of the railvay and waterway
traffic in the region to the new highway.
4.13      The project justification was considered based on factors related
to (i) and (:Li) above. Regarding (iii). while it appears likelyv on the
bisis of the present physical conditions and the operating efficiency of the
railwva line and the watervays, that a large part of the railway and water-
way traffic would be diverted to the new highway, it is not clear what part
of mueh d4va,r.tad trvatfie mav bea nnaiderad to renroaent an eeonomie diver!4ion-
since it might be possible to improve the physical and operating conditions
of those oth!r modea to u,ke them eennnm1cn11w mn-a oeffiti.nt  Tn view o:P
this, the Government has engaged consultants to carry out a review of the
r4egion a  ovr1all transport renuiremmnta e 0n vhleh t9n baa. the formulation of
appropriate Imeasures to realize an efficient utilization of the various
transport moaes   their ,*nn,+ ib expected ba W Rnteboer 196Q- Tt wa Agrbd
during negot:Lations that the Government vill discuss with the Bank the fiLd-
4ins of the re-port, ith a ve to ,.eem.h4wai n ,-mm  nt on a 14 st #rP meatsmes
to be implemented.
4.14      The proposed highway is expected to provide a short-cut direct
route #,r trarrIc 1-tw,-n the Bngkok/'Phr4 m^t+v-r%   itan rn en A?d the
Paktho/Petchburi regiop which now uses the Phetkasem highway via Nakorn
PDathom -n,A  tburi. IFor the th.rough +tarfv4 iia4nl +'he n . h4rfhwAy, the ma.v.
A  ~ J   WI  l C6V  S.  A "~  4  V£~  **~  'nh  _  - -   - -t, -  -e--  -- ,
ings in driving distance will be about 35 km. The Phetkasem highway presently
car'e                          asu 1  w  4+ 4. +I%m ^ 1 + wllfr h4iPh%av r-r%%r%br+4ner
cqrries high volnumes Of traffic, s                  ww      az ._s   __
Bangkok with the southern isthmus as well as carrying local traffic. The
current daily traffic volUme is over 11,000 vehiclel in the eavirons of tbe
Bangkok/Thonburi metropolitan area. The volume tapers as distance increases
IrO  B«nsLukok  I, V%  hicle VW4%eLO. "WC 44CLLA Pbathom, J4,500  ---00  veldclel
between Nakorn Pathom and Ratburi and 2,500 vehicles from Ratburi to Paktho
and retchDurl.



- 14 -
4.15      The rate of traffic grovth on the Phetkasem highway has been in
the r&nu. nf 20% to 2St during the past five vears.     As the statistics indi-
cate that the growth rate of the short distance local traffic on the highvwy
wa   *omewhat higher than the long distance through traffic, the rate of
traffic growth on the new Thonburi-Paktho highway is assumed to be 15% p.a.
dlring the^ ^nrlv vears oif oneration and oradual1y to decline to about 5% at
the end of 20 years of assumed economic life.
-4.16      The consultants' origin-and-destination survey indicates that
p-p^r4omat+el  1 3nn vehw1" an nor Artv n  the Phatknamm hiihvav traffic vould
be diverted to the new highway.    In addition to savings accruing from the
so`.,AA A4.,.        +ho.A4v.-eA 4v.f414r   will hber4ft the traffi4-  r4mninina
ef%p J s W arn _~  - -9 - -._    --  -   …   --         -  --    -…
on the Phetkasem highway by reducing congestion on these sections vhere
tsM 1 f  . c-.  4 h4 g,1 a-"A al so moke it t possible tn p-st nini  fr gvnrwl
~. ~ .i .L.. A.U.4MS   a..e_                       ,-- i'e      r…
years the widening of those sections to four lanes.     Due to lack of data
these add~t~onal benei     are not   ian      , but4 are b -ehl1-vd to be of
relatively minor importance.    During the first year of operation of the new
£LLguVU, -whic .L5      I s.ryec .d to ba 197, tho  -I4 - d-A trfic  -'_d sam-
US$ 2.9 million in vehicle operating cost due to the shortened distance and
'u.& o.8 .rmA '    -po     road conditio.A
1.1,      AlthoJuh the nGwr highL .w L  s o,iAce -  lz 'p-                  -- -,- p-
more convenient road transport would generate some additional economic activ-
it1s . It is           ,Lsumed th . -.Lt the VP&L&.Ln n L of J .LPth A 1.L WI. t .L . A gm ra
tion will be about 50 vehicles per day in the first year of operation, expand-
ing to over 600 vehicles in vi-e years.    Sa,...      the gamera'A r
would grow from about US$ 20,000 in the first year to over US$ 200,000 in the
fifth year.
4.18      According to the traffic proJecti.on, the new hig       s pr.cticaL
capacity would be reexhea at the end of the tenth year of operation, at which
time it may be necesoary to expaud the highway inVo a fVour-laeU facility;.
In view of this, no further increase in savings in proportion to traffic
grovth is assumed beyond 1983.
4.19      Thl'e flow of annual benefits during tne assumed 20-year economic
life of the project iqould produce a rate of return of about 20% on the cost
of a new highway, inqluding the right-of-way cost and tne maintenance costs.
D. Chumpase-Loei Hig1 aY
4.20      The proposed improvement of this highvay would complete the Govern-
ment's program to provide connections between the main population centers
and the northeastern region's main trunk highway between Korat and Nongkai.
This major trunk highway is often referred to as the Friendship Highway
Extension, the Bangkok-Korat highway being the Friendship Highway, both of
which were financed by the U.S. Goverment in recent years.
4.21      The service area of the proposed highway has historically been
isolated from the rest of the country due mainly to inadequate means of
transport. This area, like many parts of northeastern Thailand, is exclu-
sively dependent on road tronsport as it lacks fluvial connections and rail-
way services, the nearest railway station being nearly 100 km away.



- 15 -
4 h, 22   The progress of the northeastern region, including the service
areas of the proposed highway, has been lagging behind the rest of Thailcad,
particularly- in economic &evelopment.  It is only recently that the Gover3-
ment became active Di planning and implementing measures for social and eco-
nomic development for the region, partly for political and security reasa2s.
The area at the present time has predominantly subsistence agriculture,
mainly rice Vrowing. Less than one-third of the harvest is marketed.
4.23      The traffic volumes in 1968 rangod from about 200 to 450 vehicles
a day on diffrerent sections. The composition of traffic is about 20% pas.-
senger cars and 80% trucks and buses.  The traffio volume has been groving
at 25% to 305C p.a. during the past five years.  Tk4e relatively high rate of
traffic increase is a reflection of the fast increiases in both population
(almost 5% p.a.) due to inflows of migrating farmers and the number of reg-
istered vehicles in the area (40% p.a.) during the past five years.  It is
likely that the present rate of traffic growth would continue for some tine
to come as the economic development of the area is only beginning. For
traffic projection purposes a declining rate of growth starting with 25% in
1969, (25% - 10% for 1969-83 and 10% - 5% for 1984-93) is assumed for the
o-erall traffic volume; the proportion of passenger car traffic would thea
increase from the 20% at present to a 35% to 40% range.
4.24      Similar to the case of the Thern-Lampang highway, the main savings
will result from the reduction in transport costs due to the improved road
conditions, and there would be some additional saving from the shortened
d iving ^4st1neo (4vh Ik) and the reduced maintenance reauirements.   For
1973, the first year of operation of the new road, total savings would be
about USA 2.3 m4114on of   hiheb savT -s due to the iimproved road con4itions
are about US$ 2.2 million.
4.25      The savings during the assumed 20-year economic life of the project
would give a rate of ret  n of aboItt 20%    Evn if it is assumed that part
of the road at the Loei end is inundated by the Pa Mong Dam construction (see
para 3.13  n1 Ann-ex III) 4n either 10 years or 5 years after the opening of
the road, (around 1982 and 1977 respectively), the benefits during the short-
ened life of the proJec  ollAd et-ill produce rates of return of about 25%
and 12%, respectively.
E. Detailed Engineerizg of Further Hjighiays
4.26      Feasibility studies have either been carried out or are being
executed on all of the four hIgh-ay- included in t-he proJect for detailed
engineering. The findings of the completed studies and the preliminary
indications o        -h.ose  .dwa  .11 4"Ai,-t- th:t +t- t  e is.r-,nt nhvnscal en-ndi-
tion of the highways, the traffic thereon, and the possibility of further
development iun the regiM  Gred-,     are such that the construction of these
highways comands high priority. The estimated rates of return are invari-
ably high, and none of the proJects is expected to produce a rate of return
lower than 20% if project implementation follows the consultants' recommended
schedule which is phasoed over a 5-6 year per.iod in the early 1970'I. The
Government w111 prepare, with the assistance of the Highway Department's



- 16 -
Awis- ,cons_Ultnnts   an Afivtlfi8 of traLfie composition to indicate the pro-
portion of military traffic on these roads where such traffic is considered
F.  EqP m=ent Mor Mechanical WorkshoD-
4.27      The benefit: derlYing from improved workshop faeilities are diffi-
cult to quantify but are undoubtedly very high in relation to the investment
--volved.  The Th 4 Department of Highwvays ha  irn operation road mrAntenance
equipment with an original value of about US$ 50 million, including nearly
'J6$ 7 mllin--rhpvue        w~    h    itwaUvLn            Twmrn-ved wvr-kshen
TTL~ . ..D 1 *  .4o             + h~ W4 "am R4 ghWsau  Oav  Timn. wrm
facilities in the 12 Divisions would enable preventive maintenance and re-
paLrs to 'we carried out p.ptly    Improvethe,  -  - -ratg efficiency Of the
road maintenance equipment and defer its replacement.



- 17 -
5.01      During n4gotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
.VLUJ..LUWJ.  prLVLuJICU.p pUlub:. (i )U te U.U-u5.u VWIh LILW DBMU. o th5e
findings of the Transpbrt Coordination Study (4ars 2.04), and the f-indingis
of the rWveier o  trloasport of the -ThoUburi-Paktho area kpara 4.13); (ii) 1;he
widening and extension of roads in Thonburi and Bankok as necessary to gilve
Congesti.VU-1rum u,amgu to thus -L-nounburl-rauvno iiignw&y (para 3.08); kill) lcno
operation and maind;enance of the Thonburi-Paktho highway as a controlled
access highwAy (pora 3.09); (iv) consultation with the Bank on the possible
effect of the Pa-Mong dam project on the Chumpae-Loei highway (paras 3.13,
4.25 and Annex IIM); anid 'v the demonstration of the economic justificat:ion
of each highway on which detailed engineering is to be carried out, befors
disbursement under the Loan (paras 3.18 and 4.2* 2).
5.02      Thr project is technically weil prepared, economically justifie,
and is considlered suitable for a Bank loan of US$ 23 million equivalent w.Lth
a term of 20 years, including a 4½ year period of grace.
June 3, 1969






FrM.. T
THIA IL&ND
FOURTHl HIEGHWAY PICEJBT
Extract from Appraisal Report (No. TO-630a dated May 3, 1968)
for Third Highway Loan No. 535-TH
2. RACKGROUND
A.  2Georaphic and Demographlic
2.01      Tlhailand has an area of approxim-aately 510,000 kin2 and a population
of ab-out 33 I-llion, si±A±d ' h lar in  IUandUII UU to   jdlI .a u-    uuruerju
by Burma on the west, Laos on the north and east, Cambodia on the southeast
arI[ fJ-lct.Ld.lya uon hIe t, uuu±.Ua.I, , minL  uoastJline is on1 tu-e uuta ua oiTailand to
the south but the southerrn isthmus also borders the Indian Ocean.
2.02      For geographic and economic purposes the country may be considered
as consistinlg of Li-ve regions.  The Nortnern region nas mcuntain ranges with
relativel,y narrow valleys and good rainfall; it produces agricultural Products,
timuer anid minerals.   The Northeastern region is a relatively dry plateau in
the catchmient basin cf the Mekong River; it is the least developed region with
largely subsistence farxing.    The Central region consists of tMe broad lowland
plains of the Chao Phraya River and its tributaries; the adequate rainfall,
;-nd irrigation from the rivers, make it one of the main rice-producing areas
in the world; near the mouth of the Chao Phraya River is the capital city of
.angkok, which has a population of about 2 million and is the main por-l, com-
mercial and industrial center.    The Southern region, formLing the isthvnus of
the Malayan peninsula, is a major producer of tin and rubber.     The Souith-
eastern region, lying between the central plain and the Ca.mbodian border, is
largely a subsistence agricultural area with the main product being ca-s-ava.
2.03      The population is increasing rapidly, at about 3.3 percent a year.
The towns are relatively small.    The population is generally well distributed,
although there is some concentration in the central lowland plains, especially
around Bangkok.
2.04      The GD?, which is now nearly US$ h.4 billion, has recently grown by
7.3 percent p.a. at constant prices.    It is expected to continue to grow at
or near this impressive figure in the immediate future.    Although Thailand is
still a relatively poor country, with a per capita income of about $130, it
haE achieved the remarkably high rate of investrment cf 22 percert of GDP, of
.hich over 90 percent is derived from domestic private and public savings.
This has been accomplished with relatively sta.ble prices, which have been
rising at about 2 percent per year between 1960 and 1966.    About 33 percent
of the GDF is from agriculture which is growing at about 5 percent per year;
manufacturing, mining and construction account for 20 percent of GDP and are
growzing at about 13 percent per year.   The growth in the GDP has been achieved
m.ainly by private econoilac activity, aided by Government investment largely
for the improvement of the infrastructure concerned with agriculture, trans-
portation sanr powier.
imU13;  J.avUes referred to are tnuoe il Report lno. TU-63Ua.



AiNIv=EX I
Page 2
B.   The Transpcrt Sector
a)   General
2.05      Transportation in Thailand has been influenced by three main factors:
(a) mcst of the mountain ringes and rivers riun from north to south:   (b) the
urban centers are located milostly in the lower Central region while (c) most
fr,od_Xrowingalr -n. nrt firrl.he.r nnrl.h ard u,miilc llv s1nor the rivers and canals.
A large part. of the :souithbound traffi.c consists of agricultura3l produce, whict
i -crr-i ed- ti +he fnroi -rns,i rivi nr- 4nd nrnro'esi  cet rers of the lclwAer Centr:i 1
rel(ion and al.;3m to the Port (i' B-angkok for export, while the north;-bound
1.r.-f' -f-f-Ti ,-c r..rm-~-:~z.r   ' Yz -i rinriri Ped  or-v  do;n esici  l 1  rnanlif-ir-+-i!rPd  r,nnrwii, r n rC ;
2.0    Te rPes -lt,   i qs th,I+  on +he iJiI p  +J tphe crne,r±.iir1 ri mainr t.rnnpor1-.
arteries run f'rom northll to south, with a lateral network of secondary roads
feeding into them.    Co.mun, icaticn from east to weest is less developed due
mainly to the difficult terrain which entails the crossing of' several moun-
iL 4' I1  - -    .L- - J 14-U±±--  ,  ~~  '~   ~~    4~4 
2.07 ~  P. -xcp  "or Ile ra`l-wayo, there. are no satisfcoyt.ffctts
tics on passenger and freight by mode of surface transport.     Nevertheless,
thle lndiLrec:tl e-vidence ind-1icates that hiu wJ trnpr  has hen- zn-La
sUCch a rapid rate in the last ten years that is is now by far the mo5t
Iijpu. batll iIdrnsLorULl Ufodle.
b)   iiie-
..Ou     Tl*i major arteries of the road network radiate from Bang'kok (see
'Iap).  Highway development was generally slol' until the early l96015.    Betuveen
I     r  ', r'   . I  a/  /  -   - 1--   I   - __ I   -1   -   -   12   __ *  --   _1_  11_  6  
196   n li yuI It, nie  acceleratJed anU th:e naiLonal net1worki, under the Jul15 -
dictiion of the Department of Highways, has increased from 8,300 km to over
10,300 kin.  Te len-tLh of paved rcads h6   brown from 2,80U km to nearlya 5,400
km during the same period.    Nevertheless, the present system is inadequate
even ior the ex.isting traffic, and major improvements will 'be needed to carry
the increasing traffic to be expected as the economy develops.
2L.09     To overcome the in.:dequacies of the road network, the Government
is placinE, special emphwasis cn highway imnprovements in its transport i.nvest-
ment. program.   Its "'highway Construction and Improvement Plan, 1965-l971",
envisages -an investment of nearly IU$ 400 million for the construction, or
reconstruction cf l,500 km of roads, including a small number of four-lane
roads, and the paving of 3,lC0 kmr of existing roads.    The propoEed Thi.rd
Hrighway Project constitute: an integral part of the Plan, as wa_s the eO-rlier
;2econd Highlway Project fin-anced by the Bank.
c)   Rail.ways
2.10      The Thailand State Railway system consists of about 3,700 km of
meter-gauge mainline track, radiating f'rom Bangkok; the principal lines ru.
from north to south, as in thie case of other transpor-t modes.   There- hlive
been threej Bank loans for railway projects, the last (Loan No. 280-THi) of
U.J$ l.6 million, being to finance part of the Third Railway Investment
Program, 1961-1966.    Performance has been generally satisfactory, blt, -there
have been some design and location difficulties leading to delays and cor:-
aletion of tuhe Drom ram is now expected byi about the end of 1'69.   Thue .tate



ANNEX I
Pare 3
it litla;js have prepared a newi live-year investmernt procram to be included i.
tOle DLeco3nd NQtionai Economic Development Plan, Fisdai tear 1367-71.  'hlis
new program -will require an excpenditure of abotit U,$.) 90 million ecuivalent
insanly for the purchase of rotling stockt, relaiying of traciks and replacement
of buildings and maintenance equipment.     Lhe foreign exchange requirement
iE estimated at about U1S$ 41 million.   A Bank appraisal of thils anveatment
program is under way.
'.11      Carload freight traffic, which has been growing at an inriual rats
of about 6 percent during the past six years, amounted to -bouit 1.6 billion
ton-km, in 196(6.  The average haul was 385 km and has ibeen increasing slowly.
The major commodities carried are rice, petroleum pro&ucts, lumber, cement
and clinker; these, in 1966, accounted for over 60 percent of the carload
traffic in teras of ton-km and 45 percent of the tctLol carload freight re-
venue.   The volume of passenger tra.ffic has been increasing at slightly over
5 percent per annum and totalled 3.2 billion passenger-km in 1966.
d)   Inland '.4aterways
2.1?      The 1,600 kmu inland waterways system, based oni th e (lTao Phraya River
and its tributaries and on canals linking these rivers, serves a farmo nopula-
tioil of about 9-10 million in the Central Plain.    More -thain 80 percent of the
country's annLlal rice crous of 10 million tons move orver the waterwav sxrstem-
This is more than twice the total tonnage h,ndled annually by the railwJy.
Nearly 2 million tons of the rice moved bv wrTater are o,resentlv Echi need to ihe
Pert, of Bangk;k-, where they are tranls-shiplped to ocean-going vessels for ex-
port; they br:ine in nearly L0 Dprcent of   na         N nxnort earnings.  Ir
addition, considerable quantities of tealc are floated in rafts over the water-
w,ays to the Port of Rirrkok for  mnnrt_    The re-vpnr  traff-icn rinslst9nninly
of consumer ,Dods.    There is also a large volume of passenger traffic on the
waterways.
?, 1      I pThi 1 s the 1.+P-Tnanrl t i mrn r+nnop - q r-o"Pr,ni nzc'A b,r A %n lvern---n4r
little serious effort has so far been m ade to improve their physical con-
dition and make use of their econom c       potential.  Inadequate atteni on has
resulted in pDor maintenance of the waterways with a resultant reduction in
denth of' wa-ter available for nav.rigation.
'.lh      The little that ha's been invested in the  naterwnys      #-,, i
past has been spent on projects prepared in complete isolation from other modes
rof' +rcncport.+  TVh. pl anr.ed4t ranort.- ,.rn.a4 .-I.;  _ c4 ..-... AEs:4..4 1..-. 4 1_1
'   Fs ,  '   ;   VoXassu   nxia;spJ:; UJ t>/'.± tAJSJC' IICI   .J WU.S U  ,  iAJ_ U 1J  It I   U.L 
will review thie problem of the development cf the inland waterway systemn.
C.   Transoort Coordination
2.15      RespDoisibility for the administration of the transport system is
4~.Vt'L dAe 1WL5 r  JiUtI . IblUiiU±Lt5 dUlU VI:La  ±U~* jl
P-;videJ among a numlbe r o f egacie  anSu,.i.t1rs       h    ate Railway-
is an autonomous entity with its own Board of Directors, falling under the
genci-e ra  upe      of r theL Ui UUIwuQuLiucl tUnIlb     uie Department of
Highways is in the Ministry of National Develop.ment.    Other PFinistries, such
as Agricul tuora, build miLnor roads wiTn little consultation Ttth the Highway
Department.    Jurisdiction over the extensive inland waterways system is
divided amonig three different agencies witnout a reguiar means of^ consult-
ation between them.    Consequently, there is no joint formulation of invest-
ment and operational policies in transportation.     In theory, the National



Eccnomic Development Board should be in charge of coordinationi of transport,
but this agency haE so far been unable to cope with the probl er due t,o lacck
of exoperienced and trained personnel.   In practice, the 1-.ck of a system-
atic poli cy o' 'transport coordination has not led to any serious distortioris
in the use of trann.port,ation resources so far.  However, the rapiA develop-
ment in the tran3port sector in recent ye.srb sugg,-ests thEat thiis may not be
the case much loneger.
2.1        Coincident with the rapid increase in overland traffic during the
paist decade there, hae been a marked change in the structurre of the traniport
systoe,i, with road transiport replacing the r.ailways as the main carrier of
inter-city freight.   The present indication,; are -that road transport will
continuLle t.o inrrease its sh:are in the fore c:eable future.  In view of thia
ch_inging structure and the need tOI large scale investmnents throulghout Vtre
trz nsp,-ort 6ector, the Governmrient must give increasing attention to the pro-
bleris of transport coordination.  T'Ihe bas ic means to this and woul]d be the
establishment of an organizationr! f'or coordination of investments and the
formilation of a ration-il pri_cin2 policy for the tranoport sector.
2,l7       The Gcvernment1 is keenly aware cf' this need and Qroposes to carryv
out a Trarnsport Coordination ::,tudy which Jiill provide gui-delines f'cr organiz-
ins the coordin,ating machinery, for preparinq: investment proglarams for the
various modes of tr,-nsport, and for improving regulation of transport activ-
ities.   The Government hLs approached USAID to finance the study whirch wqouil(i
be carried cut by Consultants.    Terms of Reference were drafted by the Bank
in 1966 but their final .agreement has taken lor-er than exri.ected becaue
TJhtIDI wished to explore the p6ssibility of including them in a larger study.
This led to financinc:n difficultips. howevar. and the cnripina1 TPmri! of Refer-
ence have now being finalized by the Thai Government and UL AID -with a view
to commencingt t    uyP r-:ti rhT in irni -1 9e8 ainn corr 7eting it in the s econd halfi of
1)62.   Any major improvements in transport coordination will have to await
the completion of the Study.    It is expected that the Study will deal at
length withi the problemns of road-rail competition and the appropria-te levels
of' user ch.--rg,es. A detailed d(iscussion sf te  sub,,ects w   -a inAcle  ir
paras. 30 and 34 of the appraisal report for the Second Highway Project (TC-
>JJ' 1:,1- l   I  I9QI4A) and in C th   tLCj U-T n>mi r nS-,          15,t£-WI'c'36
and is not repeated in this report.
June 3, 1969



ANNEX II
THA ILAND
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Extract from Appraisal Report (No. TO-630a dated MaY 3, 1968)
for Third High-ay Loan No. 535-TH
3.  TIME HIGHA-Y SECT01R
A.   The HiEhway NeUtork
3.(1      The highway network consists of three classes of roads:   primary
and secondar wroad    *.^.Thich t-o.ge ther form the n.ti onal sstern and feeder
(tdrtiary) roads.   The primary roads total 4,700 km of which 3,100 km, or 66
percent, are paved.    The secondary roads total  ,6)00 ¼rr., of n-'hic h 2)2   krnj
or )1X0 percent, are paved.  The total length of feeder roads is approximately
7,000 km of which a negligible amolnt is paved.    The +ot-al length of the nret-
work is therefore about 17,000 km; that is about 35 ko per 1,000 1m2 of land
area or I.° k,m per I  n0n populat-ol T-rresponA,     f   rnn anA
Spain, for example, are 20 and 200 kn per 1,000 km2, and 160 and 1,280O km per
, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 4  4An)   4-e 4.-n 
3.0      The first tuask in thel- Govuerrl-lken 'Is road Udevelopment protgraon, ha, s 1b-orn
to provide an adequate national system of all-weather primary and secondary
roa'us.  As tULis needU ls gradually bLe4ing ;.et, tIe GU'vlernment is now 4- gi n4
increasing emphasis to improvement and construction of feeder roads.     To
assist in thi;s the Bank financed a stud",y of 2,000 km of feeder roads under
the First Highway Loan (341-THi) and the detailed engineering of about 635 km
of roads, to be selec-ted on the basis of th1e study-, is incluued in tile propos-
ed project.
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.03      The total vehicle fleet has grown from 88,000 in 1959 to over 206,(00
in 1966.    This iS equivalent to an annual growtn rate Uo about 1) percunibt, adi1
is expected to continue in. the immediatelyforeseeable future.    The annual
growth rate for trucks has been 16 percent, for cars i2 percent and for buie;i
6 percent (see Table 1).
3.o4      d.ith the improvement of the national road system, there hlas been a
gradual rise in the proportion of vehicles registered outside the Bangkok
metropolita'n area, from 43 percent in 1959 to 47 percent in 1966.
3.C05     It is difficult to determine precise volumes of highway passenge:r
and freight traffic.   Rough estlmates can be made, h-iowever, on the basis ol
the growth of the vehicle fleet, changes in the location of registrations
(see Table 1), and in motor fuel consumption (see Table 2).    The volume of
road freight :Ls estimated to have increased by over 5 times from about 900
million ton-kin in 1955 to around 5,000 million ton-km in 1966.    Rail traffic
NOTE: Tables referred to are those in Report No. TO-630a.



AMNT7Y TI
Pagre 2
[n the sam-e perlcud h'as 'le-s t h -n douibled _rom 87C, r,il-lion to-X  i.n 19ff7 t
abolut 1,600 million ton-km in 1966.  It is therefore probable that roan
traffic is no-w o-ver three tinlco the -volumle of rail traffic.
C.   rHihway Ahdminisftrationo
3q06       Tne Department of Hlighways ir, the Plnistry of Nat.ional De-velopM1ent
is the executive authority re_ponsible for the construction, maintenance and
adminiStration of all national (prlimary and secondary) roada and the more
irmportant feeder roads.  Minor feeder roads are maintained by provincial
atlorities under the Ministry of the Interior.    The Irrigation Department
and the Mfinistry of Agriculture construct minor roads to give access for the
opera-tion and rrmaintenance of irrigation system,,.  in cases wnere appreciable
public traffic develops s.uch roads are taken over by the Department of HLigh-
ways and incl-uded in the feeder road system.   A special force of' Highwayr
Police has been asigned tc patrol roads in the Bangkok area;    their duties
incilude the enocrcemaint of reguiations on vehicie weights and dimensions and
their cost of about U62$ 0.7 million equivalent p.a. is included in the budget-
ary provision for highways (sec Table 3).
3.07       The reorg,anization of the Department of Highways in accordance with
recommendations of Public Administration Service, orn the basic: of studies
fi-nanced by the IJ AID, ,;as begun in 1ltz4 and ha-.6 now been carried out (see
the attach,ed Or-anization Ch.rt.).  Posts have been filled by recruitment of
T}ai personnel.   Better mainteu:arce, planning, construction and cost account-
ing methods- are being introducad and headqou:rt.cr and field mechanical shops
and laboratories _re bcing extended and im.proved;  in this, and in carry--ing out,
training programs, the IlK consulting firn,, T.P. O'ullivan and PFrtners, ix
pro-vidin.L assi.stance urder a contract financed by the First Highway Loan
(3141-TI')-
3.08       The training prograrr far haad^u;-rter.s technical staff emphas7zoc ^n-
the -job instruction through Tli.-i counterpart staff working with the consult-int.
staff..  Field training of rooad supervisors, and of mechanical equi-nert oper-
ators. and irmaintenance staff, i s b-i4g carried out at local centers ec.ui,npreed arf.
financed by Japan, 1116w ZealPndl and. the UL3A.  Facilities are rot, however,
available in ThLiland for mronr advan-ed speci..e.ized training of senior staff
in such subjec-l-t.. as hiFhway, traffic, soils and mechanical engineerin!-.  ThIe
D-s,artment ha.i s.o far sent 11 engineers on such courses, financed cy the Fir-t
..ighway Project, 341-TT{, in the JUSA, Austradli. and the UK.  The Dep)rtment
wisheE to send a further 20, to be financed by the proposed project.      pr pro-
grar fcr such trainin£ will be -rcpared ,ith the assistance of consultant, .
Lhe trainees are required to undertake to carve the Depart;aient, on corr.;leticn
of the traininE goroerain. for a ceriod at least twice as lonPg bs the period of
thseir overseas trsininCL.  Thie foreign cost of this extensicni of the e-isting,
over. eas traininrs rroerani,, is included in t.he nprocosed uro-lect (see also pa-irs..
!4 . 1.'l).
D.    Tahway   anig     nd Finance
3.09       Hi.ghwa7r planninr. is carried out by a DiviAion of the Dep.rt4mert of
1Ii,l.rvXays.  AXX tr-Iffic census- is t.i.ken four times T a year , in (P tober, J.ir,T.;rv,
A.pril. and Juily.  Thisa ir1cclde;.: counts t- ';(! statior.s on prim.iry  nd .ce :11  dary
on l: edr ra'ad; ;.  Add it,l onvA>  Jl?1.: are al.:.i  tn  nd h:,  a: re~iisirc d fnr



ANNEX II
specific road improvement Drojects.    An inventory of the higrhway network is
b-eing conpilecd.  A stlart has been mrade on the collection and analysis of a
variety of statistics relating to highway traffic; these, supplemented by
origin and destination surveys, will help in the future evaluation of highuay
projects and in preparing highway programs.
3.10     H1ighway expenditure for five years to 1966 and estimated expendi-
tuires for 1967 and 1968, are given in Table 3.   Total expenditure has risen
from _laht 529 rmilliorn (US$ 25 million) in 1962 to Baht 2,218 million (TISt
106 million) i.n 1967.  During the same period construction expenditure has
increased from Baht 342 million to Baht 1,613 million and maintenance expend:-
ture from Bahl, 99 million to Baht 24$ million;  this latter, however, under-
states the truie increase in the maintenance expenditure as maintenance finirns
up to 1965 included the cost of administration.    A comparable 1967 figure
including administration would orobably be about Baht. 360 nrillion    The brdget
for 1968 is for a total expenditure of Baht 2,398 million, of -which Baht 323
million is for mnaintenance.
'Hti hve-rv inic;n .and fonstrurrt no
3.11     aorichway de-sgn is carri-ed out hr thei Location and DeT.zn Division of'
- t1 1 d     --  -  __            ---E.
the Department of Highways, and by consultants engaged for specific projects,
narticularly fort +1he 1-arger ones  or for th+se of a morn.e cormplicated nat'r'.
The design standards used for different classes of roads are given in Table I
-nd they  re considered s-n    l -kin for th- various conditions of' t    a
tEraffic indicated.
3.12      Almost 90 percent of road construction is now carried out by contract.
I;ost of' the larger contracts, including those under the two previouLs BDank pro-
jects, are being executed by foreign contractors, but many smaller works
financed troAll the Lbujget are being carrrLieu out uy local contrauuctors.  r orce
account construction is IIOw largely confined to minor improvement and paving
work- and tuo construction of lows cost feeder roads.  About US$.   . 10 million of
this work is being financed by UBAID under a rural development program in the
.Jortheater-n xre-y11in.
r. Hgh-way- Ilaint,erianc;e
"i  IT   y1  Mthintenancenc
3.I3 J    Maintenance of highways is the responsibility of the Maintenance
Division of the Department of Highways which has a headquarters supervisory
section and t-wieive field Divisions each subdivided into a headquarters and
three to five Districts.    The total number of Districts is 50 (see Chart
-showing organization).   There has been considerable improvement in highway
mairitenance over the last fewi years attributable to (i) the reorganization
and training which has taken place con the advice, and with the continuing
help, of consultants, (ii) increased maintenance funds (para. 3.10) and (iii)
the provisioni of addi-tional mechanical equipment including the purchases
financed under the First Highway Loan (341-TH).    The improveme(nt of main-
tenance operations is continuing with thie assistance of the consultants.
Measures include the introduction of better techniques , of new systems of'
works costing ond programming, and the training of' field staff.    Facilities
for servicing mechanical equipment are being improved.    The aim is, by 1570,
to provide workshops at a cost of about US$ 150,000 each for the five Divi-
sions at pres-ent with inadequate facilities and where equipment has to be
transported long distances for repair.



ANNT'P TI
Page l;-
3.11i    -With the improvement in operational and adminintrative efficiencyv
and the increase in budget allocations, the available budget fund is adeGuate
for routine maintenance operations and an increasing amount of neriodic main-
tenance.   However, budget allocations should continue to increaze to cope
adenuatelv with additional work caused by increasinp traffic vo1-Tmes; sEUCh
work would consist chiefly of resurfacing of bitumen roads and regraveling,
with major resnapinp wher reneessary. of gravel roads.    Sci    .maintenance
aillocations wil, be required on some lengths of bitumen roads which were
constructed to low sneificntions some yrears ago and which are deterioratina
under the increasing load of traffic.    During negotiations the Government
agreed that it~ will continule to~ lrwcvid ade<ua  *nXrrbs fcr tneF t.h in-
creasing requirements for road mainitenance.
June 3, 1969



~TANNETY TTT
THAILAND
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Chiuppae-Loei Road: Possible F4ffect of
Pa Mong Dam ProAect
1.        The Chumpae-Loei Road may be affected by flooding if the Pa Mong
Dam on the Mekong River is constructed.   The northern part of the road, and
the town of Loei (population about 10,000), lie in the valley of the Loe:L
River, which is a tributary of the Mekong River and would form part of the
reservoir, extending for several hundred kilometers along the Mekong River
and its tributaries above the Dam site.
2.        A study for the proposed Pa Mong multipurpose dam project is
presently being carried out by the US Bureau of Reclamation under agreement
with the US Agency for International Development, for the Committee for
Coordination of Investigations of the Lower Mekong Basin set up by the Gov-
ernments of Cambodia, Laos, Thailand and Viet-Nam. The study was divided
into three separate phases. Phase I was completed in June 1966 and Stage I
Interim Report on Phase II was issued in December 1968 1/, and covers the
major project structures, initial power development, and initial irrigatlon.
The full StELge I report is due at the end of 1969, but a date has not yet,
been established for completion of the Phase II study of the full project.
3.        AJthough the Interim Report shows that a substantial part of the
road is likely to be affected, the extent and timing of the flooding, if
the project is undertaken, are uncertain. To establish with any accuracy
the area which may be inundated, it will be necessary to map the very large
area of the reservoir and to estimate the water level for the dam. From the
water level of about 250 meters tentatively indicated in the interim report,
and the relatively small scale maps so far available, it seems likely that
the town of Loei might be flooded as well as at least 30 km of the road, and
possibly 80 km under less favorable conditions.
4.        If the dam is constructed, the investment induced by the proposed
highwav improvement prolect would be lost. However, such losses could be
minimized by Government measures to discourage new investments in the region
if the dam construetion is finally agreed upon. In this case, the project
justificaticn is not affected because no generated traffic is included in
the rate of return estimates. Moreover, it should be pointed out that the
activities associated with the dam construction might possibly increase
trffic on the   ra before being flooded, thereby enhancing the economic
justification of the project.
1/   Pa Mong Project, Lower Mekong Basin
l969 Sta   I Interim Report
Bureau of Reclamation,
United States Department of the interior



ANNEX III
Page 2
5.        The timing of construction of the dam, if undertaken, is uncertain.
The proposed installation schedule and assumed construction schedules, given
in the Interim Report, suggest that the first generator units could be re-
quired by the end of 1982, but that preparatory works involving relocation
and resettlement may begin some years earlier. The report recommends that
in addition to mapping, studies are required on such matters as land use.
resettlement and relocation. In the meantime, there is insufficient infor-
mation to consider an alternative route for the road. A decision on the
location of the town of Loei would first be required; also a new road located
to avoid areas sublect to eventual flooding is likely to be considerably re-
moved from the present route and would therefore not serve the existing com-
munities.
6.        In view of these uncertainties, the proiect annraisal was based
on various assumed periods of life of the road, that is 20, 10 and 5 years.
June 3, 1969



TABLE 1
THAILAND
FOURTH HIGHIAY PROJECT
Motor Ieh4i_le Reistration
Motor cycles
+tricycles
Cars         Buses        Trucks       and others        Tot-al
1959       4.2,800      12,800       28,500         3,600          87,7(0
1964       73,700       23,500       62,200         9,100         168,5(0
1965      E83,145       17,902       64,485         9,693         175,225
1966       9-6,576      18,617       79,105        12,013         206,3:!l
1967      11.8,849      17,257       90,057        14,504         240,667
1968      128,570       23,980       97,180        17,750         267,430
ULJLLSi      LJC  C _LLDiI   LU I 1 L LWV
March 7, 1969



TABLE 2
'P1A TT A NM
FOU.RTH H.ITrGJAY PAT(ECT
Civilian Consumption of Motor Fuels
Gasoline                 Diesel Oil*
(index)                     (index)
51 31                       10C,
44U       ~~~L%UJJL
LID          - 1617       .207           2
60       '-~~70       17            28            301~
61.         478U         173           )L47          )f
tA      ~~   ~    ~  ~~~~I 9,  n II  I1. r',I ?r
0/2         4l                         49             U
, ~~~~~~   L~~r,
63          553          200           556           598
6) I         -'0,        CN,-                        In
654         62           220            31          9121
66          637          230          1191          1251
67         604           2147         1464          157)4
* There is no accurate record of the proportion consumed for
transportV and non-tvransportlv purpycoes.  Thel best  stimt
available ia that in recent years about three-quarters of
thefl tota'l consum-,ption 'Ls accounted for 1by tranisporit users.
Soource:  01 A) L.l UVL1WiPL1,.a.UL Lf ThaiLand  LJLimted,
Department of Highways
March 7, 197u



TABLE 3
THAILAND
FOURTH HIGIJ%AY PROJECT
Highway Expenditures
(Baht million)
2°/                          U"$ Million
Yp:a-r  iqi nt. n  rn.n  Admini strtion Cinstruction      Tnt.al  7quiv arnlen+
1962          9                88               3L2        529        25
1963n        15:3             121               1.36        71 c'       1
'4'-       71.'- r4'
1 o(-z ,),                     91A                                     L OR  o   '
C.)6oni                                                    n .. 201A. 2)  o  I
19z8~~~~4 f2                e 43 -s        I,3*        23l;        L
()Estimated
I/  Up to and -includinig, 1965, Administration charges arising from
maintenance operations were included under the Maintenance heading.
From 1966 they have been included under the Administration heading.
2/ Administration charges include the cost of Special High?way police
patrols.
3/  Budget for 1969.
Source: Department of Highways
March 7, 1969



TABLE 4
THAILAND
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards for Two-Lane Primary and Secondary Highwa s (Rural)
1.  Bridge width:                              8 m minimum
2. Vertical clearance:                         4.50 m
3. Design wheel load (pavement):               10,000 - 12,000 lb.
L. Design bridge loading:                      H 20 - S 16
5.  Geometric Design Features:
Flat and Moder-     Rolling and     Mountainous
ately Rollin_         Hilly        and Alpine
(a)  Primarv
Design speed (km/h)     80-100             60-80         50-60
Mawi mim gFradi Rnt,                         6%             8%
Right. of way (m)       60- 80             60-80         60-80
(b)  Oecondary
Design speed (km/h)     70-90              55-70         40-55
Maximum gradient          6'                 8%            10%
Right of way (m)        hn-60              40-60          -40bO
6.  nod  'J eatures:
Primary                    Secondar
a________      .A s         .    .     .       _s  _ _   ,  _
1A",nua  equ-ivalentII
average daily                             below      above        below
traffic (ADT)V/ 8000=Looo    LO    nn in Cn00                     1500
Suggested surface     high.      inter-    inter-     inter-       inter-
me- 14                 Me o U1 A U.L C  AU 4 U..  U- J A U L ,. 4U
to low
NaiLUr uo buriac±Ir.g
(m)               7.00-6.50  6.50-6.00      6.o0       6.00        5.50
'WNld'h of shIoulder
(mi) flat ter-
?~~~~~ /'       n  .t  ,.  r ^, r  ,  r',  ^ n  nn  0  nn  ,7 r
rain-                   .    LU.U).)         .uu        6 .U          )
Width of road
bed2/                 12         i          10         10          9
1/    AnT based on '-year t    'ralfic  --- t-4  using te f      w 1aors:
Li A I  u  au  UI f  y~J L            ,k, L-LU11,  U -I   UALI,  LV'±L.UW±12.I  ± Cu UI 
(a)  Trucks and buses (3T and over):   2 in flat and rolling terrain
3 ir m.ountlainous tUerraiJLn1
(b)  All other motor vehicles        : 1
2/     Widths reduced in mountainous terrain
Source: Department of Highwoys
ilarch 7, 1969



TABLE 5
THAIIAND
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
E'sti4mafe of' Cost-
UL L,1Id L'  UL  AJIu
Ti  I..               iTr't-  I.  , 
Longth     J (m1-llions)          US$p \uhiiorL"U1     Fore gn
{~~)  ~Local.Foreign Total    Local Foreign Total   Exc LaE.
A. Construction and
Improvement
1. Thern-LalTipang   95        91      75    166      4.4    3.6     8.0
2. Thonburi-?aktho   87       206     168    374      9.9    8.1    18.0
3. Chumpae-Loei     112        109     89    198      5.0   i4.5     9.5
Sub-totLal    2914      1406    332    738     19.3   16.2    35.5      145
B. Engineering and
Supervision
1. Supervision of Al.,
2 & 3 above                33     33     66      1.6    1.6     3.2      50
2. Detailed engineering of
about 5.33 km of roads:    31     31     62      1.5    1.5     3.0      50
Pattaluwg 340; (b) Sriracha-
ratUaya-Rayong 177  (c) Pattaya--
Sataheep 36; (d) Bangkok (Airport)
-Saraburi 80.
Sub-total                 64     64    128      3.1    3.1     6.2      50
C. Purchase of' Workshop
Equipment for Highway            -     14     14       -     0.7     0.7     100
Maintenance
D. ContingencyAjllowances
(a) On Item A 15%              60      50    110      2.9    2.4     5.3      45
(i) 10% quantity
(ii)   5% price escalation
(b) On Item 13 15p             10      10     20      0.5    C) .5   1.0      50
Sub-total                 70     60    130      3.4    2.9     6.3
Total Project Cost      540     470  1,010     25.8   22.9    48.7
(c) Rounding off                                            C).1
Foreign exchange component    23.0
(nnr amouint of loan)        -c
Source: Department of Highways and Consulting Engineers
May 22, 1969



TABLE 6
THA2Iri aI IUND
rFOUvR mTH -IGlvAY -ROJE4T
Vehicle Operating Costs in Flat Country for Inter-Urban Roads
(iri USO per kun; net of taxes)
Average Passenger Car       Ten-ton Capacity Truck
Types of Road               Types of Road
Good    Average   Average   Good    Average   Average
Paved   Gravel     Earth    Paved   Gravel     Earth
Operating speed km/h   80      64        56        72       56        48
Motor fuel           0.41     o.43     o.50      1.14     1.35      1.59
Lubrication          0.02     0.03     0.°4      o.o6     0.09      0.12
Tires                0.13     0.26     0.46      1.96     3.93      8.85
Spare parts          0.23    0.29      0.39      1.71     2.56      4.25
Maintenance labor    0.03     0.03     0.o4      0.1-3    0.19      0.33
Depreciation        0.67     0.93      1.27      1.93     2.96     4.88
Interest             0.52    0.66      0.73      1.16     1.50      1.77
Drivers' wages        -        -        -        1.32     1.70      1.98
Overheads                      -        -        0.20     0.20      0.3
2.01     2.63      3.43      9.61   14.48     24.07
Index               loo      1         171      loo      11        250
Source: Consultants
M4arch 7, 1969



THAILAND: F'ROPOSEI) FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION      OF DEPARTMENT        OF HIGHWAYS
E      DIRECTOR GENERAL            ]
DEPUTY DIRECTOFR GENERAL FOR ADMINISTRATION                                                       DEPUTY DIRECTOR GENERAL FOR ENGINEERING73
|    ,          I         l                    l                      ~~                  ~        ~       ~~I  I  x                 1                    1
GENERAL SERVICES          FINANCE           PR7OCURENIENT      HEALTH SERVICES            PLANNING        LOCATION AND DESIGN       MATERIALS        LAND REOUISITION         TRAINING
DIVISION             DIVISION             DIVISION             DIVISION               DIVISION             DIVISION             DIVISION             DIVISION             DIVISION
Personnel Management  B.udge.ig           Purchosing           .e..Ruartens and Field  Planning and Prognammig  Su-sri;         Testing L.boroto.y   Lond Valu-t-o, Negotiation  Maonpoaen  /1nOV.1
Records M gnogemenl  Accounting           Warehousing           Medical and Dental    Staistics            Location             Field Testing and Control  -d Acquis tion  Pesonnal TrII. ng
Moil -nd Me.ssenger  Cash Mangement Pay   Coenocts and          Sr-ices               Mapping and Pnintiitg  Design af Roads isd  Materials Research  Land Reco-ds
Se-aic-s             and Pre-A.dir        Pne-Ouoldicotin  01                       Troffic nod Rood titety  Bridiles                              Legal Ser-iceni
Admnistation .1 lark   Cotitroctors
Fir-te.d Higheoy   Icentory  Contttl of
_r _ ec_ s           Buildings and_
Eg_ .i
E     DEPUTY DIRICTOR GENERAL FOR OPERATIONS       ]
CONSTRUCTION         MAINTENANCE           EOUI'MENT         PROVINCIAL ROADS
DIVISION             DIVISION             DIVISION             DIVISION
Construcion and      Maintennce Inspections  INorkshops        Moten..ce, Construction
Imlpro.em..t         and Super.iriion   carts Storage and Susply  and Inprovemen- t  f
Supercision        Pgr-rams             Equipment Monoge-et,   Pr-ci-1 Roads
Rspcrts on Cofiircctnr                      Inspe-tior am
Psrtormaren                               Records_
77  AKORN]F               1                          ] F77~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PITS40UKE F7INGA 1 PFRAE  1  JKIOR 7       77
L'NS~AM       PBCLOPE                                                                                           ARN         KHON KAEN L  J  UROL     12 FIELD DIVISIONS
SOLIRCE Department of Highvtyscy 
F_y 1969                                             _                                                          -                                                                      (2R)IBRD-3556 
L~~~  IIt~~~~~~E~~~t  ~ ~~          _____J   -~~~~~~~~~~  J  7u~~~~~~~  -J  _____                           oOi~~~~~~~- - - 






6TSZ -(MO                                                                            6961 ABVMN2E'
I<  S A V I V W  'j     ..
|    W001  Sz   05   SZ   0       \    d                \
|.u 2Oo,S 0  SZ  09  9z 0 M 1     pDD9UmI.., e<
uHflw ~     s w.-d   pw         01 4  O    u0 
3.10 )lvaaluwp-ue uoprUs° -MI  t1~  .E . .               1 94
La-Sss tllLazua>odlloeufulsO ulU4d tb
SAv,YDIl Dlt4               Duo;s  lND    -0    ;uo 6
| >18M1N WtMHOIH 1VNOllUNo 
.U tCN'vii I3 1VH
j~~~yIo44 n 9
C                             ,,,-  ,  a/D!S J° i/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~qng  &, ..
I1 G  2D W  IV  D                              d.k4a     .      ,
'. .,,,........ .............................................. 
s           %                             X  ~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S  ' 04 N
t   q   > 4 X 0 8    {              w(58$   ;0   806unly6uod  q  p4a
A f} -< ; oin~uars4.0--   >1 *
..                         e  2. t ;,lf = 7 . |~~~~~~A



