Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12986-KG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KYRGYZ REPlUBLIC
SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROJECT
JUNE 13, 1994
.;e~t   Y> .            -   
rF pe   -A
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
This docment has a resdicted distibution and may be used by recpients only in the performance of
their official duties Its contenb may not othewise be disclosed witout Wodd Bank authiaon.



CURRENCY' EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Som
EXCHANGE RATE: SOM PER $
Period       Official Rate
March 1994 12.3
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
International System of Units (SI, "Metric System")
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CC           -      Component Coordinator
ES           -      Employment Service
FSU          -      Former Soviet Union
ICB          -      International Competitive Bidding
IDA          -      International Development Association
IS           -      Intemational Shopping
LIB          -      Limited Intemational Bidding
MLSP         -      Ministry of Labor and Social Protection
NGO          -      Non Governmental Organization
PESAC        -      Privatization and Enterprise Sector Adjustinent Credit
PCU          -      Project Coordination Unit
SDR          -      Special Drawing Right
KYRGYZ FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
i
~YZ REPUBLIC
SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT'
1. ECONOMIC AND SECTORAL BACKGROUND  ............................  I
The Economy  .............................................    I
Social Protection and Social Services ..........           ................   2
Poverty and Unemployment Monitoring ..........................                          ..  4
The Labor Market  ............................................  5
Employment Services  .........................................    6
Training and Retraining .7..................  7
The Government's Reform Strategy  ...............9I ................    9
The Association's Assistance Strategy  ................................   10
II. LESSONS FROM RECENT EXPERIENCE  ..............................   12
Experience of Targeted Social Assistance and Poverty Monitoring  ..............  12
Labor Market Policies and Employment Services .........................   13
World Bank Experience in Institutional Development .......................   15
III. THE PROJECT  ...............................................   17
Project Origin and Evolution ......................................   17
Project Objectives ..........  ..... 17
Rationale for IDA Involvement ....................................   17
Donor Coordination  ...........................................   17
Project Description ............................................   18
Social Assistance Reform Component ................................   18
Poverty and Unemployment Monitoring Component .......................  25
Employment Services Component ...................................  27
Training Component ...........................................   30
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION  ... ...  34
Cost of the Project ...................... .    34
Basis of Cost Estimates .................  34
Customs Duties and Taxes .................  35
Contingency Allowances .................  35
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited the Kyrgyz Republic
March 12-26, 1994, comprising Bo Dahlborg (Mission Leader), Thomas Daves (Sr. Project
Officer), Alexandre Marc (Economist), Maria Gracheva (Researcher), Jane Falkingham,
Robert Hall, and Carlos Mena (Consultants). The mission was assisted by Nurgul Idinova
(Consultant) of the Association's Bishkek Office. Messrs. Russell Cheetham and Robert
Liebenthal are the responsible Director and Division Chief, respectively.
This document has a restricted distuftion and may be used by eipiet only in the pefrm     of their
| fflcial duteL Its coton may not othemnAs be disosod vnthtn World Bo* lAozaw



ii
Foreign Exchange Component .....................................   35
Project Financing  ............................................   36
Overall Project Management and Implementation  .........................   37
Social Assistance Reform Component Implementation  ......................   38
Poverty and UnemplAyment Monitor .g Component Implementation .............  39
Employment Services Component Implementation  ........................   39
Training Component Implementation ................................   39
Implementation Schedule  ........................................   40
Procurement ................................................   40
Disbursements ...............................................   42
Accounts and Audits ...........................................   44
Association Sapervision .........................................   44
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS ...........................................   45
Benefits ...................................................   45
Risks.          ..................................................... 45
Environmental Impact ..........................................  45
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   ....................  46
Agreements Reached .  .........................................   46
Recommendation  .............................................   47
ANNEXES
1.     Statement of Polic(-y Concerning Training
2.      Terms of Reference for Project Implementation
3.     Project Implementation and Supervision Plan
4.      Key Perforrnance Monitoring Indicators
5.      Disbursement Forecast
6.      Allocation of Loan Proceeds
7.      Current and Proposed Cash Flow Process of the MLSP
8.     Procurement Implementation
9.      Detailed Cost Tables
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE AND IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME
1.     Working Paper: Social Assistance Reform Component, March 1994
2.      Working Paper: Poverty Monitoring Component, September 1993
3.     Working Paper: Employment Services Conponent, March 1994
4.      Working Paper: Training Component, March 1994
5.      Kyrgyz Republic: The System of Cash Benefits, 1993
6.      Environmental Data Sheet



iii
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Kyrgyz Republic
Amount:             SDR12.0 million (US$17.0 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 35 years
Project Objective:    This would be a capacity building operation aimed at improving mechanisms to
identify the poor and make social programs more effective and efficient in
targeting and delivering social assistance, especially to the most vulnerable
groups. The project would also make the employment services and training more
efficient and effective in assisting the unemployed, particularly through an
improved capability to deliver unemployment benefits, and in promoting the
redeployment of labor.
Project Description:  The proposed project would have a duration of four years and would comprise
four main components:
(a)   the social assistance reform component (base cost $6.7 million) would
provide equipment, technical assistance and training to strengthen the capacity of
the Department of Social Protection of the Ministry of Labor and Social
Protection (MLSP) to provide targeted social assistance, including cash and in-
kir.d benefits, and mobilize NGOs and community organizations to enhance such
assistance. It would include support for policy formulation and the development
of a new social assistance delivery system, the simplification of pension
calculation and delivery, the retraining of staff, and the re-equipping of offices;
(b)   the poverty and unemployment monitoring component ($3.4 million)
would provide equipment, technical assistance and training to strengthen the
capacity of the State Committee for Statistics Goskomstat to carry out
representative surveys, especially of poverty and unemployment, in order to
provide enhanced information and guidance to social agencies in improving the
targeting and delivery of support seivices;
(c)   the emnloyment services component ($2.7 million) would provide
equipment, technical assistance and training to strengthen the capacity of the
Employment Service under the MLSP to (i) process and pay unemployment
benefits to laid-off workers; (ii) create a capacity to accelerate the redeployment
of unemployed workers to productive activity through counseling, placement, and
referral to retraining; and (iii) develop a program to handle mass lay-offs. It
would also include (iv) provision for a pilot program to facilitate the transfer of
social assets of restructured enterprises to local authorities; and



iv
(d)   the training component ($5.2 million) would provide teclnical assistance.
training equipment and materials to ensure the availability of a minimum capacity
to respond to market demand for training in skills needed in a market economy
through short, flexible training programs for persons wishing to upgrade their
skills or change careers, including unemployed workers and persons at risk of
being laid off by restructuring enterprises. Training programs and materials
developed under the project would be made available to all interested training
users and providers to encourage the development of a competitive market for
training. To keep costs low, publicly provided training programs would use the
existing facilities of the State Committee for Training (SCT) under cost recovery
arrEngements. The quality and demand-driven character of training would be
further assured through institutionalized, close cooperation with public and
private enterprises and the employment services in the determination of training
specializations, and other policy actions agreed with the Association and
described in an agreed policy statement.
Benefits:           The proposed project specifically aims to strengthen the Govermnent's capacity
to help the poorest and most vulnerable in the period of transition. It would
benefit women in particular, since a disproportionate percentage of the poor and
unemployed are women. By facilitating the reorientation of human capital
development towards sectors with. prospects for growth and the removal of
barriers to labor mobility, it would also help remove constraints to private sector
development. In addition, the project would improve economic management in
the social sectors. These benefits would help maintain popular support for
rf.borm.
Risks:              There are two main risks. The first concerns the Government's ability, if a
shortfall occurs in budgetary allocations for social security expenditures, to
maintain strict targeting of such expenditures, including an adequate balance
between allocations for social assistance and eventual supplementary funding of
social insurance benefits.  This risk will be addressed through annual
consultations over budgetary allocations and through a mid-term review. The
second major risk concerns weak implementation capacity and possible
inadequate coordination between implementing agencies and departments. The
project's technical assistance inpi,s and the reporting relationships and
responsibilities of the Project Coordination Unit have been designed so as to
minimize this risk, which would also be given particular attention by future
Association missions.



v
Estimated Project Cost:t                       Local                 Foreign                Total
.__________________      (in   US$  Million)
1. Social Assistance Reform                            0.4                    6.3                   6.7
2. Poverty and Employment                              0,5                    2.9                   3 4
Monitoring
3. Employment Services                                 0.2                    2.5                   2.7
4. Training                                            0.5                    4.7                   5.2
5. Coordination, Monitoring,                           0.2                    0.6                   0.9
Studies...
Total Base Cost                                      1.9                  17.0                  18.9
Physical Contingencies                               0.1                   1 .1                  1.2
Price Contingencies                                                        0.7                   0.7
Total Project Cost                                   2.0                  18.8                  20.8
Financing Plan:                                     Local               Foreign                  Total
(in US$ million)
Government of Kyrgyz Republic                        1.1                   0                     1.1
Government of Switzerland                            0                     2.7                   2.7
IDA                                                  0.9                  16.1                  17.0
Total                                                2.0                  18.8                  20.8
Estimated                                          Association Fiscal Year
Disbursements:
FY95                  FY96                   FY97                  FY98
(in US$ Millions)
Annual                           3.8                   7.0                    3.9                   2.3
Cumulative                       3.8                   10.8                  14.7                  17.0
Economic Rate of
return:              Not Applicable
Map:                  IBRD 24963R
t' Numbers may not add up due to rounding.



1. ECONOMIC AND SECTORAL BACKGROUND
The Economy
1.1   The Kyrgyz Republic is one of the smallest. poorest and least well-endowed of the countries of
the Former Soviet Union (FSU). In 1992. the per capita GNP of the c-ountry's 4.5 million people was
estimated at only $810. Located in a very mountainous part of Central Asia adjacent to China, the
Kyrgyz Republic has limited areas of arable land. The country has modest deposits of oil and gas which
are now beginning to be exploited. A substantial hydro-power potential exists and it is a net exporter of
electric energy. Substantial mineral deposits exist, but few have yet been exploited.
1.2   Prior to independence in 1991, the country's economy was firmly integrated with the Soviet
system, and under central planning it was diversified away from being predominantly agricultural to one
having a significant industrial sector. However, industrial investment was historically guided by strategic
interests rather than by comparative advantage. Whereas agriculture now accounts for about 35 percent
of Gross Domestic Product (GDP), industry accounts for about 30 percent of GDP and empioys about
20 percent of the labor force.
1.3    Despite the Kyrgyz Republic's remote location, lack of development of natural resources, and
the suppression of individual initiative and enterprise under the Soviet system, much was achieved prior
to independence in the development of human resources. Life expectancy at birth is about 66 years,
while infant mortality (corrected for international comparative purposes) is around 40 per 1000 live
births. Comprehensive health, education and social security systems were established, generally similar
in scope and quality to those of other FSU republics. Historically, the distribution of income within the
country was relatively flat; and although about 35 percent of the population in 1989 had an income below
the official poverty level of Rubles 75 per month, there was very little severe poverty in the country.
1.4    After independence, however, the country faced enormous challenges. The collapse of the Soviet
Union led to the ending of fiscal transfers to the state budget which had previously been heavily
dependent on support from the Soviet govern-ment. The country's terms of trade also deteriorated due
to large increases in the cost of imported oil and gas. In addition, inter-republican trade was disrupted,
and payments arrangements were complicated by the introduction of a national currency (the Som) in May
1993.
1.5   The Kyrgyz Government responded to the challenges by adopting an ambitious program of
stabilization and transition from a command to a market economy. This program includes privatization
of state-owned firms, enterprise and financial sector reforms, rationalization of subsidies, elimination of
most price controls, deregulation of the trade and distribution systems, and legal reforms. The
international community showed its strong support for these reforms through a successful Consultative
Group meeting held in 1MI. In 1993, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) approved both a standby
arrangement and a systemic transformation facility for the country, while the International Development
Association approved a rehabilitation credit. However, implementation of the reform measures has been
uneven, partly due to lack of expertise and administrative capacity in policy formulation, and partly to
concerns among the leadership related to the harsh decline in living standards and the difficulties arising
from the collapse of the old system.
1.6    While the intended reform mtasures, once fully implemented, should enable the economy to
prosper in due course, the difficulties of the transition are enormous. The economy contracted about 40
percent over the 1991-1993 period; real incomes are continuing to fall sharply; the distribution of income



2
and wealth is becoming less even; and the number of poor is increasing. Unemploymelit is increasing
and it is expected to rise more steeply as credit to state enterprises is reduced and as the newly enaeteo
bankruptcy law is applied. In addition, fiscal constraints and supply problems are having a negative
impact on the provision of social services.
Social Protection and Social Services
1.7    The system of social security' inherited from the Soviet regime was clharacterized by a lack of
distinction between social insurance and social assistance, no direct relations between contributions and
benefits, and wide eligibility for social assistance benefits which were allocated by category of the
population with no targeting of assistance to particularly vulnerable groups. As a result, nearly half of
the total population in the country used to receive benefits of one kind or another, witlhout any clear
relation either to documented need or prior contributions. Social protection was extremely expensive for
the budget, with pension payments in 1991 amounting to 7.0 percent of GDP, child allowances 6.7
percent, and generalized subsidies 3.8 percent of GDP. Including health and education services, total
social sector expenditures amounted to about 27 percent of GDP.
1.8   In this system, all benefits including pensions were viewed as entitlements, with virtually no link
to contributions. In addition, the system had no ability to identify the record of contributions made on
behalf of individuals (as opposed to work histories), while procedures for calculating and p?ying cash
benefits were extremely complicated and labor-intensive, relying heavily on manual record keeping.
Family allowances were financed from the Budget and since 1991 from the Pension Fund. Enterprises
and trade unions together with the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection were actively involved in the
operational delivery of both in-kind and cash benefits. Many benefits were excessively generous: for
example, significant numbers of workers were allowed to retire before the normal retirement age (55
years for women and 650 years for men) but continue to work, thus receiving both a pension and a wage.
This contributed to an excessive financial and administrative burden on the system.
1.9   Impact of Reform. The Government recognized that as part oi the reform program, major
changes would need to be made in the system of social protection. The stabilization program aimed to
cut the fiscal defic.t from 14 percent of GDP in 1992 to 7 percent in 1993, requiring a substantial
reduction in spending on social protection. This reduction in spending was actually achieved, partly by
reducing generalized subsidies, partly through a policy of not indexing benefits fully at a time of rapid
inflation, partly as a consequence of cash shortages (which led to some pensions and allowances not being
received at all), but also partly through a deliberate effort to try to target support only to those most in
need. Eligibility for child allowances was restricted to families with incomes below a set minimum, while
bread price compensation payments were limited to selected groups such as pensioners and child
allowance recipients.
1.10   The overall impact of these measures was to reduce social protection expenditure to considerably
less than half its previous level. Total social spending by the Government and the extrabudgetary so( ial
security funds (Pension Fund, Employment Fund, and the Social Insurance Fund run by the trade unions)
2I Throughout this report, the term "social security" is used as a collective term for both (a)
social insurance, which describes systems providing benefits linked in some way to prior contributions
and (b) social assistance, which covers benefits provided on the basis of need.



3
in 1993 amounted to not more than about 10 percent of GDP. Compared to all Government spending,
social protection expenditures then accounted for about 22 percent of the total.
I.11 Ilovertv. In 1992. the extent of poverty was estimated at 35 percent of the population, based on
the official houselhold budget sur-ey, but using a minimum consumption basket of goods. Since then,
the proportion of the -opulation below this minimum subsistence level has increased. As part of the
preparation of this project, a comprehensive baseline household budget survey of over 2000 households
was carried out in the second half of 1993 to investigate household incomes and expeuiditures,
employment and unemployment, and health and nutritional status. The results of the survey are currently
being analyzed and will be available in mid-1994. However, preliminary results suggest that the
combined formal cash income of over half of all households is at or below the minimum wage level,
which poinits to a significant increase in poverty over the last two years of the reform prograrm. Another
in-depth analysis recently carried out by a cultural anthropologist of the circumstances of about 600
vulnerable women and their families also indicates that poverty is spreading. An analysis of health data
has also been undertaken aind revealed a slight upturn in infant and maternal mortality rates.
1.12   Social Protection. The Govetnment intends to shift further towards a means-tested system of
social protection, where verified need rather than categorical status becomes the core principle of benefit
allocation. In this way, benefits can be concentrated on those most in need. In contrast to other low
income countries, the development of a targeted system of social assistance in the context of the Kyrgyz
Republic is believed to be realistic since it has a large range of existing benefits and a system for their
delivery. The unification of different social assistance programs into one single consolidated scheme
would also reduce administrative expenditures. Detailed work is now underway to design ways of
introducing more accurate income- and means-testing systems, including specific ways of targeting child
allowances on families most in need. This is being done by the MLS? in conjunction with technical
assistance being provided funding from a grant for project preparation.
1.13   The MLSP has carried out a review of its organization, management and staffing in order to
prepare to strengthen its ability to deliver benefits to those in need3'. This review has shown that the
Ministry itself will need to be reorganized and that its authority and control over the oblast and raion-
level departments of social protection will need to be strengthened. Its control over resources will need
to be enhanced in order to ensure an equitable approach to the provision of social assistance throughout
the different regions of the country, and in the short term its present staffing levels will need to be
maintaine 1. The information system of the MLSP is also inadequate for the efficient delivery of targeted
social assistance, and so a new system of office automation will be required. The Government intends
to implement major parts of the necessary reorganization during 1994.
1.14   Pensions. Proposals for pension simplification and rationalization are also being explored by the
Government. The pension work is particularly importatit as the Pension Fund went into deficit at the
beginning of 1994, due both to an incr,ease in the nominal level of the minimum pension and problems
of revenue collection, mainly due to t.ie financial difficulties of enterprises. Rationalization of pensions
3  Within the MLSP 4bere are currently two main subdivisions, the Department of Social
Protection (DSP) and the i)epartnent of Employment (DOE) which includes the Employmen. Service
(ES). Proposals to reorg.nize MLSP are described in section III under the social assistance
component.



4
also needs to be combined with simplification of calculation and indexation arrangements in order to free
up staff time to focus more on targeted forms of social assistance, Indexation has recently been simplified
and proposals for further rationalization are being prepared with the help of technical assistance.
1.15   As a complementary measure to the development of its social assistance pregram (funded through
the Government budget). the Govermnent is emphasizing the parallel development of social insurance
(based on employer and employee contributions). In late 1993. the Government decided to set up a new
Social Fund (SF to administer all social insurance, amalgamating the existing Pension Futid, Employment
Fund, and Social Insurance Fund (although keeping separate accounts for cach of them). The main
purpose of this reorganization is to draw a clear separation between social assistance and social insurance
and to ensure administrative efficiency in the new amnalgamated fund. Support for the improvement and
ongoing development of this newly created SF will be primarily provided by the EU/TACIS program.
However, some assistance to the SF will also be provided through the proposed SSN project.
1.16   Social Services. The deliver) of social services, especially health and education, is also critical
to social protection. At independence, the country inherited a comprehensive though rather inefficient
system of health care, with high ratios of personnel and facilities to population. Over the last two years,
the health service has suffered from funding cutbacks, major logistical problems, and an exodus of
professionals to other countries. However, the sector has benefitted from significant amounts of support
from external agencies (such as LUSAID, UNICEF and the Governments of Germany and Denmark).
Under the IDA Rehabilitation Project, pharmaceuticals are already being financed and technical assistance
in the management of pharmaceutical procurement is being provided. The Ministry of Health has also
made major improvements in operational efficiency by modification of procedures and selectively
reducing the number of hospital beds. Cutbacks in education have so far generally been rather less
severe, and there has not been any fall-off in general education enrollments. Various reforms have been
implemented, including an increase in cost recovery in higher education.
Poverty and Unemnloment Monitoringz
1.17   Historically in the Kyrgyz Republic, as in other parts of the FSU, there was no adequate
mechanism to measure changes in income distribution or indeed in the extent or nature of poverty in the
country. This was for two reasons. First, the concept of poverty, of a subsistence diet and a minimum
level of living below which a person should not fall, was not used by the Soviet regime. Second,
although an annual Family Budget Survey was carried out by the State Committee for Statistics
(Goskomstat), it had many methodological weaknesses: if was based on a highly unrepresentative sample
composed of workers at enterprises selected on a non-random basis, and included only workers in those
enterprises who were willing to participate in such a survey. As a result the sample contained very few
poor people, and no non-working poor, making the survey an inadequate tool for poverty monitoring.
1.18   Prior to independence, unemployment was officially non-existent and for this reason there was
no system for monitoring it. Since the establishment in 1991 of the Employment Service (ES),
information has been collected on registered unemployment. However, the registered unemployed do not
reflect the number and types of the unemployed but rather a measure of those who know about the
Employment Service and decide that they want to register. A number of legal and other characteristics
of the employment registry cause a large proportion of the currently unemployed not to be registered.
As a consequence, the registry is not currently a reliable source of information on actual unemployment
and is not of great value in guiding labor market policy.



5
1.19   While incomes and employment in the county did not change very much during the Soviet
period, it is clear that they are already changing quite significantly, and it is expected that they will
continue to do so in the future. Whatever the efforts of the Government, it is inevitable that a proportion
of the population will suffer from unemployment and reduced incomes, and will remain in poverty at least
for the duration of the reform process. It is also clear that enterprise restructuring and privatization will
lead to increased levels of open unemployment. whether registered or not.
1.20   Better information on the incomes and employment status of a representative sample of the
Kyrgyz population will be essential to guide policy formulation and implementation in the future.
Therefore, considerable restructuring of the existing family budget survey is needed. The improved
survey design will need to ensure that data collected on social indicators such as health, education and
nutrition, as well as on incomes, employment, and expenditures fully meet the monitoring needs of
ministries in the social sectors. Provision also needs to be made for regular and systematic dissemination
of survey results and for feedback from users to Goskomstat to permit continuous inmprovement and
adaptation of the survey to users' needs.
1.21  In order to improve the data available in the short term, the Goskomstat, assisted by the Bank,
instituted the new household budget survey referred to earlier (para. 1.11), with the help of consultants
from Russia and the USA. It provides the basis for the development of institutional capacity within the
Goskomstat, since Goskomstat staff were involved in the process and have become familiar with the
procedures and methods used; it created a standard questionnaire which will be used again in the future,
with additions and modifications as necessary; and it devised a national sample frame for selecting
households which can be used for future surveys.
The Labor Market
1.22   Under the Soviet regime, the labor market was characterized by a predominance of state sector
employment, official full employment but significant hidden unemployment and underemployment, an
egalitarian and distorted wage structure, low productivity and wages, relatively high labor turnover and
low geographical mobility, and high levels of participation in the labor force by women. The
Government realizes that some of these features are inconsistent with a market economy and has already
undertaken substantial reforms to the labor market. As a consequence, industrial firms are now free co
set wage levels, and a new labor law has been adopted which has substantially reduced regulations on
employers and some of the most important administrative complexities, including the basis and calculation
of unemployment benefits and the collection of payroll tax contributions by the EF.
1.23  In order to accelerate the process of enterprise restructuring, a Privatization Law was approved
in mid-12. By September 1993, about 3,000 industrial enterprises, accounting for about 26 percent
of all fixea assets in the country, had been partially or totally privatized. In addition, about 10,000
private farms were created during the initial phase of implementation of the program to convert state and
collective farms. In January 1994, Parlianent also passed a new Bankruptcy Law.
1.24   Throughout 1993, about 27,000 individuals registered with the ES for services of job placement,
counseling, training, and referral. Of these, only about 6,700 were classified as unemployed according
to ES norns. At the end of the year, the numnber of officially unemployed was almost 3,000 or less than
.2 percent of the labor force. However, it is estimnated that the underlying rate of unemployment may
have been about 10 percent at the end of the year, as at least 200,000 workers were on unpaid leave or
were out of work but not registered with the ES. All of these workers would be considered unemployed



6
according to the standard Western definition. An increasing proportion of retrenched workers applied
to the ES, rising from 25 percent in 1992 to 50 percent in 1993. With the Govermnent increasingly
subjecting enterprises to hard credit constraints and the expected rise in bankruptcies, it is estimated that
the underlying rate of unemployment will reach about 15 percent of the labor force, or about 300(000
persons, by 1995.
1.25   Two particularly disturbing aspects of this escalating unenmployment, apart from its sheer size and
the suffering involved, are (a) the particular difficulty of large numbers of young school leavers in finding
meaningful employment, and (b) the likelihood that much of the unemployment will be long-term. These
risks are present in all FSU republics but are especially important in the Kyrgyz Republic due to its
particularly difficult economic prospects. This makes early attention to policies aimed at promoting
gainful employment particularly important. Most important among these policies are those aimed at
promoting a vigorous private sector capable of responding to market opportunities. In the conditions of
the Kyrgyz Republic, private sector growth is likely to be in services and other sectors with potentially
high labor demand. The Association is endeavoring to support private sector development through its
PESAC and enterprise restructuring operations. To support these efforts, proactive labor market policies
are also needed: to help identify job opportunities, promote labor mobility and prepare the labor force
for a range of new skill requirements.
1.26  In addition, other constraints on the efficient functioning of labor markets are being addressed.
First, the old system of tariff wages appears to have been largely abandoned outside the central
government sector, and enterprises are free to set their own wage levels. Second, formal legal
restrictions on labor movement have been largely relaxed, although efforts to abolish such restrictions
completely have met with opposition from the security services due to the increase in crime. Finally,
housing -- the most important constraint on labor mobility -- is being privatized, and there are signs of
an active housing market. At the same time, there is as yet no new organization for the maintenance of
housing and the provision of utilities, both formerly the responsibility of state enterprises.
Empioyment Services
1.27   The main instruments for proactive labor market policies are employment services and training.
The Department of Employment (DOE) and the ES were established under the MLSP in 1991, to analyze
the labor market, help unemployed workers to find jobs, administer the Employment Fund (EF) and
especially to pay out unemployment benefits. The EF is financed from an employer contribution of 1.5
percent of the payroll, and it is currently in surplus. However, provision has been made in the
Republican budget to cover additional expenditures expected in 1994, and the introduction of an employee
contribution of .5 percent is being considered. The EF currently finances also the operating costs of the
ES, including proactive labor market measures such as retraining; in the longer term, such expenditures
should be transferred to the state budget to avoid their being "crowded out" by benefit payments.
1.28  In March 1994 the ES had 613 staff positions, 93 (or 15 percent) of which were unfilled. The
ES has five offices in Bishkek, one in each of the six oblasts, and 61 in towns and raions. Much of the
staff time is occupied with collection and analysis of labor market statistics rather than providing
assistance to clients. ES offices collect comprehensive records of employers' staff and vacancies and also
carry out the equivalent of household surveys. These latter functions duplicate those of the Goskomstat,
and it would be more efficient for the ES to limit its labor force statistical analysis to activities related
to job vacancies and job seekers.  The Goskomstat would have the responsibility to provide
comprehensive labor market analysis through sample household and employer surveys. Until recently,



7
there was a practice of relating the size of employment office staffing to population (15 to 100,000), but
this has now been discontinued as it bears little relationship to needs. Instead, staff are being relocated
to ES offices where unemployment is expected to rise, based on the characteristics of local enterprises
and expected effects of the enterprise restructuring program.
1.29   Due in part to its recent creation, the DOE has limited experience in delivering emnployment
serv;ees and is burdened with organizational and administrative constraints. In addition, insufficient staff
levels a-id the qualifications of existing staff are problems which need to be addressed. In December
1993, 15 out of a total of 31 authorized positions at ES headquarters were vacant. The Government has
since filled 10 of the 16 vacancies. Each of the main divisions of the DOE are short staffed. Overall,
an additional 30 staff are required. The MLSP has recently reallocated six positions to the DOE and is
considering further staff increases. Constraints on effective employment service delivery also include
weak institutional and management capacity, inappropriate budgetary processes and financial management
systems (including inadequate audit capacity), and the limited ability of DOE to formulste and implement
national policy and to provide programmatic guidance and support to the oblasts/lo. offices. The ES
functions more as a regulatory organization than the service-oriented institution needed as the operational
focal point for providing immediate assistance to retrenched workers, victims of major layoffs and youth
in transition from education to work, and for promoting employment creation programs, access to
training, and occupational guidance services. To make the ES effective and efficient in its new functions,
a major staff retraining effort would be required, as many ES employees are unaware of the types of
services required in a transition or market economy. An important start has been made to reorient the
ES by the development of new procedures and staff training through technical assistance funded from a
grant for project preparation.
1.30   Many local ES offices also have inadequate space for processing applications for assistance, lack
adequate information on the labor market outside the immediate raion, and need better equipment,
including computers. The existing computer systems service unit is inadequately staffed and structured
to support the needed automation of DOE/ES, and both hardware and software operating and maintenance
capacities need to be enhanced with additional qualified staff, equipment and other resources.
1.31   In addition to the problem of unemployment, the restructuring of firms will have an ir.mpact on
the provision of several social services hitherto provided by enterprises, such as housing, preschools and
health services. The absence of a strategy for allowing firms to shed these services and develop
competitively, while maintaining essential services within the public sector, is an obstacle to enterprise
reform and labor mobility. In view of its close links with enterprises, the ES could play an important
role in developing and implementing policies to facilitate this aspect of the transition.
Training and Retraining
1.32   The education and training systems in the Kyrgyz Republic -were built over many decades and
have many achievements to their credit, including near universal access to basic education, and good
quality and high rates of enrollment in general education at primary and secondary levels. Also, a system
of training in skills for ew.ployment has been put in place which could, if suitably reformed and
strengthened, provide a solid basis for developing the skills necessary for economic recuperation and
future growth. Vocational training is provided by vocational schools operated by the State Committee
for Training (SCT) as well as by technical schools operated by the Ministry of Education and some sector
ministries (for instance, the Ministry of Health). After independence, a number of private training



8
providers have also emerged, and are allowed to compete with other providers; however, their course
offerings are limited to a few training areas as described below,
1.33   Skill Needs. There is considerable uncertainty as to what skills will be needed as the economy
changes. New economic activity is so far limited, except in retail trade, particularly in the burgeoning
informal sector. However, there is already manifest demand (and a partial supply response by the private
sector, as mentioned above) for skills in areas directly related to the shift to a market economy (for
instance, in business management, banking, accounting and marketing). In addition. other areas of skill
shortage can be identified which, if not addressed in time (and there is inevitably some lead time in
preparing for training provision), are likely to emerge as substantial constraints to economic recovery and
development in the near future. Preparatory work for this project which was carried out by a team of
sectoral training specialists suggests that such areas include: hydroelectric power (especially mechanical
and electrical installation and maintenance); agriculture and animal husbandry and related processing of
products of these sectors, such as wool, meat, and fruit processing; tourism (particularly hotel and
restaurant occupations and facilities maintenance); computer and other electronic equipment operation and
maintenance; and mining and processing of rare minerals, including a wide range of skills related to
production, maintenance, and transport. These are also skill areas largely suitable as a basis for small
business development and self-employment.
1.34   The skill shortages described above can in part be attributed to large-scale emigration of skilled
personnel. For instance, the electric power company reports having lost over 700 skilled workers and
technicians to emigration over the last three years. Net emigration from the Kyrgyz Republic in 1993
amounted to 111,000 persons, a large portion of emigrants (about 140,000 in total) being described as
highly skilled. Over the last few years, more than half a million persons have emigrated. These numbers
are large in relation to the total workforce of about 2 million people. (While data on the qualification
of emigrants are not available from official statistics, an enterprise survey is being carried out as a
parallel activity to project preparation, and is expected to provide more detailed information concerning
losses of skilled workers.) In addition, training and upgrading opportunities in other FSU republics
previously provided on a substantial scale by the Soviet government have disappeared or become
prohibitively expensive for Kyrgyz nationals and enterprises. Furthermore, the country's new situation
with regard to available economic resources and conditions of trade puts a premium on reducing waste
of inputs and on the maintenance of existing material resources; this makes improved operating efficiency
(for instance, to conserve expensive imported energy) and careful maintenance of existing physical
infrastructure and equipment (including motor vehicles) a high priority, and the improvement and
multiplication of the corresponding skills a necessity, since the maintenance of existing plant will become
increasingly demanding and iabor-intensive with increasing equipment age.
1.35   Training Institutions. SCT is effectively a vocational training ministry and is the dominant
provider at the skilled worker training level. SCT's 115 schools are distributed throughout the country,
provide training for a large number of occupations in industry and agriculture, and have generally good
buildings and staff experienced in youth training in traditional areas. In the past, total enrollment in SCT
courses typically amounted to about 70,000 trainees with an annual output of about 20,000 skilled
workers, but these numbers have decreased in recent years as a consequence of falling production and
labor demand in state enterprises.
1.36   After independence, SCT has also been made responsible for arranging retraining for unemployed
workers, and has been one of the main providers of such short (one to six months) retraining courses
which reached a total of 2,300 trainees in 1993. Most of these workers were referred to retraining by



9
the Employment Service, and their training paid for from the Employment Fund under contracts directly
between the ES and the schools providing the training; other individuals paid the tuition fees themselves.
Tr.e training programs have consisted largely of shortened versions of existing courses for bookkeepers,
managers, etc. and have been carried out by SCT staff and other teachers without adult education
credentials. The Government plans to make available 10,000 retraining places in 1994 with EF financing.
The administrative procedure of direct contracting appears to be working well and ensures a close linkage
with the ES at the local level.
1.37  In spite of many strengths, including good leadership and much good will among staff of the
SCT, the training system needs substantial reform in order to serve efficiently and effectively the
emerging market economy. The main issues are the following: irrelevance of some training to labor
market needs; lack of a mechanism to determine training demand; the demise of enterprise in-house
training; limited competition in training provision; limited local capability for training program and
materials development; lack of curricula, equipment and materials for some essential training areas; lack
of modern training methodology, administrative capacity, and teacher preparation for adult education and
training; lack of monitoring and evaluation of training; and inadequate financing arrangements for
training. The Government's strategy for addressing these issues is described in Section III below.
The Governmnent's Reform Strategy
1.38   The Government's agenda for economic reform includes price liberalization, removal of subsidies,
privatization and restructuring of public enterprises. At the same time, it is very concerned to protect
vulnerable groups in the transition period, particularly the poor and the growing numbers of unemployed
workers. The fundamental issues facing the Kyrgyz Government in the area of social policy are: (i) how
to develop appropriate instruments for poverty identification; (ii) how to help directly and effectively
those individuals most in need of public assistance; (iii) how to take other actions to facilitate the
economic transition process and to improve the employment prospects of the unemployed; and (iv) how
to preserve essential social infrastructure; while (v) at the same time continuing to exercise the strict fiscal
constraint mandated by shrinking Government revenues.
1.39   The Govermnent has accepted that substantial policy changes are necessary because the present
system of social protection is too complex and fails to address the new challenges brought about by the
ongoing reform measures. It has adopted a strategy for social protection which stresses that support will
be provided but only to those in need and only in ways consistent with funancial realities. This strategy
includes the following features: (i) social assistance benefits (now delivered as family allowances, bread
compensation payments and "social pensions", etc.) will be streamlined and better targeted on those in
acute need, using a new, unified social assistance benefit; (ii) a more reliable mechanism wii. be
introduced to identify the most needy segments of the population and to monitor the changing scenario
of unemployment and poverty; and (iii) labor market policies and mechanisms will be made more efficient
in supporting the transition, both through implementing passive measures such as the payment of
unemployment benefits and by promoting new productive activity through programs for labor retraining
and reallocation. This strategy is consistent with the recommendations made by Association social sector
and project preparation missions, and imnportant steps have already been taken by the Government to
initiate it.



to
The Association's Assistance Strategy
1.40   The IBRD/IDA Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the Kyrgyz Republic was presented to the
Board in the context of the Rehabilitation Credit in May 1993. Based on a strong reform scenario, the
CAS set forth a program of policy advice, technical assistance, economic and sector work, and lending
to support the following key objectives: (i) macroeconomic stabilization through balance of payments
support; (ii) structural reformns covering privatization, enterprise and financial sector reforms, and private
sector development; (iii) an effective social safety net; (iv) sectoral reforms through operations in
agriculture, infrastructure, mining, and environment, and (v) institution building and reinforcement of
the Government's implementation capacity. The proposed project is entirely consistent with this strategy,
and Association assistance in the social sector runs in tandem with its support to enterprise restructuring
and privatizatiop.
1.41   Social conditions generally in the Kyrgyz Republic are deteriorating, and therefore the main short-
tern priority is providing social assistance to vulnerable groups, and maintaining essential services. In
addition, necessary enterprise reformn cannot proceed without additional support to assist retrenched
workers. The liquidation or restructuring of a number of large loss-making state owned enterprises is
likely to involve major shedding of labor and put a strain on both the institutional capacity of the ES and
the liquidity of the EF.
1.42   The Association's work on human resource issues in the Kyrgyz Republic is based on a
comprehensive sector report', which was funded under the Technical Cooperation Agreement. The
resulting strategy comprises four main elements:
(a)    support for key policy reforms and other decisions needed in the short term as set out
earlier in this chapter;
(b)    support for the development of adequate capacity to address priority short-term needs,
especially in social assistance, payment of unemployment benefits, and health. This proposed
project is the main vehicle for capacity building in the social safety net programs. During project
preparation, considerable effort was made to train staff in these areas, including a series of
seminars to orient and train officials in Association procedures and policies. A separate health
project is in preparation.
(c)    an active program of donor coordination, aimed at ensuring that priority needs are
covered, while avoiding duplication. A local Consultative Group meeting was held in early 1993
that focussed on the needs for social protection. As a result, several other agencies are involved
in this project and in parallel initiatives. GTZ is supporting parallel technical assistance in the
areas of labor market policy and pre-employment training. The EU-TACIS program is
supporting the newly created Social Fund, while UNDP and ILO are providing assistance on
occupational classification and the development of public works policies. Substantial assistance
for the preparation of this project was provided by the Japanese and Swiss Governments, and the
Swiss Government intends to cofinance the project in an amount of Swiss Francs 4.0 million
(about US$2.7 million equivalent), to be administered by the Association and used primarily for
technical assistance under the employment services and training components. Bilateral donors
4' "Kyrgyzstan: Social Protection in a Reforming Economy". World Bank, September 1993.



11
and UNICEF are also active in staving off the potential crisis in health care provision, both
through the provision of priority drugs and vaccines, and by providing logistical support. While
the future health project is being prepared, future Association missions will monitor budgetary
provisions for the social sectors, including health, and continue efforts at donor coordination in
the health sector with a view to encouraging interested bilateral donors to support actions in, for
instance, training of health personnel.
(d)    support for the first steps in medium term reform of labor markets and essential social
service provision. Even though the short-term prospects for an improvement in the employment
situation are not bright, a start is needed on programs to facilitate labor mobility and productivity
growth, and to compensate for the exodus of skilled workers from the country. Thus, this project
also starts the process of laying the basis for proactive labor market policies and for training, both
medium term priorities.



12
II. LESSONS FROM RECENT EXPERIENCE
2.1   The project is aimed at building Government capacity to help alleviate the social costs of
adjustment through targeted social assistance, improved poverty monitoring, and employment services
and retraining. Relevant experience in these areas is summarized in the following. However, the
uniqueness of the past Soviet experience should be kept in mind.
Experience of Targeted Social Assistance and Poverty Monitoring
2.2    Direct World Bank involvement in targeted social assistance programs is relatively recent, and
therefore lessons from its own experience are fairly limited.' Nonetheless, extensive experience in Latin
America and industrial countries reflect the issues involved in the design of targeting mechanisms as well
as lessons to be learnt. At the same time, the general lessons that have emerged from Bank attempts to
strengthen local institution capacity, promote staff training and computerization are also relevant.
2.3    All targeted programs involve a trade-off between the desire to cover all the poor and the risk
of wasted resources if extensive coverage of programs results in leakage to the better-off. Experience
points to the importance of avoiding creating disincentives to work for those only just above the income
level that qualifies for benefits - for example, the targeted food stamp program in Sri Lanka is estimated
to have reduced labor market participation by as much as 3.5 days per month for men and 4.7 days for
women. Similar disincentive effects have been experienced in Western countries. The lesson is that cash
benefits should not be set at such a high level as to discourage recipients from taking work.
2.4    The project supports the development of social assistance including cash and in-kind benefits.
Generally, cash benefit payments are preferred because they leave consumption decisions to the recipient,
avoid the distortions in goods markets that may occur with in-kind benefits, and are more transparent in
the budget. None, Aless there are situations in which in-kind benefits continue to be useful. In the context
of high inflation of transitional economies the real value of in-kind benefits is not subject to erosion in
the same way as cash payments are. Certain in-kind benefits may be more easily administered in countries
with weak administrative capacity. Moreover, many industrial countries provide in-kind assistance to the
poor e.g., food stamps in the United States.
2.5   In principle, means-testing allows for more exact targeting of the poor. Country experience
shows, however, that means tested benefits may not be feasible in many situations, for a number of
reasons. First, there may be problems with monitoring incomes, so that there is a weak correlation
between actual and observed incomes. Thus in southern Europe, where informal sector activity is
pervasive, means-testing is not used in targeting programs. This may be relevant in the Kyrgyz Republic,
where unreported private sector activities and incomes are growing rapidly. In such cases, forms of self-
targeting are a way to overcome information deficiencies. Second, there may be difficulties in valuing
income, e.g., from agricultural plots; and in assessing the value of animals. Finally, the administrative
demands of a centralized means-tested benefit may be too great in the short-run for governments already
coping with the introduction of unemployment and other benefits. In these situations, the potential of
5/ The World Bank now has considerable experience in the area of social funds--these differ from
the present project, however, in that they are conceived as temporary responses to the social costs of
adjustment, often implemented outside the existing institutional structure of the govermnent.



13
decentralized and simpler schemes could be examined. Under the project, the above-mentioned problems
related to complicated means-testing mechanisms would be considered in working out a viable targeted
system. While such a system is put in place, encouragement would also be given to cost-effective in-kind
programs and innovative delivery systems using schools, welfare committees, and NGOs. Such
techniques will be piloted by a technical assistance team to be fielded witai grant financing.
2.6   In Latin America and to some extent in Africa, the principal instrument for social support
intervention has been the social fund. This approach is appropriate in countries where no system for
social assistance exist, and depends in part on the private sector to implement infrastructure rehabilitation
projects. Neither condition applies n the Kyrgyz Republic where reform of the existing system of social
protection appears preferable. However, there is also a consensus that public works programs could help
to alleviate unemployment and produce useful output; therefore, provision is made under the present
project to implement a pilot program of public works.
2.7   Poverty monitoring will provide important information for policy makers and program design.
The World Bank has, since 1980, undertaken over 16 individual and household surveys (often known as
Living Standard Measurement Surveys, LSMS). The LSMS is known for its short turnaround time
between the end of data collection and availability for analysis. However experience shows that the
overall time taken to implement a survey depends on the starting point in the particular country--adequacy
of the sample frame, availability of equipment and managerial expertise. The extent to which institutional
capacity building has occurred through LSMS has varied significantly from country to country. The
Kyrgyz Republic enjoys a relatively good position in this sense, particularly given the long Soviet
tradition in carrying out Family Budget Surveys. The project has been designed to build on this
experience to improve the design of surveys and also would take specific actions to ensure the practical
usefulness and application of outcomes for the design of social policy.
Labor Market Policies and Employment Services
2.8    Research in industrial countries has shown that effective employment programs combine reactive
and active measures (e.g. unemployment benefits with job search assistance and training). Active
measures often need complementary mechanisms if they are to be cost effective (e.g. employment
counseling and assessment before training). At the same time, according to a recent World Bank
survey," it is critical that a legal and budgetary distinction be made between the source of financing for
income support, and that for active employment programs. Otherwise, evidence suggests that income
support expenditures will "crowd out" investments in active measures during periods of high
unemployment, just when the need for the latter becomes more acute. As noted above (para. 1.27), this
could become a serious problem for the Employment Fund and is the reason why the Association is
seeking changes in the present budgetary arrangements.
2.9   In industrialized countries, there has been a shift of public resources toward active policies,
particularly counseling and training, reflecting the growing importance of human capital development,
and a decline in public works and wage subsidies as a means of combating unemployment. Employment
service evaluations in a number of countries have demonstrated that counseling, job search assistance and
placement programs are cost effective uses of public funds in expediting the redeployment of labor. Such
evaluations take into account a range of benefits flowing from more rapid redeployment, including
6' Developing Effective Employment Services, Draft, June 2, 1992, EC2HR, para.99.



14
additional labor and capital earnings, tax revenue, national insurance contributions, and savings on
unemployment benefits. In the conditions of the Kyrgyz Republic, where rural employment predominates
and the immediate prospect is for a large amount of long-term unemployment, such proactive measures
need to be introduced selectively and focussed on areas where they are likely to have most impact. For
example. the substantial layoffs expected later in 1994 as a consequence of enterprise restructuring would
take priority in the program; and counseling to prepare workers for a new labor market situation where
individual initiative and entrepreneurship is rewarded will be an important component of such measures,
as will training in selected technical and self-employment skills.
2.10   Accumulating experience of mass redundancies points to the value of establishing on-site
eniploynient services as early as possible before the actual layoff date, and the importance of advance
notices. The most effective programs appear to be those where both employers and workers are directly
involved in the design and delivery of services. This approach has been followed in Canada, and is being
adapted and used in Hungary. In Canada, between 1971 and 1981, labor-management committees, set
up with the assistance of the Industrial Adjustment Service (IAS), found 66 jobs for every 100 workers
displaced, usually within a year. On average, IAS assistance reduced the jobless spell by two weeks
(thereby virtually paying for itself). In the Kyrgyz Republic, mass layoffs are very likely to take place
on a substantial scale, and the corresponding program to handle them have been included and designed
based on, inter alia, available information on the Russian and Canadian experience.
2.11   Staff are a critical input to employment services, particularly as the emphasis shifts to active
policies, as distinct from benefit delivery. Increasing demands placed on staff (with rising unemployment
and more active policies), combined with limited funds, have created serious problems with staff
recruitment and training even in well established employment services. Based on such experience, the
project would emphasize adequate staffing of the employment services at both central and local levels.
Experience also shows that ES staff productivity can be svt,stantially enhanced through computerization,
and the proposed project envisages a limited program of computerization.
Training
2.12   Experience of training in industrialized countries has been summarized in the recent OECD
publication "Employment Outlook" (OECD, July 1993) which concludes that training programs, job
subsidies and counseling to job-seekers, if well targeted and appropriately implemented, have the potential
of reducing unemployment. OECD's analysis suggests that training can lower structural unemployment
through two main routes. First, it can enhance the ability of so-called "outsiders" (the long-term
unemployed or first-time job seekers) to compete more effectively for jobs, thereby weakening the
bargaining strength of "insiders" in wage formation. Second, it can promote more efficient matching
between job-seekers and available vacancies.
2.13   Studies have been carried out in several countries of the employment effects and economic returns
of retraining. As for retraining programs in reforming socialist economies, available information on
outcomes is still limited to the anecdotal. A Bank-commissioned study of the Mishkolc Training Center
in Hungary showed a 45% job placement rate one month after training, and 60% after six months; this
was after retraining of an average duration of 4.5 months, in an area with 20% unemployment. A large
Bank-supported retraining program in Mexico has been extensively evaluated by the Bank. The
evaluations show that for unemployed, well-educa.ed adults with prior work experience, the average
monetary benefits of the retraining more than outweighed not only the direct training cost, but also the
costs of the several times larger cost-of-living allowance. The economic return to the program was



15
mainly in the form of shortening of the period of unemployment, although for adult males eamnings also
increased significantly. The conclusion is that targeting retraining on suitable individuals is the key to
cost-effectiveness. The project's training component would target adults of characteristics similar to those
mentioned.7
2.14   Another feature which has been consistently demonstrated as being of critical importance for
retraining to be cost-effective and efficient is the establishment of strong and sustained institutional links
between retraining systems and employers, in order to ensure that retraining programs develop and adapt
in response to labor market needs and avoid inappropriate investment in training. The linkage must be
direct, with employers involved in the identification of training needs and the design of courses, as well
as providing indtustrial exposure opportunities for teaching staff and placement for trainees for on-the-job
training. In the proposed project, the establishment and training and support of industrial advisory
committees for training. at the central and local levels, would be a major strategy to ensure such linkages,
and would be covenanted in the credit agreement.
2.15   There are no clear precedents for training interventions in the kind of situation likely to be faced
in the Kyrgyz Republic and elsewhere in the FSU, where the collapse of output has been unmatched, and
where unemployment is likely to be large and endemic. In addition, with a limited number of
independent employers as yet operating in a market environment, anticipating labor market demand is
made particularly difficult, and there is a risk of investing in training for skills which will not be needed.
At the same time, studies undertaken for project preparation have identified some areas of clear skill
shortage (para. 1.33). In addition, much of the training to be provided would consist of preparing
workers for a new experience in a labor market where they carry some individual responsibility for job
search and skill acquisition. The main lesson for this project is for training to be limited carefully both
in total numbers and in skill focus to those for which there are realistic prospects, and for an emphasis
on skills for self-employment.
World Bank Exverience in Institutional Development
2.16   OED analyses of past Bank-supported institutional strengthening operations have revealed mixed
results and have emphasized the importance of the following factors: (i) Government commitment to the
project; (ii) clarity of objectives and procedures; (iii) careful design of staff training programs; and (iv)
close supervision by the Bank.
2.17   Direct project implementation experience is limited in the Department. In the case of a somewhat
similar operation in Russia, processing was accelerated to respond to expectations of a rapid growth of
unemployment. This led to a lack of time and attention to promoting understanding and "ownership" of
the project among local staff below the most senior level of the Employment Service. In the Kyrgyz
Republic, the limited experience so far gained with implementing technical assistance under the
7/ While conditions in the Kyrgyz Republic are significantly different from those in Mexico in
the late 1980s, there are also obvious similarities: a major economic restructuring and enterprise
privatization program which caused mass layoffs at large loss-making state enterprises was undertaken
by the Mexican Government at the time, and was exactly what prompted the retraining program; the
Mexican economy was in a deep depression; and effective unemployment was estimated by the then
leading Labor Ministry employment specialist at about 20%.



16
Rehabilitation Credit will be used to help avoid possible problems with the proposed project.
Commitment to the project's objectives is believed to be strong at all levels of the Government.
Collaboration between the Government and social sector missions has been very good, the Government
has shown itself willing to make policy changes, and is clearly looking for advice and financial support
in the areas concemed. The teams which have provided technical assistance for project preparation have
been very well received and the results of their work are being given very high-level consideration by
the Government: and proposed changes are being carried out in all areas related to the proposed project.
2.18   Clear and mutually consistent objectives have been agreed for the project components, as
summarized below; their acceptance by local officials and staff at different levels has been ascertained
through a number of actions including thorough information seminars carried out by the pre-appraisal
mission.  A significant amount of training of Goverunent staff will also be needed for project
implementation activities. In this context, the project will benefit from earlier training activities carried
out in connection with the ongoing rehabilitation project, for which a week-long project launch workshop
was held for a large number of officials, including several from social sector ministries. Various other
training seminars (for example on disbursement) are being organized during the next few months for local
officials and staff involved in the proposed project. Finally, priority will be given to project supervision,
particularly during the early stages of project imnplementation.



17
III. THE PROJECT
Proiect Origin and Evolution
3.1   Project identification was based on the findings of the sector report mentioned in para. 1.42. To
assist the Government in project preparation, the Japanese Government (through the Japanese Policy and
Human Resources Development (PHRD) Fund) and the Swiss Government made available to the Kyrgyz
Government grants totalling about US$2.9 million. These grants have been used to fund technical
assistance for preparation of three of the project's components. which has started the process of
institution-building in a very practical and effective fashion. The PHRD grant is now virtually exhausted.
Consultant Trust Funds have also been used for preparatory activities.
Project Objectives
3.2   The general objective of the proposed project is to strengthen the Government's capacity (a) to
reduce the social costs of the transition by making social assistance more efficient and better focused on
those most in need, and (b) to facilitate the transition to a market economy by removing barriers to labor
mobility and improving the use of human capital. The project is therefore mainly a capacity building
operation, and while it is designed to assist the Government in addressing immediate needs such as
poverty and unemployment, its main benefits will materialize in the medium termn. The specific aims of
the project are: (i) to establish methods to identify the poor and make existing welfare programs more
effective and efficient in providing necessary social protection, especially to the most vulnerable groups,
and (ii) to make the employment services and the tiaining system more efficient and effective in assisting
the unemployed and promoting the redeployment of labor.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
3.3   The Kyrgyz Republic is at the forefront of FSU republics in terms of its program for transition
to a market economy, but lacks the institutional capacity to carry out necessary reforms in the social
sectors on its own at the pace necessary to support the transition. As described in the Memorandum of
the President on the Rehabilitation Credit, strengthening the social safety net to protect vulnerable groups
during the reform process, assisting in labor force restructuring and developing the human resource skills
and institutional capacity needed to support a market-based economy are key Association medium-term
objectives. These objectives are all served by the proposed project.
Donor Coordination
3.4    Active coordination has taken place among donors with respect to social sector issues in the
Kyrgyz Republic. In addition to the expected cofmancing of the proposed project by the Swiss
Government (para. 1.42), several donors have already committed themselves to financing and
implementing activities which are parallel and complementary to the project, namely:
The European Union's TACIS Program will provide technical assistance to MLSP to
undertake the reform of social insurance, including the establishment of the Social
(insurance) Fund;



18
o     Germany's GTZ will provide advisory services to MLSP and SCT complementary to
those provided under the proposed IDA project for the development of labor market and
pre-employment training policy; and
o     ILO will provide, with UNDP financing, technical assistance to assist MLSP in (a) the
preparation of an occupational classification system based on the international ISOC
system and corresponding ILO experience in Russia, and other labor market studies, and
(b) the development of a standby public service employment program.
3.5    These agreements on parallel activities by other donors have made it possible to simplify the
proposed IDA project. Financing is already secured for all of these activities, and GTZ technlical
assistance is already in the field. The main uncertainty of this parallel assistance relates to the possible
tinting of EU-TACIS activities.
Project Description
3.6    The proposed project would, over four years, support the reform of social assistance (total cost
$7.5 million), poverty and unemployment monitoring ($3.7 million), employment services ($2.9 million),
and training ($5.8 million). The project would also finance coordination, monitoring and evaluation ($0.9
million). Total base costs are estimated to amount to $18.9 million which brings total project costs to
about $20.8 million including contingencies.
Social Assistance Reform Component
3.7    This component would introduce a targeted social assistance scheme based on means-testing
throughout the Kyrgyz Republic, including staff training and reorganization of the MLSP and the
Department of Social Protection (DSP) to formulate policy and deliver social assistance. This component
has been prepared by a team of social security consultants and by an anthropologist/gender specialist
using funds from project preparation grants provided by the Japanese and Swiss Governments.
3.8    The objectives of the component are:
(a)   to protect vulnerable groups during the tiansition period from undue hardship caused by
large price increases, unemployment, and the reduction of social service provision through
enterprises;
(b)   to introduce targeting into the existing social assistance system;
(c)   to separate out and rationalize the insurance component of the social security
system;
(d)   to ensure the necessary human and financial resources for the operations of MLSP at the
oblast and raion levels. The institutional capacity of the MLSP would be strengthened in order
to administer these extra responsibilities; and
(e)   to promote and coordinate external donor funding and link such funding with local
projects.



19
3.9    The strategy for achieving these objectives includes six main elements:
(a)    The establishment and implementation of a viable means-testing mechanism for targeted
social assistance cash payments,
(b)    The establishment of a Special Grant Unit within MLSP which would coordinate in-kind
provision of social assistance vis-a-vis local projects and foreign donors in consultation and
collaboration with national and international NGOs and foreign Govermnents.
(c)    The simplification. rationalization, and computerization of the contributory social
insurance system. reducing processing time, freeing social insurance personnel for redeployment
in the area of social assistance, as well as making the delivery system less expensive.
(d)    The strengthening and reorganization of the MLSP aims to enable it to plan, implement,
monitor, control and revise the new consolidated and means-tested social assistance scheme within
given financial limits.
(e)    A program for computerization and office automation, and upgrading of raion-level
Protection Departments geared to support all functions related to the above four core areas of the
project efficiently and reliably.
(f)    An intensive programt for training and retraining of relevant staff of MLSP for planning,
implementing, monitoring, coitrolling, and revising the new and consolidated means-tested social
assistance program as well as productively applying new technical equipment and software to the
core tasks of the project.
3.10   1mvlementation of a means-testing  mechanism for social assistance. The mechanism would be
structured to target assistance to those most in need regardless of work history, categorical status or how
people came to be in their current circumstances. Need would be measured by developing an income
test, including formal and informal cash income, and using disc] sed income (wage income and pension
income) combined with a set of social indicators such as the number of children in the household and the
availability of family support. Under such an approach, a person's (or family's) access to income from
private agricultural plots would be assessed, and then if income is found to be low, a range of social
indicators would be used to further assess need. A standard single rate and a standard married rate for
payment would be enforced, and various add-ons to a basic social assistance payment would be developed
for those who pay a high proportion of their income in rent, and for low-income families with children.
This system would ensure that a consistent approach is used to measure need across the country, and
would strive to (a) provide adequate levels of support; (b) provide work incentives to those of working
age who are able to work; (c) be affordable to the Republican budget; (d) be easy to understand and
administer.
3.11   During the project preparation period, a technical assistance team has worked closely with the
MLSP staff to begin to target social assistance benefits to the most needy. As a result of this work, the
Ministry has created a separate unit within the MLSP to focus specifically on designing a targeted
program of benefits. Together with the MLSP staff, the assistance team has already identified interim
cost-effective options to impro to targeting in order to provide increased levels of assistance to the very
poor. The project would build on this extensive work, and would concentrate on an introduction of a
workable system of targeting of social assistance benefits.



20
3.12   Thirty-six person-months of technical assistance would be provided with respect to the
establishment of this means-testing mechanism. The following assistance would be carried out on the
cash benefit side of the social assistance scheme:
(a)    Design of a workable method of mean-testing social assistance payments including (i)
review of the targeting mechanisms already in place; and (ii) analysis of poverty survey findings
to identify and refine key poverty indicators and their relative importance.
(b)    Modelling of budgetary implications of alternative eligibility and benefit formulae.
(c)    The preparation, piloting and implementation of a simplified and reliable delivery system
including: (i) final drafting of a plan for the consolidation of social pensions. family allowances,
and bread compensation; and (ii) preparation of computerized accounting and disbursement
mechanisms for the calculation, payment, and control of social assistance benefits.
(d)    The drafting and implementation of a computer assisted monitoring system to oversee
policy performance, including statistical indicators such as, for example, time series on fraction
of families with family allowance; number/share of families below the poverty line according to
operation of the scheme as compared to poverty line defined by survey methods; expenditure
development as from baseline; revenue/expenditure ratios; changes in processing time; changes
in delivery speed; regional distribution of the above indicators; questions about receipt of social
assistance benefit in Family Household Survey to identify the take-up rate (number of actual
claimants of entitlements).
(e)    Analysis to determine the extent of incorrect payments within the social assistance system
and development of a strategy to minimize fraud.
(f)    Development of an extensive information program to disseminate benefit entitlement and
eligibility rules within all regions and in all main languages (particularly Russian, Kyrgyz,
Uzbek).
(g)    Revision of social assistance legislation and its delivery system based on results from (i)
monitoring and reporting system (including poverty identification by survey methods); (ii)
auditing; (iii) input from training program; (iv) financial indicators, and (v) the results of the pilot
study of office upgrading.
3.13   Establishment of Special Grant Unit. A special unit within the MLSP would be established to
coordinate and target in-kind social assistance as a supplement to the cash component of the social
assistance scheme for those who are very vulnerable. Such a supplement is necessary because (a) certain
goods can not at present be acquired on the open market (e.g. c"al); (b) some people are not receiving
pensions and family allowances regularly because of delays due to recalculation of entitlements, and banks
running out of cash; (c) the real value of pensions and allowances is being quickly eroded by rapid
ir.tlatiun, (d, there is a significant local variation in the level of in-kind social assistance provision
provided by local budgets. About twenty person-months of technical asgistance would be provided to put
in place mechanisms to target, to disburse, and to monitor grants. Grants will be used for special
programs such as school feeding programs, delivery of coal to the poorest, nutritional programs in health
centers, provisions of shelters.



21
3.14   This special unit would be staffed by officials released by the proposed reform of the pension
calculation process. Its main function at the central and local levels would be to raise external and
internal grants and oversee their administration. The funds collected would finance the provision of
targeted in-kind social assistance through grants offered by the Special Grant Unit to local organizations.
The tasks of this unit would be to serve as a secretariat for local grant management committees which
would be set up on the basis of existing raion offices of Social Protection to assess all grant applications
on the basis of agreed upon types of grants and specified criteria concerning grant applications. These
committees would oversee the administration of grants at local level, and would include representatives
from each of the funded organizations, raion health workers, NGOs, and any other interest groups. In
addition, this unit would coordinate with NGOs, local health personnel, teachers, and local Social
Protection Department the preparation of lists of areas which need special support for in-kind assistance.
This unit will be equipped to manage external donors funding emergency assistance. This unit within the
MLSP would also be responsible for monitoring and evaluation of funded projects.
3.15   Under this sub-component, a set of criteria would be developed against which grant applications
would be assessed. Present in-kind assistance criteria would be substantially modified, since some parts
of the population do not get assistance. Operational guidelines and a mechanism for regional targeting
of the in-kind component of the social assistance scheme would be developed for this purpose and would
include: (a) obtaining raion data on need and assistance already provided, (b) analysis of data provided
and follow up on gaps, (c) identification of priority areas, (d) drafting a procedures manual for obtaining.
assessing, awarding and evaluating grants.
3.16   Reform of the social insurance system. A new Social (insurance) Fund (SF) has been created to
be responsible for contributions collection and record maintenance, while all social policy, including the
social insurance legislation and the delivery of social insurance benefits remains the responsibility of the
MLSP. The EU/TACIS project objectives are aimed at the medium to long term and will primarily focus
on the revenue and record maintenance aspect of social insurance and will -involve a major effort to
strengthen the institutional capacity of the SF. An auditing program would be established to ensure
accountability and the financial integrity of the Social Fund, i.e. that no transfers of money between the
social insurance scheme and the social assistance scheme shall occur. There would be regular review and
monitoring of these arrangements. The EU/TACIS project will also develop a new social insurance law
and a plan for the phasing out of the old pension system and phasing in a modern social insurance
legislation.
3.17   To complement the EU/TACIS project, the present sub-component will consist of progressive
development of the delivery side of the social insurance system, including the procedures for (a) the
application of benefits; (b) the award of benefits; (c) the distribution of benefits, and (d) the development
of an adequate reporting system.' Because of considerable overlap in the delivery of social insurance
and social assistance benefits, it would be expensive and difficult to administer two completely separate
8' The social assistance component is based on the view that it is both possible and necessary to
make a clear separation between social insurance on the one hand and social assistance on the other.
The former refers to benefit rights derived from either employee and/or employer contributions,
whereas the latter are non-contributory and paid by public budgets, either central or local. While, the
core of the social assistance component addresses social assistance, i.e. means-tested benefits, the
project will also partly address the issue of social insurance through the present sub-component. This
will be carried out in close cooperation with the EU/TACIS project.



22
delivery systems in the short term. Therefore, a unified delivery structure will be maintained until a
significant separation of the two schemes takes place.
3.18   While improving the delivery of social insurance, the main short-term  priority of this
subcomponent is to simplify and rationalize the pension system to allow significant human resources to
be reallocated to administer the targeted social assistance scheme where extra staff is required. In the
current budgetary climate, it is not possible to employ more ministry staff to work in the area of social
assistance. Meanwhile, a large number of staff in raion offices of Social Protection concentrate their
entire time on complicated calculations and recalculations of pension payments due to the complexity of
pension eligibility. In addition, high levels of inflation in the past two years hiave required tha pensions
be recalculated many times over.
3.19    During the period of project preparation, a technical assistance team has made considerable
progress in advising the MLSP on the need to simplify pension categories and to rationalize the existing
scheme in order to free up staff to work on targeting of social assistance benefits. As a result of this
work, pension calculations have been simplified through indexation and a variety of other measures.
Under the project, the work to make the social insurance system more transparent and to improve the
delivery mechanism would continue, and would require a total of 11 person-months of technical
assistance. During this period, however, there would be significant collaboration between the technical
assistance team of this project and the EU/TACIS technical assistance team in order to ensure that
maximum transFarency exists between the two projects, and that all potential overlap conflicts are
resolved.
3.20   The following technical assistance would be provided under the present sub-component, and
would concentrate on: (a) preparing operational guidelines for the administrative and financial separation
of social insurance and social assistance payments, within a unified delivery system; (b) assisting in
implementation of reallocation of staff from social insurance to social assistance; (c) advising and
developing policy options for the rationalization of pensions. This would involve the collection of
demographic data and other research activities in order to explore options by cost and numbers affected;
the goal would be to reduce the number of recipient categories, substantially reduce the number of
working pensioners, and prepare and implement moves towards a flat rate social insurance scheme; (d)
finalization and implementation of a plan for the simplification of benefit calculations and recalculations;
and (e) developing a comprehensive information and marketing strategy toward both the general public
and MLSP staff at all levels, and devising a training plan and instructions to promote the reform of the
pension system and enhance its operation.
3.21   Technical assistance would also support a staged computerization program for benefit applications,
eligibility determination, calculation and indexation of benefit amounts, financial management, monitoring
and reporting, as well as control and audit functions. Substantial simplification and rationalization should
occur before full-scale computerization.
3.22 Redesigning and stren&thening MLSP functions. To be able to ensure that social policy as
formulated by MLSP is consistently implemented nationwide so as to provide adequate and equal
treatment of social assistance clients, the Ministry needs to have the authority and resources to standardize
and control administrative practices and costs at the local level as well as to transfer funds among
localities. This is not currently the case. Instead, the administrative funds for running of oblast and raion
MLSP offices are financed directly by the oblast and raion administrations from their taxation revenue.
Since the ability of different oblasts and raions to collect taxes varies from region to region, the amounts



23
allocated to the local MLSP offices are dependent upon the resources available to a particular oblast or
raion. As a result, there is inccnsistency within the overall MLSP structure, with the central ministry
lacking control over the administrative costs of the benefit and service delivery network and of the
operations of its local offices. The existing situation, and a proposed improved principle with regard to
the financing of operations within MLSP's area of competence are illustrated in Annex 7.
3.23   While the decision to recentralize revenue collection remains the prerogative of the Kyrgyz
government, this component would seek to strengthen and streamline the MLSP structure in order to
allow the MLSP to gain greater control over the administrative and operational functions of the ministry
from central to raion level. The new structure of the Social Protection Department within the MLSP
entails the following changes: (a) creation of a Strategic Planning Division which would produce, review
and evaluate plans for social security; (b) creation of a Human and Financial Resources Division which
would monitor and control financial estimates, as well as make appropriate allocations and pay salaries:
(c) creation of a Social Assistance Legal and Policy Division which would be responsible for overall
policy analysis for family allowances, cash and in-kind benefits, and pensions: (d) the improvement of
the Social Inspectorate with regional representation at the oblast level, and responsibility for adequate
delivery of benefts and services through its Operations and Service Delivery unit; (e) the formation of
a Computer Services and Training Division. responsible for support, training and maintenance. The in-
kind special grant unit as described above would also be established as part of this reorganization.
3.24   Twenty-six person-months of technical assistance would be provided for the preliminary
development of each of the divisions mentioned above, and would focus on specification of tasks and
eventual sections, number of staff needed, recruitment and funding of staff, allocation of tasks, division
of authority, the development of performance indicators, specification of working relationships and
clarification of roles to suit the new operational environment. To achieve this, revised forms, operational
manuals, intra-unit training programs would be developed. Technical assistance would also advise the
Kyrgyz government and assist in the development of a strategy for the financial management of the MLSP
administrative budget, including a review of various methods to transfer local resources to central
authority for allocation to oblasts and raions, Clearly, there will be need for additional staff at the
MLSP; however, it is expected that this increase of the central ministry can be met in full by the
reallocation of personnel released as a result of pension simplification and rationalization, as well as initial
computerization. In connection with this, a human resources management strategy would be developed.
including staffing models, salary and conditions for staff, and incentives for staff (see paras. 3.28 - 3.33).
3.25   The computerization and office automation program. The current level of computerization of the
MLSP is low and the majority of computers are located within the pay centers in Bishkek and Osh. MAost
of the computers are used as word-processors rather than for record keeping. benefit calculation or
analytical purposes. Computerization would speed up and improve the accuracy of pension calculation
and recalculation which will significantly free up resources which can be redeployed to the administration
of the targeted social assistance programs.
3.26   The plan for computerization proposed here uses a phased approach. This is important due to the
very low levels of experience with computerization within MLSP, for instance, the abacus is still in
widespread use among Ministry staff. Such an approach will allow the Ministry to build up its expertise
and skill levels in computer system applications on the job over a period of time and become as self
sufficient as possible in this area. Currently, under a Swiss Grant agreement, the MLSP is being
provided with hand held calculators for all processing staff, which is the first step to make a significant
boost to productivity. Under the project, the MLSP would be computerized to simplify the calculation



24
process; once this computerization is in place, computers could be used to facilitate and accelerate the
strategic functions of the MLSP such as budgetary planning, analysis of financial implications of policy
initiatives, program evaluation and monitoring, and finally general office tasks such as electronic mail,
word processing and spreadsheets. The whole process of computerization would be supported by a
training program and provision of technical support. Each raion and oblast office would identify a
member of staff to be trained as a computer support officer.
3.27   The first part of the computerization program would be to organize all necessary steps for the
purchasing of some basic office equipment such as printers, photo-copiers, fax machines and supplies of
consumables such as printer ribbons, paper, etc. in order to strengthen the link between the central
ministry and the local levels. This equipment would be financed under the project. Work tasks requiring
technical assistance are: (a) acquisition of equipment; (b) installation and distribution of equipment in
center and oblast/raion levels; and (c) forming and training of the Computer Support Group. UJnder this
subcomponent, 21 person-months of technical assistance and substantive amounts of equipment would be
provided to assist the MLSP to carry out these functions. Assistance would also focus on the construction
and testing of databases, and implementing these in all of the oblasts, starting with the city of Bishkek
and the Osh oblast. In addition, administrative and statistical programs would be developed and
implemented in the areas of finance, management, resource monitoring, and control. Lastly, funds would
be provided for an office renovation project in order to modernize and improve operations of raion and
oblast administrations.
3.28   The training program. The adoption of a strategic focus in the future work in MLSP would be
strongly encouraged to supplement its traditional operational functions. MLSP would assume the role
of policy planning and control of policy performance based on valid empirical evidence, and its staff
would acquire enhanced analytical skills and the ability to put carefully considered options into actual
operation.
3.29   The training program will identify training needs in the central ministry and its different Social
Assistance Departnent divisions, as well as training needs at oblast, raion, and pay center levels. Based
on this it will develop plans for such training and assist in implementing the training program. This
program will consist of both foreign technical assistance (21 person-months), as well as 20 study trips
abroad for the MLSP staff working in the social assistance area. It will also support the costs of in-
country training courses and training materials.
3.30   The types of training will vary depending on the level of management. Staff at the executive,
senior and middle management levels of the MLSP will require extensive training in strategic planning
and managing outcomes against stated objectives. Management training will be necessary for Department
heads and managers of pay centers and raions; particularly in the areas of planning, time management,
needs evaluation and performance standards. Likewise training will be given to supervisory staff at all
levels. People management skills is another important area that will require extensive training. In
addition, these staff will require training to strengthen analysis and policy development skills.
3.31   During the first 12 month period technical assistance would support the MLSP to: (a) set up a
training structure within the Ministry, continue the process of trainer training and ensure the acceptance
of training within the organization; (b) ensure the implementation of strategic and business planning
training for senior managers and also general management and supervision training across the Ministry;
(c) ensure the training of oblast, pay center and raion staff involved in the technical changes, i.e. pensions
calculations, family allowance payments, and the new processes of targeted social assistance; (d) support



25
the implementation of computerization within MLSP by providing computer training for all necessary
staff, and ensuring that there are appropriate staff with specialized computer knowledge in programming
and in software and hardware support.
3.32   Technical assistance would also help to establish a training infrastructure at the local level with
two or more staff from oblast and Payment Centers who would take on the responsibility for organizing
and running courses for new staff, as well as for organizing training seminars for experienced staff on
a regular basis. An additional person from each raion would be nominated to be responsible for the
administration of training and information dissemination within the raion.
3.33   After the first year, the MLSP training program would: (a) develop skills and knowledge needs
of staff across the Republic, and setting performance indicators; (b) ensure consistency of training in
procedures across the Republic; (c) ensure maintenance of quality trainer skills over time; (d) monitor
and evaluate the impact of the training structure; (e) adapt the training structure following evaluation; (f)
ensure that there are staff capable of policy development and implementation within the central
administration; (g) develop higher educational qualifications in social policy, policy design and
implementation, social work and other related areas through local universities or colleges; and (h) ensure
that each oblast and raion office has staff capable of maintaining both computer hardware and software
for the long term computerization.
3.34   The following actions concerning this component would be subject to dated covenants in the
Credit Agreement:
o     reorganize the central MLSP in accordance with the agreed new structure and establish
central Ministry control over the administrative and financial operations of MLSP
services at oblast and raion level, by June 30, 1995;
*     Prepare a redeployment plan, acceptable to the Association, to strengthen social
assistance staffing by December 31, 1994, and implement this plan by June 30, 1995.
'     Define a poverty line based on a new consumption basket by December 31, 1994.
*     Implement a single consolidated social assistance benefits and the new system of targeting
by June 30, 1995.
Poverty and Unemployment Monitoring Component
3.35   The goal of this component is to strengthen the capacity of the State Committee for Statistics
(Goskomstat) to develop and conduct representative surveys of poverty and unemployment country-wide.
The component will be undertaken by Goskomstat, in collaboration with the Ministries of Labor and
Social Protection, the Ministry of Health and others concerned with the social sector (e.g., components
of the Ministry of Finance) to ensure they are able to utilize fully the data collected by this new survey
system and ensure that the tables and reports produced by Goskomstat meet the needs of Ministries and
other government bodies who will utilize these data.
3.36   The strategy for the component is as follows:



26
(a) utilize the baseline survey implemented in 1993 to facilitate the development of a new survey
system;
(b) enable Goskomstat to reform and restructure its household survey system itself, particularly
through improvements in the sampling procedure to insure that all members of the population,
all occupations, all sources of income are accounted for;
(c) strengthen the institutional capacity and arrangements for poverty and unemployment
monitoring through the provision of technical assistance, computers, other related equipment and
training;
(d) combine the social statistics and unemployment departments and restructure the work
undertaken by staff in the new unified department within Goskomstat.
3.37   The resulting revised system would allow Goskomstat to monitor changes in the distribution of
income and wealth, the patterns of unemployment and underemployment, and especially the level and
dimensions of poverty in the country. Dietary intake and nutritional and health status would also be
monitored.
3.38   An initial baseline survey of 2,000 individuals, households, communities and food markets in
these communities has been completed, and provides a set of data and a set of questionnaires which will
serve as the core of the initial new household survey system. The national sample frame and the
questionnaires developed by a Russian/American team in collaboration with Kyrgyz colleagues, as well
as the training materials and other materials, will enable Goskomstat to fulfill the new project to
undertake more quickly its role in monitoring social conditions in the Kyrgyz Republic. The four-year
project will use and build on the experience of this baseline survey.
3.39   During the project period, four national turveys (and potentially seven) of approximately 2,000
households and all the individuals living in them and their communities and food markets will be
undertaken by Goskomstat, using a panel approach. The core survey to be used for all surveys will
include the components measured in the baseline survey, though there may be additions or minor changes
in wording and sequencing of the questions. The first survey will be undertaken in year one and
completed by the end of that year, followed by one to two surveys in each subsequent year. Three
additional modules on family planning, agriculture and energy would be added to the main survey, and
conducted during the second, third, and fourth project years. For each survey, a set of detailed tables
on income, poverty, unemployment, and related factors will be prepared. These reports will be
distributed to all goverunent agencies and also prepared in English for distribution to the World Bank
and other international bodies.
3.40   The effort of Goskomstat to revise its household and community survey system will be assisted
by an outside organization which would provide te hnical assistance at a high skill level in the wide range
of survey activities. This outside organization would provide a long-term consultant who will live in
Bishkek for the period of this project and medium-term and short-term consultants with the skills needed
to carry out all phases of this work. Technical assistance (106 person-months) would provide guidance
on sampling procedures, questionnaire development, interviewer training, proper data review through
field work, data entry, coding, cleaning, and generating reports and tables.



27
3.41  In addition, technical assistance would assist in the development of an advisory users group
(Goskomstat, Employment Service, Ministry of Labor and Social Protection, Ministry of Health, Ministry
of Finance, Ministry of Economy, and the Prime Minister responsible for questions of social assistance
and poverty monitoring). These members would receive the data in tables, but also be provided with the
capacity to use these data (work stations, software, and training). This would enable them to provide
input on questionnaire design, table design, analysis, and to offer advice to Goskomstat on relevant
issues. This group would have two one week retreats during every year of the project to discuss the
findings of the surveys and to consult on the design of meaningful policies and interventions to fight
poverty and unemployment in the country.
3.42   Besides technical assistance, this component would provide Goskomstat, the Ministries of Labor
and Social Protection and the Ministry of Health with equipment and training. To ensure that the
government will be able to carry on poverty monitoring after the four-year project has ended, the focus
will be on providing funding for computer equipment, local training, and training in Europe or the United
States as well as in other republics in the FSU. Training would be focussed on three main areas of data
entry, supervisor training, and interviewer training, and would also contribute to concentrate on
improving sampling procedures, survey research, questionnaire design, variable construction, table
design, and use of data and analysis.
3.43  '2oskomstat has already agreed to merge the Departments of Social Statistics and Employment.
However. for the component to be implemented efficiently, there will be major shifts in the structure of
Goskomstat and the job descriptions of many staff. Many persons now involved in clerical work
tabulating data and tables would be moved to those activities needed by a large scale survey, and be
trained to use the new technology. Only one or two staff per oblast and in the central Goskomstat office
will be required to undertake clerical work in handling the data from the family budget survey and the
employment records. Additional staff needed for the collection, computerization, and checking of the
new data will come from positions which can be either eliminated or considerably reduced in number.
Duplicate functions served by the social statistics and employment departments of Goskomstat would be
eliminated and the scope of work and staff of the current social statistics office would be expanded.
Technical assistance would be provided to assist in this restructuring.
Emplovment Services Component
3.44   In order to enable the Government, and especially the Employment Service under the MLSP,
to respond to the major challenges facing it as a consequence of anticipated enterprise restructuring
(including reform and liquidation of loss-making large state enterprises), this component would aim to
strengthen the capacity of the ES to (a) process and pay unemployment benefits to laid-off workers, and
(b) accelerate the redeployment of unemployed workers to productive activity. The component strategy
takes full account of the locations and characteristics of major enterprises which are expected to be
restructured, and which are concentrated in Bishkek, Chui Oblast, Djallal-Abad and Osh. It would
include equipment and staff training to improve employment service delivery capacity; strengthening of
counseling, job search and placement activities; development of an outreach program for firms where
mass lay-offs are expected to occur, combined with specific strengthening of the regular employment
services in the regions most affected. The detailed design of this component has been largely completed
with assistance from a team of consultants specialized in employment services. As described in the
following paragraphs, the comnponent would address these objectives through a two-pronged strategy of
strengthening of ES delivery systems and management systems support.



28
3.45   For the component to be implemented as planned, the staffing of the Employment service would
need to be substantially strengthened and the organization of the Department of Employment improved.
Specifically, in four oblasts where the employment service and the social protection offices are combined,
these offices need to be separated organizationally (see para. 3.48 below).
3.46   Strengthening the Employment Services Delivery System. Service delivery needs to be improved
as a matter of urgency, particularly in areas expected to be affected by enterprise liquidations and
restructuring. Based on work already performed by consultants, a manual operational system would be
revised so as to be able as necessary to accommodate automation. Several labor market exchange
functions needing greater assistance would be provided with additional support, including: employer
outreach and job development; job matching and placement; and improved linkages witlh job training
programs. In addition, support would be provided for implementing the mass layoff response program
in close coordination with the enterprise restructuring program, including the early installation of on-site
employment services within enterprises with prospects of large-scale labor shedding. Computers and
other equipment as well as local office renovation and upgrading would be financed together with a major
managerial and general staff training effort, including: (a) the development of a model office network in
Bishkek; (b) the replication of model offices in other major labor markets; (c) the provision of limited
computer support and other assistance to selected other sizeable local employment offices; and (d) the
strengthening of the manual systems in the remaining small offices including development of special
approaches in offices serving rural areas. The project would provide about 66 person-months of
technical assistance, office automation, furniture and equipment and short-term study tours as follows:
(a)    a model integrated employment office network in Bishkek would be developed, including
computerization in the district office and five local offices, building on the initial strengthening
of local offices already achieved, and a comprehensive design for a computerized local office
network for the Bishkek labor market would be undertaken. Local office policies and procedures
would be revised: (i) local office manual procedures for computerization would be adapted; (ii)
operational forms and other documents adjusted; (iii) procedures and processes would be
computerized; and (iv) staffing requirements would be identified and staff training courses and
materials developed and conducted for seven offices in Bishkek. Training is needed on intake
and registration, client assessment and counseling, job development and order-taking, job
matching and referral, employer services and support including advisory councils, referral to job
training, public works/temporary public service employment and provision of unemployment
benefit services (eligibility determination, benefit calculation and payment notification to
bank/disbursement entity);
(b)   following implementation of the Bishkek model, model offices would be replicated in
other major labor markets adopting similar restructuring and computerization in Chui Oblast and
in other two major urban labor markets in the Kyrgyz Republic -- Osh and Djallal-Abad -- which
are also affected by the restructuring program. These offices would be more modest than the
Bishkek office as they serve smaller labor markets with fewer local offices;
(c)    outside the major urban markets, and with priority given to localities expected to be
affected by restructuring of major enterprises, particularly in Chui Oblast, limited computer
support and other restructuring assistance would be provided to selected sizeable employment
offices (about 20 local offices and the six oblast offices - e.g. Issyk-Kul and Cholpon-Ata)
through provision of automation to calculate benefits and assist in general benefit management
and perhaps perform other programmatic and administrative functions.



29
(d)   limited assistance would be given to strengthen the manual systems in remaining small
offices and develop special approaches for serving rural areas, again with particular attention to
the expected effects of the enterprise restructuring programl.
3.47   Management Systems Support. Another requirement to be addressed by the component is to build
adequate management systems support to enable the national leadership of the ES to de%Jop and carry
out effective employment policies and programs through the provision of technical assistance and related
support in five key national office functions: (a) policy analysis and development; (b) program planning
and budgeting systems; (c) financial management and audit systems; (d) employment service direction
and oversight; and (e) computer systems development and support. In addition, training would be
provided to senioL management and staff to give them an understanding of the basic principles and
policies of the labor market as it functions within the economy. This project component is directed at
creating a general understanding of a functioning labor market and the policy, program and administrative
systems required. The project would provide about 18 person-months of short-term technical assistance,
personal computers and office equipment and training, both on-the-job and through short-term study tours
abroad, as follows:
(a)    establish an effective policy and program development structure within the DOE through
building capacity to identify and analyze employment issues supported by the collection of labor
market and economnic information and develop appropriate policy responses;
(b)    develop a structured program planning system supported through a strengthened budget
process including improved expenditure reporting by establishing procedures for efficient resource
allocation to meet identified needs and support policy and program objectives, and enhance
linkages between financial allocations and program objectives;
(c)    develop an improved financial control system including accounts, reports and audit
capacity to manage resources effectively;
(d)    strengthen a field operations support unit in the DOE with a structured policy and
administrative guidance system and improve employment service performance monitoring
capacity; and
(e)    establish an operational computer system service support unit and provide additional
computers and supporting equipment, together with reference and technical materials.
(f)    The effort would also include a review of organizational structure of the DOE to provide
advice concerning the required restructuring of its functions and reallocation of staff, and a
review of the Employment Law to advise on needed improvements.
(g)    The employment component also includes an impact evaluation of the effectiveness of the
technical assistance and related support in creating improvements in the providing of employment
services to assist the unemployed and improving the functioning of the Kyrgyz Republic's labor
market. The evaluation of the project effectiveness will identify any adjustments needed in the
technical assistance effort as it is being implemented as well as to provide guidance to future
technical assistance to the DOE/ES.



30
(h)    A major part of the technical assistance effort would be to provide senior management
and staff training. Short-term study tours abroad would provide access to technical information
and provide a broader understanding of labor market policies.
3.48   The required strengthening of the Department of Employment and the Employment Service
Organization and Staff, which will be covenanted in the Credit Agreement, includes action to:
o     increase the staff of the DOE to a total level of 61 positions by October 31. 1994:
o     reorganize the DOE based on the management systems changes developed during project
preparation technical assistance by December 31, 1994;
     modify the overall employment service staffing distribution to better support local offices
in areas of high unemployment by December 31, 1994; and
e     separate the employment service oblast offices from social protection offices in Naryn,
Issyk-Kul, Osh and Djallal-Abad by December 31, 1994.
3.49   Assistance to the Divestiture of the Social Assets of Enterprises. An amount of $0.5 million has
been allocated under the project to fund technical assistance and training to (a) assist the State Property
Committee and enterprises with the process of divestiture, especially of those assets which do not have
important social externalities and therefore could be privatized, such as vacation homes and canteens; and
(b) assist oblast government in planning for the takeover of those social assets which do have important
social externalities and which would have to be run by the local governments. The technical assistance
described under (a) above would be provided in close cooperation with PESAC and tne proposed Post-
Privatization Project. The preparation of a detailed plan for the implementation of this subcomponent
by December 31, 1994 would be covenanted in the Credit Agreement and its approval by the Association
would be a condition for disbursement under this subcomponent.
Training ComDonent
3.50   Government's Training Strategy. The Government's strategy to address the training issues
referred to in para. 1.37 above comprises the following elements:
O     to assist SCT in determining areas of effective labor market demand for training and help
define objectives and contents of training programs so as to respond to enterprises' needs,
curriculum advisory committees are being set up, with strong representation of
employers;
o     to diversify sources of financing and improve training effectiveness, cost recovery
through tuition fees has been introduced for adult and higher education and training;
*     increased efforts will be made to inform the public about available opportunities for
training and employment, including opportunities for small enterprise development and
self-employment;
*     to reduce costs and improve efficiency, curricula for pre-employment training of skilled
workers are being rationalized by reducing the number of specializations, particularly



31
those in low demand, and by reducing course durations to the minimum necessary for
effective training;
e     to encourage private provision of training, training information including new curricula
and training materials obtained and developed by the SCT will be made available to all
interested parties at cost;
o     SCT will make its training capacity available to train trainers for private and corporate
providers at cost:
0     to facilitate the redeployment of redundant workers and provide skills needed in the labor
market, retraining opportunities are being expanded by increasing the number of SCT
course offerings in areas of market demand;
     retraining services will be procured from public, corporate, and private providers under
competitive procedures: and
O     continued advice and assistance will be sought from the Association and other donors in
order to further develop training policy and strategy.
3.51   Component Objectives. To assist the Government in developing and implementing its strategy
for reforming the training system into one capable of responding flexibly and efficiently to changing labor
market requirements, and especially to support its efforts to broaden and improve training opportunities
for adult workers displaced by restructuring and enhance their potential for self-employment, the training
component would have the following objectives:
(a)   to develop a comprehensive policy and strategy for adult training and retraining to ensure
that training is demand-driven and coordinated, within a modern system of lifelong retraining and
upgrading, with the policy for youth pre-employment training being developed with the assistance
of GTZ. This would include the establishment of curriculum advisory committees with strong
employer representation, to ensure that training programs and investments are guided by informed
estimates of the effective demand for skills in the labor market;
(b)   to strengthen the capabilities of SCT, and particularly those of its Methodology and Staff
Training Center, to collect, adapt, and develop training programs and materials and train trainers
for priority skill areas identified by the advisory committees, particularly programs aimed towards
self-employment and small enterprise development, and to make these materials available to
training clients, providers, and other interested parties; and
(c)   to assist in the establishment of a minimum necessary, modem training capacity in six
selected areas of training which meet the criteria of demand for skills and absence of other
training provision. This would be done through the equipping of six model training centers
tentatively devoted to the areas listed below:
o     mechanical maintenance, including motor vehicle maintenance;
0     electrical equipment installation and maintenance;



32
0      electronic apparatus and systems installation and maintenance:
o      building and civil works maintenance:
*      hotel and tourism sector training; and
a      small farm teclhology and management, and agricultural and anitnal husbandry
product processing.
3.52   Component Activities and Inputs. The component would be supported by a total of 127 person
months of technical assistance. This would provide advice on: training policy and organization;
curriculum and training materials adaptation and development tor adult training, including skills for self-
employment and small business development: the organization of an Information Center/clearinghouse
for curricula and materials with adequate capacity to serve training providers; training of trainers; training
arrangements, facilities and equipment for the specific areas of training mentioned above; and an
extensive program for monitoring and evaluation of training, including a system of regular tracer studies.
The component would also include substantial training for SCT staff through local seminars and courses,
training courses and study tours abroad. It would provide media and training equipment and materials,
for administrative, curriculum development, and direct training purposes; and limited civil works to
modify facilities at training centers to accommodate new equipment and methodology. In particular,
SCT's Methodology and Staff Training Center would be strengthened and equipped to develop curricula
and materials and introduce training in adult training methodology. This would require its staff to be
substantially increased by at least 12 positions, which could be achieved through the realloca*ion of
teaching positions made redundant by the recent fall in youth enrollments.
3.53   The training component has been prepared by a team of specialists in retraining organization and
management, sectoral training, and adult education curriculum and methodology. The six priority areas
for training to be supported through selective investment in facilities and equipment as listed above were
identified by SCT in collaboration with representatives of employers and sectoral training experts
specializing respectively in industry/infrastructure, services, and agriculture and agricultural product
processing, and have been approved as areas of priority by the national training advisory committee.
Centers to be supported have been selected based on agreed criteria which are listed in Annex I and
include suitability of specialization and location in relation to those of potential employers, managerial
capacity, and adequacy of staff and facilities. All six model centers have been identified and have been
assessed as suitable by the respective training experts and in four cases, also by the appraisal mission.
A list of the selected model centers is also included in Annex 1.
3.54   Alternative Interventions. The following alternatives to the proposed project interventions were
not considered suitable or implementable:
(a)    direct support to private training institutions. The possibility was considered of assisting
a small number of emerging private training providers through, for instance, provision of modem
computer equipment for training in word processing and other applications. However, this was
deemed impractical in view of the weak organization and prospect of financial instability of
available private providers; the legal problems of making state property available to private firms;
and foreseeable problems of implementation and supervision in a difficult environment; and
(b)    direct support to training in enterprises. This is an attractive option in principle but has
problems under present conditions in the Kyrgyz Republic and was discarded as an alternative



3
because most existing enterprise in-house programs are either directly geared to products or
production processes which are not viable in the new economic situation, or very specialized so
as not to offer the benefits offered by broader training programs. In fact, direct support to
enterprise training in the present situation would most likely contribute to preserving inefficient
industries than contribute to change. On the other hand, reforming enterprises could be assisted
in training a new workforce through the regular retraining prog, am supported by the project, and
such training could be subsidized from the Employment Fund if trainees qualified for it.
3.55   As part of project appraisal, a more complete statement of policy and strategy for training was
discussed with the Government. This statement was agreed upon at negotiations and is attached (Annex
1). It seeks to enunciate a strategy which establishes the incentives and institutional mechanisms
necessary to guide the transition of the training system into one whose production and development is
guided by the demand for skills in the labor market, and which is capable of continuously adapting its
programs to changing demand; within which public, corporate, and private training providers can compete
on equal terms and are subject to suitable quality controls and market tests; and in which the sharing of
financing of training among individuals, enterprises, and the public purse is guided by sound economic
principles. The statement includes policies mandating cost recovery for publicly provided adult training
and retraining courses and other policies to encourage the development of a competitive market for
training, including an undertaking to provide information on available curricula and training materials to
all interested parties at cost. Provisions are also included for improved monitoring and evaluation of
training, including graduate tracer studies, as is an undertaking on the part of the Employment Service
to make continued funding for any kind of training contingent on satisfactory results in terms of the
employment of graduates.
3.56   Conditionality.  The following actions would be subject to dated covenants in the Credit
Agreement:
0     establish training advisory committees with employer representation at the selected
training centers by December 31, 1994;
o      strengthen the staffing of SCT's Methodology and Staff Training Center through the
reallocation of at least 12 staff positions by December 31, 1994; and
O      inmplement a system  of monitoring and evaluation of training, satisfactory to the
Association, including regular graduate tracer studies, by June 30, 1995.



34
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
Cost of the Project
4.1     Sununary of Project Costs, Total project costs including contingencies are estimated at about
US$20.8 million, $1.1 million of which would be local cost. The costs for the different components are
shown in table 4.1 and are presented in detail in Annex 1l
Table 4. 1: SUMMIAR Y OF PROJECT COSTS BY PROJECT ITEM
(in US$ million)     % Of          % of        %f of
l   . .        Base        Foreign       Local
Local       Foreign        Total      Costs         Costs       Costs
1. Social Assistance                .4            6.3          6.7        36            37          21.1
2. Poverty and Unemployment          .5           2.9          3.4        18            17          26.3
Monitoring
3. Employment Services               .2           2.5          2.7        14            14.6         10.5
4. Training                          .5           4.7          5.2        28            27.8        26.3
5. Coordination, Monitoring,         .3            .6           .9         i             3.6         15.8
Studies
Total Base Cost                  1.9           17.0        18.9       100.)         100.0        100.0
Physical contingencies            .1            1.1          1.2
Price contingencies"             -               .7          .7
Total Project Costs2'            2.0           18.8  |     20.8
1/ Contingencies are based on standard inflation estimates and physical contingencies are 5% for TA and training, and 10% for equipment and civil works.
2V Costs do not include duties and taxes. Numbers may not add exactly due to rounding,
4.2     A summary of project costs by category of expenditure is given in Table 4.2. Additional data
on costs and expenditures are contained in Annex 9.
Basis of Cost Estimates
4.3     The costs for equipment and material have been based on current prices. Technical assistance
costs have been estimated on the basis of recent fees paid and the zost of accommodation and subsistence
in the Kyrgyz Republic. The person-month costs for specialists include housing, relocation costs,
salaries, subsistence, office services, fees, overheads and recruitment costs. Base cost estimates reflect
prices as projected at the time of negotiations (May 1994).



35
Table 4.2: PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE'
EXPENDITURES                        US$ thousands                   %          % Total
Foreign      Base costs
Local       Foreign       Total        exchange
Technical Assistance          0            9,335         9,335         100          50
Foreign training              0            1.160         1,160         100          6
Local training                400          0             400          0             2
Civil works                   90           510           600          85            3
Supplies and Equipment        0            5.666         5,665         100          30
Vehicles                      0            170           170          100           1
Divestiture Subcomponent      350          150           500          30            1.3
Recurrent costs                1.017       0             1.017        0             5
Total Base Costs              1,857        16,990        18,847       90            100
Physical Contingencies        99           1,140         1,239        90            7
Price Contingencies           0            688           688          92            4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS           1,956        18,818        20,774       91            110
" Numbers may not add exactly due to rounding.
Customs Duties and Taxes
4.4    Project costs do not include any estimates for taxes and duties. The Government has confirmed
that equipment and goods imported directly for use by Government ministries are exempt from duties and
taxes. Reimbursement for locally procured goods and services under the credit would be made on the
basis of 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 75% of local expenditures for items procured
locally.
Contingency Allowances
4.5    Price contingencies have been based on standard dollar inflation forecasts. Physical contingencies
are set at 5% except for equipment and civil works (10%). Project costs and contingencies are estimated
in US dollars only, since inflation rates in local currency (the Som) are difficult to forecast with any
precision.
Foreign Exchange Component
4.6    The foreign exchange component was estimated as follows: (a) training equipment and materials,
computers and related equipment - 100%; equipment - 100 %; (b) international specialist services and
study tours - 100%, and (c) civil works - 85%. These percentages have been determined by: (a)



36
assuming that almost all equipment would be imported: and (c) assuming that all project financed
specialists would be foreign unless otherwise specified (e.g.. interpreters). Including contingencies, the
resulting foreign exchange component is estimated at US518.8 million, or about 91 7 of total costs.
Project Financing
4.7    The total project cost of about USS20.8 million equivalent would be financed by an IDA credit
of SDR12.0 nijillion (USS17.0 million equivalent), by a grant from the Swiss Government in an amount
of Swiss Francs 4.0 million (USS 2.7 million equivalent)). and by Si.1 million equivalent Kyrgyz
Government counterpart funds. IDA would finance $0.9 million of local costs and 81.75% of total project
cost. The Swiss Government would finance 13.0 7 of total project costs, bringing total donor financing
to 94.7% of total project costs. This is justified on the grounds of the country's poverty and fiscal
efforts, and to ensure that the project's size is sufficient to produce impact. Project financing would be
in accordance with Table 4.3. The Swiss cofinancing grant would be administered by the Association.
The fulfillment of the conditions of effectiveness of the Swiss cofinancing grant would be a condition of
effectiveness of the IDA credit (cross-effectiveness clause).
Table 4.3: Financing Plan
Local             Foreign             Total
(in USS million)
Government of Kyrgyz Republic               1.1                0                   1.1
Government of Switzerland                   0                  2.7                 2.7
IDA                                         0.9               16.1                17.0
Total                                       2.0               18.8                20.8
4.8   Possible Additional Cofinancing. Efforts to obtain cofinancing for the project in addition to the
Swiss cofinancing grant have not been successful, but will be continued in close coordination with the
Government.
4.9    Recurrent Cost Implications of the Project. Incremental recurrent costs would relate mainly to
increased expenditures for consumable office and training materials, and selective increases in staffing
for instance, for the Employment service. The cost of consumables would be partly offset by including
a base supply of such materials with the equipment procured. Adequate staffing of implementing agencies
would be achieved mainly by reallocating positions within the Government, so that the net cost increase
would be very limited and largely, if not entirely, offset by staff reductions implicit in reorganizations
agreed as part of the project. Assurances would be sought at negotiations that adequate counterpart funds
would be budgeted to meet administrative recurrent costs, and compliance would be monitored as part
annual project reviews.



37
Overall Project Management and Implementation
4.10  While project components would be implemented by the respective implementing agency or
department, overall coordination and common implementation functions (project accounting, procurement,
and disbursement) would be entrusted to a Project Coordination Unit (PCU). The PCIJ would report to
the First Vice Prime Minister (who is responsible for social protection at the highest policy level of the
Government) and would be staffed with a Director/Project Coordinator, an accountant, a secretary, a
technical assistance administrator, a procurement specialist, and a disbursement specialist. During the
first 24 months of project implementation, a full-time procurement consultant will be supporting the PCU.
A "Component Coordinator" (CC) for each component has been selected from existing staff in each
participating agency. The CCs would function as the focal points for all activities related to the project
for their respective components, and would report directly to the Minister or Head of each agency.
Selective strengthening and reorganization of implementing agencies (the strengthening of the Social
Protection Department in MLSP and the creation of a Social Sector Division in Goskomstat) would be
included in project conditionality. The PCU Director has been selected and is being appointed, and
candidates for the other PCU positions are being identified. The Director was previously the head of the
Project Implementation Unit for the Rehabilitation Project and brings much needed implementation
experience to the PCU, and will be able to liaise with the Rehabilitation PIU for assistance on
procurement and disbursement as well as other issues until such time as his own staff is fully trained.
The experience of initial implementation of the Rehabilitation Project is being carefully reviewed in order
to incorporate the lessons learned in the detailed terms of reference of the Unit and the support provided
to it. The establishment of the PCU in accordance with agreed terms of reference and the appointment
of its Director were conditions for negotiation of the Credit. these conditions have been met. The
appointmenit of an accountant, a secretary, a technical assistance administrator, a procurement specialist,
and a disbursement specialist would be conditions of effectiveness. The maintenance of the PCU fully
staffed throughout the project imiplementation period will be covenanted in the Credit Agreement.
4.11   A Project Council (PC) has been created to oversee project implementation. The PC is chaired
by the First Vice Prime Minister in charge of Social Policy and includes the Minister of Labor and Social
Protection, the Chairman of the State Committee for Training, the head of the State Committee for
Statistics and the President's Advisor for Social Sectors. The PC will meet once every three months or
more often if deemed necessary by its chairman. Components coordinators will be invited to PC
meetings and the PCU will serve as its secretariat. The PC will review and discuss all issues linked to
project implementation that cannot be resolved by the implementing departments and the PCU.
4.12   To support effective and efficient implementation, a detailed Implementation Manual (IM) is being
prepared for the project. The IM will include detailed implementation plans and schedules for each
component with benchmarks for monitoring of implementation progress, and draft terms of reference
for all technical assistance to be provided under the project. Technical assistance to develop specific
monitoring and evaluation pro, rams for each component is being provided as part of preparation
assistance financed from grant :unds.
4.13   Each implementing agency would be responsible for implementing the actions related to that
agency, prepare the technical specifications of the equipment and materials to be procured and draw up
the terms of reference for any additional consultant services needed. The CCs, with support from the
technical assistance, will be expected to ensure that the relevant units in the each implementing agency
contribute to the tasks to be carried out under the project.



38
4.14   The PCU would develop a reporting system with quarterly technical assistance progress reports
to the Government and the Association. These reports would be prepared by the PCU on the basis of
implementing agencies' progress reports.  There would also be periodic financial reports to the
Association based on the Association's existing requirements and procedures. A comprehensive set of
key performance monitoring indicators is contained in Annex 4 and will be used for monitoring of project
implementation and impact by supervision missions. In the Credit Agreement, provisions will be made
for annual and mid-term reviews of the project. The annual reviews would be carried out in connection
with regular supervision missions in September each year, and would focus on the budgeting requirements
for social protection for the forthcoming fiscal (calendar) year. This review would be based on estimates
prepared by the MLSP, with support from contracted technical assistance. and formal consultation with
the association would be required before submission of the budget request to parliament. At the mid-term
review, to be implemented by October 31, 1996, in formal consultations between the Government and
the Association, the experience of the ann ual estimate exercises would be evaluated in order to assess the
effectiveness of the process, and to identify necessary improvements. There would also be a review of
the methodology used for assessing those in need of social assistance, and options for providing support
to them. Also, the Government's progress in fulfilling covenants in the social assistance area, particularly
as regards targeting and consolidation of benefits, and the staffing of social assistance activities, would
be reviewed, together with the results of the regular monitoring of the effectiveness and impact of social
assistance which is being built into the component and the terms of reference of technical assistance for
all project components. The Government would be required to prepare and submit to the Association by
December 31, 1996, an action plan and timetable to address the shortcomings in funding or
implementation identified during the mid-term review.
Social Assistance Reform Component Implementation
4.15   As this component is the most complex and costly one of the four components, it will require a
strong and greater management effort. In order to enhance project implementation, the MLSP will be
assisted by an expatriate team that will provide technical assistance during the duration of the project.
This team will consist of a locally based specialist during the four years (two years full time and two
years half time) of the project, as well as a senior advisor who will provide overall policy advice and
recommendations on a short term basis. Other short-term consultants will also provide support in specific
technical areas. This entire team will work closely with the CC, who would also ensure that technical
assistance teams are provided with necessary and adequate logistical support and interpretation services.
The management team will be provided with an office, office equipment, a secretary, and a full-time
driver.
4.16   The locally-based specialist's main duties would include: (i) coordination of technical assistance;
(ii) overseeing that implementation arrangements are carried out according to schedule; (iii) working
closely with the CC; (iv) monitoring and ensuring that the social assistance component is implemented
at the local level; and (v) assist the MLSP project coordinator with the provision of interpretation
services, and providing advice on other logistical issues.
4.17   The senior advisor would advise the Minister of Labor and Social Protection on major policy and
technical issues in the field of social assistance and monitor the overall work of the technical assistance
team. He/she will carry out two to three short missions per year to the Kyrgyz Republic and communicate
regularly with the social assistance specialist to be kept informed of all major project developments.
The senior advisor will also be responsible for overall evaluation of the project's success and will liaise
with supervision missions.



39
Poverty and Unemployment Monitoring Component fmplementation
4.18  Goskomstat would be responsible for implementing this component; however, it will be assisted
by an expatriate technical assistance team which would consist of two consultants who would be recruited
to assist in project implementation: a senior advisor on a part-time basis, and a survey specialist who
would work in the Kyrgyz Republic full time during the four year project period. The senior advisor
would have solid experience with the types of data and analysis to be undertaken and would spend at least
two months per year in the Kyrgyz Republic. He/she would also monitor and evaluate project
implementation. The locally-based survey specialist would serve a management function for this
component and work closely with the CC.
4.19  Goskomstat would provide project office space adequate for a separate office for this management
team, and provide a full time interpreter, a full time local assistant to the project manager, and a
secretary. In addition, one staff vehicle and a driver would be provided.
Employment Services Component Implemnentation
4.20  This comnponent would be implemented by DOE of MLSP and its operative arm, the Employment
Service. A high level DOE official has been identifiedi as the project component coordinator to provide
liaison with the PCU. In addition, a DOE project management committee would be established. This
committee composed of senior DOE/ES officials, each with responsibility for specific activities of the
component would oversee the carrying out of the specific technical assistance and related activities. It
is anticipated that the effective working relationships and support which was developed during the
preparatory technical assistance effects will provide a sound basis for the implementation of this project
component. DOE would provide the consultants with office space, equipment, reproduction and general
office services as well as in country travel support. A senior international advisor would also be engaged
to periodically review and assess the project components implementation, and would carry out an
evaluation study at the end of the project period.
Training Component Implementation
4.21   SCT would implement the training component. SCT has appointed a five-person Project Working
Group which is led by the component coordinator for the training component and reports directly to the
Chairman of SCT (effectively, the Minister of Vocational Training). The Group includes the Director
of the Methodology and Staff Training Center, SCT's Director of International Affairs, and two
experienced training center directors. The Group members will function as counterparts to the technical
assistance to be provided under the project and each member will have specific coordinating
responsibilities for subcomponents, such as staff training and equipment listing and specification. In
addition, an expatriate senior management advisor will work closely with the Project Working Group.
He/she will be based in the Kyrgyz Republic for eight months for the first two years, and for three
months during the last two years. There is no need to reorganize SCT for project implementation, but
as mentioned above, the staffing of the Methodology and Staff Training Center needs to be reinforced
with 12 additional staff. Specific technical assistance will be provided for the monitoring and evaluation
of training, including setting up the graduate tracer system.



40
Implementation Schedule
4.22  A detailed implementation schedule for each component will be included in the Implementation
Manual and is summarized in Annex 3 (Project Implementation and Supervision Plan). A key task of
the PCU would be to assist CCs in ensuring tha. the project is in ensuring that the project is implemented
the project in accordance with the schedule. The terms of reference for consultants and the technical
assistance contracts would clearly identify the tasks to be performed; the products to be delivered; and
set out performance timetables. The Implementation Manual will contain the detailed benchmarks and
other information through which project progress can be tracked.
4.23  Implementation Support. Goskominvest, which is carrying out the on-going IDA financed
Rehabilitation Project, has established an implementation unit with procurement and disbursement
sub-units.  The procurement sub-unit is supported by specialized procurement consultants.  The
disbursement functions of the unit are being carried out by a disbursement manager and two assistants.
The PCU for the proposed project will be able to rely to a limited extent on the Unit in Goskominvest
for advice on procurement and disbursement work.
Procurement
4.24  The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) established under the project will be responsible for
managing overall project implementation, including procurement of equipment and materials and
acquisition of consultant services for technical assistance programs. The PCU will be headed by a
Director who was previously Head of the Project Implementation Unit for the IDA Rehabilitation Credit.
An experienced procurement adviser funded from the Credit will assist the PCU during the initial two
years of project implementation. The terms of reference and terms and conditions of the adviser shall
be subject to prior review by the Association. The procurement of equipment and materials, and selection
of consultants shall be in accordance with World Bank Guidelines and the World Bank's standard bidding
documents shall be used, with project and country-related specific modification. Table 4.4 below
summarizes the project elements, estimated costs, and proposed procurement methods.
4.25  The Association is considering providing technical assistance to the Kyrgyz Republic for the
preparation and introduction of an institutional and legal framework for competitive public procurement,
following which the preparation of a Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) would be initiated.
A CPAR or a Country Procurement Strategy Paper is expected to be completed before the end of FY95.
4.26 Equipment and Materials. Equipment packages exceeding an estimated value of US$ 300,000 will
be procured through ICB, except office equipment and some proprietary procurement software packages,
and items required for standardization and emergency procurement, including vehicles. Most of the
computer and training equipment, of a total estimated value of US$ 3.70 million, would be procured
through ICB, using the Bank's standard bidding documents. Some of the software packages which could
only be supplied by a limited number of suppliers worldwide, and some related minor items of total
estimated value not exceeding US$ 1.60 million, would be procured through LIB.
4.27 Minor items of computer software and hardware, training equipment and vehicles at an estimated
cost of US$ 50,000 or more for each contract and of an aggregate amount not exceeding US$ 1.33
million shall be procured through International Shopping, based on comparison of at least three quotations
from three different eligible countries. Some minor items of equipment and consumables available locally



41
of a value not more than US$ 5,000, each contract and total cost not exceeding US$ 100,000 shall be
procured through Local Shopping on the basis of at least three quotations from eligible suppliers.
Table 4.4:  Summary of Proposed  Procurement  Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Project Element                   ICB           Other             Not           Total Cost
financed
.___________________   ._______                          by      IDA
1. Civil Works                             .
1.1 Building                                        1.00                               1.00
Renovations                                             (1.00)                             11 -00)
2. Goods
2.1 Supplies and                    3.70           3,03t                               6.73
Equipment                     (3.70)          (2.33)                             (6.03)
2.2 Vehicles                                        . 1 92!                             .19
(.19)                              1.19)
3. Consultanc -zs___ _                                                                     _
3.1 Tee'  ical                                    10.073'                             10.07
As  stance                                   (8.37)                              (8.37)
3.2 Foreign Training                               1.273'                              1.27
(.97)                              (.97)
3.3 Local Training                                  .444'                               .44
(.44)                              (.44)
4. Recurrent Costs                                                       1.07               1,07
(0)               (0)
Totals                                  3.70            16.00            1.07              20.77
(3.70)         (13.30)            (0)             (17.00)
Notes: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit. Numbers may not add exactly due to rounding.
" Includes LIB purchases for limited-source computer and software procurement (US$ 1.60 million), IS for off-the-shelf items (USS 1.33
million) and Local Shopping for training equipment and supplies (US$ 0.1 million), in accordance with World Bank Guidelines.
u Vehicles shall be procured through Intemational Shopping.
" Services shall be procured in accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Use of Consultants, 1981.
v Training anrangements will be subject to prior Association approval.



42
4.28   Civil Works. Civil works under the project are of small value (no contract is expected to exceed
US$15,000 equivalent), consist mostly of office renovations and repairs, and are scattered all over the
country. Therefore, they are not likely to attract the participation of foreign contractors and major local
contractors. For this reason, civil works contracts in an aggregate amount of about US$ 1.00 million will
be awarded through local shopping by obtaining and comparison of at least three quotations from qualified
local contractors.
4.29   Prior review. All contracts for procurement of equipment and materials of an estimated cost
exceeding US$ 300,000 and LIB contracts shall be subject to prior review by the Association. Contracts
falling below the prior review threshold shall be retained by the PCU and shall be subject to selective ex
post review by supervision missions.
4.30   Technical Assistance. The selection of consultant firms and individuals tc provide technical
assistance and training services at a total estimated cost of US$ 11.78 million shall be through competitive
process in accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines for use of Consultants (August 1981 edition).
Terms of reference for all consulting assignments will be subject to the Association's approval. Firrns will
be selected on the basis of a short list and individual consultants on the basis of comparison of at least
three curricula vitae. Major contracts expected to be awarded to firms include technical assistance
packages for the development of social assistance reform, poverty monitoring, and for the strengthening
of employment services and the development of training. Individual consultants would be contracted,
inter alia, for the social assets divestiture subcomponent and for evaluations of major technical assistance
inputs. Terms and conditions of contracts for all technical assistance assignments, and invitation packages
and evaluation reports of assignments estimated to cost more than US$ 100,000 each for firms, and US$
50,000 each for individual consultants will be subject to prior review by the Association.
4.31   The list of individual packages for procurement of equipment and materials as well as of
consultant contracts for technical assistance, indicating the mode of procurement, estimated value, and
time frame, appear in Annex 8. The Project Implementation Expenditure Schedule is indicated in Table
4.5. This Schedule has been used as the basis for the disbursement forecast (Annex 5).
Disbursements
4.32   The proposed credit would be disbursed over a period of about four years.  No standard
disbursement profile exists; the disbursement forecast in Annex 5 is therefore based entirely on anticipated
project expenditures. The forecast reflects an understanding reached with the Kyrgyz and Swiss
Governments at negotiations that Swiss grant funds would be disbursed for eligible expenditures under
the employment services and training components, and that at least an amount equivalent to US$
1,450,000 would be disbursed from the Swiss grant by January 15, 1995 and that remaining grant funds
would be disbursed before June 30, 1996 (Table 4.5). The detailed allocation of the grant is described
in Annex 9, Table 4. Disbursements would be made against the following expenditures, excluding any
duties and taxes:
(a)   technical assistance, fellowships, translations and training - 100%;
(b)    civil works - 100%



43
(c)    computers and training equipment and materials - 100%  of foreign expenditures for
directly imported items and 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) for items manufactured
locally and 75% of local expenditures for other items procured locally.
Table 4.5: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPENDITURE
Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Commitments
(US$ Million equivalent)"
Association Fiscal Year         1995         1996          1997         1998        TOTAL
Technical Assistance                5.04        2.31          1.21          .78          9.34
Foreign Training                    .79          .16           .14          .07          1.16
Local Training                       .13         .15           .06          .06          .40
Equipment and Materials            2.97         2.46           .12         .12           5.67
Civil Works                          .60                                                  .60
Vehicles                            .17                                                   .17
Divestiture Subcomponent            .13          .13           .12          .12          .50
Recurrent Costs                     .26          .26           .25          .25          1.02
Total Baseline Costs               10.08        5.47           1.90        1.40         18.85
Physical Contingencies              .69          .39           .09         .07           1.24
Price Contingencies                  .17         .27           .13         .12           .69
Total Project Costs                10.93        6.13          2.12         1.59         20.77
IDA Financed                       9.14         4.67          1.86         1.33         17.00
Swiss Government Financed           1.50        1.20          -            -             2.70
Kyrgyz Government Financed          .29          .26           .26         .26           1.07
" Numbers may not add up exacdy due to rounding.
4.33   Disbursements from the proposed credit are expected to take place on an averagt about three
months after incurring the expenditure. For the social asset divestiture component, the Association's
approval of an implementation plan will be a condition for disbursement. Disbursements are expected
to be completed by late 1998. For expenditures relating to fellowships and contracts for goods each
valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent, reimbursements would be made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs). Disbursements for all other items would be made against full documentation.
Documentation supporting the SOEs would be kept by the PCU and be made available for review by
Association missions. To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government would establish,
maintain and operate, under tenns and conditions satisfactory to the Association, a US dollar Special
Account in a bank acceptable to the Association. The authorized allocation to the Special Account would



44
be US$1.0 million, representing estimated average expenditures to be paid from the Special Account over
a four-month period. Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly,
or bi-monthly if necessary.  Replenishlnent applications would be supported by appropriate
documentation. The Special Account would be in the name of the Borrower and would be administered
by authorized staff of the PCU. This includes in particular the preparation of withdrawal applications
and the disbursement of funds from the Special Account. The credentials of banks considered for the
Special Account will be carefully reviewed in view of the Russia experience, taking into account the
experience with the Rehabilitation project.
4.34  The detailed procedures described in the disbursement handbook would be followed.
Accounts and Audits
4.35  The PCU would set up and maintain separate accounts for the project and would prepare quarterly
descriptive and financial reports, beginning from effectiveness. Project accounts including the Special
Account (para. 4.34) would be audited in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for Financial
Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982). Similar to arrangements
made for the Rehabilitation Credit, an international accounting and auditing firm would be appointed to
perform project audits. The Association would be provided within six months of the end of each fiscal
year with an audit report of such scope and detail as it may reasonably request, including a separate
opinion by the auditor on disbursements against certified statements of expenditures.
Association Supervision
4.36  Frequent supervision missions would take place at least during the first two years of project
implementation, when many of the institutional changes in the MLSP will take place and most of the
equipment for the project will be procured. A local consultant contracted by the Association to support
project preparation would be involved in supervision and facilitate day to day contact with the PCU. 4
detailed scheduled for proj=ct supervision is included in Annex 3, Project Implementation and Supervision
Plan.



45
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
5.1    The proposed project specifically aims to help the poorest and most vulnerable in the period of
transition. It would also benefit women in particular, since a disproportionate percentage of the poor and
unemployed are women. By facilitating the removal of barriers to labor mobility and reorienting human
capital development towards sectors with prospects for growth, it would also help remove constraints to
private sector development. In addition, the project would improve economic management in the social
sectors. These benefits would be achieved in ways consistent with fiscal realities, and would help
maintain popular support for reform.
Risks
5.2    There are two main risks. The first concerns the Government's ability, if a shortfall occurs in
budgetary allocations for social security expenditures, to maintain strict targeting of such expenditures,
including an adequate balance between allocations for social assistance and eventual supplementary
funding of social insurance benefits. This risk will be addressed through annual consultations over
budgetary allocations and through a mid-term  review.  The second major risk concerns weak
implementation capacity and possible inadequate coordination between implementing agencies and
departments. The project's technical assistance inputs and the reporting relationships and responsibilities
of the Project Coordination Unit have been designed so as to minimize this risk, which would also be
given particular attention by future Association missions.
Environmental Impact
5.3    There are no environmental issues deriving from this project and it has been classified as a
category "C" operation.



46
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements Reached
6.1    The following specific conditions would be attached to the proposed project:
(a) as conditions for credit effectiveness:
(i)    the appointment to the PCU of its agreed staff complement (para.
4.10); and
(ii)   a cross-effectiveness condition with regard to the Swiss cofinancing grant (para.
4.7).
(b) as dated covenants:
by October 31, 1994:
(i)    an increase of the staff of the DOE to 61 positions (para 3.48);
by December 31, 1994:
(ii)    preparation and submission of a staff redeployment plan for MLSP, acceptable
to the Association, to strengthen social assistance staffing (para. 3.34);
(iii)   reorganization of the function of the DOE based on management systems changes
developed during project preparation technical assistance (para. 3.48);
(iv)    modification of the overall employment service staffing distribution to better
support local offices in areas of high employment (para. 3.48);
(v)    separation of employment service oblast offices from social protection offices
in Naryn, Issyk-kul, Osh and Djallal-Abad (para. 3.48);
(vi)   establishment of training advisory committees for training with employer
representation at the selected training centers (para. 3.56);
(vii)   strengthening of the staffing of SCT's Methodology and Staff Training Center
through the reallocation of at least 12 staff positions (para. 3.56);
(viii)  defnition of a poverty line based on a new  onsumption basket (para. 3.34);
(ix)    preparation and submission to the Association of an implementation plan for the
activities to be undertaken under the social asset divestiture subcomponent
(para. 3.49);
by June 30, 1995:



47
(x)    implementation of a single consolidated social assistance benefit and the new
system for targeting (para. 3.34), and
(xi)   reorganization of the central MLSP in accordance with the agreed new structure
and establish central Ministry control over the administrative and financial
operations of MLSP services at oblast and raion level. by June 30, 1995 (para.
3.34);
(Xii)   implementation of the redeployment plan to strengthen social assistance staffing
(para. 3.34);
(xiii)  implementation of a system of monitoring and evaluation of training, satisfactory
to the Association, including regular studies of the employment characteristics
and performance of graduates (para. 3.56);
by October 31. 1996:
(xiv)   implementation of a mid-term review (para. 4.14 ), and
by December 31, 1996:
(xv)   submission of an action plan, including a timetable for its implementation, to
address the issues, if any, identified during the mid-term review (para. 4.14).
(c) as general covenants:
(i)    adequate budgetary provision for the project's recurrent administrative costs
(para. 4.9);
(ii)    ma;ntenance of the PCU and full-time Component Coordinators throughout the
pr( =ct implementation period (para. 4.10);
(iii)    provisions for annual reviews of budgetary allocations to social security,
including social assistance and eventual budgetary supplements for social
insurance, by September 30 of each year of implementation (para. 4.14); and
(iv)    provision for annual audits by independent auditors acceptable to the Association
and audit reports to be fumished to the Association within six months after the
end of each fiscal year (para. 4.35).
The Association's approval of the implementation plan for the social assets divestiture
subcornponent (para. 3.49) would be a condition for disbursement under this subcomponent. A
statement of training policy has been agreed (para. 3.56).
Recommendation
6.2    Subject to the agreements and conditions listed above, the proposed project provides a suitable
basis for an IDA credit of SDR12.0 million (US$17.0 million equivalent) to the Kyrgyz Republic.



- 48 -
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROJECT
ANNEX 1. STATEi3ENT OF POLICY CONCERNING  TRAINING
1.    This statement of policy will be implemented by the Kyrgyz Government through its State
Committee for Training (SCT) and Employment Service (ES) as part of the implementation of the
Social Safety Net Project. While the Statement is of particular relevance to the retraining of
unemployed persons, it will be valid, as applicable, for all type of training and information services
provided by SCT, whether or not promoted by ES with or without financing from the Employment
Fund (EF).
2.    The ES will:
(a)    Assess and counsel clients, seeking employment, and refer to EF-financed training
only those who are or have been employed and have at least six month's work experience and
possess an adequate level of education to b=nefit from the training envisaged;
(b)   select providers of training based on cost-effectiveness ci iiria, and contract training
provision with any agent, public or private, assessed by ED' to be capable of providing the
required skills with adequate quality. Based on criteria for the selection of training providers
agreed with the Association and listed below in page 3, ES will develop a registry of
approved training providers;
(c)    make arrangements to monitor the employment outcomes of training programs to
which it has referred clients, and will discontinue financing of any training courses which do
not result in the productive employment of a majority of graduates within a period of six
months; and
(d)    discourage the creation of training centers operated by, or under the control of, ES
offices countrywide.
3.    The SCT will:
(a)   implement by June 30, 1995, a system of graduate tracer studies acceptable to the
Association, designed to determine the effectiveness of all its individual training courses in
enhancing the employability of graduates as well as to provide feedback on the suitability of
the methodology used the adequacy of facilities and equipment used, and the performance of
staff;
(b)   develop and expand its offering of short courses suitable for retnaining of unemployed
persons and persons at risk of becoming unemployed;
(c)   increase its efforts to inform the public about available opportunities for training and
employment, including opportunities for small enterprise development and self-employment;



- 49 -
(d)    improve and augment the information it provides to the ES, at he central and local
levels, concerning the training it can provide for ES clients to improve their skills for
employment, including information required by ES for its registry mentioned above in para
2 (b), and the fees charged for such training;
(e)    implement programs to train SCT staff and teachers in the administration and
methodology of adult training, and enable other interested training providers to have staff and
trainers trained in such programs against fees based on SCT's costs for implementing;
(f)    assemble, develop, and adapt training curricula and materials suitable for providing
the skills needed for development in a market economy, and make such curricula and
materials freely available at cost to any interested party, whether employer, employee,
training provider, or other;
(g)    take no action to limit the free and fair competition of training providers for available
training opportunities in the Kyrgyz Republic; and
(h)    charge tuition fees for all training courses for adults, based on the actual costs of
training including fixed costs and depreciation of buildings and equipment.
4.    In addition, ES and SCT will fulfill all of their other responsibilities in accordance with the
Credit Agreement for the Social Safety Net Project. As part of the Project, SCT will develop the
Model Training Centers listed in page 4 below, which have been selected in consultation with a
representative group of employers as providing skills expected to be required in the labor market and
being suitably located to serve the unemployed, and will establish local/sectoral training advisory
committees with employer and ES representation at these centers by December 31, 1994.



- 50 -
CRITERIA FOR THE SELECrION OF TRAINING PROVIDERS TO PROVIDE TRAINING
FINANCED BY THE EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (ES)
1.    Proof of adequate financial resources on the part of the Provider to implement the agreed
training programs, including the ability to fund rent, the provision of utilities, and consumable
materials during training.
2.    Documented availability to the Provider of suitable training facilities, equipment, and training
materials suitable for the type of training to be provided, and proof of the existence of a program and
capability for the maintenance of such facilities and equipment.
3.    Documented availability for the duration of the training of adequately trained and experienced
administrative and teaching staff.
4.    Documented experience of adult training or alternatively, proof of the availability, in adequate
numbers, of teaching staff trained in adult training methodology.
5.    Suitable location of training facilities in relation to that of prospective participants in training,
with particular attention to the needs of unemployed trainees.
6.    Tuition and other fees within an acceptable range, based on the estimated actual cost of the
training to be provided.
7.    Documented capability on the part of the Provider to monitor, evaluate, and provide adequate
information to ES concerning the performance of trainees during training, as well as the performance
in employment of an agreed sample of graduates during at least six months following the completion
of training.



- 51 -
LIST OF SCT TRAINING CENTERS SELECTED AS MODEL CENTERS
FOR THE SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROJECT'S TRAINING COMPONENT
Specialization                                Training Center
1. Agriculture and Agroprocessing            No. 1, Djallal-Abad
2. Construction and Building Maintenance      No. 5, Bishkek
3. Services, Hotel and Tourism                No. 91, Bishkek
(with sub-center No. 14, Issyk-Kul for hotel
training)
4. Mechanical Maintenance, including          No. 23, Bishkek
Auto Mechanics                            (with sub-center No. 27, Tokmak, for heavy
vehicle maintenance)
5. Electrical installation and Maintenance    No. 100, Bishkek
6. Electronics Installation                   No.93, Bishkek
and Maintenance



- 52 -
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
SOCL4, SAFETY NET PROJECT
ANNEX 2. TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
I. THE ROLE OF THE PROJECT COUNCIL
1.    The Project Council (PC) will oversee the coordination of project activities. All major
decisions concerning project implementation will be discussed by the Project Council.
2.    The Project Council was created by Goskominvest resolution N 2 of February 10, 1994. It
is chaired by the First Deputy Prime Minister and composed of the Minister of Labor and Social
Protection, the head of the Employment Service, the head of the State Committee for Training of
Workers and Entrepreneurs, the head of the State Committee for Statistics, the Director General of
the Social Fund, and the President's Advisor on Social Policy.
3.    The Project Council will meet once every three months, or more often if its Chairman so
decides. Heads of project implementing agencies which are not represented on the Council, and the
Component Coordinators in the implementing agencies will be invited to the PC meetings. The
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will serve as the secretariat of the Project Council. The PCU
Director will prepare minutes of PC meetings and monitor that decisions taken by the PC are carried
out by the implementing agencies.
The project council has the following responsibilities:
e     To review the periodic project implementation reports prepared by the PCU and the
quarterly implementation schedules. Discuss reasons for delays and approve
necessary actions to be taken to solve problems in project implementation.
e     Discuss and resolve issues linked to project implementation that cannot be resolved by
the implementing agencies and the PCU and decide, in consultation with the
Association, on all policy issues linked to project implementation.
o     Facilitate coordination with other projects relevant to the areas of employment, social
assistance, poverty monitoring and training, and in particular, with the Privatization
and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Project (PESAC).
II. THE ROLE OF THE PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT
The Project Coordination Unit was established through the Government's Decree No. 266
dated April 29, 1994. It will be headed by a Director who will report to the First Deputy Prime
Minister, and will be staffed with a procurement specialist, a disbursement officer, an accountant, a
technical assistance administrator, and a secretary. During the first two years of implementation, a
permanent technical assistant based in the PCU will provide support primarily in the area of



- 53 -
procurement. The PCU will also receive support from Goskominvest on procurement and accounting
issues and will hire short term technical assistance as needed. The PCU will be responsible for the
following tasks:
o     Monitor overall progress of the project and help in the coordination between the
various project components and ongoing projects in related areas, particularly the
proposed PESAC. The PCU will set up a computerized Management Information
System (MIS) for this purpose.
o     Manage the project's Special Account, prepare Statements of Expenditure, and
maintain project accounts.
o     Review lists, specifications and terms of reference provided by implementing agencies
for procurement of equipment and civil works and contracting of consultants to
ensure consistency of presentation and adherence to World Bank guidelines.
Prepare tender documents for procurement of equipment, civil works, and technical
assistance services. Send tender documents to the Association for approval, advertise
tenders and establish review committees to analyze and evaluate bids. Participate in
the selectien of contractors together with Heads of implementing agencies.
e     Prepare draft contracts, review them with implementing agencies and submit them to
the Association for approval. Co-sign contracts with the relevant implementing Head.
o     Support implementing agencies in coordination of technical assistance missions and
other project activities as requested.
o     Pay contractors and suppliers after having reviewed their performance with
Component Coordinators and after the approval of the Heads of implementing
agencies.
a     Upon approval by the Heads of implementing agencies, prepare withdrawal
applications for transmission to the Association.
o     Prepare periodic and yearly project implementation reports based on information
provided by component coordinators.
o     Revise quarterly implementation schedules and transmit these to the Association.
v     Serve as the secretariat of the Project Council, prepare agendas and minutes of
meetings.
HI. THE ROLE OF COMPONENT COORDINATORS
The implementation of each project component will be coordinated by a Component
Coordinator (CC). The CCs will report directly to the Head of the relevant implementing agency.
The CC is responsible for the following tasks:
o     Ensure coordination within the implementing agency of the actions to be undertaken
under his/her component. Ensure that each unit of the implementing agency has a
clear understanding of its role and responsibilities under the project.



- 54 -
Ensure the efficient and effective implementation of the component and that the
project implementation schedule is respected. Inform the Head of the implementing
agency and the PCU Director of any slippage in implementation and propose actions
to correct the problems.
Bring any issues of policy or donor coordination linked to the implementation of the
component to the attention of the Head of the implementing department and the PCU
director.
Prepare, in coordination with relevant units of the implementing agency and with
support from technical assistance provided under the project, lists and specifications of
equipment to be procured under the project and terms cf reference (TOR) for
additional technical assistance. Transmit these lists, specifications and TORs after
approval by the Head of the implementing agency, to the PCU.
Forward contracts for goods and services to the relevant Head of implementing
agency, who will co-sign these contracts with the director of the PCU.
After having ensured that goods and services have been provided according to the
terns of the contract, prepare and forward documents to the Head of the
implementing agency to enable him/her to authorize the PCU to pay contractors for
goods and services under the project component.
Prepare regular implementation reports on component implementation for signature by
the Head of the implementing agency and transmission to the PCU. Update quarterly
implementation schedules. Hold freqvent meetings with the PCU to discuss
implementation issues.
IV. TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE DIRECTOR OF THE
PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT
The Director of the PCU will have responsibility for the following tasks:
*     Organize and prepare procurement contracts. Ensure that administrative tasks for
procurement and disbursement are undertaken in a timely fashion. Ensure that
bidding documents and procedures are consistent with World Bank guidelines and the
regulations of other donors, as applicable. Participate in the evaluation of bids and
the selection of contractors for major contracts. Oversee the preparation of contracts.
Co-sign contracts with the Head of the relevant implementing agency.
*     Manage the project's Special Account. Prepare and co-sign withdrawal applications
with the PCU accountant upon approval of Heads by implementing agencies. Ensure
that payments to contractors and providers of services are made in a timely fashion.
*     Prepare periodic reports on project implementation, based on regular reports provided
by the implementing agencies. Present drafts of such reports for comment to the
Heads of the implementing agencies, forward the revised reports and the
implementing agencies' comments to the Project Council for discussion and approval,
and transmit the approved reports to the Association and other donors participating in
the project.



- 55 -
o     Coordinate project activities undertaken under the four components. Organize
monthly, or more frequent if necessary, meetings with all Component Coordinators to
discuss implementation issues. Ensure that implementing agencies receive the
necessary support from the PCU in the resolution of implementation issues. Bring to
the attention of the Project Council and the Association any issues that can not be
resolved at the level of the implementing agencies.
o     Serve as secretary of the Project Council. Prepare, in consultation with the Chairman
of the Project Council and the Heads of the implementing agencies, agendas for
Project Council meetings. Prepare minutes of Project Council meetings and monitor
that its decisions are implemented.
e     Contract, in accordance with World Bank Guidelines and in consultation with the
Association, necessary short term international consultants to assist the PCU in
accomplishing its mandate in a professional and timely fashion.



- 56 -
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROJECT
ANNEX 3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION PLAN
Implementation Plan
1.          The project will be implemented over four years beginning at effectiveness
which is expected about September 1994. The employment services component wiU be
implemented in about 21 months beginning in 1994. A mid-term review will be held for the
employment services component in July or October, 1995, depending on progress in
implementation. A mid-term review for the three other components will be held in October,
1996. The summary project implementation schedule is appended to this Annex. Detailed
implementation plans for each component are included in the implementation manual.
Supervision Plan
2.           The first supervision mission will take place immediately following Board
approval of the project, which is expected by mid-1994. This will be a fully staffed mission,
as shown below, in order to review all implementation arrangements. However, no formal
project launch workshop will be held, in view of the substantial preparation and
implementation readiness assistance already provided to the implementing agencies with
funding from the Japanese and Swiss Governments, and the extensive briefings provided by
Association staff during project preparation and appraisal. In view of the country's lack of
implementation experience, relatively intensive supervision will be necessary during first
years of project implementation. The plan for supervision missions is as follows:
DATE            Character of mission         Mission staffing
1994 July       First supervision mission    TM(TS). SAS, PMS, ES, IS/PS, DS
(see above)
September       Second supervision mission   TM, SAS
(small mission following
effectiveness)
December        Third supervision mission    TM, SAS, ES,
(final evaluation and report on
Swiss grant utilization)
1995 March      Fourth supervision mission   TM, SAS
I/              TM = Task Manager; DS = Disbursement Specialist; EC = Economist; SAS  Social
Assistance Specialist; ES = Employment Services Specialist, PMS = Poverty Monitoring Specialist; TS
Training Specialist; IS = Implementation Specialist; PS = Procurement Specials.



- 57 -
FY95 Summary      Total mission staffweeks          34
HQ SPN staffweeks                 12
Total SPN staffweeks             46
1995 July         Fifth supervision mission and     TM, EC, TS, IS
mid-term review of employment
services component (see above)
1995 October      Sixth supervision mission         TM, SAS, PMS, TS
1996 March        Seventh supervision mission       TM, SAS
FY96 Summary      Total mission staffweeks          20
HQ SPN staffweeks                 8
Total SPN staffweeks             28
1996 October      Eighth supervision mission        TM, SAS, PMS, ES, TS, IS
(project mid-term review, and
implementation completion review
of employment services component)
1997 March        Ninth supervision mission         TM, SAS
FY97 Summary      Total mission staffweeks          16
HQ SPN staffweeks                06
Total SPN staffweeks             22
1997 October      Tenth supervision mission         TM, T'S
1998 March        Eleventh supervision mission      TM, SAS
(dmft implementation
completion report)
October           Twelfth and final supervision     TM, SAS, PMS, T'S, ES, IS
mission and implementation
completion review for project
FY98 Summary      Total mission staffweeks          20
HQ SPN staffweeks                 10
Total SPN staffweeks              30
Project Summauy   Total mission staffweeks          90(average per FY, 22.5 sw)
HQ SPN staffweeks                 36(average per FY, 9 sw)
Total SPN staffweeks              126(avetage per FY, 31.5 sw)



IMPLEMTATION SCHEDULE FOR THE SOCIAL ASSISTANCE REFORM COMPONENT
Association Fiscal Year                                1995          1996          1997           1998
Semesters of Project Implementation                1      2      3      4      5       6      7      8
I. ESTABLISH A MEAN-TESTING NECHANISM
Identification of options/modeling
Develop mechanism
Pilot system
1. legislation
2. operational guidelines
3. adminlstration of benefits (system)
Implement system
1. operations
2. policy
Review & Develop
1. operations
2. policy
3. poverty survey coordination
II.  CREATz SPECIAL GRANT UNIT
Creation of unit
Identification of priority areas
Draft procedures
Coordination with NGOo
Information campaign
Review and Develop                                                                      -      - .
1. Monitor progress
2. Revise procedures
3. Liaise with donors                                                                                _   . _



1995          1996           1997           1998
1      2      3       4      5       6      7      8
III.   REFORM THE SOCIAL INSURANCE SYSTE!
Operational guidelines
Redeployment analysis
Develop options for the rationalization of
pensions
Simplify the calculation of pensions (develop
strategy and implement)
Renegotiate 4.2% service delivery charge
Information campaign
IV.  REDESIGN THE MLSP STRUCTURE
Create units/draft operational plans
Develop the human resources strategy
Create the Inspectorate (develop fraud
prevention techniquep)
Information campaign
Develop financial management model
Design/draft oblast and raiLn procedures
Revise procedures
Implement office upgrading/model office trials
Assess model office trials



1995          1996           1997           1998
1      2      3       4      5       6      7      8
V. COMPUTERIZATION AND OFFICE AUTOMATION
Computer support training
Application development/database implem.
Deliver and install in MLSP, Bishkek and osh
oblasts
Triallreview                                                    _
Implementation/training in other oblasts
Develop and install other programs
Review
VI.   TRAINING PROGRAM
Develop training staff (including initial and
on-going technical training)
Management training
1. central administration
2. oblast and raion administration
Inspectorate Unit Training
Training for the targeted/means-testing
specialists
Training for in-kind unit staff
Pensions staff training
Computerization training
1. programmers
2. basic computer skills
3. computer system pilot
4. implementation training                           _



IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR THE POVERTY MONITORING COMPONENT
Association Fiscal Year                                       1995        1996        1997       1998
Semesters of Project Implementation                        1    2    3    4        5    6    7    8
I. SAMPLING
Check baseline sample
Develop approaches for resampling
Develop a system for reweighting sample
II. QUESTIONNAIRE DEVELOPMENT AND REVISION
Review survey forms
Develop family planning module questionnaire
Develop energy module questionnaire
Develop agriculture module questionnaire
Ill.  INTERVIEW TRAINING & SUPERVISION
Develop video tapes of training exercises and training
materials
Develop survey research training video tapes
Develop nutritional/health training video tapes
IV. FIELD WORK
Develop guidelines and training materials
Develop methods for checking of data quality
Carry out quality monitoring studies



1995        1996         1997         1998
1.    2     3     4      5     6      7     8
V.  DATA ENTRY & CODING
Develop software
Assist in Computerising data                                         _
Training of data entry staff
Dietary and health data collection & updating of diet
entry program
Develop food composition table and recipe file
VI.  DATA CLEANING
Checking data entry process and basic cleaning
Check quality of selected key measures
Check nutritional data
VII. VARIABLE CONSTRUCTION
Assist in creating new variables
Train staff in measuring income, expenditures,
employment, dietary intake, nutrition
VIII.  REPORT GENERATION
Train staff in use of software and hardware to prepare           _
tables
IX, FILE DEVELOPMENT & DATA ANALYSIS
Train staff in in-depth analysis
Train programmers to undertake in-depth analysis



1995        1996         1997         1998
1     2     3     4      5     6     7     8
X. COORDINATION OF DATA USE
Review and discuss survey data
XI. TRAINING OF GOSKONSTAT STAFP
Data entry training (20 staff)
Supervisor training (15 staff)
Inteviewer training (30 staff)
Modern survey work
-survey research (8 staff)
-questionnaire design (2 staff)
-sampling (1 staff)                                                _
Data processing & analysis
-variable construction (2 staff)
-report generation (2 staff)
-analysis (8 staff)
Labor economics training (1 staff)



IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR THE EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (ES) COMPONENT1
Association Fiscal Year                          1995            1996             1997           1998
Semesters of Project Implementation         1       2       3       4        5      6       7       8
I . &rRENGTHENING THE EMPLOYMENT
SERVICE DELIVERY SYSTEM
Model office network in Bishkek                 _   _   S
Replication of model office in Chui oblast
and other labor markets
Provision of limited computer support to
selected employment office
Strengthening of manual systems in small
offices/rural areas
II.  STRENGTHENING DOE MAAGEMENT
SYSTEM
Policy analysis and development                     S
Program planning and budgeting                          S
Financial management and audit systems                       S
ES direction and management                         S   S   S
Computer systems development and support
III. IMPACT EVALUATION STUDY
IV.   EQUIPMENT PROCUREMENT                                     
8/ S   Study Tour



IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR THE TRAINING COMPONENT'
Association Fiscal Year                            1995             1996             1997            1998
Semesters of Project Implementation           1       2        3       4        5       6       7       8
I.    CENTRAL STRENGTHENING OF OCT
Strengthening of Methodology and Staff                   S       s        S       S        s
Training Center                                       =____.___
Establishment of Information Center                      S       S        S
Strenghening of SCT Management                           S       S
Technical assistance (TA) for curriculum                 MS                 S
and materials development
Technical assistance for teacher training               - s                 S
Procurement and installation of office and
communications equipment
II.    DEVELOPMENT OF MODEL TRAINING
CENTER INTERVIEW TRAINING AND
SUPERVISION
TA for specialized curriculum development                  S
Procurement and installation of training          -  =______
equipment
Civil works/workshop refurbishing
Training of center managers                                    S            S
Specialized teacher training & upgrading                 S    S       aS
l/ S = Study Tour



- 66 -
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROJECT
2UMNEX 4. KEY PERFORMANCE MONITORING INDICATORS
ISSUE                    INDICATOR              TARGET         DATE
SOCIAL ASSISTANCE
Establish a means-        Otraining of staff
testing mechanism           in central ministry        15 staff     Jan. 1995
in oblasts                30 staff      Mar. 1995
in raions                 200           June 1995
Oselecting offices and      10 offices  Mar. 1995
implementing pilot
system
June 1995
Oimplement system
Jan. 1996
Odrafting of legislation
Jan. 1996
*drafting of guidelines
Establish a Special       Screate unit                 1            Jan. 1995
Grant Unit
Oestablish bank account    1              Jan. 1995
*identify priority areas   6 oblasts    June 1995
0train staff
in central ministry       4             Jan. 1995
in oblasts                20            Mar. 1995
in raions                 200           June 1995
Oform local raion grant    66 (raion)   June 1995
management committees
Odraft procedures                         June 1995



- 67 -
Reform the Social         Odevelop options                          Jan. 1995
Insurance System
Osimplify pensions                       Mar. 1995
Odraft guidelines                        Mar. 1995
Orenegotiate 4.2% charge                 Jan. 1995
Otrain pension staff        200           June 1995
Oreallocate staff           300           Sep. 1995
Reorganization of MLSP  OCreate units                 6             Jan. 1995
ORecruit staff for units   50             Jan. 1995
Otrain staff
in center                 50           Mar. 1995
in oblast                 60           Mar. 1995
in raion                  200          June 1995
300          Jan. 1996
Odraft procedures                         Sep. 1995
Computerization and       OPurchase/deliver
Office Automation         computer equipment
for center, Bishkek,Osh                 Jan. 1995
for other oblasts          5 oblasts   Mar. 1995
OUpgrade offices            70 offices  June 1995
OComputer training
for center                 10 staff     Mar. 1995
for oblasts and raions    200 staff    June 1995
POVERTY MONITORING                   -
Carry out household       Ocomplete a total of 7    1               June 1995
surveys                   surveys                     2             Jan. 1996
3            June 1996
4            Jan. 1997
5            June 1997
6            Jan. 1988
7            June 1988
Ocarry out 3 modules
family planning           1            Jan. 1996
energy                    2            Jan. 1997
agriculture               3            Jan. 1998



- 68 -
Analysis of data         OForm a users committee   6 members   Jan. 1995
(MLSP, Ministry of
Health, Ministry of
Economy, Ministry of
Finance, Vice Prime
Minister for Social
Protection, Goskomstat)
OHold seminars              7 seminars
one every   June 1995-
six months  June 1998
Training of personnel   *Train (two weeks
session)
supervisors               15 persons  Jan. 1995-
interviewers              30 persons  Jan. 1998
TRAINING                                      l
Strengthen SCT's         OSelect and procure                       Sep. 1994
central functions        office and communication
equipment
OEstablish Information                   Dec. 1994
Center
OStrengthen Methodology   12             Dec. 1994
Center                      additional
staff
ODevelop new curricula    100 new        July 1995
for adult retraining        curricula
OTrain management staff   23 staff       Sep. 1994 -
of SCT                                   July 1995
OTraing trainers for                     July 1995 -
adult training                           July 1997



- 69 -
Develop Model Training  $Set up advisory              6             Dec. 1994
Centers                   committees at selected      committees
centers
ODevelop new curricula                   Sep. 1994 -
and training materials                    Sep. 1996
for model centers
OSelect basic equipment                   Sep. 1994
for selected centers
OSelect advanced                          July 1995
equipment for centers
OProcure training                         Sep. 1994 -
equipment                                 Sep. 1995
lInstall and commission                  Jan. 1995 -
equipment                                 March 1996
OTraining center                          Sep. 1994 -
management and staff                      July 1995



- 70-
KEY PERFORMANCE MONITORING INDICATORS
E4PLOYMENT SERVICES CObMPONENT
ActivitY                  Benrhmark                  Start/Comofetion
Project implementation and   - Appoint project coordinator  August 1, 1994 -
management                to provide liaison with    September 1,1994
MOLSP project coordination
unit (PCU) and complete
project orientation.
- Appoint individual project
component managers and     August 1,1994 -
other DOE counterpart staff   September 1,1994
and complete project
orientation.
- Develop in coordination with
PIU the required performance  August 1,1994 -
and financial reporting    September 1,1994
procedures and requirements
including procurement
procedures.
Project components:
(1) Strengthening
Employment Service
delivery system
(a) Model office network  - Complete the adaptation of  September 1,1994 -
in Bishkek             the manual based           October 1,1994
procedures to accommodate
computerisation.
- Procure the computers and   September 1,1994 -
other equipment supportive of October 31,1994
the automated system.
- Install the computers and    Oct 1,1994 -Jan 31,1995
make them operational.
- Implement the automated    Oct 1,1994 - Jan 31,1995
ES/UB delivery system.
- Development of trained  Nov 1,1994 - Jan 31,1995
managers and staff
(b) Replication of model  - Install and make them    Nov 1.1994 - Feb 28,1995
office in Chui oblast and  operational.
other major labour markets    - Implement the automated    Nov 1,1994 - May 31,1995
ES/UB delivery system
- Development of trained  November 1,1994 -
managers and staff.       May 31,1995



- 71 -
Activitv                  Benchmark                  StartlComDletion
(c) Provide limited computer   - Install the computers and    June 1,1995 - July 31 1995
support! assistance to    make them operational.
selected employment offices  - Implement the automated    June 15,1995 - July 31,1995
ES/UB system.
- Development of trained  June 151995 - Aug 31,1995
managers and staff.
(d) Strengthening manual  - Develop special approaches  March 1, 1995-
systems small offices/ serve  to meet the delivery of ES/UB  August 31,1995
rural areas.              services in rural areas
(2) Strencithenina Dept of
Emolovrnent manaaement
systems
(a) Policy analysis and   - Complete analysis of policy
Development            development capacity and
needs.
- Provide report proposing
revised policy making
framework including             Ongoing
procedures and staffing         by GTZ
requirements.
- Provide assistance in
implementation of policy unit
and process.
(b) Program planning and  - Complete analysis of    September 1, 1994 -
budgeting                 program planning and      October 1, 1994
budgetary capabilities and
needs.
- Design revised program  October 1, 1994 -
planning and budget system    November 15,1994
staffing and requirements.
- Provide assistance in   October 1, 1994 -
implementation of revised  November 30,1993
system incoming staff
training
(c) Financial
management and         - Complete analysis of     September 1, 1994 -
audit systems          financial control capabilities   October 1, 1994
and needs.
- Design revised financial  October 1,1994 -
control system including  November 15,1994
audit capacity and staffing
requirements.
- Provide assistance in   October 1,1994 -
implementation of revised  November 30,1994
system including staff
training.



- 72 -
Activity                   Benchmark                  Start/Comoletion
(d) Employment Service     - Complete analysis of     September 1,1994 -
direction and           management system          October 1,1994
management.             capabilities and needs.
- Design revised ES        October 1, 1994 -
management system          December 31,1994
including field directives and
information procedures as
well as staffing requirements.
- Provide assistance in    October 1, 1994 -
implementation of revised  December 31,1994
procedures including staff
training.
(e) Computer systems       - Complete analysis of     September 1,1994 -
development and         computerisation support and   October 1,1994
support                 service capabilities.
-Provide expanded          September 1, 1994 -
capabilities computer      November 1, 1994
applications and support
services.
- Provide assistance in    November 1,1994 -
imolementation including   January 31,1995
staff training.
(3) imDact Evaluation
Study
Conduct impact evaluationof  - Design study and establish   Oct 1,1 994- Nov 1, 1994
project effectiveness      data base
- Participate in WB six month  Feb 1, 1995 -
project supervision review,    Feb 28,1995
collect interim data, carry out
selected assessment and
prepare interim report with
possible recommendations
for project adjustments
- Undertake indepth        March 1, 1996 -
assessment, prepare        April 30, 1996
evaluarion report with
findings and
recommendations



- 73 -
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROJECT
ANNEX 5. DISBURSEMENT FORECAST
ASSOCIATION FISCAL YEAR
FY95             FY96              FY97              FY98
(in US$ Millions)
Annual                   3.8               7.0               3.9              2.3
Cumulative                3.8             10.8               14.7             17.0



- 74 -
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
SOCL SAFETY NET PROJECT
ANNEX 6. ALLOCATION OF CREDIT PROCEEDS
EXPENDITURE CATEGORIES                 AMOUNT OF THE CREDIT   % OF EXPENDITURE TO
ALLOCATED   (SDR)           BE FINANCED
1. Technical Assistance and Training                    6,300,000             100 %
2. Civil Works other than Category (4)                    400,000             100 %
3. Computers, Training Equipment and                     3,600,000   100% of foreign
Materials, and Vehicles                                          expenditure, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 75% of local
expenditures for other items
._______________________________  .__________________procured locally
4. Technical Assistance, Training and                      350,000            100 %
Civil Works for the Divestiture
Support Subcomponent
5. Unallocated                                           1,350,000
TOTAL                                                   12,000,000



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROJECT
ANNEX 7. CURRENT AND PROPOSED CASH FLOW PROCESS OF THE MLSP
a) Current Process
MLSP
CENTRE
U                                                                U
Funds for Administrallon Costs
MLSP TA
OBLAST                .. |ADMINISTRATION
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Funds for Administration Costs
MALSP                                           ADO
RAIO                                   ADMNINSTRATION
TAX



b) Proposed process
SOCIAL
MLSPJ
CENTRE   .
OBLAST
-  -. [A ADMWNISIRAT1ON|
r-~ ~~~~~~~~~~ ^                 N
MLSP                               U
OBLAST -
RAION 
FUNDS               , .    ADMINISTRATION
MLSP
RIAON



- 77 -
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROJECT
ANNEX 8. PROCUREMENT IMPLEMENTATION
1.    Equipment, Vehicles, and Works
Procurement Method                                   Critical Implementation
Category                                                (USS million)                                             Dates
ICB             LIB                IS         L       S           Subtotal
Computer Contract No. 1                   2.00                                                               2.00   Septemnber 1994
Computer Contact No. 2                    0.50                                                               0.50   March 1995
Software                                                   1.60                                              1.60   Septeaber 1994
Peripherals                                                                   0.19                           0.19   October 1994
Subtotal                                  2.50             1.60               0.19                           4.29
Training Equipment Contr. 1               0.70                                                               0.70   September 1994
(basic equiprmnt)
Training Equipment Contr. 2               0.50                                                               0.50   July 1995
(advanced equipment)
Complemetary equtpmert                                                        0.95            0.10           1.05   September 1995
1.20                               0.95             0.10           2.25
Vehicles                                                                      0.19                           0.19   September 1994
3.70             1.60               1.33            0.10           6.73
-_1.00                                                                                      1.00   September 1994
_________ September 1995



- 78 -
2.      Technical Assistance/Consultants and Training
Contracts        TA Contracts        Total              Implementation
Contract                        with Firrs      with Individuals    (US$ milGion)           Starting
(US$ million)     (US$ million)                               Dates
M|ain TA and Training Contract                             3.35                              3.35   September 1994
Individual TA Contracts                                                     0.50             0.50   July 1995
Subtotal                                                   3.35             0.50             3.85
Main TA and Training Contract                              2.29                              2.29   September 1994
Individual TA Contracts                                                     0.30             0.30   May 1995
Subtotal                                                   2.29             0.30             2.59
Main TA and Training Contract                              1.20                               1.20   September 1994
Individual TA Contrcts                                                      0.20             0.20   December 1995
Subtotal                                                   1.20             0.20              1.40
~~..  ,.. ~ ~ .    .    ..
Main TA and Training Contract                              2.70                              2.70   September 1994
Individual TA Contracts                                                     0.28             0.28   September 1995
Subtotal                                                   2.70             0.28             2.98
Procurement TA Contract                                   0.80                               0.80   September 1994
Individual TA Contracts                                                     0.16             0.16   July 1995
Subtotal                                                   0.80             0.16             0.96
TOTAL Technical Assistance                                10.34             1.44             11.78



- 79 -
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROJECT
ANNEX 9    DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
TABLE 1:         PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY COMPONENT
TABLE 2:         EXPENDITURE ACCOUNTS BY COMPONENT - TOTALS
TABLE 3:         PROJECT COMPONENT EXPENDITURES BY YEAR - TOTALS
TABLE 4:         FINANCING BY PROJECT COMPONENT AND FINANCIER



ANNEX 9: TABLE 1
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY COMPONENT
(US$'000)
(US$ '000)
X FOREIGN   %TOTAL BASE
LOCAL        FOREIGN       TOTAL        EXCHANGE    COSTS
1.  Social Assistance                           420.0        6,310.1      6,730.1          94           36
2.  Poverty Monitoring                          467.0        2,883.4      3,350.4          86           18
3.  Employment Services                         19b.0        2,479.2      2,677.2          93           14
4.  Training                                    500.7        4,709.0      5,209.7          90           28
5.  Project Coordination Unit                   271.0         608.6         879.6          69            5
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                          1,856,7       16,990.3     18,847.0          90           100
Physical Contingencies                           98.8        1,139.5      1,238.4          92            7
Price Contingencies                                            688.3        688.3          100           4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                           1,955.5       18,818.1     20,773.7          91           110



ANNEX 9: TABLE 2
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROJECT
EXPENDITURE ACCOUNTS BY COMPONENT - TOTALS INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES
(US$'000)
SOCIAL       POVERTY     EMPLOYMENT    TRAINING        PROJECT        TOTAL
ASSISTANCE   MONITORING   SERVICES                      COORD. UNIT
I. Investment Costs
A. Technical Assistance
1. Foreign TA             3,412.3       2,083.7       1,286.6        2,518.4        570.8         9,871.8
B.  Supplies & Equipment   3,149.8          634.7         661.4        2,245.2          39.8        6,730.9
C.  Training
1. Foreign Training         330.7         382.8          91.3          419.8          41.2        1,265.8
2. Local Training           103.0         152.9          50.9          137.2                        444.0
Subtotal Training               433.7         535.7        142.3          557.0          41.2        1,709.8
D.  Civil Works                265.9                      221.9          212.2                        700.0
E.  Vehicles                                179.0                                       11.2          190.2
F. Divestiture Component                                  500.0                                       500.0
Total Investment Costs         7,261.7      3,433.1       2,812.1        5,532.8         663.0       19,702.7
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Office rent                   84.0         84.0          21.0           84.0           8.4          281.4
B. Vehicle use/repair            63.0         63.0          15.8           63.0          10.5          215.3
C. Communication expenses        76.3          76.3         44.6           76.3         263.6          537.1
D. Misc. materials               10.5          10.5          2.6           10.5           3.1           37.2
Total Recurrent Costs            233.8         233.8         84.0          233.8         285.6        1,071.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS            7,495.5      3,666.9       2,896.1        5,766.6         948.6       20,773.7



ANNEX 9: TABLE 3
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
SOCIAL SAFETY MET PROJECT
PROJECT COMPONENT EXPENDITURES BY YEAR - TOTALS INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES
(US$ '000)
Association Fiscal Year
1995          1996          1997          1998         Total
1.  Social Assistance                           3,158.4       2,997.0          758.1         582.0      7,495.5            m
2.  Poverty Monitoring                          1,990.8         736.6          52S.1         414.4      3,666.9
3.  Employment Services                         2,406.6         214.4          135.6         139.5      2,896.1
4.  Training                                    2,928.3       1,863.9          609.4         365.9      5,767.6
5.  Project Coordination Unit                     450.1         315.0           90.9          91.6        947.6
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                             10,934.3      6,126.8        2,119.2       1,593.4      20,773.7



ANNEX 9: TABLE 4
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROJECT
FINANCING BY PROJECT COMPONENT AND FINANCIER
(US$'000)
IDA          SWISS GOV'T1    KYRGYZ GOV'T              TOTAL
AMOUNT     %      AMOUNT      Z      AMOUNT      X      A24OUNT     X
1.  Social Assistance              7,261.2   35.0        0        0      233.8    1.1      7,495.5      36
2.  Poverty Monitoring             3,433.1   16.5        0        0      233.8    1.1      3,566.9      18
3.  Employment Services            2,112.1   10.2       700.0    3.4      84.0    0.4      2,896.1      I4
4.  Training                       3,532.8   17.0   2,000.0    9.6    233.8    1.1         5,767.6      28
5.  Project Coordination Unit        663.0    3.2        0        0      285.6    1.4        947.6      5
TOTAL DISBURSEMENT                17,002.7   81.9   2,700.0   13.0  1,071.0    5.1    20,773.7         100
l/    The Swiss cofinancing grant of Swiss Francs 4.0 million {US$ 2.7 million equivalent) would be used to
finance the following items:
(1)   Training Component
a.    Technical Assistance                   USS 1,350,000
b.    Foreign Training for Kyrgyz staff   US$   300,000
C.    Equipment                              US$   350,000
Subtotal                                     US$ 2,000,000
(2)   Employment Services Component
a.    Technical Assistance                   USS   350,000
b.    Ea'.ipment                             USS   350,000
Subtotal                                     US$   700,000
TOTAL                                        US$ 2,700,000
Note: Out of this total, an amount equivalent to USS 1,450,000 would be disbursed befor, JTnuary 35, J995.



IBRD 249643R
~~~~~~~ - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~80 
KAZAKHSTAN
.  To D=l ;.|s                                                                                                                               k~ X  Sr ' .                          rP AlvP Abed
7439 a
/'<                                              J. d'                                    rS'        
. vrg / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                     <-  "   -'Sarekaun
.2
-      S                                                                                                                                                                      ,-- --7   r  ?8                                                                                    4
\'h ->-7  X  9           -   -  t                            )                                                                                                              P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RGYZ REPUBLIC
T A J I K I S T A_ _ __N_ _ _ _ _ _ _
70   f >@   reD   J      rob      7                                                 .                                                                        +   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS
KYRGY REPUBLI
L\AY.                                                                                                                                                                                     O K  -   OTHER ROADS
A2iXTN                             KAZAKHSTAN               ETSO                                                                                                                                                                          *     NATIONAL CAPITAL
QXsP    2<'           be\-~\                sj;                   A                                                  )>oD;,  '                                                                                                             3    OBIAST CAPITALS
A&                            _.J f-'.bA~[~cen:,                                                                                                                                                                   0    SELECTED CITES
s-  >ts                             1                                                                                                                                             k                                             O B[ 9  QSLAST BOUNDARIES
k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  y ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDAPRES
~~~~~~~~ \$                                                                                                                 R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  oIOLMETRS 0 
EISBLAIC                      ;   P 'Inaaaao  aao4eeiekaeadan  te  Iaekn                                                                                                                           IO
RETEUOC    ./-~         t         4fr'              CH I NA          rhewa a thbouno ia  eaflveply,atThepen   The WarEdBeak
AeHNII/  F    ANG-P, any iudm                                              te the lre al se t, of wf--ol  -ny tenibryorc ny                     0          25         50          75         100
PAKIATAN
MAY 1994



