Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
Swiss Grant Agreement
(Social Safety Net Project)
between
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by the Swiss Cooperation Office
for Eastern Europe
Dated November 28, 1994
SWISS GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 28, 1994, between the KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (the Recipient) 
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) acting as 
Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds provided by the SWISS COOPERATION 
OFFICE FOR EASTERN EUROPE (SWITZERLAND).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to an agreement dated October 27, 1994 between Switzerland 
and the Association, Switzerland has requested the Association, and the Association 
has agreed, to administer grant funds to be made available by Switzerland for the 
financing of activities included in the Social Safety Net Project, defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement and extended by a Development Credit Agreement, dated 
July 7, 1994; and
WHEREAS (B) Switzerland has agreed to make available to the Recipient a 
non-reimbursable contribution (the Grant) to finance the cost of setting up employment 
services and a training system in the social sector described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (the Technical Assistance) on the terms and conditions hereinafter set 
forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
     (ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (11), 
(12) and (13);
    (iii)
Section 3.01;
     (iv)
Sections 4.01 and 4.05;
(v)
Article V;
     (vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a) (i), (b), (d), (e), (g) and (h), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
    (vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
   (viii)
Sections 9.01, 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08;
     (ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.02 and 10.03; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Association", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (e) thereof means the 
International Development Association acting as Administrator of 
the Grant pursuant to the letter agreement between Switzerland and 
the Association, and the Association referred to in Recital (A) of 
this Agreement, except that in Section 6.02, the term 
"Association" shall also include the International Development 
Association acting in its own capacity;
     (ii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
    (iii)
the term "Credit Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
     (iv)
the term "Credit", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Grant;
(v)
the term "Credit Account", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant Account, an account opened by the 
Administrator on its books in the name of the Recipient to which 
the amount of the Grant is credited;
     (vi)
the term "Project", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the technical assistance described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
    (vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in Swiss 
Francs; provided, however, that if the expenditures to be financed 
out of the Grant have been paid or are payable in another 
currency, the Administrator shall, at the request of the 
Recipient, purchase such currency with the proceeds of such 
withdrawal."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the terms "Swiss 
Franc" and "SFR" mean the currency of Switzerland.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an 
amount of four million Swiss Francs (SFR 4,000,000).
Section 2.02. The Grant is made to finance 100% of total expenditures for 
consultants' services, related equipment and training, in respect of the reasonable 
cost of carrying out the Project to be financed out of the Grant provided, however, 
that no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made prior to the date of 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association (the Swiss Special Account). Deposits into, 
and payments out of, the Swiss Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be January 15, 1997 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the Grant 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. In case of the 
procurement of equipment not included in the contract for the provision of related 
consultants' services, the procedures set forth in Schedule 3 in the Development 
Credit Agreement shall apply, mutatis mutandis.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
     (ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
    (iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties hereto.
Section 4.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations 
hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Page  4
Representation
Section 5.01. The Vice Chairman of the State Commission for Foreign Investment 
and Economic Assistance of the Recipient is designated as representative of the 
Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Vice Chairman of State Commission for Foreign
  Investments and Economic Assistance
96 Kievskaya Street
Bishkek 720300
Kyrgyz Republic 
Telex:
245169 ASKAR SU
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
 KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
By /s/ Askar Sarygulov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ Russell Cheetham
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Description of Technical Assistance
Part A:
Employment Services Component
1.
Strengthening of the delivery system of employment services (ES), including 
development of a model office network in Bishkek, replication of such model office in 
other major labor markets, provision of computer and office equipment to selected 
Page  5
sizable local employment offices, strengthening of small local offices through 
development of manual systems and special approaches.
2.
Strengthening of the capacity to develop and carry out effective employment 
policies and programs, including: (a) establishment of an effective policy and program 
development structure within the Recipient's Department of Employment (CDOE) through 
building capacity to identify and analyze employment issues and develop appropriate 
policy responses; (b) development of a program planning system; (c)  development of an 
improved financial control system; (d) strengthening of the field operations and 
employment service performance monitoring capacity of DOE; (e) establishment of an 
operational computer system service support unit and provision of additional computers 
and supporting equipment and materials; (f) advice on the organizational structure of 
DOE, including restructuring of its functions and reallocation of staff, and review of 
the employment law to advise on improvements thereto; and (g) provision of training 
for senior management and staff of DOE and ES, including study tours abroad.
3.
Rehabilitation of selected social service facilities and provision of training 
to assist the oblast authorities in taking over social assets divested by enterprises. 
Part B:
Training of Workers and Entrepreneurs
Strengthening of the Recipient's State Committee for Training of Workers and 
Entrepreneurs (SCT) through training of its staff, provision of computer and training 
equipment and materials for curriculum development, dissemination of training 
information and direct training purposes and upgrading of selected SCT's facilities.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out the Project, the Recipient 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Administrator. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Administrator on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981.
SCHEDULE 3
Swiss Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant; and
(b)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Swiss Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Swiss Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Swiss 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Swiss Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Swiss Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Swiss Special Account, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
Page  6
Swiss Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify.
     (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Swiss Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Swiss Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account in the 
respective equivalent amounts as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Swiss Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Swiss Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Section 2.03 
of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant, less the amount of any 
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Swiss Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Swiss Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; 
or (B) deposit into the Swiss Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Swiss Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Swiss Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Swiss Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  7
