Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2643 KG
                       Development Credit Agreement
                        (Social Safety Net Project)
                                  between
                              KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated July 7, 1994
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2643 KG
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 7, 1994, between KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (B)   the Borrower intends to obtain from Swiss Cooperation Office for
Eastern Europe (Switzerland) a grant (the Swiss Grant) in an amount
equivalent to 4 million Swiss Francs to assist in financing the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Switzerland Grant
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and Switzerland; and for
the purpose of making available such grant, Switzerland intends to appoint
the Association to administer the Swiss Grant; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last
sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "MLSP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Labor and Social
Protection;
      (b)   "DOE" means the Borrower's Department of Employment;
      (c)   "ES" means the Employment Service;
      (d)   "SCT" means the Borrower's State Committee for Training of
Workers and Entrepreneurs;
      (e)   "GOSKOMSTAT" means the Borrower's State Committee for
Statistics;
      (f)   "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit to be maintained
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
and
      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve million
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1999 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account
or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June
30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Page  3
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15,
2004 and ending April 15, 2029. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on April 15, 2014 shall be one and one-quarter percent
(1.25%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
two and one-half percent (2.5%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out Parts A and C of the Project through MLSP, Part
B of the Project through GOSKOMSTAT, and Part D of the Project through SCT,
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
financial, administrative and engineering practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the generality of the provisions of sub-
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall, by September 30 of each
year during execution of the Project, consult with the Association on the
allocation to be made in the Borrower's proposed budget for the following
year in order to provide: (i) adequate funds to the agencies of the Borrower
referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of this Section in respect of their
activities under the Project; and (ii) on the adequacy of the proportion of
funds allocated in the budget for social assistance and to the budget
Page  4
complement, if any, for social insurance.
      (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) Without limitation to or restriction upon its other
reporting requirements under the General Conditions, the Borrower shall by
October 31, 1996, carry out a midterm review with the Association to: (i)
review the methodology used for assessing those in need of social assistance
and options for providing support to them; (ii) assess progress made in
targeting and consolidation of social assistance benefits and effectiveness
of staffing changes in MLSP; and (iii) assess the progress made in carrying
out the Project and evaluation of its impact.
      (b)   By December 31, 1996, the Borrower shall submit an action plan,
including a timetable for its implementation, to address the issues, if any,
identified during the review under sub-paragraph (a) above.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the
                  Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
                  as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Association has
                  received the audit for the fiscal year in which the last
                  withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
Page  5
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely that:
      (a)   Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, the right of the
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the Swiss Grant made to the Borrower
for the financing of the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms thereof.
      (b)   Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (i) such
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such
agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely that (i)
an accountant, a technical assistance administrator, a procurement
specialist, a disbursement specialist and a secretary have been employed
within PCU; and (ii) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Switzerland Grant Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related
to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Prime Minister of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Central Administration of the
              Kyrgyz Government
            White House
            57 Pervomaiskaia St.
            72 0003 Bishkek
            Kyrgyz Republic
                                          Telex:
                                            245169 ASKAR SU
      For the Association:
Page  6
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                        KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                        By /s/ A. Chukin
                        Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ R. Cheetham
                        Acting Regional Vice President
                        Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                             Credit Allocated         % of
                             (Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                     SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)     Consultants' and           6,300,000        100%
    expert services
    and training,
    including fellow-
    ships other than
    under Category (4)
(2)     Civil works other            400,000        100%
    than Category (4)
(3)     Computer, training         3,600,000        100% of foreign
    equipment and                                   expenditures,
    materials and                                   100% of local
    vehicles                                        expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and 75%
                                                    of local expen-
                                                    ditures for other
                                                    items procured
                                                    locally
(4)     Consultants' ser-            350,000        100%
    vices, training
    and civil works
Page  7
    for Part C.3 of
    the Project
(5)     Unallocated                1,350,000
                                   _________
        TOTAL                     12,000,000
                                  ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower
for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
that of the Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made: (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement; and (b) in respect of payments made, or to be made,
for expenditures in respect of Part C.3 of the Project to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category (4) of the table set
forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the Association shall have
approved the implementation plan referred to in paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule
4 to this Agreement.
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures (for goods,
works and services) under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to reduce the social costs of the
transition to a market economy by making social assistance more efficient
and to facilitate such transition by removing barriers to labor mobility and
improving the use of human capital.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Social Assistance Reform Component
1.  Implementation of a means-testing mechanism for social assistance,
including: (a) design of a workable method of means-testing and analysis of
poverty survey findings; (b) modelling of budgetary implications of
alternative eligibility and benefit formulae; (c) preparation, testing and
implementation of a simplified and reliable social assistance delivery
system; (d) design and implementation of a computer assisted monitoring
system to oversee policy performance; (e) analysis to determine the extent
of incorrect payments within the social assistance system and development
of a strategy to minimize fraud; (f) development of an information program
to disseminate benefit entitlement and eligibility rules; and (g)
preparation of legislation and regulations relating to social assistance.
2.  Establishment and operation of a separate unit within MLSP to coordinate
and target in kind social assistance, including the determination of a set
of criteria, operational guidelines and a mechanism for regional targeting
of in kind assistance and creation and operation of a management unit within
MLSP to raise grants and oversee their administration.
3.  Reform of the social insurance system, including: (a) the preparation
of procedures for the application, award and dis- tribution of pension
benefits; (b) development of an adequate reporting system; (c) preparation
of operational guidelines for the administrative and financial separation
of social insurance and social assistance payments, within a unified
delivery system; (d) development of policy options for the rationalization
of pensions; (e) finalization and implementation of a plan for
simplification of pension benefit calculations; (f) development and carrying
out of a comprehensive information campaign to promote the reform of the
pension system and enhance its operation; (g) strengthening of the
administration of the Social Fund; and (h) implementation of a staged
Page  8
computerization program for the social insurance system.
4.  Strengthening of MLSP through the establishment of a Social Protection
Department, including: (a) creation and operation of a Strategic Planning
Division, a Human and Financial Resources Division and a Legal and Policy
Division; (b) improvement of the Social Inspectorate with regional
representation at the oblast level and responsibility for delivery of
benefits and services through its Operations and Service Delivery Unit; (c)
formation and operation of a Computer Services and Training Division; and
(d) provision and installation of office equipment, including computers.
5.  Creation and operation of a training structure within MLSP and carrying
out of training programs for executives and staff of the central MLSP
offices and of the oblast, payment center and raion administrations.
Part B:   Poverty and Unemployment Monitoring Component
1.  Carrying out of national surveys of about 2,000 households.
2.  Formation of an advisory users group consisting of representatives of
GOSKOMSTAT, MLSP, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance, the
Ministry of Economy and the Office of the Government and provision of
computer equipment needed for their input in questionnaire design and
analysis of data.
Part C:   Employment Services Component
1.  Strengthening of the delivery system of ES, including development of a
model office network in Bishkek, replication of such model office in other
major labor markets, provision of computer and office equipment to selected
sizable local employment offices, strengthening of small local offices
through development of manual systems and special approaches.
2.  Strengthening of the capacity to develop and carry out effective
employment policies and programs, including: (a) establishment of an
effective policy and program development structure within DOE through
building capacity to identify and analyze employment issues and develop
appropriate policy responses; (b) development of a program planning system;
(c) development of an improved financial control system; (d) strengthening
of the field operations and employment service performance monitoring
capacity of DOE; (e) establishment of an operational computer system service
support unit and provision of additional computers and supporting equipment
and materials; (f) advice on organizational structure of DOE, including
restructuring of its functions and reallocation of staff, and review of the
employment law to advise on improvements thereto; and (g) provision of
training for senior management and staff of DOE and ES, including study
tours abroad.
3.  Rehabilitation of selected social service facilities and provision of
training to assist the oblast authorities in taking over social assets
divested by enterprises.
Part D:   Training Component
    Strengthening of SCT through training of its staff, provision of
computer and training equipment and materials for administrative, curriculum
development, dissemination of training information and direct training
purposes and upgrading of selected SCT's facilities.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Page  9
1.  Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency component
of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed
to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Association.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Items or groups of items of a specialized nature for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $1,600,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
through limited international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation
and comparison of bids invited from a list of suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines and acceptable to the Association and in accordance with
procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding
paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.  Items or groups of items for works may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of price quotations obtained from at least three
contractors eligible under the Guidelines in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
3.  Items or groups of items for off-the-shelf goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $1,330,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from at least three different countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.  Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$5,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)    With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent
of $300,000 or more and all contracts to be procured under the provisions
set forth in Part B.1 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
Page  10
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants' Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultants' Guidelines requiring prior Association review
or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to
contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each in the case
of firms to be employed and $50,000 equivalent each in the case of
individuals. However, this exception to prior Association review shall not
apply to the terms of reference for such contracts or to the employment of
individuals, to single source selection to assignments of a critical nature
as reasonably determined by the Association or to amendments of contracts
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above in the case of
firms to be employed and $50,000 equivalent each in the case of individuals.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                          Implementation Program
1.  The Borrower shall maintain PCU, reporting to the First Vice Prime
Minister, with staff with adequate experience and qualifications in adequate
numbers.
2.  By October 31, 1994, the Borrower shall increase the staff of DOE to a
total level of at least 61 positions.
3.  By December 31, 1994, the Borrower shall:
    (a)   prepare and submit to the Association for approval an
implementation plan setting forth the activities to be carried out under
Part C.3 of the Project and the implementation arrangements to be made
therefor;
    (b)   prepare and submit to the Association a staff redeployment plan
within MLSP, acceptable to the Association, to strengthen social assistance
staffing;
    (c)   reorganize the function of DOE to comply with the management
systems changes agreed upon with the Association as described in paragraph
4, Part A of Schedule 2;
    (d)   modify the overall staffing distribution within ES to better
support local offices in areas of high employment;
    (e)   separate the oblast offices of ES from the local social assistance
offices in Naryn, Osh, Issyk-Kul and Djallal-Abad;
    (f)   establish the advisory committees with representation of employers
at training centers selected for upgrading under the Project, as agreed upon
with the Association;
    (g)   increase the staff of the Methodology and Staff Training Center
Page  11
of SCT by at least 12 positions; and
    (h)   define a poverty line based upon a new consumption basket in
accordance with a methodology acceptable to the Association.
4.  By June 30, 1995, the Borrower shall:
    (a)   implement a single consolidated social assistance benefit and a
new system for targeting of such benefit, acceptable to the Association;
    (b)   reorganize MLSP in accordance with the new structure agreed upon
with the Association, and effectively establish the control of the central
MLSP over the administrative and financial operations of services within the
competence at oblast and raion levels; and strengthen the organizational
structures of MLSP in order to increase its power to monitor the development
and the implementation of social policy, operational questions,
administrative expenditures as well as expenditures connected with the
social protection of the population;
    (c)   implement the redeployment plan for MLSP referred to in paragraph
3 (a) above; and
    (d)   implement a system of monitoring and evaluation of training within
SCT, acceptable to the Association, including regular studies of the
employment characteristics and performance of graduates of SCT training.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into
                the Special Account at such intervals as the Association
                shall specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association the documents and other
                evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
                for the payment or payments in respect of which
                replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
Page  12
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
                and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit
or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  13
