Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19274-IN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 36.9 MILLION (US$50.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
AND A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$85.0 MILLION
TO
INDIA
FOR THE
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (HILLS-Il) PROJECT
MAY 18, 1999
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of May 11, 1999)
Currency Unit = Indian Rupees
=US$
US$ 1.00 = Rs. 42.7
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABBREVIATIONS
Al             Artificial insemination                                   MOWR          Ministry of Water Resources
CAPART         Council for the Advancement of Peoples Action and Rural   MTR           Mid-term Review
Technology                                                NATP         National Agricultural Technology Project
CSWB           Central Social and Welfare Board                          NCB           National Competitive Bidding
DDOs           Drawing and Disbursing Offices                            NGOs          Non-Govemmental Organizations
DEA            Department of Economic Affairs                            OM            Operational Manual
EMP            Environmental Management Plan                             PCC           Project Coordination Committee
FRRs           Financial Rates of Retum                                  PDFs          Participatory Development Facilitators
GIS            Geographic Information Systems                            PDMs          Participatory Development Motivators
GOI            Govemment of India                                        PDSs          Participatory Development Specialists
H.P.           Himachal Pradesh                                          PFS           Project Financial Statements
ICAR           Indian Council of Agricultural Research                   PIPs          Project Implementation Plans
ICB            Intemational Competitive Bidding                          PIU           Project Implementation Unit
ICC            Inter-ministerial Coordination Committee                  PMRs          Project Management Reports
IMME           Information Management, Monitoring and Evaluation         PRA           Participatory Rural Appraisal
IT             Information Technology                                    PRAs          Participatory Rural Assessment
IVLP           Institution Village Linkage Programs                      PRIs          Panchayati Raj Institutions
IWDP Hills-I   Integrated Watershed Development Hills Project            REA           Regional Environmental Assessment
J&K            Jamnu and Kashmir                                         SCF           Standard Conversion Factor
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation                                 SOEs          Statements of Expenditures
MOA            Ministry of Agriculture                                   U.P.          Uttar Pradesh
MOEF           Ministry of Environment and Forestry                       U.P-DASP    Uttar Pradesh -Diversified Agriculture Support Project
MORAE          Ministry of Rural Areas and Employment                    VDCs          Village Development Commnittees
MOU            Memorandum of Understanding                               VDP           Village Development Plan
WDC          Watershed Development Council
WPIOs        Watershed Implementing Agencies
Vice President:   Mieko Nishirnizu
Country Manager/Director:  Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager/Director:   Ridwan Ali
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Hamdy Eisa/Meena M. Munshi



INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (HILLS-Il) PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     6
3. Benefits and target population                                                    7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                          13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       14
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                                         14
2. Financial                                                                         15
3. Technical                                                                         15
4. Institutional                                                                     16
5. Social                                                                            17
6. Environmental assessment                                                          18
7. Participatory approach                                                            18
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   20
2. Critical risks                                                                   21
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   22
-I -



G. Main Loan condition
1. Effectiveness conditions                                                            22
2. Other                                                                               22
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           24
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          24
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           25
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     30
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          45
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                    46
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                62
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        63
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      83
Annex 8: Documents in Project File                                                        84
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   85
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             89
Annex 1 1: Beneficiary Participation Across Five Project States                           91
Annex 12: Regional Environmental Assessment: Executive Summary                            96
MAP(S)
None
_jj_



INDIA
Integrated Watershed Development (Hills-II) Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
SASRD
Date: May 18, 1999                                 Task Leaders: H. Eisa/M.Munshi
Country Manager/Director: Edwin R. Lim             Sector Manager/DireetWr: Ridwan Ali
Project ID: 41264                                  Sector(s): AD - Rural Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Rural Development, Poverty Reduction
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Yes
Project Financing Data
N Loan          N Credit        DJ Grant        [I Guarantee     R Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m) (Credit: SDR 36.9 million (US$50.0 million equivalent); Loan US$85.0 million)
Proposed Terms: IZ To be defined  Ol Multicurrency H Single currency
Ol Standard Variable El Fixed       1 LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):            5        Credit 10
Years to maturity:               20             35
Commitment fee:                  0.75%         0.50%
Service charge                   %             0.75
FtnaIQli~gIan:    OET    *      i,!ii~
Government                                                      42.00           2.50          44.50
IBRD                                                            65.80           9.20          75.00
IDA                                                             57.00           3.00          60.00
BENEFICIARIES                                                   13.50           0.00          13.50
Total:                                                         178.30          14.70         193.00
Borrower: Government of India
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency:
Ministiy of Agriculture (MOA)
Implementing agency(ies):
Governments of Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh; and Village Development
Committees (VDCs)
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
2-O-w    ~ 2O01                         03_z      2&Q4
Annual   13.50         27.00        40.50       40.50       13.50
Cumulative    13.50        40.50        81.00      121.50      135.00
Project implementation period: 5 Years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/30/99  Expected closing date:  03/31/2005
OCS PAD Form: October 9, 1998



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The main development objective of the project is to improve the productive potential of the project area in
five states (Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir and Uttar Pradesh), using evolving
watershed treatment technologies and community participatory approaches. The project would contribute
significantly to decreasing soil erosion, increasing water availability and alleviating poverty in the
contiguous areas of the Shivalik hills in the five project states. Sustainability of project interventions would
be ensured through participatory involvement of project stakeholders/beneficiaries. An associated objective
is to assist the states with institutional development and consolidate progress already made in harmonizing
approaches to watershed development management among various programs operating in the Shivalik
Hills.
The Shivaliks, which lie in the foothills of the Himalayan range, have been identified as one of the eight
most degraded rainfed agro-ecosystems of the country and hence included in the priority areas for
watershed development. There are acute shortages of drinking water, fodder and fuel-wood, caused by
deforestation, decreased vegetative cover and severe soil erosion. Subsistence rainfed agriculture is the
prevalent production system in the Shivaliks. Reversing the degradation of natural resources is the key to
promoting rural development. More than 200 million of India's poor depend on subsistence rainfed
agriculture. The project would focus of the most degraded watersheds in the rainfed areas and, thus, on
some of the poorest populations in India. In particular, it would aim to ensure that benefits reach the more
marginalized and vulnerable elements of those populations. These include those who subsist on the most
marginal resources as well as women. This would contribute significantly to poverty alleviation in the
project states.
The project design recognizes the need for policy and institutional arrangements that will ensure long-term
sustainability. For that purpose, the project calls for a Shivalik Watershed Development Strategy for the
five states. The strategy would harmonize watershed development guidelines across states. In each state,
the Shivalik Watershed Development Strategy would be the basis for project interventions and would link
watershed activities to the several centrally sponsored schemes, state and donor interventions.
A "bottom-up" approach is an integral part of the proposed project design and would involve all
stakeholders during project planning and implementation. The project would place special emphasis on
building the capacity of communities to take responsibility for maintaining assets created under the project.
Mechanisms would be developed to link community-based organizations to the Panchayati Raj-Institutions
(PRIs) so that PRIs and the communities jointly take responsibility for managing these assets.
The project design would be adjusted in size and scope to take into account the results of the Watershed
Development Strategy, social assessments and participatory rapid appraisals reflecting community
priorities. These changes would be reflected in the annual implementation plans and in annual state
budgets. The participatory approach, which is the cornerstone for project implementation and
sustainability, is a proactive interactive process with an outcome that cannot be pre-determined without
being undertaken. Therefore, the project design is based on learning and evaluation; and continuous
dialogue with beneficiaries/stakeholders and project staff is essential to adopting meaningful project
interventions. Thus, the project costs and interventions are indicative and are subject to revisions during the
participatory planning stage.
-2-



2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators would be: (a) increased availability of surface and ground water; (b)
reduced run-off and soil erosion; (c) improved vegetative cover in treated areas; (d) improved forest
condition in the fragile upper slopes of watersheds; (e) increased availability of fodder and fuel; (f)
increased crop yields, milk production and horticultural products; (g) increased household incomes of
marginal and small farmers, the landless and women; and (h) increased community/beneficiary
participation through Village Development Committees (VDCs).
In addition to the above performance indicators, the project includes principles and features that would
need to be tested and adjusted during the participatory implementation. These include: internal organization
and development that permits communities to define services that meet their needs; relevancy of technical
treatments; effectiveness of participation of beneficiaries in the decision-making which builds local
responsibility and accountability, and implementation of an effective monitoring and evaluation system.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17241-IN                        Date of latest CAS discussion: 12/19/97
Consistent with the Government's national agenda, an important objective of the Bank's assistance strategy
for India is to place emphasis on sustainable agriculture, water and rural development as a key component
of poverty alleviation. The project would be fully consistent with CAS goals by promoting sustained
management of natural resources and reaching directly to the rural poor in rainfed areas. Approximately
70 percent of the poor live in rural areas and most of them live in rainfed areas. In support of this strategic
objective, the proposed project would aim at maximizing sustainability through stakeholder involvement
and cost-effectiveness in use of investment resources. Specifically, it would be based on community
participation in planning, financing and implementing the program and on the institutional re-alignment of
the implementing agencies in the constitution of more effective partnerships.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
a. Issues in Rural Development
Key sector issues affecting rural development in India, which distort the allocation of resources and hinder
the private sector from participating in the modernization of the agricultural sector, are: (i) input subsidies
on irrigation, rural power and urea fertilizer which benefit few while imposing serious distortions in
agriculture and use of natural resources; (ii) excessive public sector involvement in agricultural services
(extension, research, livestock, etc.) and inadequate delivery of these services; (iii) agricultural price and
forest marketing policies; (iv) lack of timely access to credit and markets; and (v) unclear tenure
responsibility for natural resource management leading to severe degradation from over-exploitation of
common lands.
Government strategy at the national level is not adequately focused on reducing these critical constraints.
However, the willingness of GOI and the states to move towards better cost recovery, reduction of input
subsidies and greater community involvement in the context of the watershed development programs (as in
the proposed project), provides a positive indication that progress can be made, at least in the context of
specific national programs.
-3-



b. Issues in Watershed Development:
The development of watersheds as an integrated unit of investment and natural resource management has
been recognized a tool for the rural sector for many years in India and its application has become
widespread. However, there have been serious issues affecting these programs and limiting their success.
These are: (i) weak institutional and technical coordination within ministries in GOI involved in watershed
management activities; between donor agencies and GOI; and within donor agencies; (ii) multiple
institutions and inappropriate organizational structure for the delivery of goods and services at the local
level; (iii) lack of beneficiary and stakeholder involvement in planning and implementation of programs
with a tendency towards top-down approaches which result in lack of sustainability of project activities;
(iv) poor cost recovery in many programs and poorly defined benefit and cost-sharing arrangements; (v)
lack of appropriate and technical recommendations and norms suitable for variable agro-climatic zones;
(vi) poor monitoring and evaluation of physical and financial indicators; and (vii) inadequate emphasis on
equity issues.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project would address the issues noted above under five headings: (a) strategic coordination; (b)
harmonization of norms and guidelines; (c) beneficiary and stakeholder commitment; (d) reaching
marginalized and vulnerable groups; and (e) strengthening monitoring and evaluation.
(a)    Strategic Coordination. IWDP-Hills-I did not originally include linkages to other national or state
watershed interventions, though a beginning was made in this direction during the later stages of that
project. The project would rectify this by requiring each state, under GOI's Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
coordination, to develop a comprehensive Shivalik's Watershed Management Strategy. The strategy would
indicate all sources of funding for watershed development from the GOI, the states and external donors. In
each state, the resulting Shivalik Watershed Strategy would become the point of reference for all
interventions, including the Bank's, and would form the basis for baseline studies. The project states have
undertaken a study to develop Shivalik Watershed Development Strategies at the state level with an overall
strategy that would be synthesized by MOA.
(b)    Harmonization of Norms and Guidelines. A critical issue which has to be dealt with is the
proliferation of guidelines and practices (financial, social and technical) in watershed development,
depending on the sources of funds (state, national, bilateral and multilateral). This proliferation creates
confusion and diminishes the potential for the wider replication of sustainable models. The project would
attempt to standardize these norms, concentrating particularly on the adoption of indigenous technologies
and research recommendations on suitable grasses, shrubs and trees. Special topics on watershed research
and conservation technology would be undertaken on a competitive grant basis, as agreed under the
recently approved National Agricultural Technology Project (NATP). Technology dissemination of proven
interventions would be based on successful demonstrations under IWDP-I states with particular attention to
adoption in selected watersheds.
(c)   Beneficiary and Stakeholder Commitment. To ensure implementation of a sustainable Shivalik
Watershed Strategy, an inclusive approach has been adopted in the project design. Presently, most
planning and implementation of watershed activities is undertaken by staff of the watershed department or
line departments with cooperation from staff seconded to the implementing agency at the state level. This
approach has been revised under the project to ensure greater participation by beneficiaries which
experience has shown to be key for effective project implementation and sustainability. The project design
addresses the issue of promoting effective community involvement in planning project activities, managing
-4-



their execution, and maintaining these assets in the longer-term. Based on beneficiaries' feedback from the
first project, and other projects, some concrete steps would be taken to streamline and operationalize the
participatory process. These would include developing a participatory Village Development Plan (VDP)
for each village/VDC (or groups of villages in micro-watersheds), an agreed and signed Memorandum of
Uriderstanding (MOU) and an Operational Manual (OM) between the communities and the implementing
agencies. The MOLI and OM would articulate the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the various
parties during implementation. Such participation would apply to all aspects of planning and
implementation from selection of appropriate technologies to fund utilization.
To ensure beneficiary commitment and sustainability, the project would also increase community
contributions to project interventions and operation and maintenance of assets. A gradual but meaningful
program has been developed to ensure beneficiary contribution to the project. This program would be
reviewed during the project's mid-term review (MTR) and adjusted as needed.
(d)    Reaching Marginalized and Vulnerable Groups. As the project would focus on the most
degraded watersheds in the Shivalik Hills and, thus, on some of the poorest populations in India, the project
would aim to ensure that benefit streams reach the more marginalized and vulnerable elements of those
populations. These include those who subsist on the most marginal of resources as well as women, whose
role in overall livelihood strategies is often ignored. The dialogue between the project authorities and the
VDCs would take up the condition of these marginalized groups, and specific ways to incorporate their
interests would feature in the agreed MOUs. To this end, a study on the movement of transhumant
pastoralists through the project areas is currently being undertaken by the project states. Satisfactory
mitigation plans would be established before starting project activities in the project areas.
To ensure that women fully participate in project activities, special attention would be given to training and
skills development programs, awareness campaigns, development of close links with other gender related
poverty alleviation and social programs, and opportunities for income generation. To complement this, a
study would be carried out during the first year of project implementation to review income generating
options for women to develop viable long-term activities. A study would be completed by December 31,
1999, and results of the study would be incorporated in the Annual Implementation Plans/VDPs.
(e)    Monitoring and Evaluation. Monitoring, evaluation and operational learning are central to the
project, aiming at ensuring the inclusion of participatory methods and the reorientation of the implementing
agencies. To this end, the project proposes to have an integrated information and knowledge system.
Baseline surveys would be carried out up-front, and the appropriate indicators would be developed for
measuring project progress. Specific attention would be given to the monitoring and evaluation of social
and institutional mechanisms developed (in collaboration with VDCs) to enhance sustainability and local
ownership.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project would include two main components: (a) Watershed Protection and Development; and (b)
Institutional Strengthening.
-5-



(a) Watershed Protection and        AD - Rural         139.20      72.1      98.20       72.7
Development (The component     Development
includes: (i) watershed
treatments; (ii) fodder and
livestock development; and (iii)
rural infrastructure
development)
(b) Institutional Strengthening (The                   53.80       27.9      36.80       27.3
component includes: (i) policy
reforms, studies and human
resource development; (ii)
beneficiary capacity building; (iii)
income generating activities for
women; (iv) information
management, monitoring and
evaluation; and (v) support to
project coordination
Total Project Costs                   193.00      100.0    135.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                    193.00      100.0    135.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Policy Reforms. The main policy and institutional development issues related to sustainability of project
interventions have already been discussed in Section B3 above. The most important reform sought under
the project would be the harmonization of approach between GOI, State and donor watershed development
programs. Under the project, an Inter-Ministerial Coordination Committee has been established to facilitate
and coordinate the harmonization of norms and guidelines. To this end, a comprehensive strategy
(including conmmon guidelines) for the Shivaliks would be developed under the proposed Shivalik
Watershed Development Strategy. The Shivalik Watershed Development Strategy would be completed,
discussed with various stakeholders, and recommendations incorporated in the annual action plan for
implementation by March 31, 2000.
The present levels of subsidies established in many watershed programs are too high for long-term
sustainability. Forest and common land and drainage line treatments are highly subsidized (up to 90-100
percent), while in arable land treatment, subsidies vary between 15 and 50 percent, depending on the type
of treatment required and cost-sharing arrangements with beneficiaries. These subsidies are normally
justified on the grounds of potential externalities. However, there is scope to reduce them by seeking
greater beneficiary understanding of primary and secondary benefits and by seeking more cost-effective
technical solutions. To this end, the project would develop a plan of action to reduce unsustainable
subsidies (e.g. artificial insemination, concentrated feed) and to rationalize others (e.g. silvipasture
treatments). For some interventions, more accurate assessment of costs and benefits is needed. To address
these concerns, the project states have submitted a Letter of Development Policy which confirms their
-6-



agreement to a reform program that would constitute the framework for improving the watershed
development programs in each state. Assurances were obtained that the reform program would be
implemented. Assurances were also obtained that the project states would: (i) by March 31, 2000,
increase the share of the beneficiaries' contribution in the cost of livestock breeding to at least 25% of
the total cost of the service as determined by the study on the cost-benefit and willingness to pay; (ii) by
March 31, 2000, establish a level of cost recovery of not less than 50% of the total cost ofproduction for
horticulture, fodder production, and crop improvements in private arable land; and (iii) by February 29,
2000, undertake a study on the costs and benefits of the main project interventions, to be updated on an
annual basis. The findings of the study would be implemented during the project period and would be
reviewed in depth during the MTR.
Maintenance Policy. To ensure sustainability of assets built under the project, assurances were obtained
that project states would: (i) select and improve roads according to criteria and technical standards
agreed with the Bank; (ii) maintain such roads in accordance with an action plan consistent with the
road maintenance policy to be finalized by the project states by March 31, 2000; (iii) ensure that any
land neededfor road improvement, or the roads requiring realignments involving acquisition of
additional lands is provided by local communities voluntarily in accordance with a Memorandum of
Understanding to be signed between the project states and all affected members of the participating
community release the required landfor project activities; and (iv) not commence improvements of roads
in locations where private land is needed until such MOUs have been concluded
Institutional Reforms. The project puts significant emphasis on building local level capacity to manage
and implement project activities. This would involve setting up VDCs and linking them to PRIs. One
viable option would be to make the watershed VDCs a part of the land management sub-committees of
PRIs. This would ensure proper linkage of project activities with the PRIs and sustainability of funding
watershed activities after the project, using PRI resources. The project states would indicate their approach
and the actions required to link the VDCs with PRIs by December 31, 1999. Assurances were obtained
that the project states would carry out activities in accordance with VDPs, enter into a memorandum of
understanding with VDCs andprepare in consultation with the VDCs an operational manualfor
carrying out such activities.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project would treat about 200,000 hectares or 75 sub-watersheds covering 1,920 villages in the five
project states. About 88,000 ha. of arable land and 112,000 ha of non-arable land and forests would be
rehabilitated and protected from further degradation. Overall, a total area of about 500,000 ha would
benefit by project interventions. It is estimated that a population of about one million would benefit
directly from the project of which 10,000 landless families and 5,000 livestock herders would benefit from
activities undertaken by the five states. Greater attention to women's development would be achieved
through increased availability of drinking water, fodder and fuelwood.
Direct project benefits would include increased production of fodder, fuel-wood, grasses, livestock and
milk, and a reduction in floods and in further degradation of lands. Employment would be created in the
rural sector, including transportation and marketing. Benefits from rural infrastructure would be a
reduction in the cost of transportation and improved access to the market and social amenities by the rural
population. Investment in such assets' would contribute to the improvement of income and general quality
of life of the rural population. In the pursuit of sustainability the project would strengthen local capacity to
work with appropriate government institutions and agencies. Additionally, new irrigated areas would
provide farmers with an opportunity to diversify their farming practices towards the production of
-7-



marketable surpluses of higher value horticultural crops. Increased potable water supplies would allow an
intake of 70 liters per person per day with excess water for livestock under the stall feeding, and would
reduce time spent in the collection of water from distant and unreliable sources. Drainage line treatments
would reduce silt loads on water harvesting structures, improve moisture infiltration and contribute to
ground-water recharge, which would lead to reductions in soil loss, protection of vulnerable land and to
increases in land reclaimed for future agricultural use.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Executing Agency (ies). MOA, Governments of Haryana, Himachal Pradesh (H.P.), Jammu and Kashmir
(J&K), Punjab and Uttar Pradesh (U.P.); Watershed Implementation Units in Haryana, H.P., J&K, and
Punjab, and Watershed Directorate in U.P.
Project Implementation Plan. Draft Project Implementation Plans (PIPs) of five states have been revised,
and these clarify implementation arrangements including role of VDCs, and implementation schedules
giving time-bound plans for each project component, for procurement of goods, technical assistance and a
training plan. In addition to PIPs, each village would prepare a Village Development Plan (VDP) reflecting
the participatory rapid appraisal process and village priorities. The VDPs would form the basis for
agreement between the project and VDCs in a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) and an Operational
Manual (OM) of the related MOU. Each project state has submitted three sample VDPs and
corresponding MOUs and OMs during negotiations. Based on VDPs, Annual Action Plans for the project
would be prepared, and would include all project activities. Assurances were obtained that project states
would prepare an Annual Action Plan, agreed and satisfactory to the Bank, by March 31, 2000, and
thereafter by December 31 each year, incorporating recommendations of the studies carried out under
the project.
Project Coordination
Center Level Coordination. At the central level, MOA's Watershed Development Council (WDC) would
act as the coordinator and convener of GOI's overall watershed development policies. The WDC would be
responsible for facilitating and monitoring project implementation. A special Inter-ministerial Coordination
Committee (ICC) has been established to act as a nodal agency for harmonizing GOI policies and
guidelines for watershed development and providing guidance to states in implementing sustainable
watershed development. It consists of representatives of MOA, Ministry of Rural Areas and Employment
(MORAE), Ministry of Environment and Forestry (MOEF), Ministry of Water Resources (MOWR), DEA
and the Planning Commission with MOA as the nodal agency. The ICC would meet periodically as
needed.
State-level Coordination. Overall strategic policy and guidance for the project would be provided by state
level Steering Committees. These committees were established during IWDP-I. In U.P., which did not
participate in IWDP-I, a similar "empowered committee" exists. Membership of each state steering
committee includes Secretaries and Directors of implementing departments, the Director of Research of the
State Agricultural University, MOA and the Project Director. This would remain unchanged, except for
the introduction of representatives of communities, Panchayats and women. In Himachal Pradesh, a
Shivalik Watershed Development Society would be established to coordinate all watershed programs and
function as an umbrella organization for watershed management. The society would have powers to
sanction funds required for the purchase of various inputs and delegate powers to a member Secretary or
any other authority.
-8-



District Level Coordination. At the district level, coordination would be provided by District
Coordination Committee headed by the District Magistrate. These committees would review annual work
programs, project progress and help to resolve implementation problems. With emphasis towards local
institutions such as PRIs and VDCs, it is important that District Committees perform their role effectively.
The membership of District Committees would also include representatives of VDCs, PRIs and women
from sub-watersheds within the district.
Project Management and Implementation
Project Coordination Committee (PCC). A new institutional design feature of IWDP-II is the
establishment of a Project Coordination Committee (PCC) to ensure coordination on all project-related
issues and to harmonize the institutional structures in project states. The PCC was established on February
23, 1999, and consists of Project Directors of five states and their senior technical and financial staff as
required, and representatives of MOA. The Chairperson of the PCC would be selected on a rotational
basis, and the Punjab Project Director has been selected Chairperson for the first year. The role of the
PCC is to provide a forum for Project Directors and their senior staff as well as MOA to exchange views
on technical issues, operational, financial and administrative matters and to share and disseminate
information on best practices. The meetings would be held at least quarterly. The Project Directors
through PCC would prepare project guidelines across five states outlining general approaches to project
implementation and specific details of project management for each state. The guidelines would be
finalized by October 31, 1999.
Implementation Responsibilities. Details of implementation responsibilities are presented in Annex 2. In
order to strengthen project management, the four key coordinators of State Training; Financial
Management; Information Management and Monitoring and Evaluation; and Participatory Development
have been appointed/recruited, and are on board. All implementation units would be adequately equipped
with staff (including participatory staff), resources and functions to carry out the project activities.
Retroactive Financing. Participatory activities as well as training of project staff and other stakeholders in
the participatory planning and implementation started at least six months before implementation.
Retroactive financing of up to SDR7.4 million (US$10.0 million equivalent) would be provided to ensure
that these activities are carried out, starting on March 1, 1999.
Procurement. Procurement would be in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank and in
accordance with the procurement schedule presented in the PIPs are summarized in Annex 6. Standard
procurement documents as already agreed with GOI would be used. Progress with procurement would be
reported in the six-monthly progress reports.
Monitoring and Evaluation. Monitoring and operational learning are a central aspect of this project.
Improving project management and effectiveness is an on-going activity and would be developed over the
course of implementation. Benchmarks to measure this would be agreed at an early stage of
implementation. This process would be conducted through: (a) a baseline survey collected from a variety
of sources; (b) on-going evaluation carried through the staff of the Information Management, Monitoring
and Evaluation (IMME) Unit; and (c) periodic assessments conducted by external evaluators. There would
be periodic monitoring by the beneficiary communities themselves of progress in implementation of
agreements, and in the performance of project staff in facilitating implementation.
Reporting, Mid-term and Completion Reviews. Each project state would be responsible for preparing a
-9-



consolidated six-monthly Progress Report to be submitted not later than June 30 and December 31 of each
year for the preceding six months, in the format agreed with the Bank. The purpose of these reports would
be to provide the Bank and GOI with timely information on project components, highlighting problems in
achieving development objectives. The progress reports would focus on the agreed monitoring indicators.
Assurances were obtained that a mid-term review (MTR) would be held no later than December 31,
2001, and the recommendations of the review would thereafter be implemented no later than March 31,
2002. The review would involve the project states, MOA, VDCs and the Bank. The project states and
MOA would prepare in advance a working paper to facilitate the review. The MTR would establish
progress toward the main project objectives. To this end, the review would focus on the key indicators
presented in Annex 1.
Project Supervision and Completion Report The project would be supervised jointly by Bank staff and
GOI/states at least twice a year. Since the major focus is on ensuring effective participation of
beneficiaries and other stakeholders, the project would also require continuous and thematic supervision, in
addition to normal Bank supervision. The project staff, in particular those responsible for monitoring and
evaluation, would play a key role in these supervision activities.
To ensure adequate monitoring of Jammu and Kashmir State (J&K), an independent agency would be
contracted to monitor this component until such time that security guidelines permit the Bank staff to visit
the state. The agency would be hired on an annual basis. Assurances were obtained that MOA, in
consultation with the Bank and DEA, would engage the independent agency by December 31, 1999.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The experience of watershed development under the IWDP Hills and Plains has shown a highly
cost-effective mechanism for reaching a large number of rural poor and having a large and sustainable
impact on their lives. This is an approach to rural development which deserves growing support, and for
which there is now widespread demand coming from virtually every state in India. To be sustainable,
however, it must involve a high level of stakeholder participation, and this concept is as yet far from being
adequately developed. The project would be the next logical step towards the eventual objective of a
uniform national policy of demand-driven sustainable watershed development. This would be a significant
advance over current practice in which separate ad hoc interventions are implemented (sometimes within
the same districts) with little technical, institutional or financial coordination. The project would aim to use
the Shivalik Watershed Development Strategy as a basis for linking various sources to address watershed
degradation in the Shivaliks.
During the early phase of project preparation, the main options considered for a follow-up project were: (a)
a simple repeater project, focusing on new areas but doing little to solve the problem of fragmented
interventions by multiple agencies; (b) a coordinated approach, based on: (i) coordination of all programs
within specific districts; (ii) coordination state-wide; and (iii) coordination nation-wide. There was little
debate over the need for coordination, and it was established early on that, unless this could be achieved,
there would be little justification for continued Bank involvement. It was also agreed with the state and
GOI authorities that the right approach at this stage would be to use the follow-up project to demonstrate
that effective coordination can be carried out within specific districts and to use this as a model for eventual
full-scale integration of programs at state and national levels. At the same time, MOA has agreed that it
would strengthen the WDC to promote coordination of norms and guidelines nation-wide, concentrating
particularly on the GOI's own extensive funding of watershed development. As for the scope of the
-10-



follow-up project, agreement was reached that there should be an expansion of the targets established under
IWDP-I and that the State of UP would be included, using participatory approach in project design.
On the technical front, changes have also been agreed to enhance sustainability. Some projects are
currently designed to concentrate on mechanical structures for soil conservation, mainly to protect arable
lands in certain villages. This approach concentrates its activities on localized arable areas, dealing with
community or village short-term needs, but not addressing in-situ moisture conservation and control of soil
erosion in non-arable areas in the watershed as a whole. Some of these programs cater for employment
generation during the project life, but their sustainability is linked to available funds, particularly for
operation and maintenance of structures (e.g., check dams, gulley plugs, gabions, etc.). Under the project,
the technical interventions would lead to comprehensive watershed treatment and development, based on
ridge to valley approach.
-11-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
iE i;;V00  ''Setrissue                    Projet     '     j:0 (PR Raings~X 0;t
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed Environmental       Integrated Watershed              S             S
Protection                        Development (Hills)
(Cr.2 100-IN)
Rainfed Areas Watershed        S (ICR)
Development (Cr. 1424-IN)
Kandi Watershed and Area       S (ICR)
Development (Ln. 1 897-IN)
Himalayan Watershed          Marginally
Management (Ln. 2295-IN)    Unsatisfactory
(OED Report)
Drought Prone Areas            S (ICR)
(Cr. 526-IN)
Social Forestry Projects for   S (ICR)
Jammu and Kashmir and
Haryana (Cr. 1286-lN)
National Social Forestry (Cr.    S
161 1 -IN)                  (OED Report)
Other development agencies
- European Community Watershed
Development Program (e.g., U.P.)
- Germany (KFW/NABARD)
- DANIDA
National Watershed Management
Program
- Ministry of Agriculture
- Ministry of Rural Areas and
Employment
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
-12-



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The design of IWDP Hills and Plains was flexible and allowed changes to be introduced at the MTR.
There were substantial changes introduced at the MTR in both projects, and as a result of these changes the
success rating of the projects changed significantly. The most important change in both cases was the
introduction of widespread stakeholder involvement in the selection of activities, choice of location and
implementation. Implementing line departments were given flexibility and authority to carry out project
activities once annual plans had been approved and budgets allocated at the beginning of each fiscal year.
The principle lessons learned from these two projects and from sharing experiences with similar projects
funded by MOA, MORAE, donors and NGOs are:
*   Sustainability: Establishing community based organizations and making them responsible for
identification, planning, implementation and post project operation and maintenance is the only way to
ensure sustainability. To ensure long-term sustainability, the local organizations should also be linked
to local level institutions for operation and maintenance beyond the project.
*   Building/strengthening local organizations: More emphasis should be put on mobilizing
commnunities as a part of project activities. Project funds should flow only after villagers prove that
they can work collectively, otherwise social organization will not be sustained. The best projects are
truly participatory. This enables adoption of "bottom-up" and demand-driven measures and taps the
creativity of local people to develop project innovations.
*   Targeting the Poor: Social organization must address the needs of each interest group (farmers,
landless, women, tribes) to give them an integral stake in the project success. Specific measures are
needed to support the landless poor and other vulnerable groups. Recognition of their role in watershed
development and sustainability should be linked to particular investmnents and proactively involve them
in watershed development.
*   Flexible Project Design: Project design should be flexible and should leave room for the changing
needs and priorities of the communities.
* Comprehensive Development Approach: Watershed activities alone cannot lead to better
development and increases in agricultural productivity. Land-based activities have important, but
limited scope for improving the economies of rainfed areas. The projects should also include
investments in complementary infrastructure (e.g. drinking water, and rural roads), livestock activities,
marketing and sustained institutional capacity.
*  Joint Decision-Making: Local people should jointly decide with project management, not only on the
selection of treatments, but also on the sequencing of watershed activities, revising plans to adjust to
changing conditions and managing the budget to reduce the likelihood of misuse of funds. That
empowers villagers in project design and decision- making.
*   Systematic Monitoring and Evaluation: Systematic monitoring and evaluation are needed to assess
performance and remove bottlenecks. This requires clear monitorable indicators of project performance
and achievement of development objectives.
*  Harmonization of Guidelines: There is need for a common conceptual approach and guidelines for
watershed development. Watershed development programs are being implemented by various central
and state schemes, NGOs, some with assistance from bilateral and multilateral donors, and these
activities are often implemented using different conceptual approaches. There is thus a need to develop
and follow a common conceptual approach and harmonize guidelines.
*   Incentives for scaling up: A strategy for scaling up needs to be based on altering incentive structures
within government line departments.
-13-



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
During the review of completed and on-going watershed projects, the Borrower became increasingly
convinced of the need to enlist stakeholders involvement. Selective reviews also pointed to the lack of
coordination among agencies operating even in the same geographical areas. Sustainability and
replicability of interventions and maintenance of assets created under the projects figured prominently as
issues needing special attention before embarking on new projects. The need to design new approaches to
watershed investment under the 9th plan (1997-2002) gave impetus to MOA and MORAE to develop
alternative watershed strategies. With the Bank playing a catalytic role, several meetings and workshops
were organized to this end. The workshops of November 20, 1997, April 28-30 and May 1-2, 1998 by
MORAE and MOA to address land degradation and rainfed agriculture contributed to clarifying
agricultural development and watershed strategies. In this context MOA expressed its desire for Bank
involvement to augment on-going project achievements and incorporate new strategies to arrest
environmental degradation of the Shivaliks and promote integrated watershed management based on a
participatory approach. Another workshop was held on February 3, 1999, to harmonize guidelines on
watershed project within GOI and between GOI and donor agencies. A parallel dialogue between MORAE
and the Bank is being pursued to address communities' development needs and Panchayats' involvement.
Borrower commitment is also seen in the recent budget speech of February 27, 1999, when the GOI's
Minister of Finance stated that, "it is important to unify the multiplicity of watershed development
programs within the framework of a single national initiative - a National Movement of Watershed
Development that fosters implementation ability at the local level and creates community infrastructure for
micro-watershed projects through active involvement of Gram Panchayats, Local Self-Help Groups and
NGOs. For this, a Watershed Development Fund will be established with NABARD to cover 100 priority
districts within 3 years. This will create income generating opportunities for the landless and the poor;
especially those belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes."
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has extensive international experience with watershed protection and management of the
degraded rainfed areas, e.g., China and Turkey. It has also accumulated extensive experience in India,
working with GOI and state authorities to adapt approaches to watershed development. It is now in a
leading position to act as a catalyst for other donors and to make a major impact on the program
nation-wide.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
* Cost-Benefit Analysis:   NPV=US$73.5 million; ERR = 17 %
O Cost Effectiveness Analysis
O Other
Annex 4 gives the economic analysis for the project and is backed by detailed tables in the PIP and in the
Project File. The ERRs should be taken as only indicative as some of the indirect benefits have not been
quantified. The overall economic rate of return for the project is estimated at 17%. This is highly
acceptable for this type of project, that aims primarily at long-term productive benefits arising from
planned environmental impact. The overall ERR is also quite robust. It would fall to 12% only if the
benefits were reduced by 30%, or costs increased by 42%, or if accrued benefits lagged by three years.
Assuming that benefits were to drop by 10% and costs were to increase by 10% simultaneously, the ERR
-14-



would fall to 14%. However, if benefits fell by 20% and, costs increased by 20%, the ERR would drop
further to about 11%, below the 12% opportunity cost of capital.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=US$ million; FRR = %
Crop models have been prepared to assess the impact on crop yields and on model farm income. Four crop
models - maize, wheat, pulses and gram - have been prepared for use in the analysis. It is assumed that the
cropping intensity in rainfed areas would increase from 140% to 147%. For supplementary irrigation areas
(maize, wheat, pulses, gram, paddy, onion and brinjal) an increase from the existing rainfed rate of 140%
to 170% has been assumed. In horticulture (mainly guava, mango, citrus, ber, pear), one ha. crop models
for mango and guava have been formulated as representatives of fruit trees. The financial rates of return
(FRRs) have been estimated at 40% and 39% respectively for the guava and mango models. On farm
forestry, the FRRs have been estimated at 36% and 16% respectively for the poplar and eucalyptus models.
The project also supports afforestation in two main areas: (a) non arable land (private and communal) and
(b) forest land (public). The FRRs have been estimated at 16% and 17% for the afforestation/private and
bamboo models, and 19% for afforestation in public land.
Farm Models. Although average farm size varies from state to state, the majority of farms fall within the
range of one or two hectares. An average size of 1.2 ha. farm household has been assumed to illustrate the
financial impact of the project on farm income. Two types of farm income have been considered: (a) farms
cultivating only rainfed crops; and (b) farms with rainfed crops and supplementary irrigation. The major
income included in both models is from crops and livestock. In reality, farmers would receive other
financial benefits such as fuelwood, fodder and fruit trees. These benefits have not been included as they
are either difficult to quantify or are long-term benefits. The total net incomes per household would
increase by about 49% from Rs.7,700 to Rs. 11,450 over seven years. Income from livestock is quite
significant, and represents about 27% of the total. With irrigation, the farm household would increase its
income by about 64% from an average of Rs.7,700 to Rs.12,500 over seven years.
Fiscal Impact:
The total incremental recurrent costs of the project in five states over five years have been estimated at
US$30.7 million, of which US$25.8 million are for staff salaries and allowances and US$4.9 million for
various O&M expenses. In the long run, the negative fiscal impact on the states would be partially offset
by positive impacts generated by: (a) reducing subsidies in the project area; (b) increased tax revenues; (c)
reduction in compensation of floods and landslide damages due to protection measures supported under the
project; and (d) increased beneficiary contributions.
3. Technical:
The most appropriate vegetative technology for watershed protection and management has been identified
and practiced successfully by integrated watershed projects. However, the use of vetiver grass was
perceived to be a Bank-driven technology. This perception was remedied following the MTR for both
IWDP projects. Emphasis on locally available grasses and indigenous technology is the prime criterion for
vegetative measures. The technology is cost effective and easy to replicate and sustain. The technology
reduces soil loss from erosion, increases crop yields, expands cropped area and introduces new crops (fruits
and vegetables). It also increases availability of fuel-wood, fodder and timber, and increases milk
production in treated watersheds. The project would apply this technology on a wide scale in combination
with mechanical measures.
-15-



The promotion of horticultural crops would be approached carefully given the marketing constraints and
the socio-economic implications in the selection of beneficiaries. Horticultural marketing studies,
particularly for fruits (e.g., apples, guava and mangoes), vegetables (potatoes) and floriculture crops would
be initiated to identify suitable project production areas and marketing infrastructure needs. Private sector
involvement would be maximized and rationalization of subsidies to orchards and nurseries would be
examined and phased on a declining basis.
Research on suitable farming systems and crops/fodder livestock interaction would be accorded high
priority. Experience of on-going programs by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and
related Institution Village Linkage Programs (IVLP) would be adopted as appropriate. Researchers would
be encouraged to address watershed research and development problems by submitting proposals under
competitive grant schemes using similar criteria to those established for recently approved projects (NATP
and UP-DASP).
Water harvesting and drinking water supply would implement technologies developed and tested under the
on-going projects. However, the experience from other Bank-supported rural water supply projects has
been also evaluated in the context of the watershed areas. Involvement of stakeholders in planning,
implementation and operation and maintenance would build upon approaches now being applied in the U.P.
Rural Water Supply Project (Ln.4056-lN).
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: Responsibility for project execution would be with the established project
implementation units in all participating states. These units are well staffed and monitoring and evaluation
systems are in place, including equipment and trained manpower to use and maintain them. Most of the
PIUs are housed in offices constructed for the on-going projects. In the case of Uttar Pradesh, office
facilities were created under an earlier Bank supported project (Himalayan Watershed Management
Project, LN 2295-IN). The project would build on the existing capacity in the five project states. The
project would enhance integration of line departments to benefit from synergy and effectiveness. MOA
would play a facilitating role and coordinate the national and state approach to watershed development
through its WDC and the ICC. The PCC would play an important coordinating role in project
implementation and monitoring and evaluation activities.
VDCs would be strongly encouraged to play an active part in project execution and act as executing
agencies. However, to receive project funds, VDCs would be required to establish a satisfactory financial
management system, and the funds would be open for social audit. NGOs would be hired to facilitate the
community mobilization process as well as train the project staff and beneficiaries in the community
participation. Assurances were obtained that project states would select NGOs in accordance with
procedures and criteria agreed with the Bank.
b. Project management:
Project Financial Management (see Annex 6): A financial management system for the project would be
developed and documented in a Project Financial Management Manual. Key actions relating to financial
management to be completed before the start of the project are: (a) appointment of financial management
technical support consultants who would provide qualified financial professionals to support the operation
of the financial management system and training of project staff. This arrangement is very important,
given the absence of qualified financial project staff and the lack of arrangements for initial orientation and
training of project staff on the improved financial management system (other than in Punjab state); (b)
design of the project financial management system i.e., development and adoption of the Financial
-16-



Management Manual for the project including all necessary approvals; (c) computerization of the financial
management system; (d) procurement and installation of the computer hardware (including operating and
application software) required for the fnancial management system; and (e) appointment of project
auditors - a firm of chartered accountants. Assurances were obtained that each project state and WDC
would prepare and adopt a satisfactory Financial Management Manualfor the project not later than
October 31, 1999. Assurances were also obtained that the states and WDC would: (i) by March 31,
2000, successfully develop, and thereafter maintain for the duration of the project, a computerized
financial management system for the project; (ii) by January 31, 2000, engage financial management
consultants, with TORs and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank, to provide operational supportfor
the project financial management system and training services and thereafter maintain that until March
31, 2002; and (iii) by January 31, 2000, employ afirm of Chartered Accountants, with TORS and
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank to review the overall operation of the financial management
system of the project. WDC may use the services of the firm engaged by one of the project states or use
qualified in-house personnel.
Disbursements from the Loan/Credit would not be initially made on the basis of Project Management
Reports (PMRs), but will be made using existing transaction-based disbursement procedures
(reimbursements with full documentation or against Statements of Expenditure, and direct payments).
However, from the beginning of the project, the project financial management system would be operated,
and quarterly PMRs would be produced. Disbursements would be converted to the PMR-based method
after the satisfactory operation of the improved financial management system has been demonstrated. The
target date for this conversion would be April 1, 2001.
5. Social:
While the project would focus on the most degraded watersheds in the Shivalik Hills and, thus, on some of
the poorest populations in India, the project would aim to ensure that benefit streams reach the more
marginalized and vulnerable elements of those populations. These include those who subsist on the most
marginal of resources, as well as women, whose role in overall livelihood strategies is not adequately
recognized. Specific attempts to include such populations would be one aspect of the negotiations which
precede the finalization of the Village Plans and the MOUs to be signed between beneficiaries and project
authorities. Specifically, attention would be given to the inclusion of women, landless and transhumant and
pastoral communities in the project benefits. To this end, an initial assessment of the movement of
transhumant pastrolists through the project area, and of the villages to be taken up under the first year's
program is being undertaken to address their needs and interests. Assurances were obtained that a
Project Tribal Development Plan, acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with a framework agreed
with the Bank, would be prepared to address the needs and interests of the tribal and nomadic
populations within the project areas. This would be a condition for disbursements for the areas inhabited
by tribal communities and nomads in the project area.
Further social assessments of the villages to be taken up in subsequent years of the project would be carried
out during project implementation, as PRA exercises are undertaken and VDPs developed. These social
assessments would provide the basic information requirements and an initial understanding of the scope of
future work. But the project would require on-going social assessments from all villages identified for
treatment and upgrading. An initial planning period of six to twelve months for each micro-watershed
would provide the time for building community ownership, for the development of the local watershed
committees, and for the participatory elaboration of agreed implementation plans. On-going monitoring and
evaluation activities throughout the life of the project would ensure informed involvement of beneficiaries
in a learning exercise which would aim to build partnerships between the implementing agencies, the
-17-



community watershed committees and the local elected bodies. In doing so the project would provide a
platform for learning about how best these different sets of stakeholders can develop more sustainable and
integrated working relationships. In subsequent years, as the project officers gain more competence with
participatory methods, the detailed social assessments of those micro-watersheds to be taken up on a rolling
basis would be built into the planning exercise.
6. Environmental assessment:             Environment Category D A C C
1B     FI
The project has been classified as Category B, as there are no negative impacts that could arise from its
activities. The project is expected to have a distinctly positive overall environmental impact since its
objectives and proposed design are intended to help alleviate one of India's most serious ecological problem.
The project would treat and thereafter protect the environment of the entire Shivaliks from further
degradation. Vegetative cover treatments supported under the project and the innovative management
system of common lands, which involves beneficiaries, would enhance the supply situation of fodder,
fuelwood and food crops without causing damage to the environment.
The rural infrastructure component (roads, market centers, water harvesting structures and potable
drinking water facilities) would not affect the environment negatively because only existing infrastructure
would be rehabilitated and upgraded. Improving these roads is expected to minimize soil erosion with
proper design and appropriate drainage. A Regional Environmental Assessment (REA) was undertaken for
the project to establish the present situation in the Shivalik belt of the five project states. The primary
objective of the REA was to develop an analytical framework (including screening criteria, information
requirements, further analysis requirements, etc.) that is sufficiently upstream in the project cycle that the
project design can be influenced to better address environmental concerns in the design, implementation,
monitoring and evaluation of the project.
This is the first REA conducted for a Bank project in India. The REA provides a good spatial description
of the regional environmental and social setting, institutional issues, and lessons from previous and
on-going projects, analyzes project alternatives and examines project activities with respect to both
potential benefits and concerns. The REA has outlined a detailed Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
for the project along with a monitoring and evaluation strategy for environmental indicators and
recommendations for future work. It is a framework document to ensure that as environmental
consideration would be mainstreamed into all phases of the project - including component design and
implementation (training, participatory process, proposed Information Management, Monitoring and
Evaluation). There were extensive consultations in the region, and a workshop was held on January 29,
1999, to discuss the REA findings with representatives of MOA, project states and the Bank. The REA
summary is included in Annex 12.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Impact on Women
Some gender analysis was undertaken in the indicative planning stages. More detailed gender analysis
would be an integral part of the planning process for each of the micro-watersheds and specific ways of
incorporating the interests of women would be developed during the course of implementation. To
complement this, a study would be carried out during the first year of project implementation to review
-18-



income generating options for women to develop viable long-term activities. A study would be completed
by December 31, 1999, and results of the study would be incorporated in the Annual Implementation
Plans/VDPs. Support that is being proposed under the project would benefit women through greater access
to resources, technical know-how and opportunities for jobs.
Child Labor
The project would support a number of initiatives that would ensure that child labor does not emerge in any
project activities. With potable rural water supply schemes in the neighborhood, rural roads improvement
programs and the creation of training halls in the villages, children would be freed from drudgery and
encouraged to attend school.
Impact on Tribes
Specific attention will being given to the inclusion of transhumant and pastoral communities in the project
benefits. To this end, an initial assessment of the movement of transhumant pastrolists through the project
area is being carried out to address their needs and interests. Assurances were obtained that a Project
Tribal Development Plan, acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with a framework agreed with the
Bank, would be prepared to address the needs and interests of the tribal and nomadic populations within
the project areas. This would be a condition for disbursements for the areas inhabited by tribal
communities and nomads in the project area
b. Other key stakeholders:
In addition to village communities, other stakeholders include local level institutions (such as PRIs),
implementing agencies, line agencies, state governments and GOI/MOA. As watershed committees,
implementation plans and MOUs are developed in each of the watersheds, the levels of participation are
expected to rise appreciably. An initial explanation of the ways in which the project is to be developed
would be instituted for two-way and continuous information sharing and for consultation on ways forward
with each of the communities. Shared control over decision-making is seen as a key indicator of success
and the eventual empowerment of communities to take responsibility for upgrading watersheds is a key goal
of the projects.
-19-



F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability would be addressed as follows: (a) institutional sustainability - proactive participatory
involvement of communities during project preparation would foster ownership and accountability in the
local community. Similarly linking the community based organizations/VDCs to the PRIs would enhance
institutional sustainability; (b) financial sustainability - early clarification of benefit/cost-sharing and
gradual phasing out of subsidies would ensure appropriate maintenance of assets created by the project and
generate revenues for the VDCs and the states. The establishment of Village Accounts by VDCs has shown
in earlier projects to improve sustainability through better maintenance of created assets; (c) social
sustainability - inclusion of stakeholders in all phases of project processing; and especially inclusion of
vulnerable and marginalized groups in the benefit sharing would ensure social sustainability; and (d)
technical sustainability - the use of indigenous technologies and selection of suitable grasses is a prime
factor in gaining acceptance by beneficiaries to technical interventions and in project sustainability. Since
sustainability of watershed interventions is not a short-term effort, periodic involvement of the public sector
to provide technical backstopping and selected interventions would be envisaged and planned for under the
project. Close monitoring of progress and evaluation of results would ensure sustainability of above
aspects. However, at the same time, this innovative participatory approach presents potential for risks as
it is a time-consuming process and it has to identify, assess and adjust needs and demands of all
stakeholders concerned. Although the project provides support for institutional strengthening, there is a
risk that this process might substantially delay project implementation as well as reduce its scope.
-20-



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                  Risk Rating       Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Sustainability risk.                     M        Sustainability is dependent on
maintenance and improvement of
project assets following project
completion. Clarifying public and
private sector roles is an important
factor in ensuring sustainability.
Similarly, viability of the users' groups
village fund mechanism would be
carefully integrated in project activities.
Concrete measures are also being taken
to link VDCs formally to the PRIs so
that VDCs and PRIs take jointly
responsibility of maintenance and
operation of assets beyond project
period.
Lack of coordination of funding from     M        Participating state governments to
central and state resources.                      include adequate funds from all sources
in the Shivalik Watershed Strategy to
support annual work plans.
Implementation delays of policy          M        Advanced discussions have taken place
changes related to subsidies.                     with project state governments and
assurances were obtained to confirm
agreements to implement the policy
changes.
Inadequate cost-sharing arrangements     M         The concept of cost-sharing has been
with beneficiaries.                               tested and succeeded under IWDP-I .
Experience from other projects, and use
of NGOs would be included in the
proposed approach. Early involvement
of stakeholders would mitigate this risk.
From Components to Outputs
Inadequate capacity to form effective    M        Local NGOs and trained staff would be
users groups to implement and maintain            involved in facilitating the formation of
the project.                                       users groups. Already in most parts of
the project states, community groups
concept has been accepted. The concept
would be extended to U.P. where the
European Community project has
already successfully used the concept.
-21-



Lack of coordination and integration of    S        The Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
line departments in the state.                      in each state would be required to
initiate a formal collaboration between
line departments and request
redeployment of needed staff. A strong
monitoring team would ensure
collaboration as all line departments
would be represented in the PIU. A
strong emphasis on information and
knowledge management should also
assist in coordination of watershed
activities. Training and re-orientation of
staff to ensure a shift from
implementation to facilitation role has
been incorporated in the project design.
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
None
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
(a) Disbursement
No withdrawal would be made in respect of expenditures in the areas inhabited by tribal communities and
nomads until VDPs incorporating a project tribal development plan, satisfactory to the Bank, has been
prepared in accordance with the provisions of Operational Directive 4.20 of the Bank.
(b) Other Assurances
(i)  Project states to prepare not later than March 31, 2000, and thereafter not later than December 31 of
each year, an Annual Action Plan for implementation of the project activities, acceptable to the Bank,
and to incorporate recommendations of the studies carried out under the Project.
(ii) Project states to ensure that project activities are carried out in accordance with VDPs and that VDPs
are developed in a participatory manner. Project states to enter into MOUs with VDCs for carrying
out such VDPs, and prepare in consultation with the VDCs an operational manual for carrying out
such project activities.
(iii) As part of each of the VDPs, each of the project states would prepare a Project Tribal Development
-22-



Plan, acceptable to the Bank, and in accordance with a policy framework agreed with the Bank, for
the areas inhabited by tribal communities and nomads in the project area.
(iv) For the purpose of assisting in carrying out the participatory aspects, project states to ensure that
NGOs are selected in accordance with procedures and criteria agreed with the Bank.
(v) Project states to increase by March 3 1, 2000, the share of the beneficiary contribution in the cost of
livestock breeding to at least 25% of the total cost of the service as determined by the study on the
cost-benefit and willingness to pay.
(vi) Project states to establish by March 31, 2000, a level of cost recovery of not less than 50% of the total
cost of production for horticulture, fodder production, and crop improvements in private arable land.
(vii) Project states to carry out a study on costs and benefits of the main project interventions by February
29, 2000, and to update such a study annually and reflect its recommendations in the annual action
plans.
(viii) A project mid-term review would be held by project states/MOA no later than December 31, 2001;
and discussed with the Bank no later than March 31, 2002.
(ix) MOA to ensure that an independent agency, satisfactory to the Bank, would be engaged by December
31, 1999, on an annual basis, to undertake the monitoring of Jammu and Kashmir component, and
continue to engage such agency annually until such time agreed upon with the Bank.
(x) With regards to the rural roads to be financed under the project, project states would: (i) select and
improve roads according to criteria and technical standards agreed with the Bank; (ii) maintain such
roads in accordance with an action plan consistent with the road maintenance policy to be finalized by
the project states by March 31, 2000; (iii) ensure that any land needed for road improvement, or the
roads requiring realignments involving acquisition of additional lands is provided by local
communities voluntarily in accordance with a Memorandum of Understanding to be signed between
the project states and all affected members of the participating community release the required land
for project activities; and (iv) not commence improvements of roads in locations where private land is
needed until such MOUs have been concluded.
(xi) All states and WDC shall prepare and adopt a satisfactory financial management system for the
project comprising: (i) preparation and adoption of a project Financial Management Manual by
October 31, 1999, and (ii) development and installation of a computerized financial management
system, both satisfactory to the Bank; and satisfactorily operate the system during the duration of the
project by March 31, 2000;
(xii) All states and WDC shall engage not later than January 31, 2000, and maintain thereafter until March
31, 2002, financial management consultants, with terms of reference and qualifications satisfactory to
the Bank, to provide operational support for the project financial management system and training
services.
(xiii) All states and WDC shall engage not later than January 31, 2000, and maintain for the duration of
the project, a firm of Chartered Accountants with terms of reference and qualifications satisfactory to
the Bank, for providing support for reviewing the overall operation of the financial management
system of the project.
-23-



H. Readiness for Implementation
12 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project irnplementation.
O 1. b) Not applicable.
X 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The financial management system for the project is being developed; and is expected to be completed by
March 31, 2000.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
/+   A   6      \   b   ~     *       _   ___                           _   _    _   _   _    _   _
Ridwan Ali                       Edwin R. Lim
Task Leaders                      Sector Manager/Director       4Country Manager/Director
-24-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
INDIA: Integrated Watershed Development (Hills-l1) Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Sustainable agriculture   Increased contribution of  Reports provided by        Policies conducive to growth
growth with better         agriculture to economic    GOIIMOA.                   are in place.
management of land and     growth.
water resources.
Project Development        Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
The project development    1.1 Reduced soil erosion.  Observation and measurement Undertaking a Shivalik
objective is to improve the                           silt observation posts and soil Watershed Development
productive potential of the    1.2 Increased level of ground  moisture.          Strategy for each state.
Project area in the five   water.
participating states using                            Monitoring of groundwater   Streamlining of watershed
evolving cost effective    1.3 Increased surface water   level through observation  guidelines and norms.
watershed treatment        supply.                    wells.
technologies and community                                                       Assessment of needed
participation approaches. The 1.4 Increased household  Remote sensing survey of  marketing infrastructure to
Secondary objective is to assist income.             treated watersheds.         propel diversification.
the project states with
institutional development and  1.5 Increased crop yield.  Progress reports by    Timely availability of
consolidate progress made                             independent monitoring     supporting services (e.g.,
under various programs.    1.6 Increased cropping     agencies.                  technology dissemination line
intensity.                                            departments).
Review reports of
1.7 Increased milk production. implementing agencies from
each state.
1.8 Increased level of
community participation.   Evaluation by the MOA's
Central Watershed
Development Council.
Participatory Monitoring
Reports of VDCs.
-25-



Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
. 1. Institutions Improved    l.A. 1 VDCs established and  Baseline surveys, annual  The communities are willing
1 .A. Local Communities   VDPs agreed.               surveys, mid-term review and to take responsibility on
empowered to manage local                            completion reports; and    maintenance and
natural resources and joint    1 .A.2 VDCs representation of Bank review missions.  improvement of projects assets
forest management plans   women, landless, tribes; and                          following project completion.
incorporated into VDPs.   resolution of problems     VDC Minutes and Proceeding
through participation.    Books.
There is adequate cost-sharing
1.A.3 Beneficiaries/VDCs    Participatory Monitoring  arrangements with
trained in project activities    Reports of VDCs.    beneficiaries.
and financial management.
Community groups would be
1.A.4. Village Accounts                              formed expeditiously.
established and open for social
audit.
1.A.5. Community members
contribution to the Village
Account.
1.A.6. Number of VDCs
formally linked to PRIs.
I.B. Public agency capacity    1 .B. 1 Staff trained in social  Report from independent  Smooth coordination between
irnproved to better support   interaction with beneficiaries. monitoring agencies  line departments would be
community groups.                                    preferably SAUs in the     ensured.
1 .B.2 Technology adopted by  participating states.
farmers against technology                           There are no implementation
disseminated.                                        delays of policy changes
related to subsidies.
I .B.3 Percent of farmers using
improved planting stock and                          Agricultural service and
number of nurseries.                                 research would be available.
1 .B.4 Beneficiary willingness                       Road maintenance policy to be
to contribute to cost of project                     operational.
activities and their
maintenance.                                         Smooth coordination between
implementing agencies and
1.B.5 Reduced beneficiary                            community groups .
dependence on outside support
for program activities.                               Monitoring and evaluation
capacity is adequate by project
1 .B.6 IMME Unit established  Reports of IT consultants.    implementing agencies.
and functioning.
Reports of Training
Coordinators and training
feedback.
-26-



2. Seventy-five Watersheds                           Report from independent
Treated and Developed.                               monitoring agencies
preferably SAUs in the
participating states.
Bank review missions and
reports from MOA and
Implementing agencies.
2.A. Soil conservation    2.A. I An estimated 200,000   Reports/studies on Soils,
measures implemented within ha of degraded land      Water and other
75 sub-watersheds.        rehabilitated and brought to  environmental parameters.
production.
2.A.2 Production of crops
increased in the watershed
areas.
2.A.3 Increased market value
for land.
2.A.4 Increased ground cover,
biomass and biodiversity.
2.A.5 Soil structure improved
(more organic matter/humus).
2.B.Crop, livestock and forest 2.B. 1. Number of improved
improvement program       cattle and buffaloes increased,
implemented.              and local, unproductive cattle
and buffaloes decreased.
2.B.2. Number of stall fed
cattle and buffaloes increased.
2 B.3. Number of Al and basic
vet. treatments of para-vets
increased, and degree of cost
recovery improved and
conception rate of AI
increased.
2.B.4 Increased milk
production.
2.B.5 Wheat, maize, pulses
and paddy production
increased.
2.B.6 Number of fruit trees
increased and share of
seedlings from private
nurseries improved.
-27-



2.C. Rural infrastructure in    2.C.I About 1000 km of     Progress reports on length of
75 watershed rehabilitated to  upgraded rural roads (year    road upgraded;
improve/upgrade access to    wise targets).                villages connected to roads;
potential production and                                   increased traffic on upgraded
marketing areas and storage   2.C.2 Increased flow of      roads.
facilities, and improve      commodities to markets.
drinking and irrigation                                    Reduction in spoilage of
facilities.                                                commodity in transit.
Market surveys.
Bank review missions.
-28-



Hierarch ofObjectihes  :         niatr t         ;--    orin -& Evaluation.   CrIlal Au              --I
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
Institutional Strengthening    US$53.8 million       Project Implementation Plans, Participating states would
-Beneficiaries' capacity                            annual work plans and      make available adequate and
building                                             Quarterly progress and   timely counterpart funds to
-Income Generation for                               disbursement reports, Project implementing agencies.
Women                                               Implementation Plans, annual
-Policy Reforms, Studies                             work plans and Quarterly  These governments agree to
and human resource                                  progress and disbursement   transfer responsibility for
development                                         reports.                  maintenance of assets created
- Information management                                                       under the project to
and monitoring and                                                            beneficiaries.
evaluation
-Support to Project
management and
coordination
Adequate capacity to form
Watershed Protections and   US$139.2 million                                   effective user groups to
Development                                                                    implement and maintain the
-watershed treatments                                                          project is ensured.
-Fodder and livestock
development
--rural Infrastructure
-29-



Annex 2: Project Description
INDIA: Integrated Watershed Development (Hills-Il) Project
The main development objective of the project is to improve the productive potential of the project area in
five states (Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir and Uttar Pradesh), using evolving
watershed treatment technologies and comrnunity participatory approaches. The project would contribute
significantly to decreasing soil erosion, increasing water availability and alleviating poverty in the
contiguous areas of the Shivalik hills in the five project states. Sustainability of project interventions would
be ensured through participatory involvement of project stakeholders/beneficiaries. An associated objective
is to assist the states with institutional development and consolidate progress already made in harmonizing
approaches to watershed development management among various programs operating in the Shivalik
Hills.
The project is designed to address one of India's serious environmental problems, such as watershed
degradation. Building on the experience gained under previous and on-going projects associated with
resource conservation and watershed management, the five year project would help finance remedial
programs in the ecologically fragile, agro-economic rainfed zones. The Shivaliks, which lie in the foothills
of the Himalayan range, have been identified as one of the eight most degraded rainfed agro-ecosystems of
the country and hence included in the priority areas for watershed development. Despite an average rainfall
of 1000-1500 mm, there are acute shortages of drinking water, fodder and fuel-wood, caused by
deforestation, decreased vegetative cover and severe soil erosion. Subsistence rainfed agriculture is the
prevalent production system in the Shivaliks. Reversing the degradation of natural resources is the key to
promoting rural development. The proposed project would consolidate progress already made in four states
(Punjab, Haryana, Jammu & Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh) under the recently completed Integrated
Watershed Development Hills Project (IWDP Hills-I).
The project design recognizes the need for policy and institutional arrangements that will ensure long-term
sustainability. For that purpose, the project calls for a Shivalik Watershed Development Strategy for the
five states. The strategy would harmonize watershed development guidelines across states. In each state,
the Shivalik Watershed Development Strategy would be the basis for project interventions and would link
watershed activities to the several centrally sponsored schemes, state and donor interventions.
A "bottom-up" approach is an integral part of the proposed project design and would involve all
stakeholders during project planning and implementation. The project would place special emphasis on
building the capacity of communities to take responsibility for maintaining assets created under the project.
Mechanisms would be developed to link community-based organizations to the Panchayati Raj Institutions
(PRIs) so that PRIs and the communities jointly take responsibility for managing these assets.
The project design would be adjusted in size and scope to take into account the results of the Watershed
Development strategy, social assessments and participatory rapid appraisals reflecting community
priorities. These changes would be reflected in the annual implementation plans and in annual state
budgets. The participatory approach, which is the cornerstone for project implementation and
sustainability, is a proactive interactive process with an outcome that cannot be pre-determined without
being undertaken. Therefore, the project design is based on learning and evaluation nature; and continuous
dialogue with beneficiaries/stakeholders and project staff is essential to adopting meaningful project
interventions. Thus, the project costs and interventions are indicative and are subject to revisions during the
participatory planning stage.
-30-



By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$139.2 million
Watershed Protection and Development
The objective of the component is to: (a) promote proven locally adopted vegetative technologies and
mechanical structures through active participation of beneficiaries to conserve water and reduce soil
erosion; (b) consolidate achievements of the first project (IWDP-I) and use its interventions to demonstrate
and train beneficiaries in newly covered areas using appropriate farming systems (crops and livestock); (c)
improve rural infrastructure particularly upgrading of existing rural roads to facilitate the marketing of
increased agricultural production (rural roads and markets) and water harvesting structures for irrigation;
and (d) promote diversification to high value commodities, such as horticulture and milk production.
The area to be treated includes 75 sub-watersheds equivalent to 200,000 ha of degraded land in the five
project states out of a total area of 522,000 ha. The selection of the sub-watersheds was based on the
seriousness of degradation using erosion classifications provided by the All India Soil and Land Survey. To
avoid duplication of effort, sub-watersheds being treated through other programs have been excluded. The
project states have issued letters to this effect. Also, the demonstrated capacity for implementation of the
project helped to determine the area to be covered in a particular state. The Watershed Development and
Protection component would include the following subcomponents: (i) watershed treatment; (ii) fodder and
livestock development; and (iii) rural infrastructure development.
(i) Sub-watershed Treatment (US$94.3 including contingencies): IWDP-I has successfully demonstrated
a range of activities that are appropriate and technically effective. Some of the original assumptions
regarding across-slope vegetative barriers have not proven to be as successful as was anticipated, but
alternatives have evolved. The experience so far provides a good basis for the second phase. However,
since the project places greater emphasis on the participatory planning and implementation, VDCs would
play an important role in the selection of activities and treatments in a particular area.
Vegetative barriers/field boundaries. For the arable lands, vegetative barriers/field boundaries would be
continued. However, the main emphasis would be on placing across-slope vegetative barriers and V ditches
along field boundaries to intercept surface run-off and allow soil to accumulate behind the barriers. The
soil and moisture conservation impact would be greater if the barriers were placed more accurately along
the contour.
Terrace repair and vegetative reinforcement. Much of the arable areas are terraced to some extent, but the
terraces are often in disrepair. The project would provide assistance to repair these terraces, and reinforce
them against future damage by planting a vegetative barrier along the front edge.
Improved cropping systems. Demonstrations would promote the adoption of recommended agronomic
practices including appropriate tillage to ensure moisture conservation, and the use of improved varieties,
seed treatment, and the balanced use of fertilizer and pesticides. Because crop inputs are provided on a
subsidy basis as an incentive for beneficiaries to participate in project activities, farmers should only
benefit from the inputs for one demonstration covering a maximum area of 0.5 ha.
Horticulture. Fruit trees have considerable potential in the project area, both as a perennial crop to replace
-31-



annual cropping on marginal arable areas, and also as a valuable enterprise in better arable areas. The long
gestation period for fruit trees to come into production is a disadvantage, but in the initial years crop
cultivation can continue between the trees. Cost sharing arrangements have been agreed with the project
states.
Agro-forestry. The availability of adequate quantities of fuelwood and timber for construction purposes is
a problem in most project sub-watersheds. Fuelwood and timber supply can be partially improved by the
promotion of small woodlots and tree planting along farm boundaries. The promotion of higher value
timber crops such as Poplar has potential in some project areas. Also in this case, cost sharing
arrangements have been agreed with the project states.
On-farm fodder production. Demonstrations would be supported to promote the production of high value
fodder crops to encourage stall-feeding. The objective of on-farm fodder production is to reduce the
pressure on traditional grazing areas.
Non-Arable Lands. Vegetative/shrub barriers in contour trenches would continue to be supported and
would reduce soil erosion and improve water retention. This is a lower cost treatment to be applied on more
seriously degraded areas on all tenure categories with the objective of reducing surface run-off, increasing
moisture infiltration, and trapping soil sediments. This treatment would include a small cross-section
v-ditch reinforced with indigenous shrubs and grasses which will intercept and reduce run-off.
Pasture development. Currently many village common and privately owned non-arable lands are used
primarily for pasture, however these areas are often overgrazed with low productivity. This treatment
would focus on improving degraded private and communal grazing areas by removing noxious weeds such
as Lantana and establishing improved pasture species in conjunction with the introduction of communally
acceptable arrangements for protection and sustainable exploitation of these areas.
Silvi-pasture. This treatment would be implemented on a similar basis as the afforestation activities and
would apply in areas where the demand from local village communities is for a mixture of fodder and
fuelwood products from the non-arable areas. The treatment would involve planting lower tree densities
with a corresponding increase in the proportion of shrub and grass species to meet fodder requirements.
Forest regeneration. This would include rehabilitation of natural forest on non arable government, common
and private lands, particularly on the unstable slopes of the Shivaliks to improve the soil and moisture
conditions of the entire microwatershed and to increase the production of fodder, fuelwood, and other forest
produce for local consumption. The forestry investments would be based on a site specific plan for the
treatment and management of the site planned together with the VDC. The planning would be guided by
basic watershed and silviculture principles, but all decisions on treatments, product focus (e.g. species
choice), and management practices (e.g. managing grazing) would be made by the VDC. This plan would
form part of the VDP and would describe the required treatments, responsibilities for forest protection and
management and benefit and cost sharing arrangements for the particular site and VDC. Treatments would
promote natural regeneration of the forest, through soil and conservation works, especially along contours
of steep slopes, protection of the natural regeneration from unmanaged hacking, fire and grazing and
through the treatment of coppice growth from roots and stumps (see Staff Assessment # 1). In large
"blank" areas where the prospects for regeneration are poor, treatment would include planting at various
densities depending on the site requirements and VDC management choices. In the treatment plans
emphasis would be placed on techniques to increase the productivity of Non-wood Forest Products
(NWFPs) which could provide a short term source of income for the poorest in the VDC rather than relying
solely on the long duration products such as timber. Cost sharing arrangements would vary depending on
-32-



land tenure with the greatest beneficiary contribution on private non-arable areas, and the least in
government forests. In all cases local communities would take full responsibility for protection.
(ii) Fodder and Livestoek Development (US$18.0 million including contingencies). The objective of the
fodder and livestock development component is to reduce livestock pressure on the fragile lands by scaling
down the extent of open grazing and to improve the contribution of the animal husbandry sector to better
natural resource management in 75 watersheds in the project area. This would be achieved through the
introduction of proven fodder and animal husbandry technologies and would be supported by policy
changes. The major contribution would be to improve the quantity of milk produced and also the
conversion efficiency from grass and forage to milk. Milk production of local cattle and buffalo is low, the
calving interval is longer and they reach maturity later than improved breeds. Improving the nutritional
level of the local breeds to increase milk production may only be marginally successful because the genetic
potential for milk production is low. Therefore breed improvement is a major component of livestock and
forage development. The returns from forage development are much greater when improved breeds are
used. Negative aspects of using improved breeds are the tendencies for a greater susceptibility to disease
and environmental stress and the need for continuous higher plains of nutrition. Thus, fodder development
would be concurrent with the breed improvement program. The project would take into account experiences
of IW1DP-I, and introduce a package of technologies with a proven success record. These are detailed
below, with details of the amounts involved for each state included in Bank Staff Assessment #2.
Genetic Improvement Genetic improvement would be based on the use of artificial insemination (Al) or, in
the J & K, H.P and U.P, in part with natural breeding centers, using mostly local Holstein Friesian or
Jersey bulls as in Haryana. For cattle, some imported semen could be included. For the buffalo, the
Murrah breed would be used, for sheep in the temperate areas, the Rambouillet would be used. The project
would fund about 150,000 inseminations of local sires, and about 14,000 inseminations from imported
sires. In addition, the project would fund 230 natural breeding centers and the initial equipment and
training of about 100 lay inseminators in J&K, Punjab and U.P. In H.P, the project would also fund the
establishment of a semen processing facility, provided the Department of Animal Husbandry would
increase, in the entire state, the fee to 15 Rs. per insemination, and gradually afterwards to Rs. 50 to ensure
the sustainability of the Al inputs. Also for H.P. a small provision would be made to support the natural
breeding stations started under the first phase. Assurances were obtained that the level of beneficiary
contribution for these stations would be increased to at least 25% by March 31, 2000.
Veterinary Health Improvement. While the project area already has a good coverage in veterinary
infrastructure, additional infrastructure is necessary to cover some remote areas. The project would
therefore fund the construction and equipment of 14 veterinary hospitals and 140 dispensaries. In addition,
the project would fund the recurrent costs (basic supply of pharmaceuticals and simple equipment) at the
rate of about Rs. 100,000 per year for the hospitals and between Rs. 23,000 to Rs. 36,000 per year for the
dispensaries. For the transhumant population, the project would finance three mobile clinics, with their
equipment, in Haryana.
Fodder production. For arable land at the lower altitudes, the project would supply about 68,000
"mini-kits" consisting of fertilizer (urea and DAP) and seed such as sorghum, oats or berseem (Trifolium
alexandrinum) or vegetative material such as Napier grass, (Pennisetum purpureum) or Guinea grass (
Panicum maximum) for pilot demonstration on 0.1 ha. plots. For non-arable plots there is also a wide
variety of locally adapted fodder and fodder shrubs available, such as, bharbar (ulalilopsis binata) and
acacia spp. The legume stylosanthes is successfully used in some states (H.P.) as an initial soil cover and
soil fertility improvement crop, although it disappears after about three years. At the higher elevations,
-33-



grasses such as orchard grass (Dactylus glomerata), phleum pratense and red clover (Trifolium pratense)
are being used.
Silvi-pastoral treatments. Under the silvi-pasture treatment, about 24,000 ha degraded forest and
communal grazing areas would be rehabilitated by a combination of oversowing (using the species
discussed above) and enclosure of animals, allowing only "cut and carry" for a period of three years, if the
communal area belongs to private or village groups, and permanently, if the land belongs to the Forestry
Department. The project input would consist of seed and planting material, the unskilled labor for cultural
practices, such as V-ditches, fencing and site protection would be provided by the beneficiaries. Before
project implementation, each state would re-assess the recommendation for optimal fertilizer levels, which
now demonstrate wide ranges, for the mini-kits and the silvi-pastoral treatment, both in the use of Urea
(ranging between 50 and 140 kg per ha) and DAP (ranging between 30 and 150 kg per ha), which can not
be explained by soil quality differences only.
Other feed technologies. The project would fund about 3,500 on-farm demonstrations of fodder
conservation techniques, such as hay and silage making and the treatment of crop residues (especially
wheat straw) with Urea, to improve the feeding value. The subsidy on concentrate feed for cows in their
late pregnancy and for young calves born from Al, would be phased out over the first three years of the
project, in those states where it has been practiced under IWDP-I (Haryana, J & K and H.P). In Punjab
and U.P., the project subsidy would be 50 percent during the first year, and 25 percent for the second year.
A similar subsidy scheme would be maintained for mineral supplementation. Feed and mineral subsidies
would not be included in the technological packages for the Punjab and U.P., whereas in H.P. where
average rainfall is high the project would fund an experimental artificial fodder dryer, to preserve feed of
high nutritive value.
Housinz and other livestock management practices. To promote stall-feeding, which is environmentally
friendly, the project would support the construction of about 10,000 livestock shelters and feeding troughs.
In U.P. incentives would be provided for castration of local, unproductive bulls.
Institutional Support. The project would strengthen the capacity of the local institutions by training 65
livestock technicians, and about 100 lay stockmen, and organize about 900 farmers training camps and 240
livestock shows. The project would be implemented by the project units, in close collaboration with the
Departments of Animal Husbandry of each participating state. To test new approaches, funds would be
provided in each state to hire the services of a local NGO, to take responsibility for the implementation of
the fodder and animal husbandry component.
(iii) Rural Infrastructure Development (US$26.9 million including contingencies). The main objective of
the rural infrastructure development component is to improve access to potential production and marketing
areas, facilitate the communication of the rural population under the project, imnprove drinking and
irrigation water and improve marketing and storage facilities. To ensure sustainability of the assets built,
the communities would be responsible for the maintenance of rural infrastructure (such as, culverts/bridges,
bridle paths/mule tracks, etc.) as agreed in the MOUs. All motorable roads (above 2 kms.) would be
responsibility of respective state governments. Support for infrastructure development includes: (a) rural
roads; (b) marketing and post-harvest infrastructure; (c) potable water supply; (d) drainage line treatment;
and (e) water harvesting structures.
Rural roads. The emphasis of the rural roads subcomponent is on upgrading, repairs and better cross
drainage structure to existing roads. All project states have prepared proposals to improve access to
-34-



potential production areas and facilitate the communication of the rural population under the project.
Implementation would be through contractors supervised by the Public Works Department for type A link
roads and ODRs and by VDCs, in co-operation with Gram Panchayats to be supervised by the Project
Implementation Units, for the bridle paths/mule tracks. In general, the access conditions and proposals by
participating state are as follows:
(a) Jammu and Kashmir. The density of roads is very low and the need for access improvements in this
state are probably the greatest. The proposed interventions are for upgrading about 135 kilometers of bridle
paths/mule tracks and associated stream crossings, plus about 142 kilometers of type A link roads within
the four district expansion areas envisaged in Jammu and the "karewas" of the Kashmir valley.
(b) Punjab. The present level of link road access is very good. Proposed activities by the project would be
to continue with the erosion control and landslide treatment undertaken by the IWDP-I and to improve
some of the link roads. The overall program has excluded the construction of new roads and road widening
proposals and would be limited to about 247 kilometers of existing roads made up of about 165 kilometers
of pacca roads and about 82 kilometers of katcha roads.
(c) Harvana. Although the present level of road access is very good, some upgrading of the link roads in the
hills would be needed. The proposed program would upgrade about 232 kilometers of pacca roads and
about 30 kilometers of katcha roads.
(d) Himachal Pradesh. The density of the roads in the state is relatively good, but the topography of the
Shivaliks creates deep valleys and circuitous access conditions. Therefore, the main thrust for access
improvement would be the upgrading of tracks and the provision of stream crossings, which would allow
more direct access to existing market yards/sub-yards and other facilities located on the national highways.
The proposed program would include the construction of about 125 kilometers of cross-drainage works to
katcha type A link roads; about 140 kilometers of cross-drainage works to katcha ODR roads and about
1 14 suspension/foot bridges to bridle paths.
(e) Uttar Pradesh. The general level of access and road conditions of the roads serving the Shivalik areas of
the state are good. However, link road improvement and associated structures are needed to serve remote
communities. The present proposals would be confined to upgrading about 100 kilometers of katcha roads
and about 100 kilometers of bridle paths/mule tracks.
Screening and prioritizing and Road Maintenance Policy. The project states undertook preliminary surveys
and screening of potential road proposals on the basis of information on road condition and socio-economic
criteria. These generally follow the UP-DASP criteria i.e. the criteria of a minimum village population
(MNP) served by a link road of 1,000 persons. Areas and villages within 2 kilometers are assumed to be
served and priority would be given to areas where perishable crops are grown and need to be marketed.
Assurances were obtained that project states would: (i) select and improve roads according to criteria
and technical standards agreed with the Bank; (ii) maintain such roads in accordance with an action
plan consistent with the road maintenance policy to be finalized by the project states by March 31, 2000;
(iii) ensure that any land neededfor road improvement, or the roads requiring realignments involving
acquisition of additional lands is provided by local communities voluntarily in accordance with a
Memorandum of Understanding to be signed between the project states and all affected members of the
participating community release the required landfor project activities; and (iv) not to commence
improvements of roads in locations where private land is needed until such MOUs have been concluded.
-35-



Marketing and Post Harvest Infrastructure. Various marketing studies have been undertaken within the
project states, generally for the Marketing Boards which identified marketing infrastructure for support
under the project. No specific surveys or screening were undertaken as a basis for the proposals. These
proposals, therefore, are preliminary and would need further studies and designs before implementation.
Community need would determine selection criteria for small-scale facilities - improved haat painths,
livestock fairs or new focal points/purchasing centers in their locality. A marketing committee of traders
and market users would be established as the prerequisite for development - the committee collecting
revenues to be used for the maintenance of the services and facilities. The information obtained from the
marketing studies and surveys would be used to refine the marketing selection criteria and to identify the
priority locations for improvement under the project. The screening would be based on the following
criteria: (i) priority should be given to those rural markets (and new locations) that are handling fruits and
vegetables or livestock/dairy products; (ii) existing (or proposed) market site should be on land presently
owned by local government, or use community land with their express agreement (through a MOU); and
(iii) there should be an agreement by the local community to set-up a market committee.
Based on the UPDASP experience the recommended range of basic common infrastructure to be
implemented by the project could comprise: (i) site preparation, fencing and simple surface/storm-water
drainage system; (ii) internal road and open sales platforms; (iii) a sanitary block and a water supply, using
India Mark II-type hand pumps; (iv) garbage collection points and collection carts; and (v) shade tree
planting; and, if justified, limited investment in covered sheds, and provision for livestock trading.
The overall program would include about 21 centers: five focal point infrastructure for Punjab; four
purchase centers for Jammu and Kashmir; four purchase centers for Haryana; four purchase centers and
about 3,500 grain storage bins for Himachal Pradesh; and four purchase centers for Uttar Pradesh. In
addition to the civil works, provision has been made for providing technical assistance and for undertaking
a marketing study in each of the five states. Support to the establishment of marketing groups would also
be provided through the beneficiary capacity building activities under the institutional strengthening
component.
Potable water supply. The project would augment existing supplies to provide a standard of 70 litters per
person per day. Detailed water supply proposals were only prepared by Punjab and these form the basis for
cost estimates for the proposal under the project. Simple outline proposals were prepared by Jammu and
Kashmir, whilst for Uttar Pradesh the proposal has been developed around the use of tube wells and India
Mark II hand pumps. The overall program would include 80 potable water supply schemes: 12 water
supply schemes in Punjab; 28 schemes in Jammu and Kashmir; 20 schemes in Haryana; 20 schemes in
Himachal Pradesh; and 490 villages in Uttar Pradesh would be provided each with a hand pump for their
existing water supply schemes.
Drainage line treatments. Drainage line treatments and erosion control programs have been defined by the
states for each sub-watershed on the basis of their previous implementation experience. The program for
Himachal Pradesh is based on draft implementation plans prepared directly in the field for 12
sub-watersheds and expanded to cover the entire program of 41 sub-watersheds (32 new and 9 from
IWDP-I) by using field-derived allocation factors. For Uttar Pradesh, more details of the stream lengths
were available. This enabled site-specific drainage line treatment models to be developed for each of the 5
sub-watersheds, assuming that at least 30% of the drainage lines were severely degraded and required full
treatment.
Water harvesting structures. A preliminary estimate of the overall program for water harvesting and minor
-36-



irrigation interventions in the project has been developed with the states. Details of the water harvesting
structures for each sub-watershed and their corresponding cost estimates have been prepared. These have
been defned on the basis of allocation factors derived from the previous experience in each state. The
program would include village ponds (1,236); makhowal tanks (2,690); water harvesting structures or
shallow dams of less than 15 meters (5,293); lift irrigation structures or wells (2,296) and other water
collection facilities, such as roof tanks, channels and earthen dams (1,161). Generally, the design norms
and standards for construction under the project would not need significant change from those used in
IWDP-I. More attention would be given to: (i) minimizing siltation (by ensuring that upstream catchment
treatments are complete and effective before commencing dam construction); (ii) the economic viability of
including lift irrigation schemes; and (iii) more effective protection of dam embankments on both the
upstream and downstream sides. Some of the most important areas where changes would be required would
be in the on-ground design and allocation of irrigation areas in collaboration with water users groups. This
issue would, however, need to be addressed in the preparation of any new proposals during the
participatory planning process.
Project Component 2 - US$53.8 million
Institutional Strengthening Component
The objective of the institutional strengthening component is to: (a) support beneficiary capacity building in
planning, implementing project activities and taking responsibility of assets created by sensitizing
beneficiaries to the maintenance of project assets and interventions; (b) strengthen implementing agencies
capacity of reaching the communities through research and extension and by strengthening human resource
development through training, field exposure and better incentives; (c) support the effort to increase
awareness of sustainability measures and project development objectives; and (d) support project states to
implement policy and institutional reforms that are considered essential for the sustainability of project
activities through studies and building partnerships with other local level institutions.
The main sub-components of the institutional strengthening component include: (i) Improve community
capacity building; (ii) Strengthen policy reforms, studies and human resource development; (iii) Improve
women's capacity to manage development by promoting income generating activities; (iv) Improve
knowledge management, monitoring and evaluation; and (v) support and strengthen project management.
(i) Improve Community Capacity Building (US$6.2 million including contingencies). Main activities
include community mobilization and preparation of VDPs using participatory rural assessment (PRAs),
studies and technical assistance for the preparation of VDPs. To ensure community ownership in project
activities, the project would provide extensive training to beneficiaries on technical, financial and social
aspects of watershed management. Various workshops, seminars and on-site training would be provided to
expose them to treated watersheds.
The project would also include measures to strengthen local institutions (including panchayats). Special
emphasis would be paid to building capacity of VDCs in the planning and implementation of watershed
activities. The preparation of a VDP by the communities would be formalized through the development of a
MOU, signed by project officers and VDCs, for its implementation. Registration of VDCs in the first year
of implementation would be undertaken to ensure their legal status. Subsequent registration of VDCs
would be done through the participatory process. In order to secure effective participation, a significant
preparatory period before implementation is envisaged; the first six to twelve months would be devoted to
preparing and securing the participation and commitment of villagers to project objectives. A commitment
-37-



to owning the development activities and ensuring their operation and maintenance by the community
would be a key part of the MOU. All project states would develop effective mechanisms to link the VDCs
to the Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) so that PRIs and VDCs jointly take on the responsibility of
managing these assets at the end of the project.
(ii) Strengthen Policy Reforms, Studies and Human Resource Development (US$4.4 million including
contingencies).
Policy Reforms and Studies. The project would support a set of inter-related policy reforms which are
expected to ensure sustainability of the project. The main policy issues related to sustainability of project
interventions sought under the project would be the harmonization of approach between GOI, State and
donor watershed development programs. An Inter-ministerial Coordination Committee (ICC) has been
established to facilitate and coordinate harmonization of the guidelines. To this end, the Shivalik
Watershed Development Strategy would develop a comprehensive strategy (including common guidelines)
for the Shivaliks. Assurances were obtained that recommendations of the Shivalik Development Strategy
would be incorporated in the Annual Implementation Plan by March 31, 2000.
Secondly, the present levels of subsidies established in many programs are too high for long-term
sustainability. Forest and common land, and drainage line treatments are highly subsidized (up to 90-100
percent), while in arable land treatment, subsidies vary between 15 and 50 percent, depending on the type
of treatment required and cost-sharing arrangements with beneficiaries. There is scope for reducing these
subsidy -levels by seeking greater beneficiary understanding of primary and secondary benefits and by
seeking more cost-effective technical solutions. To this effect, the project would implement a plan of action
on how to phase out some subsidies altogether (artificial insemination, concentrated feed) and rationalize
others (silvipasture improvement). For some interventions, information on total costs and benefits is
inadequate, and a more accurate assessment of these costs and benefits is needed. To address these
concerns, the project states have submitted a Letter of Development Policy which confirms their agreement
to the reform program as summarized in Annex 11. Assurances were obtained that the project states
would carry out a reform program for improving the watershed development programs. Assurances were
obtained that the project states to ensure that. (a) cost sharing in livestock breeding and health is
increased by 25% by March 31, 2000; (b) cost sharing in improvements in private arable lands, such as
horticulture andfodder improvement packages is increased by 50% by March 31, 2000; and (c) a study
on the costs and benefits to be completed by February 29, 2000, and to be updated annually. The findings
of the study would be implemented during the project period through the PIPs and would be reviewed in
depth during MTR.
Human Resource Development. The project places heavy emphasis on human resource development and
training programs that focus on an integrated and multi-disciplinary approach to watershed development.
The project states would pay particular attention to the ways in which the issues of participation and
organizational change are to be dealt with. The training program would include learning by exposure
through field visits to completed watersheds to other states, as well as international study tours. Regarding
both research and training, the state implementation units and PCC would determine priority research and
training activities which focus on resolving project implementation problems.
Each state would be directly responsible for determining its own training priorities and preparing and
implementing training activities. Training would be targeted to line agencies as well as staff of PIUs and
VDCs. Funds for training would be provided to the individual project states. However, for co-ordination
purposes, the training institute of Ballowal, Punjab, created under IWDP-I, would be strengthened and
would provide overall regional training co-ordination to the project states in conjuncture with the state
-38-



training coordinators. Based on state-specific training needs as well as elements that will be common to the
five states, a detailed training program (see Bank Staff Assessment #3) has been prepared and incorporated
in the PIP. The details of the training activities would be provided in annual training programs and
incorporated in the Annual Implementation Plans. This arrangement would allow the project states to draw
on a wide range of external training resources to implement the program by contracting the agency with the
most relevant experience to conduct specific training activities.
Research funds would be allocated to the state implementation units which would determine priority
research activities to focus on resolving project implementation problems. The state implementing units
would contract the most appropriate institute to conduct the research activities. The research staff would
also be involved in technical training and project workshops. Adequate resources have been provided for
each state to cover operational research activities. To implement this activity, each state implementing
group would prepare a strategy for their research activities which would identify priority research needs
(based on VDC/community priorities/feedback) and institutes for conducting the research. Priorities would
include identification of alternative afforestation, silvi-pasture, agro-forestry and agro-horticulture models
suitable for different ecological zones.
(iii) Provide Income Generating Activities for Women (US$1.6 million including contingencies). The
project interventions would improve availability of fuelwood, drinking water and fodder, thus reducing
drudgery and increasing time available for women to be engaged in skill development programs, technical
know-how and opportunities for income generation. The social assessment and participatory planning
exercise should identify needs and constraints women face in the project states. These should then be
assessed and mainstreamed in the VDPs and implemented under the project. Special attention would be
given to gender training, awareness campaigns and development of close links with other gender related
poverty alleviation and social programs. Funds have been allocated for income generating activities for
women. To complement this, a study would be carried out during the first year of project implementation
to review income generating options for women to develop viable long-term activities. To ensure that
women fully participate and benefit from the project activities, the project authorities and VDCs would be
encouraged to find specific ways to incorporate the interests of women in the VDPs and MOUs.
(iv) Improve Information Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$5.8 million including
contingencies). The project supports an innovative integrated information and knowledge system for
assisting project staff with the effective project implementation and monitoring, fostering inter-sectoral
coordination and transparency and mainstreaming knowledge management in projects (see Bank Staff
Assessment #4). The capacity of project management to monitor progress and performance would be
considerably enhanced by the development of this information system. An integrated Information
Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (IMME) Unit would be created in each project state to facilitate
the interaction of staff in different units as well as provide a focal point for operational learning and the
development of both participation and independent evaluation. To this end, appropriate training, field visits
and seminars would be organized, and the private sector would be tapped for Information Technology (IT)
development. A draft outline of the functions of the proposed IMME unit and the TOR for an IT
consulting firm would be prepared by the PCC by project launch but not later than October 31, 1999. A
consulting firm would be engaged to provide technical support and develop decision support system
applications using GIS and MIS concepts for all the states.
The IMME unit would develop indicators for measuring institutional capacity development. While the
development of such qualitative indicators is in its infancy, the project would provide the foundations for
experimentation with indicators that can measure progress and performance of VDCs and the implementing
agencies. The project states would monitor the progress based on project design summary, using the
-39-



Logical Framework. Functions of IMME would include: (a) data base preparation for the Shivaliks
Strategy; (b) the appointment of a Monitoring and Evaluation Advisor and unallocated technical assistance;
and (c) a local contract for the coordination of monitoring and evaluation.
The IMME unit would be primarily a service unit to help decision-makers in effective project
implementation. This knowledge management system would provide the team with quick access to
information. Tools such as Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and remote sensing, that have a lot of
potential in natural resource management activities (e.g. producing maps/overlays, spatial analysis,
integration with Management Information Systems for monitoring and evaluation) would be integrated into
the IMME to help provide day-to-day operational support to the WPIOs rather than become a separate
activity. A well-qualified person has been recruited in each project state to coordinate activities of the unit.
(v) Support to Project Coordination and Management (US$35.8 million including contingencies) . In
addition to capacity building of VDCs, an important objective of the project is to build the institutional
capacity of project implementing units. The sub-component would strengthen watershed implementing
agencies (WPIOs) as set up under IWDP-I. This would require considerable re-orientation of project staff,
to deal effectively with the shift to a more participatory approach. The project therefore places emphasis on
on-the-job training, workshops and study tours to learn from the experience of other states. Based on the
experience of IWDP-I and similar projects, it is also important to strengthen the role of line departments in
project implementation to ensure replication. Training would be combined with the development of a more
effective Monitoring and Evaluation capacity as well as the development of a Social Accountability/Social
Audit capacity. This sub-component also includes establishing and operating a comprehensive project
financial management system. The capacity of project management to monitor progress and performance
would be considerably enhanced by the development of the integrated information resource and financial
management, as proposed above.
Existing implementing agencies would be supported with vehicles, equipment, office space and minimum
incremental staff and training and operating funds. Limited construction activities would be funded under
the project to provide office accommodation for incremental staff (main office complexes and
demonstration centers, sub-offices and sector offices, and the renovation of existing office buildings).
Incremental stafffmg requirements have been defined by the states and would continue to be funded by the
Project on a declining basis.
Because of the role of MOA in being the nodal agency for ICC in addition to the overall coordination and
monitoring and evaluation of project impact, the WDC in MOA would continue to be supported under the
project. The support would include: provision of equipment; technical assistance to provide skill-mix and
incremental staff costs.
-40-



m. Implementation Arrangements
Overall Coordination
Coordination at the Center Level. At the central level, the WDC of the MOA would provide the overall
coordination. The WDC would also be responsible for facilitating and monitoring project implementation.
The ICC would consist of representatives from MOA, Ministry Dr Rural Areas and Employment, Ministry
of Forestry and Environment, Ministry of Water Resources, DEA and the Planning Commission, with
MOA as the nodal agency and convener to coordinate GOI's overall watershed development policies. The
ICC would also develop a system to harmonize implementation of different activities fnanced in a
particular watershed. MOA would facilitate and coordinate overall project activities. The WDC would be
responsible for harmonizing guidelines ensuring their implementation in all states.
State-level Coordination. Overall strategic policy and guidance for the project would be provided by the
steering committees at the state level. These committees were established during IWDP-I. In U.P. a
similar committee, namely the "Empowered committee", exists. The current membership of the steering
committees consists of Secretaries and Directors of implementation departments, the Director of Research
of State Agricultural University, MOA and the Project Director. The membership of the steering
committees would remain unchanged, except with the introduction of representatives from communities,
Panchayats and women. In Himachal Pradesh, a Shivalik Watershed Development Society has been
proposed to coordinate all watershed programs and function as an umbrella organization for watershed
management. The society would have powers to sanction funds required for the purchase of various inputs
and delegate powers to a member secretary or any other authority.
District Level Coordination. At the district level, coordination would be provided by the district
coordination committees headed by the District Magistrate. The district coordination committees would
review annual work programs, project progress and help to resolve implementation problems. With
emphasis towards local institutions such as Panchayats and VDCs, it is important that the district
committees perform their role effectively. The membership to district committee would also include
representatives from communities, Panchayats and women from sub-watersheds within the district.
Project Management and Implementation
Project Coordination Committee. A new design feature of IWDP-II is the establishment of a Project
Coordination Committee (PCC) to ensure speedy decisions on all project related issues and harmonize
institutional structures in project states. PCC would consist of Project Directors of five states and their
senior technical and financial staff as required, and would have participation from MOA. PCC was
established on February 23, 1999. The Chairperson of the PCC would be selected on a rotational basis,
and the Punjab Project Director has been selected Chairperson for the first year.
The role of PCC is to provide a forum for Project Directors and their senior staff and MOA to exchange
views on any technical and participatory issues, operational and administrative matters and share and
disseminate information on best practices. The Project Directors through PCC would prepare project
guidelines across five states which would outline general approaches to project implementation and specific
details of project management for each state. The guidelines would build on experiences gained under
IWDP-I and similar government interventions, bilateral programs, etc. These guidelines would be finalized
before the project launch workshop. The PCC would coordinate project activities, incorporate studies'
recommendations across five states, monitor and evaluate project progress; coordinate technical aspects
-41-



and regional training programs, and hiring of consultants for comprehensive studies across the five states.
Project Watershed Management Implementing Offices . The WPIOs created under IWDP-I would be
retained and strengthened. The Watershed Management Directorate in U.P. would also be supported. The
mission recommends integration of watershed staff from line agencies into watershed units as is the case in
U.P., Himachal Pradesh and J&K. Uttar Pradesh has already established a Watershed Development
Directorate whereas Himachal Pradest, (Shivalik Watershed Society) and Jammu and Kashmir are in the
process of establishing these as integrated autonomous units. With the new design features, IWDP-II
places additional responsibilities on the Project Directors.
Sub-Watershed Teams. At the sub-watershed level, there would be teams headed by a Team
Leader/Project Officer. The number of teams in each state has been discussed and agreed, and would
depend on geographic areas and the nature of the work load. The teams would be multi-disciplinary. The
sub-watershed teams in collaboration with communities and the participatory development staff would be
responsible for actual project implementation. Since beneficiary participation is key to the sustainability of
the project, the role of the staff of the implementing agencies would have to change. The teams responsible
for the first year's implementation, which includes the PRA process and organizing intensive training to
develop and strengthen their skills in participatory development, are on board.
Institutional Arrangements for Participatory Development . To achieve effective beneficiary
participation, each project implementation unit would be assisted by a social team that would be created
under the project. The prime responsibility of the social team would be to integrate the participatory and
social aspects with the technical aspects of the project and work together with the technical teams to
develop and strengthen local institutions. The detailed terms of reference of the social team have been
finalized with the project states. Each team would be led by a Participatory Development Specialist (PDS),
who would work directly under the Project Directors and would be responsible for stakeholders and
beneficiary participation, involvement and commitment to the project. At the sub-watershed level,
Participatory Development Facilitators (PDFs) would be hired to work with the technical teams and would
support beneficiaries through specific training for capacity building. PDSs and PDFs would be appointed
through the local NGOs or universities, whichever is feasible. At the village level, Participatory
Development Motivators (PDMs), preferably women, would be selected from the community. The VDCs
would select the PDMs. The PDMs would be trained and will assist PDFs in the village during the project
period. The VDCs would be expected to cover the cost of PDMs at the end of the project. The process
thus would include representation of beneficiary groups at all levels of decision making (from the village to
the state steering committees).
Participatory Planning Process . One key feature of IWDP-II is to involve beneficiaries right from the
planning stage. Socio-economic aspects using PRA and social impact assessment have been used to enlist
beneficiary involvement. The social and participatory preparation would be spread over three stages as
shown in the Table 1 below: (a) stage I would include social analysis and preparation of micro-plans of the
new villages. This process would start at least six-months prior to implementation; (b) stage II will include
the implementation of works as well as consolidation of VDCs; and (c) stage III would include a
withdrawal period, which would begin a year prior to the project completion.
-42-



Table 1: Phasing of VDCs Participatory Preparation
State          Year 1   Year 2     Year 3    Year 4    Year 5  No. of      Total No.
VDCs       of Villages
Uttar Pradesh   50      250        72                           372        372
Punjab         30       80          120      40                 270        270
Haryana        22       75         75         47                219        219
Himachal       35       55         50         10                150        651
Pradesh
Jammu &        20       70         70         34                194         194
Kashmir
To ensure effective participation of beneficiaries, the micro-watershed plans and VDPs would be prepared
jointly with the community members. Experience from IWDP-I showed that the project implementation
units need to build their own capacity before starting the participatory process with the communities
Therefore, the project states submitted a sample of at least three VDPs before negotiations. WPIOs/WMD
would organize workshops in all the states to develop appropriate methodology and guidelines on planning
and criteria for site selection for use by the staff in the field.
The institutional arrangements for the participatory planning and implementation have been discussed with
the project staff, and would be finalized after carrying out social assessment and the PRA exercise. A draft
MOU has been prepared to incorporate the basic principles for community responsibility for plan
preparation, implementation, maintenance and protection of assets and monitoring and evaluation.
Agreements would be reached on the sharing of treatment costs before the MOU is signed. A village
account would be established by each VDC to deposit project funds and beneficiary contributions. A
percentage of the benefits generated under the project could be primarily used for repair and maintenance of
the village assets. The VDCs would be encouraged to execute the project activities in all states. The
MOUs would define the role of VDCs including the collection of maintenance fees, etc. as well as the rules
governing the Village Account.
IV.     Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring, evaluation and operational learning are a central aspect of this project, aiming at ensuring the
centrality of participatory methods and the re-orientation of the implementation agencies. These functions
are central to the work of IMMI, as discussed above, and to the effective development of the training
program. The monitoring and evaluation would be an integral part of the project's regular operations rather
than on and off events conducted at period intervals. The objective would be to develop an information
management system that provides timely and appropriate information to project managers, and includes the
beneficiaries in assessments of project performance. The monitoring and evaluation framework would
combine both qualitative and quantitative measures and would evolve as the project progresses and as staff
gain competence and experience. The key personnel for the development of the IMME functions would be
the Participatory Coordinators, the Heads of the IMME units, and the Training Coordinators. At the
sub-watershed level, the Facilitators and Motivators would be responsible, together with VDCs, for
-43-



establishing and maintaining an on-going monitoring and evaluation (M&E). The on-going M&E would be
based on monitorable indicators that would include quantifiable as well as qualitative indicators selected in
partnership with the VDCs. The process would be carried out through:
(a)    Baseline information would be collected from a variety of sources, including the three-part social
assessment, together with the collection of other relevant information emerging from the development of the
GIS system, the Regional Environmental Assessment, and the cumulative VDPs;
(b)    On-going evaluation would be carried out by the IMME staff in cooperation with the Training and
Participatory Coordinators. It would focus on: assessing the project progress, identifying problems and
difficulties, and positive and negative experiences which generate information. Such on-going evaluations
would be carried out with the full participation of VDC members and would be based on the agreements
reached during the VDP exercises and MOUs; and
(c)    The periodic external assessments envisaged in the project would be conducted by external
evaluators. In addition to the regular mid-term evaluation, thematic evaluation and monitoring (e.g.
environmental, Social Accountability Analyses, or Social/Institutional Audits of the project, etc.) would be
carried out throughout the project implementation period. There would also be periodic monitoring by the
beneficiary communities themselves of progress in implementation of agreements, and in the performance
of project staff in facilitating implementation.
An important aspect of this process would be the dissemination of finding through learning events, and it
would be important to link this into the evolution of the training program. This would ensure that available
and accumulated knowledge is fed back into an operational learning process that provides appropriate and
timely information to relevant stakeholders, including management, to allow informed participation and
on-going corrections/adjustments. The on-going evaluation would focus on four key aspects: (i)
micro-watershed activities; (ii) short-term results produced; (iii) the unexpected results; and (iv) factors
which are external to the project and might affect it.
There would be a phased approach for operationalizing the M&E learning system. The base-line
information and development of VDPs through PRA exercises, and MOUs would provide the basic
information. This phased approach would be adopted for all plans developed for implementation in the
second and subsequent years of the project. The PRAs and MOUs developed for the first year's
interventions, combined with the prospective social assessments would provide the learning foundations on
which subsequent monitoring and evaluation activities would be built. The incorporation of a significant
period of preparatory work (6 - 12 months) before implementation would help in ensuring that a
participatory enabling enviromnent is produced.
There would be periodic monitoring by the beneficiary communities themselves of progress in
implementation agreements, and in the performance of project staff in facilitating implementation. The
IMME would develop robust indicators for measuring institutional capacity development. While the
development of such qualitative indicators is in its infancy, the project would provide the foundations for
experimentation with indicators that can measure progress and performance of VDCs and the implementing
agencies (see Bank Staff Assessment # 5 ). These would be in addition to the more quantitative indicators
of outputs and outcomes and would be developed in partnership with the various stakeholders, in particular
the VDCs themselves.
-44-



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
INDIA: Integrated Watershed Development (Hills-Il) Project
Project Cost by Component                Local         Foreign         Total
US$ million    US$ million    US$ million
Watershed Protection and                 108.1           6.6           114.7
Development
Rural Infrastructure                   20.4           1.2            21.6
Forage & Livestock Development         14.2           1.0            15.2
Watershed Treatments                   73.5           4.4            77.9
Institutional Strengthening              40.6            6.7            47.3
Policy Reforms & Human Resource        3.6            0.2            3.8
Dev.
Beneficiary capacity Building          5.1            0.3             5.4
Income Generation for Women            1.4            0.1             1.5
Information Management & M&E           3.1            2.1             5.2
Support to Project Management          27.4           4.0            31.4
Total Baseline Costs                     148.7           13.3          162.0
Physical Contingencies                 8.5            0.5            9.0
Price contingencies                   21.1            0.9           22.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                      178.3          14.7           193.0
-45-



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
INDIA: Integrated Watershed Development (Hills-li) Project
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
A. THE PROJECT AREA
The total area of the Shivaliks in the five project states covers 4.178 million ha, of which Himachal
Pradesh, Jammnu & Kashmir, and Uttar Pradesh represent more than 80%. The project area includes a total
of 75 sub-watersheds that cover a gross area of about 522,000 ha. The selection of sub-watersheds was
based on the seriousness of degradation using erosion classifications provided by Survey India. The total
area, gross area, and the net treated area to be included for treatment by participating states are
summarized in the table below:
Total, Gross and Treated Areas by State
Project
Gross Area (ha)                Net Area Treated (ha)
States     Total Area   S.Watershed    Arable    N.Arable    Total      Arable    N.Arable     Total
(ha)        (no)
Haryana       192,000       5           45,289     25,154     70,443      10,110      9,364     19,474
Himachal     1,170,000      41          37,092     82,024    119,116     22,348      34,050     56,398
Jammu&        950,000       4           35,083     75,997    111,080     22,806      29,549     52,355
Kashrnir
Punjab        490,000       17          46,671     47,267     93,938      16,918     15,210     32,128
Uttar        1,376,000      8           34,452     92,855    127,307      15,740     22,883     38,623
Pradesh
Total        4,178,000      75         198,587    323,297    521,884      87,922    111,056    198,978
-46-



A summary of activities which would benefit from treatment are shown in the following Table:
Net Area Under Treatment
I qnH tioc1InW                   ArLn Trqturi (h4)
1. Arable land
Rainfed crops demonstration              35,514
Hort. demonstration                      19,827
Private irrigation                       12,362
Fodder production                         6,950
Farm forestry                            13,270
s.total                                  87,923
It. Non arable land
Afforestation                            17,162
Forest augmentation                      16,298
Silvi-pasture                            22,939
Pasture development                       8,125
Bamboo planting                           1,830
s.total                                 66,354
Ill. Forest land
Afforestation                           20,470
Forest augmentation                     24,231
s.total                                 44,701
Total                                   198,978
All livestock activities falling within the proposed 75 sub-watersheds in the participating five states will be
supported. The project would also support the development of rural infrastructure as part of the integrated
intervention in the development and protection of the watersheds.
B. PROJECT BENEFITS
The project, focusing on restoration of the productive potential of the Shivalik hills, would generate
economic benefits including those of environmental and natural resources . These benefits can be broadly
grouped under the following four headings: (a) on-farm benefits; (b) off-farm benefits; (c) environmental
and natural resources benefits; and (d) other benefits.
ON-FARM BENEFITS
Increased agricultural production and incomes at farm level would be realized through: (a) demonstration
of improved cropping systems including the adoption of recommended agronomic practices, appropriate
tillage to ensure moisture conservation, the use of improved varieties, seed treatment and the balanced use
of fertilizer and pesticides; (b) provision of inputs for one season on a subsidy basis as an incentive for
participation in the project; and (c) improved agro-ecosystems with better in-situ soil and moisture
conservation, and good groundwater recharge. All these factors would contribute to the reduction of
surface run-off and soil erosion, and consequently increase crop yields and cropping intensity. Actual crop
-47-



yield increases through such a soil and moisture conservation approach have already been demonstrated
under IWDP-I.
Rainfed Crops
Maize and pulses are major crops in the Kharif season, whereas wheat and gram are major crops in the
Rabi season. Paddy is predominantly cultivated in the irrigated area and is not significant to farmers in the
rainfed area. Evaluation of the existing project has confirmed an increase in crop yields as well as in
cropping intensity, due to the increased availability of moisture and rise in the groundwater table. In
estimating incremental production, based on the evaluation statistics of IWDP-I, it is assumed that
cropping intensity would increase by about 7% and crop yields would increase by about 40% to 60% at full
development in year 4.
Irrigated Crops
The project would also support the construction of water harvesting and minor irrigation structures for
irrigation, livestock and domestic use. At the end of the project, approximately 12,400 hectares of land will
be converted from a rainfed production system into a supplementary irrigated production system. Cropping
pattern in the "Without Project" situation is similar to that of rainfed agriculture. With the project, it is
assumed that there will be a small change in the cropping pattern, basically with the introduction of fodder
and vegetables in a limited area in the Rabi season. Due to the availability of supplementary irrigation, it is
assumed that yields would increase by more than 80% and cropping intensity would increase from 140% to
170% for both Kharif and Rabi. Full development of both crop yields and cropping intensities would be
reached in year 4.
Horticulture (fruit trees)
Increasing horticulture cultivation - mainly fruit trees such as mango and guava - is considered an
important part of the treatment of the project area. Horticulture has considerable potential as a perennial
crop to replace annual cropping in marginal arable areas as well as in better arable areas. Mango and
guava have proved to be popular among farmers in IWDP-1. Other fruit crops could be introduced
depending on demand and market opportunities. Support for marketing studies on perishable crops and
milk is provided by the project in order to facilitate the selection of appropriate crops during
implementation. Mango and guava have been taken as representative horticulture crops for the purpose of
estimating benefits from horticulture. Yields at full development have been estimated at 22 tons (year 10)
and 12.5 tons (year 10) respectively for guava and mango.
Farm Forestry
Farm forestry also constitutes part of the menu for treatment. The availability of adequate quantities of
fuelwood and timber for construction purposes is a problem in most of the project area. Fuelwood and
timber requirements can be partially improved by the promotion of small woodlots and tree planting along
farm boundaries. Poplar and eucalyptus have proved to be attractive to farmers and have been used in the
analysis as representative of farm forestry. Details of inputs and outputs are shown in relative crop
models.
-48-



Livestock
The proposed livestock component would focus on: (a) improvement of forage production; and (b)
improvement of livestock and feeding management. Project interventions would lead to the creation of
livestock herds that would not be detrimental to the watershed and would at the same time increase farm
income. The latter would be primarily achieved through improvements in animal breeding, feeding and
veterinary services. Assessment of the impact of the livestock component based upon the integration of
forage and livestock resources indicates that over seven years, the milk production would increase by
20-30%, while income from animal sales would increase by a similar amount depending on states.
OFF-FARM BENEFITS
Afforestation
Increasing the productivity of government, common and private land is an important objective in reversing
the degradation of the Shivaliks. In conformity with in-situ moisture conservation objectives, tree planting
will be encouraged along the contour in either continuous or discontinuous trenches depending on the
terrain and soil type. Selection of tree species will depend on land tenure and the requirements of the local
community. In some areas, existing plantations will be replenished by partial replanting. Cost sharing
arrangements will vary depending on land tenure with the greatest beneficiary contribution on private
non-arable areas, and the least in government forests. Timber, fuelwood and fodder would be produced
through the promotion of afforestation. Details of physical inputs and outputs are given in relative crop
models for afforestation. The benefits of these components are summarized below:
Upgrading Rural Link Roads
The major benefit from upgrading rural link roads is the saving of vehicle operating costs. The consumers'
surplus approach has been used in assessing the impact of roads as it is a simple and more direct measure
of the benefits of better access. Variables in the model included: (1) average construction cost per
kilometer; (2) population density; (3) traffic modal split; (4) annual traffic growth; (5) estimated present
vehicle per kilometer (VOC); (6) expected VOC change; and (7) maintenance cost. The economic benefits
generated from the savings on vehicle operating costs have been estimated at about Rs. 290 million (year
20).
Marketing Collection Centers
Reduction in post-harvest losses is the major benefit of this component. The analysis assumes a reduction
in post-harvest losses equivalent to 2% of the farm-gate value of the produce handled and an annual
turnover for the collection centers of 7,500 tons and the purchasing centers of 2,000 tons. The economic
benefits from this component has been estimated at Rs.5.5 million (year 5).
-49-



Potable Water Supplies
Time saved in water collection has been considered as the main benefit of potable water supplies. Based on
limited data from the evaluation results of Punjab, the daily saving from households having more reliable
and adequate water sources would be in the order of two hours per day. The analysis also assumes that
water would need to be collected 200 days in a year. The economic benefits have been estimated at Rs.29.2
million (year 5). In addition to time saved, the project would also improve the health of the people in the
area, hence reducing the incidence of sickness. However, this benefit is not included in the calculation.
Environmental and Natural Resources Benefits
The project would have a positive impact on enviromnent and natural resources of the project area. This
can be translated into three types of economic benefits: (a) the area of land saved and land reclaimed due to
the treatment; (b) the value of nutrient brought into the soil; and (c) the availability of moisture and rise of
the watertable. While benefits (a) and (b) are to be included in the overall economic analysis, the effect of
(c), i.e. the increase in crop yields and in cropping intensities as well as surplus water captured for
irrigation, animal and other domestic use through water harvesting structures, are accounted for and
included as benefits at farm level.
Agricultural Land Saved and Land Reclaimed
Land saved and land reclaimed would be one of the main project benefits. With the project, run-off from
the catchment would be reduced, in turn reducing soil loss. In other words, the project would save land that
would otherwise be lost in the "without project" situation. Although there are relatively good data on the
quantity of soil lost per hectare (ton/ha), statistics on area (in hectare) lost are scarce. Data available with
the evaluation of IWDP Hills/Punjab indicate that 1,908 ha were saved over a period of eight years, out of
the total treatment area of 31,351 ha. The area saved represents approximately 6% of the total land area
treated, or approximately a saving of 0.7% per annum. In the absence of other information, this data has
been used in the estimation of benefits to illustrate the impact on land saved. In the valuation of the
economic benefits from land saved, assuming mainly rainfed agriculture would be affected, an average net
economic income per hectare of rainfed crops (maize, wheat, pulses and gram) has been used. By year 30,
benefits accrued from land saved are estimated to be Rs.200 million per annum.
In addition to the benefits from land saved, experience in the IWDP Hills in Punjab also shows that new
land can be reclaimed along a seasonal stream (choe) in a treated watershed. In this project it was estimated
that an average of 3.36 ha of land was reclaimed per km of seasonal stream or, over an eight-year period,
112 ha of newly reclaimed land out of a total treated area of 31,351 ha, (0.36% of the total). This
translates into an annual increase of 0.045%. However, it is not clear at this stage whether or not further
land will be reclaimed in the future. Another issue related to reclaimed land is its economic valuation. As
this type of land is generally created and located along a seasonal stream, it has limited scope for
agricultural use, and hence cannot be valued at the normal price of agricultural land nor at the net economic
benefit generated by crops. In the estimation of benefits from land reclaimed, it was assumed that: (1) land
would be reclaimed at an annual rate of 0.045% p.a.; and (2) it would be more appropriate to value newly
reclaimed land at the value of grass generated from this land. With an average green grass production of 4
ton per hectare and the economic price of grass at Rs.270/ ton, the economic benefit per hectare and per
year is Rs. 1,080 The economic benefits from land reclaimed are estimated at Rs.2.71 million (year 30).
-50-



Soil Fertility Improvement
Soil fertility in the project area would be improved as the result of the land treatment that would bring leaf
litter and other organic matter back into the eco-system. In addition to this nutrient fixing effect, the
process of nutrient recycling would be reactivated. The impact evaluation study in Punjab indicated that
over the period 1990 to 1998, the organic matter has been accumulated at equivalent of 500 kg of nitrogen
per hectare. Based on this estimation and the economic price of nitrogen N at Rs.4.2 per kg, one could
calculate the total economic value at Rs.2, 100 per hectare. However, there are a number of difficulties in
estimating the economic value of the nitrogen fixation effect due to: (a) the build-up of nitrogen; and (b) its
economic utility. Build-up: assuming the 500 kg of nitrogen accumulated over eight years is correct, the
question is how this accumulation has taken place over time and how it will continue to take place.
Economic utility: although it is clear that the accumulation of N is good for the environment, the question is
what economic value can be attached to it if it is neither used to increase agricultural production nor grass
for livestock. The accumulation of nitrogen generally takes place in the forest and agro-forestry area, thus
increasing timber and grass yields.
In the absence of clear data to answer these questions, the following have been assumed in the estimation of
the benefits: (a) that the accumulation of the 500 kg of N has taken place in afforestation areas over eight
years on a linear basis; and (b) that depending on the decomposition rate, only 50% of N would be directly
or indirectly useful for agricultural production such as increasing crop yields in agro-forestry areas, thus
having economic value. Based on these assumptions, the economic benefit due to improved soil fertility has
been estimated at about Rs.20 million per annum as shown in Table 8.
OTHER BENEFITS
Employment Generation
The project would generate additional employment opportunities for the rural population in the project area
at farm level as well as through project support-works such as drainage line treatment, rural infrastructure,
water harvesting structures and construction of marketing centers. At farm level, additional employment
has been estimated at 5.2 million man-days (or 21,000 full-time labor) per annum at peak year, and then
reduce to 3 million man-days (or 12,000 full-time labor) per annum during an average year. In addition to
employment opportunities at farm level, the project support activities would generate about 18 million
man-days of work over five years in the five participating states. Most of these opportunities would benefit
the landless in the area.
Other Social Infrastructure Saved
As in the case of land saved due to the project, there would also be social infrastructure such as village,
school and roads, which would be saved. As an example, the first IWDP Hills project in Punjab indicates
that there were 34 villages, 12 schools, and 9.6 km of roads saved over a period of eight years in a treated
area of 31,350 ha. However, benefits saved from social infrastructure are not included in the analysis.
-51-



Benefits Outside the Project Area
Benefits of the project are not necessarily confined to the project area. The reduction of surface run-off and
soil erosion would reduce sedimentation in rivers that would eventually have a far-reaching impact such as
extending the life of dams along these rivers. Flood control is another benefit that has far-reaching impact.
Nevertheless, these benefits are difficult to quantify and are not included in the project rate of return
calculations.
C. FINANCLAL ANALYSIS
Crop Models
Crop models have been prepared to assess the impact on crop yields and on model farm income, and
consequently to assess the economic impact of the whole project. For each model, the "without project"
and "with project" have been assumed. There are also cases where crops are newly introduced, thus the
model assumes only the "with project" situation.
Rainfed Crops
Four crop models - maize, wheat, pulses and gram - have been prepared for use in the analysis. Physical
outputs and inputs on a per hectare basis are given in "Yields and Inputs", and the financial results of each
crop are presented in "Financial Budget". For comparison purposes, all labor is costed and included in the
cost stream. In all cases, it has been assumed that full development will be reached in four years. The
assumed increase in rainfed crop yields is summarized in the table below:
Rainfed Crop Yields in Treated Areas
Wo. Project   Wi. Project
-------ton/ha
Maize              1.00         1.60
Wheat              1.10         1.60
Pulses             0.35         0.50
Gram               0.40         0.65
Cropping patterns and cropping intensities in the "With Project" and "Without Project" are shown in the
table below:
-52-



Rainfed Cropping Intensities in Treated Areas
Crops     Wo. Project Wi. Project
Maize             43          49
Pulses             19         21
Wheat              55         62
Gram               23         15
Total             140        147
Irrigated Crops
For supplementary irrigation areas, the following crop models have been prepared: maize, wheat, pulses,
gram, paddy, onion and brinjal. With the availability of water, farmers would use a portion of land for
vegetable production, particularly during the Rabi season. Onion and brinjal have been used as
representative crops for vegetables. Yield increases assumed in the analysis are shown in the table below. It
has been also assumed that full development will be reached in four years.
Irrigated Crop Yields
Wo. Project   Wi. Project
---  ton/ha ----------
Maize             1.00         2.50
Wheat              1.10         2.50
Pulses            0.35         0.63
Gram              0.40          0.72
Paddy               na         3.00
Onion               na        20.00
Brinjal             na        30.00
Regarding the cropping intensity, it has been assumed that it will increase from the existing rainfed rate of
140% to 170%. Cropping patterns as well as cropping intensity are shown in the table below:
Irrigated Cropping Intensities
Crops     Wo. Project Wi. Project
---------/ --------
Maize              43        60.0
Pulses             19         7.5
Wheat              55        76.0
Gram               23        15.0
Paddy               0         7.5
Vegetable           0         4.0
Total             140       170.0
-53-



The information on gross margins, labor requirements and return per labor for rainfed crops as well as
irrigated crops is provided in the Working Paper 4 in the Project Files. Understandably, the gross returns
from vegetables are high, however they could not be planted over a larger area due to marketing
constraints. Returns per labor of pulses and gram are high, practically due to lower requirement of labor.
Analysis of the table reveals that irrigation would also increase gross margins (before including irrigation
costs) by 58% and 50% respectively for maize and wheat.
Horticulture (fruit trees)
In this project, the term horticulture refers to fruit tree plantation. There are a wide range of fruit trees
species that can be promoted in the project area. These species include: guava, mango, citrus, ber, amla,
and pear. As discussed in the previous section, a final decision on fruit tree species and area to be planted
will have to be based on demand by stakeholders. However, experience in the first IWDP Hills indicates
that guava and mango are the most popular fruit trees among farmers. One hectare crop models for mango
and guava have been formulated as representative of fruit trees. The financial rates of return (FRR) have
been estimated at 40% and 39% respectively for the guava and mango models.
Farm Forestry
Poplar and eucalyptus have been selected as representative of farm forestry. Crop models have been
prepared for these two crops. As farm forestry would take place on private arable land, the actual tree
species will be determined by participating farmers. The FRRs have been estimated at 36% and 16%
respectively for the poplar and eucalyptus models, which indicate that poplar is far more attractive due
mainly to better price.
Afforestation
The project would support afforestation in two main areas: (a) non-arable land (private and communal
land), and (b) forest land (public land). For the non-arable land, one afforestation model and one bamboo
model have been prepared to capture the benefits (Tables 41-44). These models place emphasis primarily
on fuelwood, fodder and other small products mainly for domestic use such as poles. In forest land which
is owned by the public sector, a timber-oriented afforestation model has been prepared. Apart from
support for new afforestation, the project would also support forest augmentation (or enrichment planting)
to supplement the existing plantation. For this activity, the benefits have been estimated by extrapolating
benefit proportionate to the cost invested. The FRRs have been estimated at 16% and 17% for the
afforestation/private and bamboo models. For the afforestation model in public land, the FRR has been
calculated at 19%.
Farm Models
Although average farm size varies from state to state, the majority of farm sizes fall within the range of one
to two hectares. An average size of 1.2 ha farm household has been assumed to illustrate the financial
impact of the project on farm income. Two types of farm models have been considered: (a) farms
cultivating only rainfed crops; and (b) farms with rainfed crops and supplementary irrigation. In both
cases, labor is assumed to be family labor. The following farm models assume crops, cropping patterns and
-54-



cropping intensities, as discussed in the foregoing section, for both rainfed and irrigated farmers. The
major income included in both models is from crops and livestock. In reality, farmers in the project area
will receive other financial benefits such as fuelwood, fodder and fruit trees which are not included in the
models as they are either difficult to quantify or are long-term benefits.
Case 1: Rainfed: Based on 1.2 hectare rainfed crops, and an average of 1.4 cattle per household, the
financial impact of the project is summarized in the table below:
Financial Impact on Rainfed Farmer
Wo. Project              Wi. Proiect
Year 4      Year 7   Changes/%
Net Benefits from:                --------------- Rs. ---------------
- Rainfed crops           5,280        8,400       8,400         59%
- Livestock               2,438        2,755       3,073         26%
Total                       7,718      11,155       11,473         49%
The total net benefits per household would increase by about 49% from Rs.7,700 to Rs. 11,470 over seven
years. Income from livestock is quite significant, and represents about 27% of the total. Return to family
labor from crop production is estimated to increase from Rs.88 to Rs.114 per labor day. Farmers in the
project area would receive free inputs (equivalent to about Rs. 1 ,000/ha) in the first year as an incentive.
Case 2: With Irrigation
With irrigation, it is assumed that one hectare would be devoted to rainfed crops and 0.2 hectare to
irrigated crops. An average of 1.4 head of cattle per household is also assumed in the model. The financial
impact is summarized in the table below:
Financial Impact on Rainfed Farmer with Irrigation
Wo. Project              Wi. Proiect
Year 4      Year 7   Chanaes/%
Net Benefits from:                --------------- Rs. ------
- Rainfed crops           5,280        7,000       7,000         33%
- Irrigated crops           -          2,560       2,560           na
- Livestock               2,438        2,755       3,073         26%
Total                       7,718      12,315       12,633         64%
With irrigation, the farm household would increase its income by about 64%, from an average of Rs.7,700
to Rs.12,600 over seven years. Income from irrigation represents a substantial increase compared with
rainfed crops and livestock, although income from rainfed crops continued to be the main part of the total
income. Return to family labor (from crops) is expected to increase from Rs.88 to Rs.115 per labor day.
This increase represents only a small improvement compared to that of the rainfed model, because there
-55-



would be an increase in labor requirements. Similarly, farmers would receive free inputs (equivalent to
about Rs. 1,000/ha) in the first year.
Irrigation
A new element of the IWDP-II as compared to the first IWDP Hills, is the introduction of water harvesting
structures and minor irrigation as an entry point for the participatory process as well as a logical means to
harness water resources made available by the project. However, irrigation cannot be promoted at all
costs. There are a number of important criteria which need to be considered in the selection of an irrigation
scheme: technical, social (participation to assure proper maintenance), financial and economic.
The proposed irrigation component would adopt the participatory process approach and would deal with
numerous and varied types of irrigation schemes scattered all over the project area in the participating five
states. In addition to this logistical constraint, participatory planning involving all stakeholders would be
required before support to any particular scheme could be determined. These two factors are likely delay
the implementation of this component.
To facilitate the process, a cost ceiling approach could be used to ensure the viability of proposals for
irrigation. Based on assumed cropping patterns and crop yield increases in the irrigated area, the gross
benefit (before investment cost) could be calculated for a unit area of land irrigated, say one hectare. Based
on this gross benefit, the maximum financial investment cost, assuming O&M at 5% p.a. of investment
cost, could be estimated in order to achieve an acceptable FRR of 12%. This ceiling investment cost has
been estimated at Rs.39,000/ha, (US$930/ha). A detailed feasibility study would be required for the
proposed irrigation scheme which costs more than the ceiling of US$930/ha.
Fiscal Impact
The total incremental recurrent costs of the project over five years have been estimated at US$30.7 million,
of which US$25.8 million are for staff benefits and US$4.9 million for various O&M. The participating
states' budgets would be negatively affected by these incremental recurrent costs. In the long run, this
negative fiscal impact would be partially offset by positive impacts generated by: (1) reducing financial aid
to the poor in the project area, if not increasing tax on increased agricultural production; (2) reducing
expenditure on repairs and maintenance of social infrastructure such as schools, roads; and (3) reduction in
compensation of floods and landslide damages.
D. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
The economic analysis of the project has been undertaken at the aggregate level, summing up all benefits
and costs of the project area in the five participating states. As discussed earlier, this project is based on
participatory planning process or demand driven, thus any effort to analyze it is only a hypothetical
exercise. However, this effort will shed light on the project's viability as proposed indicative activities and
scale of project were based on the past experience and lessons gained with the first IWDP Hills.
-56-



Benefits from Productivity Improvements
The project would increase the production of food crops (maize, wheat, paddy, pulses, gram), fruit,
vegetables, fodder, fuelwood, timber, and livestock products. Only half of the by-products value has been
included, assuming the other half would be used for livestock production. In aggregating the total
production and benefits from agricultural products, relevant crop models have been used and applied to
phased areas under various activities considered likely to be taken up by stakeholders after the participation
process. To further facilitate the aggregation process, two one-hectare models have been prepared for
rainfed crops and irrigated crops to reflect cropping patterns and cropping intensities in the two farming
systems. These aggregations have been carried out using a Farmod program. Benefits from livestock
production have been estimated based on the integration of forage and livestock in each sub-watershed
(Working Paper 2). Due to limited reliable data, livestock production from Jammu & Kashmir and Uttar
Pradesh has been derived by extrapolation of production in the other three states.
In the estimation of the overall project's benefits, it has been assumed that the benefits would be generated
from two sources: (1) total areas directly treated by the project; and (2) the arable land in untreated areas.
It is anticipated that crop yields in untreated areas will be increased as a result of improved moisture. Crop
yields in the arable land in untreated areas have been assumed to increase by 10% over three years. The
assumed crop yields and cropping intensities in untreated areas are summarized in the tables below:
Rainfed Crop Yields in Untreated Areas
Wo. Project   Wi. Project
-----:-ton/ha -----
Maize              1.00         1.10
Wheat              1.10         1.21
Pulses             0.35         0.39
Gram               0.40         0.44
Rainfed Cropping Intensities in Untreated Areas
Crops     Wo. Project Wi. Project
-  ---   - -
Maize              43         45
Pulses             19         19
Wheat              55          55
Gram               23         23
Total             140         142
Incremental production of food crops, vegetables, fruit and forest products in both treated and untreated
areas, in years 5,10,20, and 30, is sunmmarized in the table below. In terms of production, mango and
guava appear to be important contributors to the overall benefits. Nevertheless, this production will only
be realized gradually over time and full development would be reached in year 13. As discussed earlier,
-57-



mango and guava are only taken as representative in the estimation of benefits. In reality, horticultural
crops would be more diversified depending on stakeholder demand. The project-supported marketing study
would also facilitate the selection of crops.
Phasing of Increased Crop Production
Output       Unit                    Production
Year 5    Year 10     Year 20     Year 30
Maize          ton          18,058     33,013      33,013      33,013
Wheat           ton         19,488     36,466      36,466      36,466
Gram           ton            485       1,414       1,414       1,414
Pulses          ton           730       1,746       1,746       1,746
Paddy          ton          2,026       2,781       2,781       2,781
Onion           ton         4,553       5,686       5,686       5,686
Brinjal         ton         5,403       7,416       7,416       7,416
Mango           ton          1,234     90,351     123,812     123,812
Guava           ton         17,349    117,480     158,624     158,624
Timber (kikar)    000 m3       -          -          206          -
Timber (khair) 1/  000 m3      -          -           -
Bamboo          ton           -         2,750       7,320       7,320
Poplar          000 m3        -           239        299         239
Eucalyptus 2/    000 m3       -           -           -
1/ production years 21 - 25; maximum production 333,000 m3/p.a.
2/ production years 11-15, and years 22 - 26; max. 215,000 m3/p.a.
Translated into economic terms, incremental production alone would add a maximum of about Rs.3.560
million per annum (year 22) to the national income. In addition to benefits from increased agricultural
production, benefits from livestock, roads, marketing collection centers and potable water supplies have
been included in the analysis. Incremental milk production has been estimated at 47.3 million liters in year
7.
Additional Benefits
Additional benefits are derived mainly from the impact on the environment and natural resources discussed
in the foregoing section. Benefits saved from other social infrastructure are not included. Total additional
benefits, which have been estimated at Rs.209 million in year 30, are quite a significant amount. However,
compared with the overall amount of benefits, these indirect benefits represent only about 8% of the total
(year 30).
-58-



Economic Costs
Project Costs
Economic costs of the project have been derived from detailed cost tables, excluding taxes and prices
contingencies.
Costs at Farm Level
In addition to the economic costs shown in the cost tables, there are also incremental economic costs
incurred at farm level and paid by farmers themselves. These costs were derived from the aggregation of
all economic crop budgets in accordance with the phasing of the proposed project, using a Farmod
program. All labor costs, both family and hired, were included.
ERRs
ERRs by Activities
The ERRs for various model activities proposed in the project are summarized in the table below. Detailed
analysis and assumptions used for the analysis of upgrading rural link roads, marketing collection centers,
and potable water supplies are discussed in Working Paper 3 of the FAO/CP preparation report.
ERRs of Model Activities
Model Activities        ERRs/ %
Horticulture
-mango                     42.0
-guava                     43.0
Farm forestry
- poplar                   38.0
- eucalyptus               16.0
Afforestation
- on private land           16.0
- bamboo                   17.0
- on public land           20.0
Rural infrastructure
- upgrading road           13.9
- marketing centres        12.0
- Potable water supply      12.0
-59-



ERRs for the Whole Project
To facilitate judgment of the economic viability of the proposed project, the ERR has been estimated for
two scenarios to reflect various degrees of benefits incorporated into the project benefits:
*   Scenario 1: includes only benefits from increased production;
*   Scenario 2: includes benefits from increased production and additional benefits.
The ERRs have been estimated at 16.6% and 17.3% respectively for scenarios 1 & 2 (Tables 58-59). At a
discount rate of 12%, the NPV has been estimated at Rs.2,828 million and Rs.3,3, 10 million respectively
for scenarios 1 & 2. These ERRs are economically acceptable for this type of project that aims primarily at
long-term environmental impact. There are a number of factors that characterize the estimation of the
ERRs: (1) all costs of the project are included; (2) an average of import and export parity prices have been
used instead of import parity prices; (3) assuming no benefits in Year 1; and (4) conservative assumptions
on crop yield increases.
Main Assumptions:
The economic rate of return for the project as a whole is estimated to be 17.3%. Main assumptions
underlying the economic analysis are presented below:
(a) The economic benefits have been estimated on the basis of net value of incremental production of food
grains (maize, wheat, paddy, pulses, and gram). Fifty percent of the value of grain crop by-product
was considered as input for livestock production, fruits, vegetables, fuelwood, timber, and livestock
products;
(b) Benefits from rural infrastructure (roads, markets and drinking water) were also included;
(c) Additional benefits derived mainly from the environmental protection and improvement in the natural
resource, including commercial products such as babhar grass and bamboo, have been taken into
account in the analysis;
(d) Economic prices for traded commodities including maize, wheat, and rice were derived from the latest
World Bank Commodity Price Projections issued August, 1998 (The average of import and export
parity prices of maize, wheat and rice have been used in the analysis on the grounds that India has
become more or less self-sufficient in these commodities; while for fertilizer, import parity prices have
been used);
(e) Prices for non-tradables were adjusted to boarder values by using a Standard Conversion Factor of
0.90; and
(f) Economic costs have been derived from detailed cost tables excluding taxes and price contingencies,
including recurrent costs after the implementation period.
-60-



Economic Prices: For non-tradeable commodities, a Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.90 has been
applied to adjust financial prices into economic prices (see World Bank :Office Memorandum, India -
Exchange Rates and Price Contingencies for Project Analysis, December 9, 1997). For major tradeable
commodities such as maize, wheat, paddy, and fertilizer, parity prices have been worked out using the
World Bank's Commodity Markets, August 1998. The average of import and export parity prices of
maize, wheat and paddy have been used in the analysis on the grounds that India has become more or less
self-sufficient in these commodities; while for fertilizer, import parity prices have been used.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Sensitivity Analysis. A set of sensitivity cases was analyzed to test the economic viability of the project.
The ERR of scenario 2 has been used as base case for this sensitivity analysis. Major factors which
negatively affect the ERR are: cost overrun, lower-than-expected benefits due to both lower crop yields
and/or lower prices, and delays in accrued incremental benefits. The switching value method, with 12%
opportunity cost of capital, has been used in the analysis. The result is summarized in the Table below:
Test Variations    ERRs / %
Base case                17.2
Benefits down 30%        12.0
Costs up 42%             12.0
Benefits lag 3 years     12.1
Benefits down 50%         7.4
Costs up 50%             11.2
The overall project economic rate of return is moderately sensitive to increases in costs and reductions in
benefits. Assuming that benefits and costs do not change by more than 30% and 40% of their present
estimated value, respectively, the rate of return would only drop marginally to about 12%. Even this is
unlikely to happen because of the conservative estimates of yield increases used in the analysis and the high
physical contingency allowance built-in the project. Also, the return is sensitive to delays in realizing
benefits. If major benefits, particularly those dependent on the adoption of the rainfed technology by
farmers are delayed for three years, the economic rate of return drops to about 12%. This rate of return is
still acceptable for projects of this type. Because of the experience gained from the on-going project by
participating states including beneficiary involvement (ownership of project activities), with implementation
arrangements in place, most likely the economic rate of return would not fall below 12%, which is the
estimated opportunity cost of capital.
Switching value tests show that project costs would have to increase by more than 42% or benefits have to
drop by more than 30 % for the net present value discounted at 12% to fall to zero. More details on the
financial and economic analysis are presented in the Working Paper 4 of the preparation report.
-61-



Annex 5: Financial Summary
INDIA: Integrated Watershed Development (Hills-l1) Project
Years Ending
2004
Year1 I   Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           25.0      38.4       41.0       34.8       23.1        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             5.3        5.8        6.3        6.6        6.7        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          30.3       44.2      47.3       41.4       29.8        0.0       0.0
Front-end fee     0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing              30.3       44.2      47.3       41.4       29.8        0.0       0.0
IBRD/IDA                  13.5       27.0       40.5       40.5       13.5       0.0        0.0
Government                 4.5        9.0       13.5       13.5        4.5       0.0        0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial                                                                   0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    1.3        2.6        3.9        3.9        1.3       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     19.3       38.6       57.9      57.9       19.3       0.0        0.0
-62-



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
INDIA: Integrated Watershed Development (Hills-Il) Project
Procurement
Procurement Methods (Table A)
All project activities financed under the Loan/Credit would be procured in accordance with Bank
Guidelines for Procurement (January 1995, Revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999). Attachment I to the Annex 6 summarizes procedures for undertaking procurement on the
basis of National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Specific procurement arrangements sunmmarized in Table A
are as follows:
1.1. Civil Works ($ US55.1 M):
1.1.1  Civil works in the project consist mainly of the construction and rehabilitation of rural roads, office
and residential buildings, minor irrigation schemes, marketing infrastructures, marketing centers,
green houses and sheds for research, and dispensaries for livestock, etc. Civil works will be
procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) or Force Account procedures as per the
Bank Procurement Guidelines.
1.1.2  National Competitive Bidding (NCB) ($US33.1M): Works to an aggregate value of US$33.1
million would be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of NCB procedures acceptable to
IDA. The justification for the NCB for civil works is that they consist of works in widely scattered
locations in five states, during the project years and therefore could not be grouped together.
Foreign firms would not find the above contracts attractive in view of the very nature of the works
and their large geographical distribution. Nonetheless, bids from foreign contractors would not be
precluded. Strict post qualification criteria will be incorporated in the bidding document to ensure
proper selection of contractors.
1.1.3  Other Methods (US$22.0 M):
Small works such as minor irrigation schemes, marketing centers, green houses and sheds for
research, and dispensaries for livestock, etc. valued at less than US$20,000 equivalent per contract
upto an aggregate limit of US$22.0 million would be procured by project states in accordance with
Force Account procedures acceptable to the Bank: These include the contracts awarded: (i) on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three qualified contractors eligible
under the Guidelines or registered Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) or self-help groups;
or (ii) by direct contracting under community participation provisions with village communities or
NGOs, self-help groups/VDCs; or (iii) by Force Account as a last resort in a manner satisfactory
to the Association in accordance with paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines.
1.1.4  Field Operations (US$87.25 M):
The project would finance investment expenditures for field operations in arable and non-arable
land in 75 sub-watersheds in five states. Field operations consist mainly the activities relating to
soil conservation, drainage treatment, water harvesting, on-farm fodder demonstrations,
-63-



horticulture, agroforestry, silvi pastural/pasture operations, livestock development, etc. This would
also include hiring of labor as well as supervision costs. These works come under various heads of
operations and are geographically spread over every unit of administration of the five states. In the
interest of project sustainability, and due to labor intensive nature of watershed works, works upto
an aggregate of US$55 million would be procured under community participation provisions as
defined in paragraph 3.5 (iii) of Procurement Guidelines, using rates established by project states,
and acceptable to the Bank and works upto US$12.25 million would (with prior approval of Bank)
be carried out following Force Account procedures as per paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines. For the
above field operations, materials of value of US$20.0 million would be procured. Most of the
materials would be procured following shopping procedures. In case of contracts above
US$20,000, national competitive bidding (NCB) would be followed.
1.1.5  Bidding Documents:
Standard Bidding Documents as finalized by the Government of India Task Force and agreed with
the Bank would be used for all NCB contracts. Contracts with the NGOs, self-help groups, Village
Development Committees would be concluded on formats acceptable to the Bank.
1.2. Goods and Equipment: (US$4.15 M)
1.2.1  The project supports the procurement of computer hardware, software, furniture, office equipment,
livestock, medicines for livestock, semen, seeds, seedlings, plants, fertilizer, etc. The requirement is
spread over the five participating states and during the project period. None of the packages
(including that of computers) is estimated to cost more than the equivalent of US$200,000 and
hence is not suitable for International Competitive Bidding (ICB). The equipment and materials
would be procured following NCB, Shopping and Direct Contracting procedures.
1.2.2   National Competitive Bidding (NCB): (US$1. 0 M):
Contracts for the purchase of Goods and Equipment, valued more than US$20,000 per contract
would be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of NCB procedures in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. DGS&D rate contracts are not
acceptable as a substitute for NCB.
1.2.3   National Shopping: (US$0.5M):
Office equipment, furniture, small equipment, medicines, fertilizers, and other supplies estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of US$20,000 per contract upto an aggregate not to exceed
US$500,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping procedures in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. DGS&D rate
contracts are acceptable as a substitute for shopping. However State Government rate contracts or
procurement through Super Bazaar or Janatha Bazaar would not be acceptable. The rate list of
these could be considered as one of the quotation under the shopping procedures.
1.2.4  Direct Contracting: (US$0.45 M)
Satellite imagery, aerial photography and maps, proprietary equipment, spares and medicines,
books, periodicals, software, semen, seeds, seedlings, plants and fertilizer upto an aggregate
amount of US$0.3 million would be procured following Direct Contracting procedures in
-64-



accordance with paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
1.2.5  Vehicles: (US$1.7 M):
Vehicles for the project would consist of mostly four wheel drive inspection vehicles, a few cars
and other vehicles. The requirement of these vehicles would cover various departments of the five
states and spread over the project period. Thus they would not be amenable to central and lumped
procurement. Individual contracts are not likely to be more than US$ 100,000. Hence these would
be procured using shopping procedures. DGS&D rate contracts are acceptable as a substitute for
national shopping procedures.
1.2.6  Bidding Documents:
Standard Bidding Documents as finalized by the Government of India Task Force and agreed with
the Bank will be used for all NCB contracts.
1.3 TechnicalAssistance, Studies and Training: (US$15.8 M)
1.3.1  Technical Assistance and Consultancy Services estimated to cost US$5.9 million for management
support, implementation assistance and special studies would be contracted following procedures in
accordance with Bank Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers,( January 1997, Revised September 1997 and January 1999). The Standard Request for
Proposals and Conditions of Contract would be used for all contracts. Consulting services of contract value
less than US$20,000 equivalent each for participatory planning and implementation assistance would be
contracted on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
1.3.2  The selection of NGOs should generally take into account, among others, the following criteria:
*   The NGO should be non-political and should be having a proven track record;
i   It should consist of an adequate number of experienced field staff conversant with the local culture and
language, and the socio-economic dimensions of the beneficiary groups;
v  The staff of the selected NGO should have excellent communication skills;
*  It should be registered as a society or have other corporate status;
*  It should have facilities to maintain separately, records and accounting and auditing of funds allocated
for the assignment;
*  It should possess internal stability so as to assure long-term support; and
*   It should not have been blacklisted by the Central Social and Welfare Board (CSWB) or Council for
the Advancement of Peoples Action and Rural Technology (CAPART).
1.3.3  Training estimated to cost US$9.9 million would consist of training courses for staff in established
institutions. The personnel to be trained, number, course content, etc. would be cleared with the
Bank before deputing the staff. Organizing tailor made training courses would be contracted
following procedures in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
1.4   Incremental Operating Costs (US$30.7 M):
Incremental operating costs consist of incremental staff salaries and benefits, operation and
maintenance of vehicles and equipment, travel office (including rent and maintenance of office
buildings) and other operating costs. These costs would be financed on a declining basis.
-65-



2.    Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions: (Table B)
2.1    Procurement Planning:
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, the
proposed procurement plan for the project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with procurement plan as
shall have been approved by the Bank and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. Annual
Procurement Plans would be reviewed by IDA/Bank.
2.2    Prior review:
2.2.1  Civil Works and Goods contracts:
All packages for civil works and goods exceeding the equivalent of US$100,000 and first two
contracts of each state for goods and works estimated to cost less than US$100,000 but more than
US$20,000 will be fully documented and subject to prior review by the Bank as per procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Bank Guidelines.
2.2.2   Consultancy contracts:
Prior review for consultancy contracts would be as follows:
(a)    With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 100,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1,2 (other than the third sub-paragraph of paragraph
2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply;
(b)    With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, but
less than the equivalent of US$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1,2 (other
than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant
Guidelines shall apply; and
(c)    With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to
cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association
for its prior review and approval.
The contracts shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
This would result in a prior review of 10 percent of all contracts awarded under competitive
bidding.
2.3    Post review:
2.3.1 Works and Goods:
The contracts below the prior review threshold for Works and Goods shall be subject to post
review as per procedure set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 of the Bank Guidelines.
-66-



2.3.2  Technical Assistance, Studies and Training:
Contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than US$100,000 and
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than US$50,000 shall be subject
to post review provided that the Torso have been cleared with the Bank.
2.4    Procurement Information:
Procurement information would be collected and recorded as follows:
(a) Prompt reporting of contract award information by Project Directors
(b) Comprehensive semi-annual reports by Project Directors indicating:
(i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project;
(ii) revised timings of the procurement actions including advertising, bidding, contract award
and completion time for individual prior review contracts; and
(iii) compliance with aggregate limits on the specified methods of procurement.
(c) Completion report by the borrower within three months of the credit closing date.
3.     Proposed procurement arrangements:
The project elements, their estimated costs and proposed methods of procurement be summarized
in Table A. Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts to be financed by the IDA/Bank.
-67-



Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement Method            Total Cost
(including
ICB       NCB       Other      Contingencies)
1. Works:                              0        33.1        22            55.1
Construction and rehabilitation of             (26.48)    (17.6)         (44.08)
rural roads, office and residential
buildings, minor irrigation schemes,
marketing infrastructure, marketing
centers, green houses, sheds for
research, veterinary dispensaries, etc.
2. Field Operations:                              0        87.25          87.25
(0)     (56.71)        (56.71)
Soil conservation, drainage treatment
water harvesting, on-farm fodder
demonstration, horticulture, agro-
forestry, silvi-pastural/pasture operations
and livestock development, etc.
TOTAL - WORKS                          0         33.1     109.25         142.35
(26.48)    (74.31)      (100.79)
3. Goods and Equipment:
(a)Computers, furniture, office        0.5        1         0.5            2.0
equipment,
small equipment, medicines, fertilizers    (0.4)  (0.8)    (0.4)          (1.6)
and other supplies
(b) Small equipment, materials and                         0.15           0.15
other supplies
(0.12)         (0.12)
(c) Satellite imaqerv,aerial photoqraphy                    0.3            0.3
and maps, proprietary equipment, spares                    (0.24)         (0.24)
medicines, books and periodicals,
software,semen.seeds,seedlinq s, Dlants
fertilizers
(d) Vehicles                                      0         1.7            1.7
(0)      (1.36)         (1.36)
TOTAL - GOODS &EQUIPMENT               0.5        1        2.65           4.15
(0.4)     (0.8)     (2.12)         (3.32)
-68-



4. Technical Assistance & Training:
(a) Consultancies and studies                           5.9           5.9
(5.9)        (5.9)
(b) Training                                            9.9           9.9
(9.9)        (9-9)
TOTAL TA & TRAINING                                     15.8          15.8
(15.8)       (15.8)
5. Incremental Operating Costs:                                      30.7
15.8
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                                   193.0
(135.0)
Note:
1.     Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank/IDA Loan/Credit.
2.     Other methods include force account, national shopping, direct contracting, and community
participation.
-69-



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Expenditure Category         Procurement       Contract Value (US$)  Contracts subject to
Method           (Threshold)           prior review
(Value in US$)
1. Works:
Civil Works                  NCB              Above $20,000         $100,000 and above*
Force Account    Below $20,000        None
Field Operations            Force Account                          None
2. Goods:
Goods, Equipment, Materials    ICB             Above $200,000       All
and supplies                 NCB               Above $20,000 and    $100,000 and above*
below $200,000
Shopping         Below $20,000        None
Direct Contracting  Below $1000       None
Satellite imagery, aerial    Direct Contracting                     None
photography and maps,
proprietary equipment and spares,
medicines, books periodicals,
software, livestock, semen, seeds,
seedlings, plants and fertilizer
Vehicles                                                            All
ICB              Above $100,000
None*
NCB              Above $20,000 and
below $100,000 for
contracts other than
DGS&D rate contracts
None
DGS&D rate       Below $100,000
contracts
None
Shopping         Below $20,000
-70-



3. Consultancies:
Consultancies, studies, NGO and   As per Bank                           For contracts of value
other community participation  Guidelines: QCBS,                        $100,000 and above
contracts, Trainings, Workshops   QBS,SSS, IC                          the procedures set
and Fellowships                                                         forth in paragraph 1,2
(other than the third
sub-paragraph of
paragraph 2(a)) and 5
of Appendix 1 of
Consultant Guidelines
shall apply.
For contracts of value
$50,000 or more but
less than $100,000
the procedures set
forth in paragraphs
1,2 (other than the
second sub-paragraph
of paragraph 2(a))
and 5 of Appendix 1
of Consultant
Guidelines shall
apply.
For employment of
individual consultants
of contract value
$50,000 or more, the
qualifications,
experience, terms of
reference and terms of
employment shall be
subject to prior
review.
-71-



4. Miscellaneous:
Incremental staff salaries, benefits
and travel:
Operation cost of vehicles,
equipment and office including
rents
Maintenance of vehicles and   Direct contracting   Below $1000 per    None
equipment:                                      contract
Shopping          Above $1000 but less   None
than $10,000 per
Maintenance of office and other                 contract
buildings                     Direct Contracting  Below $1000 per     None
contract
Shopping          Above $1000 but less   None
than $20,000 per
contract
First two contract for civil works, and first two contract for goods and equipment regardless of value
subject to prior review.
* Selection methods: Quality and Cost-Based selection (QCBS); Quality based Selection (QBS; Based on
Individual Consultants Qualification (IC); Single Source Selection (SSS).
-72-



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Expenditure Category                                      Amount    Financing Percentage
Loan/Credit
(US$ million)
1. Civil Works                                              50.30     80%
Construction and rehabilitation of rural roads, office and
residential buildings, minor irrigation schemes, marketing
infrastructure, marketing centers, green houses, sheds for
research, veterinary dispensaries, etc.
2. Field Operations                                         51.30      70%
Soil conservation, drainage treatment, water harvesting, on-
farm demonstration, horticulture, agro-forestry, silvi pastural/
pasture operations and live stock development, etc.
3. Goods and Equipment including vehicles and supplies      3.95       100 % of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local ex-factory costs or
80% of other local costs
of vehicles, equipment and
materials
4. Technical Assistance and Training                        15.85      100%
5. Miscellaneous:                                           13.60
(a) Incremental staff salaries, benefits and travel;                   60% upto September 30,
2001; 50% upto
(b) Operation cost of vehicles, equipment and office including         September 30, 2003 ; and
rents;                                                                 40% thereafter
80% for first two years;
(c) Maintenance of vehicles and equipment; and                         60% for the next two
years and 40% for the last
(d) Maintenance of office and other buildings.                         year of the project
TOTAL                                                    135.0
-73-



FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
T. Assessment of Financial Manaeement System and Areas of Improvement
The financial management system of IWDP Hills-I was reviewed during project preparation and appraisal.
In IWDP Hills-I, the government acc:Nunting system is followed in the four project states (Haryana,
Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, and Punjab). The financial system and procedures are
documented in the 'Financial Rules' of the respective state governments. The main focus of the current
financial management system is on transactional control over expenditures, recording individual
transactions, compiling data for reporting by government budget categories and for preparing Bank
Withdrawal Applications (i.e., by disbursement categories). There is very limited focus on meeting project
management information needs. Project financial statements indicating sources of funds and uses of funds
(including information on project expenditure by components, types of expenditure, etc.), assets created out
of the project, etc. and management reports are not prepared. Annual audited project financial statements
are substantially compilations of expenditures classified according to disbursement categories (i.e.,
summations of withdrawals applications submitted during the year) and are prepared separately for each
state. Audit of these expenditure statements is carried by the respective state Accountant General (Audit).
The focus of the audit is on authentication of individual transactions, certification of reimbursement claims
made to the Bank, and verification of compliance with Government procedures. Both quality and
timeliness of audited financial reports is unsatisfactory. A major factor underlying many of the issues
stated above is the lack of qualified staff to handle financial functions. There is need to substantially
improve and modernize the financial management system, to ensure that it is commensurate with the size
and scope of the project. In summary, major aspects which need to be addressed for establishment of a
satisfactory financial management system are: (a) satisfactory staffing of the finance function and training
of staff in better financial management practices; (b) enhanced transparency of project operations through
improved presentation of financial information. An important requirement for this is improvement of the
accounting system to ensure better classification and compilation/analysis of accounting data; (c)
establishment of clear financial policies and procedures (including for new aspects such as funding of
VDCs); and (d) satisfactory audit arrangements including adoption of satisfactory auditing standards.
H. Readiness for Implementation
A financial management system for the project is currently being developed. The framework of this system
discussed with the project agencies is described in Section V. Key actions relating to establishment of a
satisfactory financial management system to be completed are:
(a) appointment of financial management technical support consultants who would provide qualified
financial professionals to support the operation of the financial management system and training of
project staff. Assurances were obtained that each state and WDC would engage financial
management consultants to provide support for operation of the project financial management system
andfor training services by January 31, 2000. WDC may use qualified in-house personnel or financial
management consultants;
(b) design of the project financial management system i.e., development and adoption of the Project
Financial Management Manual including all necessary approvals. Assurances were obtained that the
project states and WDC would prepare and adopt a satisfactory Project Financial Management
Manual by October 31, 1999;
(c) computerization of the project financial management system. This would include development of the
-74-



software, and procurement and installation of the computer hardware (including operating and
application software). Assurances were obtained that the states and WDC would develop a
satisfactory computerized project financial management system by March 31, 2000; and thereafter
maintain the system for the duration of the project; and
(d) appointment of a firm of Chartered Accountants to review the operation of the project financial
management system. Assurances were obtained that each state and WDC would engage afirm of
Chartered Accountants for reviewing the operation of the financial management system, by January
31, 2000. WDC may use the services of the firm engaged by one of the project states.
Im. Risks
Several steps are being taken to ensure that a satisfactory financial management system is established.
However, there are several risks relating to the financial management aspects. The major risks are
highlighted below, to ensure that these are closely monitored during project implementation, and timely and
appropriate action is taken whenever required.
The major factor underlying the risks relating to financial management aspects is the lack of qualified
project financial staff i.e., staff with satisfactory qualifications and training on financial management, who
could provide leadership on and manage financial management aspects of the project. Project agencies
currently do not have the necessary organization and incentive structure to recruit the required qualified
financial staff. Several measures are being taken to mitigate this risk viz., engagement of financial
management technical support consultants, up-front work in designing and computerizing the financial
management system, provision for training of project staff, and concurrent financial review by Chartered
Accountants to ensure timely remedial action. All these measures are however unlikely to fully make-up
for the absence of qualified financial staff within the project agencies, and there remains the risk that the
improved financial management system (focusing on project management information needs and
satisfactory controls) would not be fully operational.
There is a risk that the currently designed audit arrangements for the project would be unsatisfactory,
thereby weakening the overall internal control system. The project has adopted the currently accepted
standard audit arrangements for Bank-funded projects in India which are executed by Government
departments i.e., the project financial statements would be audited by the Comptroller and Auditor General
(CAG) of India. The Bank's Country Profile of Financial Accountability for India has highlighted several
weaknesses in the above audit system. The unfamiliarity of the CAG staff with audit of project financial
statements, and the unsatisfactory timeliness and quality of audits carried out by the CAG is also borne out
in the predecessor IWDP Hills -I Project and other Bank-funded projects. Whereas some steps are being
taken to improve the CAG's capacity (e.g., through an IDF Grant, training, etc. these are unlikely to
substantially improve the situation in the initial years of the project. Measures being taken to mitigate this
risk include: (i) improving the internal financial management of the project per se thereby reducing the
extent of reliance on audit as an internal control mechanism, and (ii) review of the overall operation of the
financial management system by Chartered Accountants. The scope of this review has not been defined
and agreed yet. Therefore, the risk of unsatisfactory audit arrangements still remains. To address this risk,
efforts would be made to both improve the capacity of the CAG, and to appropriately define the scope of
work of the Chartered Accountants.
Another risk arises from possible delays in completing the actions required for establishing a satisfactory
financial management system. All the major actions indicated in Section II above are complementary to
each other, and should be completed to ensure that a satisfactory financial management system is in place.
-75-



During project preparation, there have been significant delays in carrying out the up-front actions. Also,
adoption and implementation of the improved financial management system in all or some of the
states/!WDC could be delayed or derailed due to delays in clearance or non-clearance of the project's
financial management system by other relevant government departments (e.g., Finance Departments) or the
project agencies themselves. The project's strategy is to design the financial management system using a
participatory and consultative process involving all relevant parties, as to minimize this risk. Nonetheless,
discussions with the project agencies indicate that this risk still exists.
Further, the improved financial management system would not be established before the start of the project.
There is therefore a risk arising from unsatisfactory financial management system while expenditures are
being incurred in the initial period of the project (including retroactive expenditure). This risk is somewhat
mitigated by the tight transactional controls over expenditures. It is expected that expenditures incurred
from the beginning of the project and retroactive expenditures would be accounted for in the improved
financial management system after the system is operational. Any delays in establishing the financial
management system would also result in difficulties in accounting of these expenditures since the'
catching-up' period would correspondingly increase with any delays.
There is a real risk that the conversion to the PMR-based disbursements method would be delayed or not be
achieved. As explained in Section V, there are no organizational arrangements for financial management at
the overall project level. Each of the states and WDC would separately operate the financial management
system for their activities under the project. Conversion to the PMR-based disbursement method can take
place only after the satisfactory operation of the financial management system has been tested and
demonstrated in each of the S states and WDC. Given the aspects indicated in the above paragraphs,
compounded by the lack of arrangements for singular responsibility and accountability for financial
management aspects of the whole project, this would be challenging.
Another risk arises from diffusion of project funds among large number of Village Development
Committees (VDCs, organization of local communities), many of which may not have experience or the
required skills to satisfactorily account for and manage these funds. This risk would be addressed by
establishing appropriate policies and procedures for provision of project funds to VDCs and other entities,
and accounting of funds by these entities; providing simple and transparent financial information to the
communities and all stakeholders; and by requiring demonstration of satisfactory (and simple)
arrangements for managing funds as an eligibility criteria for receiving project funds.
IV. Disbursements Mechanism
Disbursements from the Credit/Loan will initially be made using existing transaction-based disbursement
procedures (reimbursements with full documentation or against Statements of Expenditure, and direct
payments). This arrangement is necessary given that the improved financial management system needs to
be installed, tested and demonstrated; and staff need to be trained and become familiar with the operation of
the improved system. It is expected that the project financial management system would be operated, and
quarterly PMRs (separately for each state and WDC) would be produced from March 31, 2000. The
disbursement mechanism will be converted to the PMR-based method, after the satisfactory working of the
financial management system has been tested and demonstrated in all states and WDC. The target date for
conversion to the PMR-based disbursement system is April 1, 2001. Project states, in consultation with the
Bank, would review and if necessary revise the target date.
-76-



V. Proposed Financial Management Framework for the Proiect
The project financial management system would be documented in a 'Financial Management Manual'.
This Manual would be the Borrower's Project Implementation Plan on financial management aspects; and
is under preparation. The Financial Management Manual would serve as a reference document for all
project staff, and would also assist in computerization of the financial management system. The Manual
would be used together with the current 'Financial Rules' of the Governments. The Manual would be
formally adopted by project management of all project states and WDC as the document which would
govern financial management aspects of the project, after review and approval by the concerned
departments. The Financial Management Manual would be periodically updated and improved based on
implementation experience. The Manual would inter alia include the following aspects: (i) staffing, training
and technical support aspects of financial management; (ii) flow of funds; (iii) accounting system
(including centers for maintenance of accounting records, Chart of Accounts, formats of books and records,
accounting and financial procedures); (iv) financial and accounting policies; (v) budgeting system; (vi)
financial forecasting system; (vii) procurement and contract administration monitoring system; (viii)
financial reporting (including formats of reports, and linkages with Chart of Accounts); (ix) auditing
arrangements including TORs of the auditors; (x) financial review, including TORs; and (xi) service
standards (benchmarks) for various accounting and financial activities.
Staffing, Training and Technical Support
This is the most important requirement for the operation/implementation of the improved financial
management system. Staff in the various implementing agencies are familiar with the government
accounting system, and associated rules and procedures. These staff need to be substantially retrained in
modern financial management practices and accounting methods, and in operation of computerized
systems. Due to the absence of qualified staff, there is a overwhelming need for continuous input from
qualified professional financial staff. Each state and WDC would engage a firm of financial management
consultants to provide qualified financial professionals (Chartered Accountant or Cost Accountant, and if
required a computer systems specialist) to provide support for the operation of the financial management
system and training services. WDC may use qualified in-house personnel or financial consultants, since
WDC's activities are very small and do not involve expenditure on field activities. The TORs for these
services (including number of staff required, their location, and nature of support) would be prepared
during the design of the financial management system. The TOR and qualifications of the consultants
would be agreed with the Bank. The consultants would be appointed by January 31, 2000. Initially, these
consultants would be appointed until the MTR. At MTR, it would be determined if these services would be
required for the remaining duration of the project. This would significantly depend on recruitment of
qualified financial staff in the project agencies.
There are currently no organizational arrangements for consolidation and integration of the financial
reports for the whole project. During project implementation, efforts would be made to establish such
arrangements, and to share knowledge and experiences on financial management across states and WDC.
Flow of Funds
GOI would pass on World Bank funds to state governments in accordance with the prevailing policies and
procedures applicable to passing on of Bank-funds from GOI to States -- GOI would bear the foreign
exchange risk. GOI would also provide funds (Bank funds and counterpart funds) to the WDC through
annual budgetary allocations. State Governments would provide funds (Bank funds and counterpart funds)
for the project to WPIOs/Watershed Management Directorate of U.P. through annual budgetary allocations
-77-



(which would be based on annual work plans).
WDC, WPIOs or WMD would utilize funds to make payments for works, goods and services, through their
various Drawing and Disbursing Offices (DDOs) and sub/field offices. DDOs or sub/field offices would
also make advances to VDCs, which would make payments for works, goods and services, and account for
these funds.
Cash contributions from beneficiaries would be deposited into the Project Bank accounts of the DDOs or
sub/field offices, and would be accounted for as sources of funds.
Accounting System
The overall framework of the system is given below:
(a) a common financial management system would be established, covering the entire project (for all
implementing agencies). A common set of financial policies and procedures, common system of data
classification for the project, etc. would be developed as to enable easy consolidation across
implementing agencies whenever required. However, given the lack of organizational arrangements for
consolidated financial management of the project, the system will operated separately in the project
states and WDC, and will not be consolidated / integrated at the project level (although this is highly
desirable).
(b) the financial management system would cover all project-related transactions i.e., all sources of funds
(GOI, 5 State Governments, Beneficiaries, and World Bank) would be accounted for and reflected in
the project financial statements; and similarly all project expenditures would be reflected in the project
financial statements. The accounting system would also cover amounts received from the World Bank,
transactions in the Special Account maintained by GOI; and beneficiary contributions (cash and
labor);
(c) the fmancial management system would be computerized. The computerized system would be installed
and operated at each DDO (which would each be an accounting center). Financial reports of the
DDOs in each state would be consolidated to produce state level reports. Data transfer for the various
consolidations would be handled through electronic mail or storage media (diskettes/compact disks).
The computerized system would have facility to generate project financial reports by consolidating the
accounts of the 5 states and WDC, and including common transactions (such as funds from the World
Bank);
(d) all implementing agencies would maintain separate (distinct) books and records for transactions
relating to the project;
(e) a Chart of Accounts would be developed. The Chart of Accounts would enable expenditure data to be
captured and classified by project components and expenditure categories. The Chart of Accounts
would also have linkages to: (i) government budget heads/categories; and (iii) disbursement or
reimbursement categories. Similarly, the Chart of Accounts would enable data on sources of funds to
be captured. The headings in the Chart of Accounts would match closely with the classification
structure of expenditures and sources of funds in the project documents (Project Implementation Plan
and Project Cost Tables);
(f) the basic account book under the government accounting system i.e., the cash book would continue to
be maintained at each DDO and the sub/field offices. The accounting books/records from the
computerized system would include the cash book, general ledger, appropriate sub-ledgers and a trial
-78-



balance. A register of fixed assets, indicating assets created through the project or acquired under the
project, would also be maintained using the computerized system; and
(g) physical information on key performance indicators which can be readily linked to financial costs
would be available in the project financial management system. Initially this would be done for high
cost items which account for a significant portion of project cost, and for items for which data on
physical activities can be easily captured. This list would be gradually expanded during
implementation.
Financial and Accounting Policies
Financial and accounting policies for the project would be developed. These policies are crucial for
ensuring transparency, providing clarity regarding financial aspects to the various stakeholders and finance
staff, ensuring uniformity, and enforcing accountability. These policies would interalia cover the following
aspects: (i) expenditures which would be treated as project expenditures including their classification; (ii)
expenditures which would be eligible for reimbursement from the Credit/Loan; (iii) provision of advances
to various implementing agencies, and accounting of funds provided to these agencies; (iv) project
accounting policies; (v) policies for efficient management and deployment of funds; and (vi) internal control
policies, etc. All implementing agencies would comply with the financial and accounting policies of the
project. Internal service standards (benchmarks) would be developed and adopted for the key accounting
procedures (such as preparation of monthly trial balances, preparation of quarterly financial statements,
reconciliation of bank accounts, etc.).
Financial policies and procedures regarding transfer of funds to VDCs and accounting by the VDCs would
be incorporated in the Memorandum of Understanding with the VDCs. These would include establishment
of satisfactory arrangements by the VDCs for managing project funds.
Financial Reporting
Project Financial Statements and Project Management Reports (PMRs) would be substantially generated
from the computerized financial management system. These would be based on the project books of
accounts i.e., these statements/reports would not be separately compiled from various returns submitted,
etc. This would result in considerable reduction in workload of staff.
It is highly desirable that consolidated Project Financial Statements and PMRs be prepared for the whole
project. A common financial management system for all states and WDC (including data classification
system) would be developed. The computer software would have facility for consolidation of financial
statements across the various states and WDC into consolidated statements for the project. However, there
are no project organizational arrangements to carry out this consolidation. Therefore, separate Project
Financial Statements and PMRs would be generated for each state and WDC. Efforts would continue to be
made to establish arrangements for preparation of consolidated Project Financial Statements and PMRs for
the project.
Project Financial Statements: These would be prepared at least annually; and would include: (i) a
statement of sources and utilization of funds or Balance Sheet, indicating funds received from various
sources, project expenditures, and assets and liabilities of the project. This would also include appropriate
schedules classifying project expenditures by components, expenditure categories, and states; (ii) a Special
Account Reconciliation Statement; and (iii) a Statement of Withdrawals from the Credit/Loan made on the
basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Audited annual PFS would be submitted to IDA/Bank not
-79-



later than 6 months after the end of the Fiscal Year (i.e., not later than September 30 for the fiscal year
ended on March 31 of each year).
Quarterly PMRs: These would include: (a) comparison of budgeted and actual expenditure and analysis of
major variances, including on aspects such as uses of funds (classified by components, sub-components,
summarized expenditure categories, etc.) and sources of funds (classified by source) and; (b) comparison of
budgeted and actual expenditure and analysis of major variances on key physical parameters and unit rates
for selected key items; (c) forecasts for the next 2 quarters; and (d) procurement and contract
administration information for major contracts.
Financial Reporting to Local Communities: To make the accounts of the projects implemented by VDCs
transparent to all the local stakeholders, a simple summary of the accounts of each such intervention
(amounts received from the members and from the Government, amount spent, and balance) would be
publicly posted in a notice-board in the VDC.
Auditing Arrangements
The annual project financial statements would be audited by CAG of India (including through the
Accountant General - Audit of each state), as per currently accepted standard practice in Bank-funded
projects in India which are executed by Government departments. The audited project financial statements
would be submitted to the Bank within 6 months of the close of GOI's fiscal year. The audit would include
the Special Account and Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). In accordance with the World Bank's
operational policies, satisfactory terms of reference for the audit would be agreed with the Bank. As
indicated earlier, there is a risk that the above audit arrangement would be unsatisfactory, thereby
weakening the internal control system.
Review of Operation of the Financial Management System
Each state and WDC would appoint a firm of Chartered Accountants, to review the overall operation of the
fnancial management system. WIDC may use the services of the firm appointed by one of the project states
since WDC's activities under the project are very small and do not involve expenditure on field activities.
The terms of reference for these services and qualifications of the firms would be agreed with the Bank.
The fnancial review would be comprehensive and cover all aspects of the project financial management
system (such as financial transactions, review of internal control mechanisms, compliance with legal
covenants, etc. All implementing agencies would provide the Chartered Accountants with access to
project-related documents and records, and information required for the review. This review would be
carried out concurrently during the year (quarterly/monthly) in order to provide regular information to
project management on the operation of the financial management system. The Chartered Accountants
would be appointed by January 31, 2000. To ensure rotation, these frms would have a maximum term of
three years. The fnancial review arrangements would assist project management to address issues relating
to financial management in a timely manner, and also help to mitigate some of the risks arising from the
weak audit arrangements.
Internal Controls
Internal control mechanisms for the project are expected to include the following aspects:
(a) establishment of appropriate budgeting systems, and regular monitoring of actual financial
performance with budgets and targets, monitoring of physical and financial progress, monitoring of
-80-



unit costs, etc. Physical data on key items would be captured in the accounting system to enable
monitoring of physical data;
(b) development and adoption of simple, clear and transparent financial and accounting policies which
would govern financial management of and accounting for the project;
(c) regular monitoring of advances given to VDC, field offices, etc., reconciliation and confirmation of
balances, bank reconciliation, etc.;
(d) at the transaction level, policies, the establishment of procedures and systems for ensuring standard
internal controls such as checking of expenditures, appropriate documentation, levels of authorization,
bifurcation of duties, periodic reconciliation, physical verification, etc. These are indicated in the '
Financial Rules', and would be supplemented by the financial management manual of the project; and
(e) timely feedback on the operation of the financial management system, and timely action wherever
required.
C. DISBURSEMENTS
The proposed allocation of Loan/Credit proceeds is given in Table C.
Disbursements would initially be made using the Bank's existing disbursement procedures (i.e., direct
payments, reimbursements of expenditure with full documentation, and reimbursement of expenditures
against SOEs). Disbursements would be made using the Bank's new disbursement procedures (i.e., based
on Project Management Reports - PMRs) after the fnancial management system has been tested and
demonstrated to be operating satisfactorily in all states and WDC. The target date for this conversion to
the PMR-based system is April 1, 2001. Project states, in consultation with the Bank, would review and if
necessary revise the target date.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
When the existing disbursement procedures are used, IDA/Bank would disburse against SOEs for the
following expenditures: (i) goods and works under contracts not exceeding US$200,000 equivalent; (ii)
consultants services under contracts not exceeding US$100,000 equivalent for employment of consulting
firms, and not exceeding US$50,000 for employment of individual consultants; (iii) training expenditure;
and (iv) incremental operating costs.
Special account:
A Special Account would be maintained in the Reserve Bank of India; and would be operated by the
Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) of GOI. When the existing disbursement procedures are used, the
authorized allocation of the Special Account would be US$5 million. The authorized allocation would be
US$2.5 million until the aggregate disbursements from the IDA Credit and Bank Loan reach the equivalent
of SDR 5.2 million. Requests for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly or
when 20% of the advance to the Special Account has been utilized, whichever occurs first. When
disbursements are made against PMRs, the maximum amount of the Special account would be US$ 10
million; and the Special Account would be replenished quarterly.
Retroactive Financing: Participatory activities start at least six-months before implementation, as does
training of project staff and other stakeholders in the participatory planning and implementation.
Retroactive financing of up to SDR 7.4 million would be provided to ensure that these activities are carried
out starting on March 1, 1999.
-81-



Attachment I to Annex 6
With reference to the procedures for undertaking procurement on the basis of National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) referred to in Part C-I of Section 1, Schedule 1, of the Project
Agreement, all NCB contracts shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits' published by
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January
1999 (the Guidelines). In this regard, all NCB contracts to be financed from the proceeds of the
Credit and the Loan shall follow the following procedures:
(1)   Only the model bidding documents for NCB agreed with the Government of India Task
Force (and as amended from time to time), shall be used for bidding.
(2)   Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily
newspaper, at least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of the bids.
(3)   No special preference will be accorded to any bidder when competing with foreign
bidders, state-owned enterprises, small-scale enterprises or enterprises from any given state.
(4)   Except with the prior concurrence of the Bank, there shall be no negotiation of price with
the bidders, even with the lowest evaluated bidder.
(5)   Except in cases of force majeure and/or situations beyond the control of the Project
States, extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence of the Bank (i)
for the first request for extension if it is longer than eight weeks; and (ii) for all subsequent
requests for extension irrespective of the period.
(6)   Re-bidding shall not be carried out without the prior concurrence of the Bank. The
system of rejecting bids outside a pre-determined margin or "bracket" of prices shall not be used.
(7)   Rate contracts entered into by DGS&D will not be acceptable as a substitute for NCB
procedures. Such contracts will be acceptable for any procurement under national shopping
procedures.
-82-



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
INDIA: Integrated Watershed Development (Hills-Il) Project
Proje6dtSchedule                                  Planned                      ALtuaL
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  12 From PCD to Board    10 From PCD to Board
First Bank mission (identification)      08/15/98                   08/15/98
Appraisal mission departure              12/15/98                   02/05/99
Negotiations                             04/27/99                   04/26/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness            09/30/99
Prepared by:
FAO/CP
Preparation assistance:
FAO/Investment Center and SASRD
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Hamdy Eisa                        Agriculturist
Meena M. Munshi                   Economist
T. C. Jain                        Agricultural Research Specialist (Co-Task Leader)
John Joyce                        Portfolio Manager
Gajan Pathmanathan                Agricultural Eonomist
Ian Hill                          Agricultural Economist
Ashok Seth                        Agriculturist
S. Salman                         Lawyer
David Marsden                     Sociologist
Cees de Haan                      Livestock Adviser
Irshad Khan                       Forestry Specialsit
T.K. Balakrishnan                 Financial Analyst
C.S. Nawathe                      Road Specialist
Mridula Singh                     Sociologist
H. Harshdeep                      Environmental Specialist
Sonia Kapoor                      Environmental Specialist
Julia Falconer                    Social Forestry Specialist
W. Marke                          Financial Specialist
Ruby Miller                       Disbursement Analyst
D.J. Baxi                         Procurement
Gallus Mukami                     Economist (FAO/CP)
Yoshiko Masuyama                  Team Assistant
Margaret d'Costa                  Team Assistant
-83-



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
INDIA: Integrated Watershed Development (Hills-Il) Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Government of Haryana, Project Implementation Plan - IWDP-II, April 15, 1999.
Government of Himachal Pradesh, Project Implementation Plan - IWDP-II (WPIO, Solan), March 1999.
Government of Jammu and Kashmir, Project Implementation Plan (IWDP-II), Vols. I (Main Report) & II
(Statistical), April 15, 1999.
Government of Punjab, Project Implementation Plan, March 31, 1999.
Government of Uttar Pradesh, Project Implementation Plan (Watershed Management Directorate), April
17, 1999.
India: Integrated Watershed Development (Hills-II) Project Preparation Report Vols. I, II, III, IV, V, VI &
VIII
FAO Investment Center Division Report No: 99/020-CP-IND, March 30, 1999
Relevant Working Papers included in Vols. II-VII
Watershed Development Component
Forage and Livestock
Rural Infrastructure and Institutions
Financial and Economic Analysis
Cost Tables
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Bank Staff Assessment # 1: Forestry Component
Bank Staff Assessment # 2: Fodder and Livestock Development
Bank Staff Assessment # 3: Detailed Training Program
Bank Staff Assessment # 4: Information Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
Bank Staff Assessment # 5: Monitoring and Evaluation
C. Other
Regional Environmental Assessment: Final Report, Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India,
February 1999.
*Including electronic files
-84-



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
INDIA: Integrated Watershed Development Project (Hills-ll)
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions           disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                 IBRD         IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 331
IN-PE-49537     1999 GOI                           APPOWERAPLI                            21000         0.00        0.00      199.83     -2.83       0.00
IN-PE-50646     1999 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA           UP SODIC LANDS II                        0.00      194.10        0.00      192.25      6.17       0.00
IN-PE-50651     1999 GOI                           MAHARASH HEALTH SYS                      0.00      134.00        0.00      129.77    131.01       0.00
IN-PE-10496     1998 GOI                           ORISSA HEALTH SYS                        0.00       76.40        0.00       73.56      0.65       0.00
IN-PE-10561     1998 GO                           NATLAGRTECHNOLOGY                       96.80      100.00        0.00      191.07     10.84       0.00
IN-PE-35160     1998 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA           HARYANA POWER APL-I                     60.00        0.00        0.00       41.33     11.99       0.00
IN-PE-35169     1996 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA           UP. FORESTRY                             0.00       52.94        0.00       45.48      2.75       0.00
IN-PE-35824     1998 GOI                           UP DIVAGRC SUPPORT                      79.90       50.00        0.00      125.09     12.73       0.00
IN-PE-35827     1998 GOI                           WOMEN & CHILD DEVLPM                     0.00      300.00        0.00      301.87      0.00       0.00
IN-PE-38021     1998 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA           DPEP III (BIHAR)                         0.00      152.00        0.00      139.31     19.46       0.00
IN-PE-49385     1998 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA           AP ECON RESTRUCTURIN                   301.30      241.90        0.00      483.35    -61.49       0.00
IN-PE-49477     1998 CIL                           KERALA FORESTRY                          0.00       39.00        0.00       35.25     -1.64       0.00
IN-PE-50638     1998 GOI                           UP BASIC EDII                            000        59.40        0.00       31.35      -4.86      0.00
IN-PE-9979      1998 GOI                           COAL SECTOR REHAB                      530.00        2.00       15.00      472.13     59.02       0.00
IN-PE-10473     1997 GOI                           TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL                     0.00      142.40        0.W0      128.63     48.91       0.00
IN-PE-10511     1997 GOI                           MALARIA CONTROL                          0.00      164.80        0.00      152.45     24.21       0.00
IN-PE-10531     1997 GOI                           REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH1                     0.00      248.30        0.00      233.16     53.75       0.00
IN-PE-35158     1997 GO                           AP IRRIGATION III                      175.00      150.00        0.00      254.04     25.92       0.00
IN-PE-36062     1997 GOI                           ECODEVELOPMENT                           0.00       28.00        0.00       22.54      3.37       0.00
IN-PE-43728     1997 GOI                           ENVCAPACITYBLDGTA                        0.00       50.00        0.00       43.30     10.18       0.00
IN-PE-44449     1997 GOVT OF INDIA                 RURAL WOMEN'S DEV                        0.00       19.50        0.00       18.32      7.67       0,00
IN-PE-45600     1997 GOI                           TA STS RD INFRA DEV                     51.50        0.00        0.00       33.82     16.66       0.00
IN-PE-49301     1997 GOVT OF INDIA                 A.P. EMERG. CYCLONE                     S0.00      100.00        0.00      119.95     41.54       0.00
IN-PE-9995      1997 GOI                           STATE HIGHWAYS I(AP)                   350.00        0.00        0.00      327.32     32.32       0.00
IN-PE-10460     1996 GOI                           B SEWAGE DISPOSAL                      167.00       25.00        0.00      119.89     89.47       0.00
IN-PE-10484     1996 GOI                           UP RURAL WATER                          59.60        0.00        0.00       50.24      9.00       0.00
IN-PE-10485     1996 GOI                           HYDROLOGY PROJECT                        0.00      142.00        0.00       94.62     48.61       0.00
IN-PE-10529     1996 IL&FS                         ORISSAWRCP                               0.00      290.90        0.00      161.11       1.33      0.00
IN-PE-35170     1996 GOI                           ORISSAPOWERSECTOR                      350.00        000         0.00      326.13     91.13       0.00
IN-PE-35821     1996 GO                           DISTRICT PRIM EDUC2                      000       425.20        0.00      307.88     10.06       0.00
IN-PE-35825     1996 GO                           STATE HEALTH SYS 11                      0.00      350.00        0.00      263.11     98.25       0.00
IN-PE-39935     1996 GO                          ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE                     200.00        5.00        0.00      179.22     98.76       0.00
IN-PE-43310     1996 GOI                           COAL ENV&SOCIAL MIT.                     000        63.00        0.00       45.55     14.72       0.00
IN-PE-10461     1995 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA           MADRAS WATER SUP II                    275.80        0.00      189.30       56.59    162.58       6.85
IN-PE-10463     1995 GOI                          INDUS POLLUTION PREV                    143 00       25.00        0.00      144.82     83.73       0.00
IN-PE-10464     1995 GO                           DISTRICT PRIMARY ED                      0.00      260.30        0.00      127.92     36.90       0.00
IN-PE-10476     1995 GOVT OF INDIA                 TAMIL NADUWRCP                           0.00      282.90        0.00      211.95    109.93       0.00
IN-PE-10489     1995 GO                           AP 1ST REF HEALTHS                       0.00      133.00        0.00       66.14      10.82      0.00
IN-PE-10503     1995 GOI                           AGRIC HUMAN RES DEVT                     0.00       59.50        0.00       33.64     26.80       0.00
IN-PE-10506     1995 GOI                           MP FORESTRY                              0.00       58.00        0.00       19.06      9.31       0.00
IN-PE-10522     1995 GOI                           ASSAM RURAL INFRA                        0.00      126.00        0.00       97.64     40.42       0.00
IN-PE-10563     1995 GOVT. OF INDIA                FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV                   700.00        0.00      200.00      266.97   -233.03       0.00
IN-PE-10448     1994 GOI                           FORESTRY RESEARCH ED                     0.00       47.00        0.00       22.43     39.01       5.26
IN-PE-10449     1994 GOI                           ANDHRA PRADESH FORESTRY                  0.00       77.40        0.00       25.54      13.47      0.00
IN-PE-10455     1994 GOI                           BLINDNESS CONTROL                        0.00      117.80        0.00       81.38     37.16       0.00
IN-PE-10457     1994                               POPULATION IX                            000        88.60        0.00       50.16      18.98      0.00
IN-PE-9870      1994                               CONTAINERTRANSPORT                      94.00        0.00         0.00      73.23      67.91      0.00
IN-PE-9964      1994                               WATER RES CONSOLID H                     0.00      258.00        0.00      147.93     81.89       0.00
IN-PE-10407     1993                               ADP - RAJASTHAN                          0.00      106.00         0.00      22.96     24.05       0.00
IN-PE-10408     1993                               BIHAR PLATEAU                            0.00      117.00         0.00      51.37     57.45       0.00
-85-



Difference betweeen expected
and actual
Odginal Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                     Purpose                               IBRD         IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
IN-PE-10410    1993 GOI                          RENEWABLE RESOURCES                    75.00     115.00        0.00      70.78     98.39      0.00
IN-PE-10416    1993 GOa                          PGCPOWERSYSTEM                        350.00       0.00        0.00      117.11    109.18     0.00
IN-PE-10418    1993 GOa                          KARNATAKAWS & ENVIS                    0.00       92.00        0.00      31.64     29.77      0.00
IN-PE-10424    1993 GOI                          NATL LEPROSY ELIMINA                   0.00       85.00        9.07      24.71     32.65      6.08
IN-PE-9955     1993 GOI                          UTTAR PRADESH BASIC                    0.00      165.00        0.00      21.79      -7.51   -142.42
IN-PE-9959     1993 GOI                          RUBBER                                 0.00       92.00       36.58      23.19     55.94      13.29
IN-PE-9961     1993 GOI                          UP SODIC LANDS RECLA                   0.00       54.70        0.00       12.94     7.61      0.00
IN-PE-9977     1993 GOI&STATES                   ICDSII(BIHAR&MP)                       0.00      194.00        0.00     118.38     85.98     96.34
IN-PE-10390    1992 GOI                          MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY                   0.00      124.00       16.18      34.18     49.91     33.23
IN-PE-9921     1992 GOI                          SHRIMP & FISH CULTUR                   0.00       85.00       48.51       16805    63.78      15.17
IN-PE-9946     1992 GOI                          NAT. HIGHWAYS II                      153.00     153,00        0.00      154.13    96.32      0.00
IN-PE-9963     1992 GOl                          POPULATION VlIl                        0.00       79.00        0.00      55.86     52.09      0.00
IN-PE-9877     1991 GOI                          DAM SAFETY                             23.00     130.00       60.03      25.81     84.17     -1.83
IN-PE-9988     1991                              TECH EDUC II                           0.00      307.10       51.37      75.02    133.42     60.37
IN-PE-9982     1990                              NOR REG TRANSM                       485.00        0.00        0.00      178.66    178.65     0.00
Total:   4,979.90    7,038.14     626.04    7,802.92   2,567.39   92.34
Active         Closed
Projects       Projects         Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):    3,734.88        33,285.32       37,020.20
of which has been repaid:      178.66       10,509.62      10,688.28
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:   11,698.29        22,105.50       33,803.79
Amount sold:          0.00         133.77         133.77
of which repaid:        0.00         133.77          133.77
Total Undisbursed:    7,802.92            59.71       7,862.63
Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
-86-



INDIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
31-Mar-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                     Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1964/75/79/90      MUSCO                         0.00    0.00    1.08    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.08    0.00
1978/87/91/93      HDFC                         40.00    0.00    2.29    0.00   40.00    0.00    2.29    0.00
1981               Nagarjuna Steel               0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00
1981/86/81/91/93/96   ITW Signode                0.00    0.00    1.55    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.55    0.00
1981/86/89/94/92    TISCO                        1.60    0.00   15.37    0.00    1.60    0.00    15.37    0.00
1981/90/93         M&M                           0.33    0.00    6.49    1.33    0.33    0.00    6.49    1.33
1984/90/94         India Lease                   0.44    0.00    0.86    0.00    0.44    0.00    0.86    0.00
1984/91            Bihar Sponge                 12.34    0.00    0.68    0.00   12.34    0.00    0.68    0.00
1986               EXB-City Mills                0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-CECL                      0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-NB Footwear               0.19    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.19    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-STG                       0.34    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.34    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-TAN                       0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986/92/93/94      GESCO                         0.00    0.00   11.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    11.80    0.00
1986/93/94/95      India Equipment               0.38    0.00    0.77    0.93    0.38    0.00    0.77    0.93
1987               Hindustan                     3.99    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.99    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987/88/90/93      Titan Watches                 0.67    0.00    1.03    0.00    0.67    0.00    1.03 -   0.00
1988/90/92          Tata Telecom                 0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00
1988/94             GKN Invel                    0.00    0.00    1.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.40    0.00
1989                AEC                         10.37    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.37    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989                UCAL                         0.00    0.00    0.63    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.63    0.00
1989/90/94          Tata Electric               26.44    0.00    0.00    0.00   26.44    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989/91            Gujarat State                 4.38    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.38    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989/95            JSB India                     0.00    0.00    1.21    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.21    0.00
1990               HOEL                          0.00    0.00    0.28    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.28    0.00
1990               TDICI-VECAUS II               0.00    0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.41    0.00
1990/92            CESC                         41.51    0.00    0.00   56.95   41.51    0.00    0.00   56.95
1990/93/94/98      IL & FS                      18.75    1.81    6.23    6.00   18.75    1.81    6.23    6.00
1990/94            ICICI-IFGL                    0.00    0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30    0.00
1990/95            ICICI-SPIC Fine               0.00    0.00    1.88    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.88    0.00
1991               BSES                         15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991/93            Triveni                       0.00    0.00    1.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.11    0.00
1991/96            VARUN                         0.00    0.00    1.35    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.35    0.00
1992               Indus VC Mgt Co               0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00
1992               Indus VCF                     0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00
1992               Info Tech Fund                0.00    0.00    0.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.64    0.00
1992                SKF Bearings                 2.86    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.86    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/93            Arvind Mills                  0.00    0.00   17.10    0.00    0.00    0.00   17.10    0.00
1992/94/97         Ispat Industries             78.34    0.00    5.77   85.00   38.48    0.00    5.77    0.00
1992/95             IL&FS Venture                0.00    0.00    1.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.05    0.00
1992/96/97         NICCO-UCO                     6.31    0.00    0.50    0.00    2.31    0.00    0.50    0.00
1993/94/96         Indo Rama                    19-68    0.00   11.98    7.87   19.68    0.00   11.98    7.87
1993/97             20TH Century                13.31    0.00    0.80    0.89   13.31    0,00    0.80    0.89
1994                Centurion Growth             0.00    0.00    2.39    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.39    0.00
1994                Chowgule                    13.42    0.00    4.58   21.09   13.42    0.00    4.58   21.09
1994                CrdcapAssetMgt               0.00    0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.32    0.00
1994               DLF Cement                    8.80    0.00    4.94   12.75    8.80    0.00    4.94   12.75
-87-



Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval         Company                      Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1994               Gujarat Ambuja                0.00    0.00    8.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.23    0.00
1994               Taurus Starshare              0.00    0.00    7.17    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.17    0.00
1994/97            GVK                          27.50    0.00    7.45   31.78   27.50    0.00    7.45   31.78
1994/98            Global Trust                  5.00    5.00    3.19    0.00    5.00    5.00    3.19    0.00
1995               Centurion Bank                0.00    0.00    3.87    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.87    0.00
1995               EXIMBANK                     18.18    0.00    0.00    0.00   18.18    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               GE Capital                   10.00    0.00    5.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    4.39    0.00
1995               Prism Cement                 15.00    0.00    5.02   12.00   15.00    0.00    5.02   12.00
1995                Rain Calcining              19.25    0.00    5.47    0.00   19.25    0.00    5.46    0.00
1995                Sara Fund                    0.00    0.00    6.14    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.60    0.00
1995/98            RPG Communicatns              0.00    0.00   11.25    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.25    0.00
1996               India Direct Fnd              0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.51    0.00
1996               Indus II                      0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00
1996               Indus Mauritius               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               United Riceland              10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996/99            Moser Baer                    4.00    0.00    2.14    0.00    4.00    0.00    2.14    0.00
1997               Asian Electronic              0.00    0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.50    0.00
1997               CEAT                         20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Duncan Hospital               7.00    0.00    0.85    0.00    7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               EEPL                          0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00
1997               Owens Corning                25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                SAPL                         0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00
1997                SREI                        15.00    0.00    3.00    0.00    9.50    0.00    3.00    0.00
1997               Walden-Mgt India              0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00
1997               WIV                           0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.88    0.00
1998               IDFC                          0.00    0.00   15.46    0.00    0.00    0.00    15.46    0.00
Total Portfolio:      495.90    6.81  216.32  236.59  436.54    6.81  202.20  151.59
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                        Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
Total Pending Commitment:      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
-88-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
INDIA: Integrated Watershed Development (Hills-l1) Project
4/27/99
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               South       Low.
India      Asia   Income       Development dlamond
1997
Population. mid-vear (millions)                        962,4      1.281     2,036                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita tAtlas method, USS)                       370        380       350
GNP (Atlas method. USS billions)                       357.4        493       712
Average annuat growth, 199248
Population (%)                                            1.7       1.8        2.0     GNP
Labor force (%)                                          2.0        2.3        24      GNP                                Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 192.98)                                   capita                         enrollment
Poverty f% of Population below national DOverty line)     35
Urban population (% of total population)                  27         27        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          83         62        59
Infant mortalitv (per 1, 000 live births)                 63         77        82
Child malnutrition (9S of children under 5)               66         53                           Access to safe water
Access to safe water (1 of population)                    81         81        69
Illiteracv (% of population aqe 15+)                      48         49        46
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age populaLon)     101        100        93             India -     Low-income group
Male                                                   110        109       100
Female                                                  90         90        82
KEY ECONOMIC RAtiOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998
Economic ratlos'
GDP (USS billions)                            102.7    247.8      397.1     420.8
Gross domestic investment/GDP                  20.4     22.6       23.1       234                      Trade
Exports of ooods and services/GDP               6.6       5.5      10.5       10.5
Gross domestic savinas/GDP                     2t.1     20.1       19.6       19.8
Gross national savings/GDP                              20.5       21,8      21.7
Current account balance/GOP                     1.6      -24        -1.3      -1.4     Domestic                      Ie n
Interest Pavments/GOP                           0.3       07        1.0        09 9Investment
Total debtGDP                                  14.1      19.4      23.5       22.4      Savings
Total debt service/exports                     15.3      32.0      231        19.4
Present value of debt/GDP                                          17.S
Present value of debt/exports                               -     135,4
Indebtedness
1977.87  1988-98     1997       1998   1999-03
(averape annual growth)
GDP                                   4.4       5.7      713        5.0        5.5       -India  -         Low-income group
GNP Der caoita                         2.1      3.8       5B&       3.3        4.0
Exports of goods and services          3.4     12.0      8.4       11.4        7.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                             40
Agriculture                                    38.2      31.4      29.3       27.5
Industry                                       23.0     26.2       26.1       26.1     20
Manufacturing                                 15.5     16.1       16.8      16.8                           _
Services                                       38.9     42.3       44.7       46.4      0  7
Private consumption                            69.3     68.2       70.1       69.1    .20
General government consumption                  9.6      11.7      10.2       11.1               -     GOI        S  GOP
Imports of aoods and services                   5.9       8.1      14.0       14.1
1977.87  1988-98       1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports (14
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                     2.6       3.7       9.4       -1.0     40
Industry                                        5.2       6.6       6.0        5.9
Manufacturino                                  5.5      7.1        7.7       6.8    20
Services                                        5.5       7.2       8.0        8.2
Private consumption                             4.8       5.0      10.2       -0.1            9 /  -_ 94  9s 5        97   98
General government consumPtion                  6.9       6.6      11.3       19.4
Gross domestic investment                       4.2       6.4      -1.3        7.7    -20
Imports of aoods and services                   8.7       8.5       9.7        3.5                   Exports    -    lS Imports
Gross national Product                          4.3       5.7       7.5        5.0
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
*The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-aroup average, If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
-89-



India
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestkc prices                                  1977     1987        1997      1998      [Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                                20 .
Consumer prices                                             6.4       10.0        6,9      s
Implicit GDP deflator                             5.9       6.5        7.9        5.6      i
Government finance                                                                         s
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                        o
Current revenue                                     -      23.3       21.8      22.0              93    94    95    96    97    98
Current budget balance                                      1.5       -0.6        0.0                 -GDP deflator      .  PI
Overall surplus/deficit                                   -12.3       -9.9       -8.9
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                   1977      1987      1997       1998       Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob) )1,420                                          34,133    34,849      00000
Tea eo                                                    451        292       410
Iron                                                      428        481       475
Manufactures                                             ,458     25,490    26,022
Total imports (cif)                                      17,740     48,948    61,126
Food                                                    17 1,068   1,536      1,687     20,000
Fuel and energy                                   ..   2,187       9,626      7,624
Capital goods                                           5,074       86,413    7,140 
92   93   94   95   94   97   98
Export price index (1995=100)                       ..       89         90        86
Import price index (1995=100)                                77        101       104                 1 Exports      *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=/00)                           ..      115         89        82
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977     1987        1997      1998       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(US    o millions)
Exports of goods and services                            13,637     41,732    44,10236
Imports of goods and services                            19,962     55,696    59,236      il!1[! ll} - llil 
Resource baiance                                         -6,325    -13,964   -15,134
Net income                                               -2,045     -3,568    -2,507
Net current transfers                                     2,327     12,367    11,830      1-'        h         m         ill
Current account balance                                  -6,043     -5,165    -5,811
Financing items (net)                                     6,114     10,392     9,407
Changes in net reserves                                     -72     -5,227    -3,596      -2
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                    7,200     26,718    29,651
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)                    ..    12.8        35.5       37.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997       1998
(US$ millions)                                                                             Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           14,471   48,124      93,435    94,404
IBRD                                           456    3,475        8,768     8,138
IDA                                           3,333   10,529      17,616    17,912                     G: 5,04r  A: 8,138
Total debt service                              1,178    5,273      12,058    10,586
IBRD                                             88      469       1,514     1,482                                            t79,912
IDA                                              30      152        365        381                 /
Composition of net resource flows                                                            F 360.74
Official grants                                 377      403         410       351             5C 664
Official creditors                            1,058     1,404        184        -65     i3,341
Private creditors                               -14    :2,793       -147     2,520                             _          
Foreign direct investment                         0      208       2,696     3,197                               6E 22.729
Portfolio equity                                  0        0       3,142     1,796
World Bank program                                                                         A - IBRD                        E - Bilaterai
Commitments                                     315     1,790      1,532     1,755       8- lOA     DE-Othermultateral   F-Privatel
Disbursements                                   610    1,297       1,592     1,373       C-IMF                          G-Short-term
Principal repayments                             66      235       1,074     1,144
Netflows                                        544     1,062        518       229
Interest payments                                52      386        804        719
Net transfers                                   492      676        -287      -490
Development Economics                                                                                                          4/27/99
-90-



Annex 11
Beneficiary Participation IWDP-II Project: Across Five Project States
Existing and Proposed Actions
Sub-Component                    Punjab                        Himachal Pradesh                     Uttar Pradesh                         Haryana                        Jammu & Kashmir
Descrintion
_   Existing    | Proposed under  Existing    | Proposed under        Existing      Proposed under       Existing      Proposed under        Existng       Proposed under
|_IWDP-II_|_IWDP-11                     IWDP-iI IWDP-                                                                            IWDP-IIDP-11
Land Treatments
Private/Group
Land                                                   _______
On-farm fodder      All labor        All labor (about    All labor      All labor (about    All labor is   All labor (about    All labor       All labor (about    25% cost of     50% cost of
Demonstrations      (about 30%) is   30%) is provided   (about 30%) is   30%) is provided    provided by   30%) is provided   (about 30%) is   30%) is provided   inputs and      inputs and 100%
provided by     by beneficiaries    provided by    by beneficiaries    beneficiaries  by beneficiaries    provided by     by beneficiaries   100% labor by   labor by the
beneficiaries   Inputs for 0.1 ha.   beneficiaries.    Inputs for 0.2 ha.   Inputs for 0.04   Inputs for 0.1 ha.   beneficiaries  Inputs for 0.1 ha.   the beneficiary.  beneficiary
Inputs for 0.1    provided by     All inputs       provided by        is provided by    provided by      Inputs for 0.1    provided by
ha. provided by  IWDP-11          provided by      IWDP-I1-           EC project.     IWDP-Il-I          ha. provided by   IWDP-II
IWDP-I                            IWDP-I.                                                                IWDP-I
Horticulture        60% of total     70% of total cost   60% of total   60% on marginal   50% of cost      60% of total cost   60% of total    70% of total cost   20% of total   60% of total cost
cost by         (partial cost     cost by          land and 70% on    provided by     provided by        cost provided    provided by        cost provided    provided by
beneficiary     recovery of       beneficiary'.    good arable land    beneficiaries  beneficiary        by beneficiary    beneficiary       by beneficiary   beneficiary.
seedling) by                       by beneficiary,
beneficiary
Agro-forestry       50% of cost of   50% of cost of    NA               NA                 NA              NA                 NA               NA                 NA              NA
seedling and all  seedling and all
labor provided   labor by
by beneficiary   beneficiary for
first 2 yrs to be
reviewed and
increased to 75%
at MTR.
Silvi                15% of total    30% (roughly 40-   10% of costs    40% will be        NA              NA                 10-20%           Beneficiaries      NA              NA
pastural/pasture    cost2            45% of labor      by beneficiary.   provided by                                          provided by      contribution in
establishment                        cost) by                           beneficiary.                                          beneficiary      terms of all
beneficiary.      .                                                                      under IWDP-1;   unskilled labor
no cost         (about 30%);
recovery in     project would
other projects.    provide inputs
Under IVJP-1,  and materials
(70%).
H.P. had adoption problems in implementing the policy
2      OECF project has no cost recovery provision. This issue needs to be addressed.
91



Sub-Component                    Punjab                         Himachal Pradesh                      Uttar Pradesh                         Haryana                         Jaipmu & Kashmir
DescriPtionrI
Existing   uIder                                 Proposed under Existngg             Proposed under        Existing      Proposed under         Existing      Proposed under
|  WPIWDP-IWD-I IWDP-11-I                                                                               I    IWDP-II                              IVVDP-11
Silvi-                                100%              Second year      All maintenance                                        project          100%  protection
pastural/pasture                      protection by     onwards          and protection                                         provided         by beneficiary;
Maintenance                           beneficiaries;    maintenance      by beneficiary                                         supplemental     project would
project will      provided by                                                             protection for    provide first year
provide           beneficiary                                                             3 years.         restocking
restocking                                                                                                 material
materials for
two years.
Common/Group/Pan hayat Land
Silvipastural/pasture   10% of total  20% provided by    NA              NA                 NA               NA                 5-10%            25%provided by    No cost sharing   JFM notification
establishment       cost provided    beneficiary; will                                                                          contribution by   beneficiary; will   by beneficiary   to be reviewed,
by beneficiary    be reviewed at                                                                           beneficiaries    be reviewed at     because          and works to be
MTR                                                                                       under IWDP-1;   MTR (need to         benefit sharing   started after the
no cost         look at benefit     arrangement      review and
recovery under   sharing carefully)   not attractive,    appropriate coat-
other projects                                       sharing
arrangements (at
least 10%) are
.    worked out
Sdvipasture         None             100% protectioa    NA               NA                 NA               NA                 None provided    100% protection    None              100% protection
maintenance                          by community;                                                                              by beneficiary    by community;                      by community
project will                                                                                               project will
provide                                                                                                    provide
restocking                                                                                                 restocking
material for two                                                                                           material for two
years                                                                                                      years
Drainage line       None cost        Cost sharing       None cost        Cost sharing       None cost        Cost sharing       None cost        Cost sharing       None cost        Cost sharing
treatment           sharing of       arrangement will   sharing of       arrangement will   sharing of       arrangement will   sharing of       arrangement will   sharing of       arrangement will
construction by   depend on        construction by   depend on         construction by   depend on         construction by   depend on         construction by   depend on
beneficiary;    investment         beneficiary;     investment         beneficiary;     investment         beneficiary;     investment         beneficiary;     investment
some            location.          some             location.          some             location.          some             location.          some             location.
maintenance     Community to       maintenance      Community to       maintenance      Community to       maintenance      Community to       maintenance      Community to
provided by     ensure 100%        provided by      ensure 100%        provided by      ensure 100%        provided by      ensure 100%        provided by      ensure 100%
community.      maintenance        community.       maintenance        community.       maintenance        community,       maintenance        community.       maintenance
Protected Forest Land/Government Land
Silvipasture/Pasture   No cost sharing   10% beneficiary    No cost sharing    10% contribution   No cost sharing   100% of     No cost sharing   10% contribution    None           JFM notification
establishment        by beneficiary   contribution.     by beneficiary.   by beneficiary    by beneficiary,   establishment     by beneficiary    by beneficiary                     to be reviewed,
(only 10-15%    Government         Only protection   (only protection.   only harvesting   cost by         (grass           which would be                      and works to be
ofthe total area   intervention    by beneficiary                      done by the      beneficiary.       auctioned and    conditional on                      started after the
in the          needed to resolve                                      community.      CGovernment         benefits are     revision of policy                  review and
Shivaliks)      the issue of                                           Community       intervention        partially        on benefit sharing                  appropriate cost-
benefit sharing                                       does not have    needed to resolve    shared)        (examine JFM                         sharing
full rights to  the issue of                        practices)                           arrangements (at
benefits,       benefit sharing                                                          least 10%) are
_____ _____ __   _ _____ _____ _   __ _____ ____   ____ _____ ____ _____ _____ _   __ _____ ____ __   __ _____ _ w orkwork d oou
Silvipasture         None            50%ofprotection   Some               50%oftotalcoat   None              Forfirst2years     None             50%ofprotection   None              Partial
92



Sub-Component                   Punjab                        Himachal Pradesh                    Uttar Pradesh                         Haryana                       Jamimu & Kasbmir
Description       I
Existing     Proposed under       Existing      Proposed under       Existing     Proposed under       Existing      Proposed under       Existing      Proposed under
L~~ ~ |______  J                    1WDP-H                       j    IWDP-II                            1 IWDP-I1                          1WIbDp-11                          IWDP-II
maintenance                         by beneficiaries    maintenance by   by beneficiary                  50% and 100%                       by beneficiaries                   contribution by
beneficiary                                       thereafter by                      (JFM) conditional                  commsunity
I  beneficiary. Will              on revision of
be reviewed at                    benefit sharing
__ __ _ _  __ _ __ __ I_                              _    _  _  _   M TR              _    _  _  __ - policy_                _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _
Water Structures
Water harvesting    No cost sharing   Beneficiary     No cost sharing   HP will provide    No cost sharing   Beneficiary    About 10%       Beneficiary       No cost sharing   Beneficiary
contribution in                   information.3                     contribution       contributed by    contribution                      contribution
construction                                                         minimum - 25%     beneficiary (in   minimum 25% of                    minimum 25% of
minimum - 15%                                                        of total cost     terms of labor)  total cost (about                  unskilled labor
of total cost                                                        (about 50% of                     50% of unskilled                    until MTR; and
Masonry plus                                                         unskilled labor                   labor cost).                        50% of unskilled
materials will be                                                    cost) Masonry                      Masonry plus                      labor thereafter.
provided by the                                                      plus materials                    materials will be                   Masonry plus
project.                                                             will be provided                  provided by the                     materials will be
by the project.                   project.                           provided by the
project.
Potable water       No cost sharing   Beneficiary     NA              NA                 No cost sharing   Beneficiary      About 15%       Beneficiary       No cost sharing   Beneficiary
schemes                             contribution                                                         contribution       contribution by   contribution                     contribution
minimum 25% of                                                       minimum - 25%    beneficiary      minimum 25% of                      minimum 25% of
total cost (about                                                    of total cost                     total cost (about                   unskilled labor
50% of labor                                                         (about 50% of                     50% of labor                        until MTR; and
cost). Materials                                                     labor                             cost). Materials                    50% of unskilled
plus skilled labor                                                  cost)Materials                     plus skilled labor                 labor thereafter.
provided by the                                                      plus skilled labor                provided by the                     Masonry plus
project.                                                             provided by the                   project.                            materials will be
project.                                                              provided by the
_________________                   ______________~~~~~~I            I                 project.
Maintenance of      Some cost       100% beneficiary   Some cost       100% beneficiary   Some cost      100% beneficiary   Some cost       100% beneficiary   100% by         100% by
water structures    sharing                           sharing                            sharing         contribution       sharing         contribution       beneficiary     beneficiary
Rural Roads
Maintenance - of    Beneficiary not  Beneficiary not    GOHP           Beneficiary not    None           Will follow U.P.-   GOH            Beneficiary not    Roads and       Beneficiary not
motorable roads     responsible.    responsible;                      responsible;                       DASP road                          responsible;GOH/  bldg. Dept;      responsible.Roads
(2kms. and above)    100% by        100% by Market                     GOHP                              policy                             PWD                J&K             and Bldg. Dept.
Market Board    Board                             Mainly calverts                                                                                         J&K
under IWDP-11                   I_i_l_i_I
Operation &         None            Maintenance                        Maintenance       None            Maintenance        100%            Maintenance        District Dev.    Maintenance
Maintenance-                        responsibility by                 responsibility by                  responsibility by    maintained by   responsibility by    Commissioner   responsibility by
mule/bridle/track                   community                         community                          community          Government      community                          community
roads (Less than 2                  according to                      according to                       according to                       according to                       according to
km(                         .          MOU                             MOU             |     _| MOU                       I               I MOU                    I_| MOU
Livestock Development
Artificial          8% of total     25  bfr            % of total        greed to        8%contribution I Will follow       Beneficiary     Beneficiary       No ost           Beneficiary will
3      In H.P.water harvesting structures are mainly for soil conservation.
93



Sub-Component                     Punjab                        Himachal Pradesh                      Uttar Pradesh                         Haryana                         Jammu & Kashmir
Description                                                Exi ng-|                                                                                                      xsig         Pooe   ne
Existing     Proposed under        Existing      Proposed under        Existing      Proposeddunder        Existing      Proposed under
______________  IWDP-1                         ItWOP-fi       lIDP-II                                                 IfWDP-II                         |      WDP-II
Insemination         cost (Rs.5 by   December 31,       cost (Rs.5 by    increase to Rs.15    by beneficiary   recently Bank-   contribution     contribution from    recovery       contribute Rs.15
beneficiary,    2000; to 50% by    beneficiary;    (25%) before        at the clinic    financed UP-       increased in     30% to 50% by                       per conception
actual cost     the end of the     actual cost      Dec.31, 1999.      (Rs.5 charged    DASP. Will         November,        the project end (5                  (about 8%; equal
Rs.60)          project (5         Rs.60)           Further increase    at present;    review cost of      1998 to Rs.15    percentage points                   Rs. 5 per
percentage points                  to 50% foreseen    actual cost      production         per conception    increase per                        insemination).
per annum) by                      dependent on       Rs.60); Rs. 15    estimates for     (about 30%       annum)                              To be reviewed at
beneficiary                        study on           (about 10%)      inputs and         cost)                                                 MTR and revised
willingness to pay   contribution at   delivery during                                                      accordingly.
and to be decided   farm (house    first year. Results
at MTR.            call)           of the study and
recommnendations
will be discussed
and updated
annually
Natural Breeding     NA              NA                 Under IWDP-1   Community            Currently,       Community          NA               NA                 No cost sharing   Community
Services                                                beneficiary      contribution 5%    Rs.500/p/m       contribution 5%                                                         contribution 5%
contribution    of cost of bull    plus 3 kilos per   of cost of bull                                                        of cost of bull
Rs.50 (28% of   plus 100% (about   day of feed      plus 100% (about                                                         plus Rs. 50 per
actual cost)    Rs. 175)           given to          Rs. 175)                                                                service (28%)
maintenance        caretaker'      maintenance                                                              Will be reviewed
except for                         except for                                                               at MTR.
veterinary                         veterinary
services                           services. Will be
Ireviewed at MTR
Veterinary services    Nominal cost    A study on cost-    Nominal cost    A study on cost-    Nominal cost    A study on cost-    Fully         A study on cost-    No cost sharing   A study on cost-
sharing (Re. I    benefits and     sharing (Re. I    benefits and      sharing (Re. I    benefits and      subsidized       benefits and                        benefits and
charged; total   willingness to pay   charged; total    willingness to pay   charged; total    willingness to pay   except  willingness to pay                  willingness to pay
cost roughly    will be carried out  cost roughly   will be carried out  cost roughly   will be carried out  transport to   will be carried out                 will be carried out
calculated      and reviewed       calculated       and reviewed       calculated      and reviewed        house calls      and reviewed at                     and reviewed at
Rs.40)          during MTR         Rs.40)           during MTR         Rs.40            during MTR                          MTR                                 MTR
Concentrate feed for   100%          NA                 50%              50% beneficiary    100%             100%               100%             100%               NA               NA
pregnant cows and    beneficiary                        beneficiary      contribution in    contribution by   contribution by   contribution by   contribution by
bufflaoes            contribution                       contribution     the first year;    beneficiary      beneficiary        beneficiary      beneficiary
since 1996                         under IWDP-I    75% 2'd yr. And
100% thereafter.
Concentrate feed for   GOI subsidy    100%              1-2.5 kg per     50% beneficiary    100%             100%               66%              Beneficiary        1-2.5 kg per     Beneficiary
young stock          0.5-2kg for     contribution by    day for young    contribution in    contribution by   contribution by   subsidized for    contribution      day for young    contribution
young stock     beneficiary        stock at 50%     the first year,    beneficiary      beneficiary        young stock      increased to 50%   stock at 50%     increased to 50%
from Al at                         subsidy rate     75% second year                                       from 4th month   first year, 75%     subsidy rate     first year, 75%
50% subsidy                                         and 100%                                              to 32"d month    second year and                      second year and
rate for few                                        thereaRfer                                             (only for        100% thereafter                     100% thereafter
scheduledgcaste                                                                                           landless and
families                                _c
Silage and bay      f50%Om/O         50% beneficiary    NA               50% beneficiary    NA               50% beneficiary    NAt              NA                 No cost sharing   50% beneficiary
demonstrations       beneficiary     contribution                        contribution (                      contribution (all                                                       contribution ( in
4 Beneficiary pays about Rs. 150 per service, out of which Rs.90 are deposited in the revolving fund for other purposes and balance goes to caretaker.
94



Sub-Component                    Punjab                       Himachal Pradesh                     Uttar Pradesh                         Haryana                        Jammu & Kashmir
Description                                                                             i
Existing     Proposed under       Existing      Proposed under       Existing      Proposed under       Existing      Proposed under        Existing      )?roposed under
IVVDP-II__       IWDP-II E                                      jWWDIWDP-VVDP-III IWDP-11                                                   IWDP-II
contribution                                       mostly unskilled                   unskilled labor                                                       terms of unskilled
labor and fodder                   and fodder                                                            labor)
Artificially dried  NA              NA                 50%             50% contribution    NA             NA                 NA              NA                 NA               NA
fodder                                                 contribution by   by beneficiary
beneficiary
Livestock shelters  50% of total    60% beneficiary    50%             60% beneficiary    Unskilled labor   Unskilled labor  NA              NA                 No cost sharing   60% beneficiary
and feeding troughs   cost by       contribution,      beneficiary     contribution,      plus local      plus local                                                             contribution,
(only for landless)    beneficiary  including all      contribution,   including all      material        material provided                                                      including all
unskilled labor   including all    unskilled labor   provided by     by beneficiary                                                         unskilled labor
and part of the   unskilled labor   and part of the  beneficiary                                                                            and part of the
building materials  and part of the    building materials                                                                                   building materials
(only for poor)   building        (only for poor)                                                                                           (only for poor)
materials
95



A}NNEX  12
Regional EnUjironnental Assessment: IVVDP (Hills-ll)                     Execubve Summary
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
THE PREAMBJLE
1. The Shivalik ranges, in North India, are at the lower end of the Himalayas and at the upper end of
densely populated productive Indo-Gangetic alluvial plains. The Shivalik Region is a thin belt, with
an average width of about 52km and a length of about 650kmn has an area of nearly four million
hectares in the states of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu &
Kashmir. Tthese hills, once covered by dense forests, are now totally denuded. Much of the
denudation, took place since colonial times, when the exploitation of forest wealth was encouraged
for meeting timber and fuel needs for military cantonments. The setters cleared land for farming
and nomadic herdsnen brought catte for grazing. In the process, rich forests gave way to bare
hill slopes. Soil erosion became common and the once perennial streams became seasonal
torrents, locaily known as 'choes' The degradation continued unabated. Today, these hills are
aimost totally barren, a source of damage and destruction and are currently recognized as one of
the eight highly degraded ezosystems in the country.
2. In the last decade, in order to preveniL and reverse the degradation process of the Shivaliks hills,
the Integirated Watershed Development (Hills) Project (IWDP) was undertaken in the 4
states of Jamrnu & Kashmij-, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana. Originally, the project was
for a pEriod of 7 yeahs (19,90-97), but was extended for another year up to 1998. The project was
supported by the World Bank. Seeing the physical targets being achieved by the partiapatory
states, the Wodd Bank decided lo further extend the program in the form of IWDP (Hills-II) not
only in other areas of these states but also including the state of Uttar Pradesh. This was aimed at
providing a uniform integrated rural development platform to address the social and natural
resources problems of the entire Shivaliks in India.
3. Given the undefined investments spread spatially and temporally over the large project region
covering five states, the Worid Bank suggested conducting a Regional Environmental
Assessment (PJA) for the projecL This is the first instance of such an REA for any World Bank
funded project in India. The primary objective foreseen in the REA process was to obtain a
framework to idenitif keyz environmental issues related to the project, both on environmental
concerns related to proposed project components and on the assessment of the environmental
benefits of the project. It was to serve as a valuable tool for addressing environmental issues that
would help influence projedi: appraisal and design, executon and supervision of its components. In
addition, i vWould serve -as a set of environomental guidelines to shape environmentally sustainable
investment strategies in the project The main objectives, envisaged for the Regional
Environmental Assessnient are:
X To provide a framevark for iderntffiation of key environmental issues related to the project
and to qualitify its environmental impact;
* To assess positive environmental contributions of watershed development and examine
environmental concerns associated with the various project components;
96



Regional Environmental Assessment: IWDP (Hills-I)                       Execuve Summary
* To suggest mitigation measures, outline monitoring and evaluation strategies associated
with the appropriate indicators to measure environmental benefits of the project and outline
an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) to be mainstreamed into the project cycle
including their preparation, implementation and completion;
* To bring out recommendations that would keep constant involvement of the other members
of the implementation unit and would also lead to the design of environmental awareness
programs, the baseline, monitoring and evaluation strategies as early in the project as
possible;
* To help in identifying the additional detailed studies that need to be conducted as part of
the project; and,
* To provide a screening/analysis tool for addressing the environmental issues that shall help
influence project appraisal and design, execution and supervision of its components.
4. These objectives have to be achieved through the following scope of the REA:
* Formulation of spatial details including the location of sub-watersheds and major project
components;
* Description of the risks and scope associated with various activities under the major
components of the project;
* Creation of a framework defining criteria to be used for selection of actvities in each
component and in prioritization of objectves;
* Recommendation of procedures and institubonal arrangements to address environmental
concems and ensuring safe guards, or any activity that would trigger a more detailed
Environmental Impact Assessment or Environmental Monitoring;
* Analysis of the lessons from on-going and previous projects and incorporation of these in
the IWDP (Hills-II); and,
* Recommendation of mechanisms and procedures to mainstream  the REA work and
environmental concerns in general in the proposed IWDP.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
5. The project area in the proposed IWDP (Hills-I) includes the sub-tropical Shivalik and temperate
Karewas ranges of the five states. Although the major focus of the project is on the Shivalik zone,
the project also includes sub-watersheds located in the temperate Karewas* in Kashmir. Fgure-1
shows the location of different sub-watersheds under IWDP (Hills-II). The total area to be treated
in the five states is given below in Table-1.
The Karewas, in Kashmir, are separated from the Shivaliks of Jammu by the Pir-Parjal mountain
range. The Shivaliks consist of a narrow belt of hills that run along the sub-tropical southern
foothills of the Himalayan ranges. The Karewas are located north of the Shivaliks and consist of
old lakebed deposits some of which have been uplifted to form hill plateaus and steep ravines.
97



j    LOCATION OF SUB-WATERSHEDS UNDER IWIDP (HILLS 1I), 
i    * 'JAMMU & IKASHMIR                                                                                I egend
K                             -                  -~K
i  :   ,  t  \   ,        HIMACHAL P'(ADETH  /   A
i~ ~~~~ A J-~ l/:;<rmSv, 
~~/                                                                  -4                v              At    /  (*   $
.V i                               9- HARYAA          (    ,/                            (t                        ,',-_A         _
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OC'AFIOII OFS                                            WkE   ;Ic
N                r                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REGIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL
~~~~~~'  C  ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                         s-.. ~~~~~~~~~~~A881589MENT  l VA)P (HILLS I
1:3,7700.00- inl



Regional Environmental Assessment IWDP (Hills-ll)                       Executive Summary
Table-1: Total Area to be treated in the five states under IWDP (Hills-ll)
States             :              : - . .-Total Area (ha)
Punjab                                  93938
Haryana                                 70472
Uttar Pradesh                          127307
Himachal Pradesh                       119116
Jammu & Kashmir                        109860
6. These areas comprise of 5 sub-watersheds in 3 districts of Ilaryana State; 17 sub-watersheds in 5
districts of Punjab State; 8 sub-watersheds in 3 districts of Uttar Pradesh; 4 sub-watersheds in 4
districts of 3&K and 41 sub-watersheds in 5 districts of Himachal Pradesh.
7. High densities of people (100-1500 persons/km2) and livestock, resulting in fuel wood and fodder
extraction far exceeding the annual biomass production characterize the project area. Due to
population pressure, cultivation has been extended to marginal areas including slopes unsuitable
for cropping; this too has contributed to soil erosion. These areas have been identified as the most
degraded rain-fed agro-ecosystems of the country and hence included in the priority areas for
watershed development. The Shivaliks and Karewas differ in soil, climate and elevation, but both
face severe devastation and will continue to be denuded, if no steps are taken to reverse the
trend.
Objectives of the IWDP (Hills-11)
8. The main objective of the IWDP (Hills-II) is to restore the productive potential of the Shivaliks and
the Karewas, spread over the five states. This would be attained using evoving watershed
development and community participation approaches. The focus is on improving in-situ moisture
conservation, water harvesting and land management practices. An assodated objective of the
project is to assist with the institutional development and consolidate the progress already made in
the earlier projects.
9. Although the main objective rernains to be the restoration of the productive potential of the hills in
the five participating states, the priority plans of different states differ. Folbwing are the objectives
of the project across the states:
. To restore on a sustainable basis the productive potential of the Shivalik region and
improving the quality of life (through integrated muli-disciplinary area development
approaches);
* To conserve soil and water (by reducing soil erosion and increasing the availability of water)
to slow and reverse the degradation of natural environment;
 To increase and improve the production and income from crops, horticulture, fbdder, fuel
wood and livestock through the process of soil and water conservation;
 To reduce flooding, land slides and other environmental hazards in the project and
neighboring aras;
99



Regional Environmental Assessment: IWDP (Hills-Il)                                   Executve Summary
* To promote low-cost and/or vegetative technologies, to develop approaches for coordinated
interactive planning and to strengthen the mnanagement of non-arable lands and other
common property resources;
* To strengthen community participation for a holistic and sustainable agro-ecological
development; and,
*  To improve the socio-economic conditions of disadvantaged groups especially the women.
10. Following are wider and immediate objectives of the Shivalik Watershed Development Project in
various states. The overall objectives are ranked in order of importance as assessed from the REA
informations given by the respective states and are given in Table-2. These also give an
understanding of the customized project priorities according to the particular need of the states.
Table-2: Objectives of IWDP Project of Shivaliks across various States
Objectiv                      3ammu     Iimacha    Haryana   Punjab            Utr
-Kashnr    Pradeshi                           Pradesh
WIDER OBJECTIVES
To restore on a sustainable basis the productive     I                                             1
potential of the region and improving quality of life.
To reduce soil erosion, improve availability of water.  2                                          2
To improve living conditions of rural people through                                               3
multi-disciplinary area development approach.
To slow  and reverse the degradation of natural                  1           1          1
environment by soil and moisture conservation.
To conserve soil and water.                                      2           3
To increase and improve the production and income                3
from crops, horticulture, fuel wood and livestock, etc.  _
To reduce flooding and  devastation  caused  by                  4
degradation of soil.
To help increase production and income grain crops,  3                                  2
horticulture, fodder, fibre, fuelwood, livestock and
household based products.
To reduce flooding, landslides and other environmental                                  3
hazards in the project and neighboring areas.                              _
To promote low-cost technologies; to manage non-                             2         .4
arable lands and other common property resources.
To promote holistic and sustainable agro-ecological  4           5           4          5
development involving people's participation.
IMMEDIATE OB3ECTIVES
To strengthe community participation.                5           6           5          6          4
To  improve  the  Socio-Economic  conditions  of                             6                     5
disadvantaged groups, especially the women.
Development of local level institutiors to enhance the  6                                          6
sustainability of the model
100



Regional Environmental Assessment: IWDP (Hills-ll)                      Executve Summary
Project Components
11. The two major components of proposed IWDP (Hills-II) are Institutional Strengthening and
Watershed Development and Protection. The Insttutional Strengthening component seeks to
support stakeholders in the planning, implementation, maintenance and sustainability mneasures,
strengthen project implementing agencies, research, extension and training. The Watershed
Development and Protection component would aim at promoting proven kxally adapted vegetative
technologies and mechanical structures through active beneficiary involvement to conserve water
and reduce soil erosion. The project will generally adopt treatments similar to those used in the
IWDP (Hills-I). Broadly categorized, the treatrnents to be undertaken in the project components
are:
. Activities for Arable Land including contour vegetative barriers, terrace repairs and
vegetative reinforcement, vegetative field boundaries, silvipasture, rain-fed horticulture,
farm forestry, on-farm fodder production, rain-fed horticultural demonstrations and rain-fed
cropping system demnonstrations;
* Activities for Prfivate non-arble, common and forest land including vegetative/shrub
barriers in contour trenches, pasture development, silvipasture, afforestation, drainage
lining, gully stabilization with wire crates with vegetative support, stream bank protection,
water harvesting structures and village ponds, roadside erosion control and landslide
treatmnent;
i Other activities including livestDck improvement and animal husbandry practices, rural
infrastructure development (roads, mnarkets, energy) would be activity included in the
proposed project.
12. These objectives would be achieved by variety of methods accomplished by strong stakeholder
participation including a number of mechanical and vegetative measures lbr watershed
development and protection, improved livestock management, rural road rehabilitation and
institutional strengthening.
REGIONAL ENVIRONNMENTAL SEWING
13. The Shivaliks have a very characteristic environmental setting, which neither resembles the higher
Himalayas nor the Indo-Gangetic Alluvial plains below. Being a long narrow belt below the
Himalayas and above the Alluvial plains, the natural environmental characteristics of the Shivaliks
change abruptly with altitude. The characteristic features of the region are given in the following
paragraphs.
Climate
14. The average annual rainfall is 1116mm ranging from 716 to 1897mm with Coefficient of Variation
(CV) of 25.6%. The rainfall varies from 2200mm per annum at Dehradun (in Uttar Pradesh) to
900mm per annum at Jammu and to 3500mm per annum at Dharamshala in Himachal Pradesh. At
Chandigarh (roughly the centre of the Shivalik range), the average maximum temperature is 430C
during May/June and minimum temperature is less than 1C in January. The average annual
evaporation is 2108mm with an average of 5.7mm/day.
101



Regional Environmental Assessment: IWDP (Hills-11)                              Execubve Summary
Physiography
15. The 300-3000m high Shivalik range fomis the southem front of the Himalayas. These are made of
the sediments deposited by the ancient Himalayan rivers in their channels and flood plains. The
terrain in the Shivalik range is broken up and at places precipices 70m or higher stand out sharply.
Geologically, the hills are of the middle Shivalik formation with deep beds of red marl interspersed
with beds of soft and friable sandstone and occasional beds of loosely aggregated conglomerate.
Soil and Geology
16. The Shivalik soils are deep but the slopes near the foothills contain pebbles and boulders. The soil
texture varies from medium to fine textured soils, i.e., from loamy sand to sandy loam and silty
clay loam. These sizeable patches of heavy soils are calcareous and alkaline in nature and has high
pH, more silt (35-38%) and clay content (45-500/o), high calcium carbonate, low organic carbon,
low hydraulic conductivity and permeability with hard and compact strata. These soils have low
biological activity due to low organic carbon content and are unstable and highly prone to erosion.
17. South-facing scarps commonly break the Shivalik ranges. On the steep northem slopes, a number
of streams and waterfalls are there. Then there are long fiat stretches called 'duns' within the
otherwise rugged Shivalik terracet. The 'duns' are gravel deposits in depressions or fillings of now-
vanished lakes. Since hard rocks are generally absent the soil in the Shivalik ranges is a potential
habitat for grass production. The clay minerals are illite, chlorite and kaolinite with quartz and
feldspar traces, pink silt is dominant in Ambala Shivaliks (in Haryana) and coarse sediment
composed of pebbles and sand is common in foothill (Kandi) area of Punjab. Table-3 below
describes the change in the general geological and soil characteristics across the five states in the
Shivalik ranges.
Table 3: Geological and Soil Characteristics in the Shivalik Range
Geology  Sandstone,    slates,       River terraces, gravel  Hard day,  Hills highly   Quartzite,
conglomerates   limeStone,  beds, sandstone,    sand,      folded and   sandstone,
and days.     shale and     day stones and    uncosolidated  dissected.    gravelly rock
volcanic rocks.  conglomerates.  conglomerates           outcrop.
Soils    Shallow soils,    Loamy.    Coarse loamy to fine  Sandy loam,   Ught   Deep rich
calcareous                 loamy, slighty     poor moisture  texture,   brown forest
surface soils are           alkaline, low salt    retention.  Nutrient  soils with
sandy loam,                 content, well drained          poor. Alluvial  more day at
silts, loam and             with excessive                 soils in lower  foothills.
silt loam                  runoff.                         part.
Seismicity
18. The whole area is geo-dynamically very active. The snapping and attendant slipping of rocks along
faults and thrusts have given rise to earthquakes repeatedly. The magnitude of seismic events has
The duns were formed due to pounding of rivers and streams or slackening of current velocity
as the gradient decreased following the landform.
102



Regional Environmental Assessment: IWDP (Hills-Il)                              Exea*ve Summary
varied from moderate to high. In the last 100 years four of them had magnitudes higher than 8 on
the Richter Scale. Epicentres generally follow lines parallel to the thrusts on faults present.
Water Resources
19. Shivaliks mainly forms the catchment areas of two major river systems, viz., the Indus river & the
Ganga-Yamuna. In the Indus river-system, major tributaries (in J&K and Punjab) are the Sutlej,
the Beas, the Ravi, the Jhelum and the Chenab. In the Ganga-Yamuna river-system, the tributaries
from part of Haryana and all parts of Uttar Pradesh drain into the system. In between the two,
some tributaries of Punjab & Haryana drain into the Ghagghar River, which spreads in the
Rajasthan desert and get absorbed.
20. The drainage channels in the Shivalik ranges originate as small rills on the sloping land in the
upper reaches of the watersheds and develop into gullies. Series of such gullies or channels may
combine further down to take the form of gorges or ravines. Such ravines merge into seasonal
streams towards the lower reaches of a watershed, which utirmately merge. as meandering
torrents (choes) on entering the plains. The main water resources in the area are springs,
Nallahas, wells, tube-wells and rivers. Despite an average rainfall- of 1116 mm there are acute
shortages of drinking and irrigation water.
Land Utilization
21. The predominant land utilization in the overall project area is agriculture (37.90/a of total land)
followed by forests (38.3%) in the states. The land use, however, varies considerably in the
project area. It is estimated that the availability of land suitable for agricuttural production ranges
between 20.6 to 64.3 percent of the area of the watersheds and in most cases is privately owned.
Non-arable lands are predominant in all partidpating states and are severely degraded. Table-4
shows the predominant land utilization in the project area.
Table-4: Predominant Land Utilization in the Project Area, 1998
Stae           XWDP Arm      Arble (of efTOtW land)        Non-Aale (%f TOWl laud)
xrvigated   Rinfod  Total   P. we    _sno    Fout  TOWl
.ammu and        109860       1.6      30.0    31.63     5.3       28.3      34.8    68.4
Kashmir
Purjb            93938       18.6      31.0    49.6    22.8        20.2      7.4    50.4
Hayar            70472       27.3      37.0    64.3      9.8       4.0       21.9   35.7
Himachal Pradesh  119116      3.0      28.1    31.1    12.0        15.2      41.7    68.9
Uttar Pradesh    127307       4.2      16.4    20.6      NA        11.8      67.6    79.4
. M?W Are        520,693      11.1      26.8    37.9    10.4        13.4     3S.3    oi
22. An important land utilization of the project area is the village common lands, which occupy 13.4%
share of the total land of the project area. Amongst all states, Jammu & Kashmir and Punjab have
relatively larger share of village common land. The average per capita land available in the
participating states works out to be 0.34, 0.32, 0.4 and 1.44ha in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal
Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, respectively.
103



Regional Environmental Assessment: IWDP (Hills-Il)                                     Execubve Summary
Forests and Bio-Diversity
23. Following the Bio-geographic classification of Rodgers (1985), the IWDP (Hills-lI) watersheds
come under biotic provinces 2A, 2B and 4A. 2A and 2B being the North Westem and Westem
Himalayas whereas 4A constitutes the semi arid Punjab plains. The major biomes existing are in
the terrestrial regime, (temperate and sub-tropical) with forest ecosystems dominating followed by
grassland and aquatic ecosystems. The vegetation is drought and cold resistant consisting of
conifers, legumes, grasses, composites, etc. Broadly four types of forests exist - Tropical
Deciduous, Tropical Pine, Himalayan Moist Temperate and Himalayan Dry Temperate. Table-5
gives a dassification of forest types in the Shivaliks Region (see Figure 2 for the forest cover in
the region).
Table-5: Classification of Forests in the Shivaliks Region
Puamjab      Hmadd         asan         Unar
Description   Deciduous scrub forests  Fir and blue    Deciduous forests,  Sub -  Sal forests,   Tropical Dry
of Forests   consisting mainly of  pine forests in                tropoical   Mixed Broad   Deciduous,
Phial, Semal, Sissoo and  their spatial    Dry uDeiduous  forest  leaved
Terminali with        zories vwth    Scrub forests,               forest, Chil   Tropical
undergrowth of Dodenia  associate    Khair, sisoo,forests         forest,      Evergreen,
and Adathola.         spps. Cedrus   in foothills, Bet            Bamboo       Tropical
In higher elevation Chi   forests in one   and Mand areas,       forest, Scrub  Moist,
In highe elevatin Chi rtion of sub-                         forest, DrY    Deciduous
Pine forests with     catchment.    Shivalik Chir pine            deciduous
associates species.                  Forests,                     forest,      Shivalik Sal.
Euphornia in very
derelict condition.                  Dry Deciduous                Eucalyptus
_____________~~ IBamboo.                                     plantations.
24. There is a considerable gap in knowledge about not only biotic weatth per se but also its
distribution and composition of communities and ecosystems in the Shivatik ranges. In general,
bio-productivity per unit area per unit time is lower in Himalayas. Individual species occupy wide
ranges and population gets broken into small isolated units. There is a higher rate of endemism as
there are many species growing exclusively in the Himalayas. These make many areas in the
Himalayas highly diversified and florstically among the richest in the world. The Himalayas are an
important center of diversity in the country being source of several spedes of cereals, pulses,
fruits, oil yielding plants, species, and medicinal plants. The region also harbours many wild and
domesticated animal species.
25. The in-situ conservation areas in watersheds are the protected areas - national parks, sanctuaries
and reserved forest areas as they have been demarcated for ecosystem and habitat protection.
Within the Shivalik area there are existing and proposed National Parks (including the Corbett
National Park and the Rajaji National Park), and existing and proposed Wildlife Sanctuaries (see
Figure 3).
Uvestock
26. Uvestock plays a vital role in the Shivaliks' economy, as next to agriculture animal husbandry is the
most important economic activity. Livestock is the primary source of living as it contributes 50 to
65% of the total income. Density of livestock in the villages of Shivaliks is more than three times
41M
104



Regional Environmental Assessment: IWDP (Hills-lI)                     Execubve Summary
the national average. Herein lies one of the prime reasons of degradation of the Shivaliks.
Excessive open grazing is one of the prime reasons, which has contributed to the deterioration of
the Shivalik ecosystem.
Social Environment
27. The project covers a total area of 520,693 hectares with a total population of about 5.18 million.
Uttar Pradesh covers the highest area (nearly 29%) fbllowed by Jammu and Kashmir (25.7%) and
Himachal Pradesh (21.8%) (see Table 1). In terms of population, Punjab has the largest share
(37.1%). The project is spread over predominantly rural areas.
28. The indigenous population in the region is the Schedule Tribes (STs). The Scheduled castes (SCs)
are other disadvantaged social groups. In total, the project area has about 11.35% of SC and ST
population. The ST population is negligible (3.1%). The Census data indicates that the nearly one-
fourth of rural population fall in these two categories. In the case of urban areas of the project
area, the share is observed to be to the tune of around 200/%. By and large there is no enumeration
of like nomads as they are highly mobile.
29. The predominant economic base of the project area is primary sector activities. In the rural areas,
agriculture is the mainstay of the economy, as over two-third of the population are engaged in
agriculture and allied activities. Tertiary (service) sector activity assumes greater significance next
to primary sector actvity in the near-absence of any manufacturing units, especialy the small and
medium scale manufacturing units.
INSTITUTIONAL AND POLICY ISSUES
30. Watershed development has been reemphasized by the GoI to enhance production, employment,
income, and to secure the natural resources base of land, water and perennial vegetation. The
watershed approach has been described* as " The most comprehensive and holistic approach to
tackle the problems of regional imbalances in matter of water availability, sustainability of
agriculture and water resources, problem of depleting underground water resources, drainage, soi/
conservation... This is abo the only and ultimate answer to reducing regional disparinbes, making
assured irrnation avaiable, evolving more economic and self-sstaining and envronrnentafifuendly
use of organic inputs and non-conventional energy resources through utilisation of farm waste and
bio-mass production...". The current 1999-2000 budget also places much importance on
sustainable watershed development efforts.
31. Delineation of agro-climatic regions (ACR) and agro-ecological regions (AER) have been efforts in
this direction. The Planning Commission had in 1989 brought out a 15-zone agro-climatic map
based largely on commonality of factors like physiography, rainfall, temperature, soil and water
resources. The National Bureau of Soil Survey and Land Use Planning in 1990 put forth a 20 region
agro-ecological map for the country. These attempts provide a basis for broad land use planning
and developing agriculture on sustainable basis.
*     Government of India, Parliamentary Standing Committee on Agriculture. Report on the Draft
Agriculture Policy Resolution. New Delhi, 1992.
105



Regional Enviroidmental Assessment: IWDP (Hills-Il)                       Execublve Summary
32. The IWDP (Hills) area forms part of agro-dimatic Zone I - Westem Himalayas Region under sub-
zones 2, 3 and 4. The recommended strategies for future development in these sub-zones include
development of soil and water conservation, landuse planning, fruit crops development, high value
crops, transport and communication, supplemented with marketing and storage, water
management, ag,.processing, livestock production, social forestry, seed production and fisheries.
33. The IWDP (Hills) area form part of agro-eco region 14 (Warm sub-humid to humid with inclusion
of per-humid eco-region with brown forest and podzolic soils). A small portion also falls in agro-eco
region 9 (Warm sub-humid (dry) eco-region with alluvium derived soils). The recommended
strategies for these agro-eco region includes the adoption of slope based land use, enumeration of
bio-climatic adaptability of crops, augmentation of infrastructure, and implementation of better
quality livestock, forestry, seed and fisheries production measures.
Insttutional Setting/lssues
34. Watershed Management essentially being a multidisciplinary activity involves many agencies
responsible for soil and water conservation, forestry, animal husbandry, agriculture, horticulture
and rural development, etc., at the Union and the State levels. In the various watershed
management projects completed so far, almost all have been implemented by line departments.
The role of the Watershed Management Directorate has been limited to planning and providing
funds to different departments to implement the planned activities. In almost all the projects, the
line departments were fraught with number of problems such as lack of co-ordination in
implementation of sectDral activities, stereotyped approach to tackle the problems in an isolated
manner, lack of innovative temperament, absence of flexibility, etc. As a result, the works were
scattered all over and resources were spread too thin over a large area.
35. To accomplish the goals set under the World Bank aided IWDP (Hills-II), effective coordination
among the departments is increasingly being emphasized. For the purpose of effective co-
ordination in IWDP (Hills-II) a state-level steering committee (with all the heads of the
departnents as members and the secretary of the co-ordinating department as the chairperson)
would be constituted. The Steering Committee would address the difficulties arising for want of co-
ordination among line departments and sort out other Implementabon issues.
36. Under IWDP, since the project is basically creating infrastructure for the benefit of the
beneficiaries, it is felt that where the line departments have already created some institutions or
infrastructures, IWDP should not create additional institons, rather it should strengthen the
institution already existing in the project area. In this context co-ordination among the line
departments, among various watershed development agencies within the state and other bilateral
agencies and development of mechanism for regular and effective interaction assume significance.
37. At present several NGOs are engaged in the mission of environmental conservation through
interaction with public and government departments, generating awareness and carrying out somre
model plantations in the villages. Some of the NGOs have been working with dedication at the
grass root level in the villages and they would be involved in some of the micro-watershed
development schemes. These schemes would act as demonstration centers for various
technological innovations aind the NGOs would be encouraged to take up eco-restoration of the
degraded Shivaliks with the active participation of the villagers.
38. Peoples participation is the basic theme of the project Community participation components
transverse all the activities included in the project Village communities would be involved in the
106



Regional Environmental Assessment: IWDP (Hills-Il)                      Execuave Summary
project right from the planning stage to the implementabon and monitoring stage. The community
participation would be buttressed in various neans induding participation of the seff-help groups,
user groups, women's groups, para-professional and women-motivators. In Uttar Pradesh
additional initiatives such as the villagers committees and village revolving funds for watershed
management are being proposed.
Policy Setting/Lssues
39. Different watershed management polides as defined by the Department of Agriculture and
Cooperation (DAC) of Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Rural Areas and Employment (MOR&E)
and Ministry of Environment & Forests (MoEF) are in need of integration. It is anticipated that an
integrated watershed management and development policy would be fomned during the 9th five-
year Plan period. The requirements of an integrated policy include formulation of common
guidelines fbr all watershed  management programmes  being  implanted  by  different
Ministries/Departments, extemally aided projects, etc.
40. The GoI has already taken important steps in this direction. The various initiatives increasingly
focus on the holistic approach. Once the watershed is selected for treatrnent the entire watershed
irrespective of the land uses is being treated including the agriculture, forests and wastelands. The
private lands of watershed are being developed by private landowners on cost-sharing basis;
community land is being developed with full involvement of the community and forests lands by
the concerned agencies.
41. The rainfed area constitutes 66% (about 90 million ha) of 142 million ha of cropped area in the
country. The area developed so far is very small and, therefore, a perspective plan needs to be
developed to cover the balance rain-fed area (arable land) within a reasonable timeframe.
42. The plan for development of the watersheds should be prepared in consultation with local
beneficiaries adopting a decentralised approach and thereby making it acceptable to the
beneficiaries. For better appreciabon of the existing problems of degraded watersheds and
benefits of watershed development, the beneficiaries should be trained before the actual
developnental activities are taken up. The urgent needs of the community, such as, drinking
water, wells, ponds, bridges, connecting roads, temples, schools etc. could be taken up as entry
point activities and necessary provisions may be made in the schemes.
43. The subject of a common approach and guidelines for all the schemes of watershed being
implemented by the Central Ministries was deliberated. Since the objecives of the schemes are
different, it was felt that it might not be feasible to have common guidelines. However, the pooling
of resources of watershed development programmes at district level of project level may be
considered to avoid overlapping and extending the reach of various programmes. Legislative
framework also might be required with respect to the common property resources to avoid conflict
between the state government agencies and the Panchayats (local self government bodies).
44. The concept of development of Bio-Industrial watersheds was suggested during DOth Five Year
Plan envisaging development of watershed coupled with value addition activities for processing the
primary produce at village or watershed level itself. This would help producers to have enhanced
The work done by the village community on common property resourcas is paid by the project
and this amount goes to the village revolving fund.
107



Regional Environmental Assessment: IWDP (Hills-Il)                        Executbve Summary
benefits and reduce losses from perishable commodities due to immediate marketing problems.
For over-all planning, implementation, monitoring of all watershed development programmes, a
strong watershed directorate at state levei would be established with multi disciplinary staff with
representatives of different agencies involved in watershed development programmes.
KEY ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES AND SCREENING
45. The Shivaliks are densely populated and people follow a semi pastoral occupation, which is diverse
in its crops-tree-livestock interrelation. The principal arable land utilization consists of rain-fed
cultivation of maize and wheat. Crop failures are very common due to erratic rainfall distribution.
As individual land holdings are very small, owners are unable to live on the farm produce and thus
rear sheep and goats for sale. Cattie are freely grazed in the forests in spite of stringent laws.
Grass production is low and the quality of cattle is poor. This has accelerated the degradation of
land and most of the foothills have become unfit for human habitation. The problem is so acute
that in highly grazed areas, as much as 4-6cm of topsoil can disappear with a single heavy shower.
46. Fourteen key Regional Environmental Issues have been identified in the REA process from the
natural and induced biophysical degradation and socio-economic point of view. From the cause
and effect in examination for each issue vis-a-vis five constituent states, the severity of a particular
environmental constraint for the states has also been focussed. These key issues are:
Water availability;        Soil erosion;               Ladc of fodder and fuel:
Small land holdings;       Undulating topography;      Soil bioWdechlne in fertility;
Deforstaton and denudation;   Loss of bio-diversity;   poverty;
Community participatiorn;  Lantena/ageratum infLtadon;   Poor infrasructxe;
Rokl of women; and         Awareness and siud development
47. The project interventions are heavily loaded to attain reasonably both environmental conservation
as well as improving the productivity of land under different primary production system. There are
18 environmental benefits and 20 socio-economic benefits expected to flow from the proposed
IWDP (Hills-II) project. The most important ones are given below:
* Increase in vegetative cover; reduction in soil erosion including soil & nutrient lss;
moderation of flood peaks; increased perenniality of torrents & stream; more water in lean
period and increased discharge; clean water for drinidng purpose; increased groundwater
recharge & groundwater availability;
* Improvement in soil moisture regime and hence better vegetative growth; enlarged areas
under biomass production system; convenience in reclamation of torrent infested lands;
increased biodiversity and preservation of soil biota; increased organic matter build-up
including soil structure improvement; increased organic matter build-up including soil
structure improvement; and wildlife protection;
* Improvement in microclimate and moderation of temperature extremes and clean air;
* Possibilities of using micro irrigation systems for higher water reuse efficiency; lesser
damage to infrastructure by streams & torrents; better possibilities of developing water
resources for irrigation;
* Social benefits including improved quality of life; advancemnent of women and children;
employment generation; increased household income; increased eco-tourism potential;
108



Regional Environmental Assessment: IMOP (HiIIs11)                         Execulive Summary
improved live stock/milk produrtion; improvene-wnt of rultural aspects; lesser social tension
and reduction in malnutrition.
48. The different project components/activities can also lead to short termr, lng-term negative impacts
on different environmental components, if the sustainability aspects of the project are not taken
into consideration. The negative issups can bM reve tihle or of irrevr'ible nature. Some of these
negative impacts are descrbed below as examples,
* As soil biota is altered, t.hus the micro flora & fauna might be disturbed due to project
induced activities;
* The induced bio-diversity in the watersheds may bring variety of insects and vector bome
diseases may effect human and animal species;
e Due to increase of forestation, industries may spring up. This would trigger air, water and
soil pollution, unless there is a ban on any industrial activty within and around the
watershed areas. Migration of labourers to the watershed areas is also inevitable;
* Due to increase in population, industral actvities and soil erosion, the water quality of the
water resources would continue to be low. Contamination of ground water aquifers, e.g.,
wells due to agricuttural run off and improper sanitation may trigger negative impacts;
* Change in demographic pattems, disruptiot of soia! and cultural values would be potential
negative impacts on the long term;
, All engineering measures are drastic interventions (such as terradng, diversion of
waterways) and interfere with slopes, drainage, microaflora and may have long-term
impacts;
 Watershed improves the water availaility, which induces people to use more water at
home and agricultural related activites. In the rozurse of time, therefore, there is a risk that
available water sources, even after these are stretched might not mneet the demand.
49. In order to carry out the analysis of alterinatives, the first step was to identify impacts on key
environmental components in two broad cateaories: potential positive impacts and potential
negative impacts. The physical and temporal nabire of the impact was determined using three
sub-sets, i.e., short-term and long-term, reversible and irre.versible and local and regional.
50. Based on the identification of impact attributes and prediction tools, the analysis of alternatives
was resorted to by using a set of matrix score. Each of these matrix score again has been given a
Project Importance Unit (PIU) valuing, by iterative Delphi method. The values were distributed to
dfferent key environmental components and sub-components depending upon their relevance and
importance to the project. The sub-component wiss net score showed that the region without the
prfoect would have negative impact in seVPen coiTiponents, while with  the project all the
environmental sub components show positive impact. Environmental impacts of the project on
each category are presented in Table 6, both "wit" and "without' the project The cumulative
assessment arrived at indicates that there is a significant positive impact on the environmental
features once the projert interventions are applied in the degreded watershed areas. The impacts
reflecting growth and development is the highest on land environment followed by soil
environment and water environment (see Table-6). The high positve nature of the impact on the
socio-eonomic environment is the dear indication o the objectives of the proposed watershed
project that would improve the quality of life.
109



TABLE 6: ALTERNATIVE SCENARIOS
Sl.No. Key Environmental Components       Without Project I With Project Increase
_   Arable Lands                        -60            +330       +390
Non Arable Lands                        -80            +160       +240
Forest Lands                            -490           +350       +840
Land Productivity                       -350           +750      +1100
Slopes                                  -420           +330       +750
Land Slides                             -650           +600      +1250
TOTAL                                   -2050         -2520       +4570  l
~~~~ati_t1KM                                               I
Soil Erosion                            -660           +720      +1380
Soil Fertility & Productivity           -500           +750      +1250
Soil biota & degradation                -200           +260       +460
Soil Moisture                           -260           +240       +500
TOTAL                                   -1620         +14970      +3590
Flora and Micro Flora                    +40           +480       +4404
Fauna and Micro Fauna                    -30           +150       +180
National Parks                          -30            +60         +90
Fragile Zones                           -650           +150        800
_ TOTAL                                  -670          +840       +1510
SurFace Hydrology                       -150           +450       +600
Ground Water                            -500           +400       +900
Transport of Sediments                  -'240          +240       +480
Water Quality                           -120           +350       +470
_ Silf Deposition                       -350           +120        +470
TOTAL                                   -1360     1   +1560       +2920
Industrial Activfities:                 -10            +90        +100'
Forest Fires                            -180           +120       +300
Anthrapogemnic Activities                -30           +50         +80
TOTAL                                   -220           +260       +480
_ Fuel Wood                              -120          +120        +240
_ Renewable Energy                       +80           +200        +360
_ TOTAL                                  -40           +320        +360
Indigeneous Population                  -120           +400       +520
Gender Issues                           -60            +180       +240
Provision of Services (Transport, Health)  -120        +360       +480
Community Participation                 -100           +700       +800
_   TOTAL                                -400          +1640      +2040
110



Regional Environmental Assessment: IWVDP (Hills-11)                     Executive summary
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
51. Monitoring is an internal and inherent project activity and consists of watching the progress vis-a-
vis planned activities and collection of some specific observations which could help understand if
desired results are likely to be achieved. It also comprises some diagnostic analysis of on-going
activities, which could help the project authority locate gaps and act to carry out mid-term
correction if any needed. Evaluation on the other hand, is the assessment of projects performance
in its various components as well as the impact on the target area and population.
52. Under environmental categories the end results expected from the IWDP (Hills-II) include
restoration of balanced land use; conservation and improvement of soil and water environment;
improved bio-diversity; enhancement of productivity and production of biomass; improvement of
overall and composite ecology and environment of the watersheds and sustainability.
53. Environmental Indicators to monitor the expected outcome of the IWDP (Hills-II) were
recommended based on the uniqueness, ease of measurement, the imperative and directive
characteristics. The indicators are proposed to serve as a basis for making strategic budget
decisions; as mneans of evaluating the perforrmance of individual programs and activities as well as
to provide an evaluation of the environmental performance in protecting and managing the
environment in the course of the project. For effectiveness, the set of environmental indicators
was kept at a minimum. For the multiple dimensions of the IWDP and the diverse resources,
composite indicators, which would integrate complementary impacts, have been suggested. The
principal indicators are as follows:
* Land Utilization changes;
* Soil Loss;
* Soil Erosion Index;
* Land Saved/Restored From Gully Erosion, Steam Bank Cutting, Torrents, etc.;
* Sedimentation;
* Soil Moisture;
* Organic Matter Content or Organic Carbon Content;
* Surface Run-off;
* Duration of Base Flow after Monsoon Withdrawal;
* Re-Emergence of Dried-Up Springs/lalas;
* Ponds/ranks or Storage Works;
* Ground Water Wells;
* Bio-Diversity Index in Forest Areas;
* Increased Perennial Vegetation in Non-Forest Areas;
* Water Balance;
* Watershed Eco-Index;
* Environmental Stabillity Factor; and,
* Quality Of Ufe Index.
54. The recommended measurement techniques for the selected environrmental indicators indude land
utilization changes from land utilisation records; run-off through gauging stations using velocity-
area approach; tensiometers and infiltrometers for soil moisture; sediment deposition using
111



Regional Environmental Assessment: IWDP (Hills-ll)                      Execulve Summary
staff/post gauges, length & cross-section surveys behind checkdams, storage ponds, etc. Tools
were also suggested for measuring changes in channel morphology; plant population and
composition; community interaction, etc. Use of remote sensing, satellite imageries and aerial
photographs as well as the geographical information system (GIS) has been recommended. For
each environmental indicator, frequency and a schedule of monitoring have been recommended.
However, a more detailed monitoring schedule would require to be developed at the individual
state level.
MnIGATION MEASURES AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
55. Environmnental Management Plan (EMP) was prepared to ensure that environmnental considerations
are integrated into the project survey and design, contract documents and project supervision and
monitoring. These are tools for mitigating or offsetting the potential adverse environmental
impacts resulting from watershed development programmes in the Shivalik region. The
environmental management plans mainly consist of integrating the environmental mitigation
mneasures, principal environmental indicators & easily measurable field indicators together with
implementation schedule, monitoring plans and the estimated cost.
56. It is very important that such environmnental mitigation measures should be used in conjunction
with good management practices and good engineering design, construction and operation
practices particularly for rural roads and water harvesting structures.
Forestry
Afforestation
57. Afforestation should be undertaken to increase the productivity of govemment, village common,
private forest land and wastelands in reversing the land degradation of Shivaliks. Tree planting
should be done along the contour in either continuous or discontinuous trenches depending on
Native Vegetation, terrain and soil type. The selection of trees should depend on land tenure and
the requirements of local communities. Tree density (absolute) should be 500 to 1000 plants/ha to
allow sufficient area for the production of intermediate products (like grasses).
58. Cost sharing arrangements should be encouraged with the beneficiary contribution on private and
non-arable land areas. The local communities should be closely involved in forest protection. All
afforestation models should be combined with understorey vegetative contour or silvipasture
treatments to increase the production of intermediate forest products and further to protect the
land surface from erosion. The planting of species such as bhabbar grass & bamboo in
afforestation areas should be promoted.
Silvipasture
59. Improved pasture species in conjunction with commonly acceptable arrangements for protection
and exploitation should be followed. Increase in silvipasture practices should be in areas where the
demand from local village communities is for a mixture of fodder and fuel wood.
60. The treatment should involve planting lower tree densities with a corresponding increase in the
proportion of shrub and grass speces such as Bhabbar, Napier to meet the fodder requiremnents.
Silvipasture treatment model should be adopted for marginal arable lands, private non-arable
lands and community wastelands in the lower reaches. About 500 trees should be planted per
La=
112



Regional Environmental Assessment: IWDP (Hills-lI)                      Executve Summawy
hectare, either equally spaced or in contour alleys. For sustainable silvipasture land-use,
participatory community management mechanisms should be addressed.
*    Vegetative Shrub Barriers in Contour Trenches
61. Contour Vegetative Barriers should be encouraged through proper selection of species. The
selection of species should be based on local conditions, soil moisture, devoid of infested termites,
etc. Vegetative barriers should be developed across the slope and along the field boundaries to
intercept surface runoff and allow soil to accumulate behind the barriers. The barriers should be
placed mnore precisely along the contour through proper alignment without loss of land available
for cultivation. The intermediate products should not be harvested from these sites.
*    Forestry Production Component
62. This component should be applied to upper & mid-catchment areas for replenishment on
restocking of tree vegetatfon in existing forest areas. Vegetative shrub barriers should be provided
in the form of contour V-ditches planted as hedges with local shrubs & perennial grasses. Early
production of fuel wood should be obtained from shrub species.
Soil and Water Conservation
*    Gulley Stabilization
63. In the treatment of the gully system, the down stream limit of the gully should be taken as
starting point and then progress slowly upstream including the main channel of the gully and its
tributaries. Gully inflow and run off rates should be reduced through vegetative measures. Typical
designs for gully controi structures should be prepared for each work site. Checkdams from dry
stone should be used where gully slope is uniform whereas silting basins should be used for steep
slopes. Wire crates should be used in the vulnerable sections and where there is a sudden change
in slope. Wire crates should be formed before filling with stones. Wire should not be left exposed
to boulder damage. Stones used for filling of crates should be 1.5 times the diameter of the wire
miesh. A minimum crest width of 1.0 metres and height of 0.5 metres should be adopted to ensure
that the opening of the structures does not become blocked with wash material. Cut off drains,
just off the contour or a flat slope, should be considered along the sides of the gully at vulnerable
locations to take the flow of surface runoff away from them.
m    Stream Bank Protection
64. In order to control stream bank erosion, bank protection works should be of formns such as
Gabions or wire crates, stone masonary retaining walls, stone rip-rap or pitching, or wooden piles.
Detailed pbns should be prepared for tie areas to be beated. A system of priorizaon is needed with
vegve measue being induded with brunwood, dry stone and aeate wire chedck danrs. Cazment areas
should be delineated under each watershed and structures shall be dsigned to enstue that they acieve sol
cosevation objectives.
*    Village Pond and Tank Construction
65. Village ponds and Tank construction should be undertaken for water conservation and for
domestic drinking water supply. The site selection criteria should be fixed and factors such as
volume to be stored, construction methods, water quality, etc., should be considered. it should be
ensured that the water resource is not polluted in any way as result of the construction of sborage
tanks and drainage lines should be provided at the periphery of the pond.
113



Regional Environmenital Assessment. IWDP (Hills-li)                     Execulrve Summnary'
66. The village ponds should be lined usually with trapezoidal sectons and the ponds should be lined
using plastic sheets. Availability of local materials and access to site are important considerations
when determining the type of tank to be built Rectangular storage tanks should be provided in
some cases depending upon the available flow. Alternatively polythene and plastic lined tanks
should be provided under certain conditions.
Water Harvesting Structures
67. The structures with inclined sides (1:2) should be excavated from the hill sides which provides
suffident water for irrigation, but also meet live stock and domestc requiremnents. The location of
the tank should be such a way that there is sufficient catchment to fill the tank. Adequate
provision should be made to trap transported debris and bed load. Sediment traps should be
located at the inlet that is easily accessible for cleaning. Stone scour protection should be provided
at the base of the overflow spillway, and a stone pitched channel should be provided to lead the
excess water away from the structure. Maintenance procedures after construction should be
detailed to the beneficiaries. Sift removal methods and vegetative cover for embankments should
be carried out with the help of beneficiary farmers.
*    Roadside Erosion Control
68. The run off water should be diverted with engineering measures, to arrest erosion. Vegetative
measures combine with possible cut-off drains should be adopted to prevent rapid overland flow
into roadside. Steps should be taken to minimize extra overburden causing instability by removing
portion of material starting from the top and stabilize with vegetative measures or through
retaining walls. Many design alternatives and cross section profiles provided by forestry institute,
with modification of square cross sectbons should be adopted.
Agriculture
*    On-Farm Fodder Production
69. In order to meet the shortage of fodder, the bulk planting should be carried out mnainly on civil and
private lands. The grass planting operation should be carried out using shallow trenches using
slips, or along the terrace. A source of fodder close to homestead should be developed which will
obviate the necessity of women having to spend some hours walking to and from the cutting
areas. Fodder collection to be something of social work.
70. Fodder conservation should be achieved by not cutting grass until it has matured and seed drop
has occurred. Over matured grasses should be harvested in early winter for storage as winter
forage. The species like Cymbopogan, Heteropogan, Gysopogan varieties are recommended as
winter forage. Clearance of Lantana and Eupatoium weeds should be undertaken with
simultaneous planting. The persistent attention should be there over an extensive period to
prevent them overgrowing the fodder plants. The technique of bush planting to smoother Lantana
should also be tried.
71. Improve the fodder component in watershed areas in terms of production through, maintenance,
and allow flexibility in plantations. If villagers go for tree fodder, they should be advised to restrict
the lopping of fodder trees to no more than 2/3 of the crown. Lopping should be carried out only
once annually. Villagers shall be trained in the management of forest fodder resources.
114



Regional Environmental Assessment: IWDP (Hills-Il)                      Executve Summary
*    Vegetative Field Boundaries
72. Vegetative barriers should be developed along the field boundaries to intercept surface run-off and
allow soil to accumulate behind the barriers. The field boundaries should be planted with vetiver
grass. Vetiver grass clumps should be planted at 10m spacing.
*    Rainfed Crop Demonstration
73. Appropriate agronomic practices in rainfed arable land like tillage practices to ensure maximum in-
situ moisture conservation, the use of improved varieties, correct and timely fertilizer application
and the appropriate use of chemical sprays for pest and disease control should be promoted.
74. Vegetables and mixed cropping system should be included. The farmers should apply the irrigation
methods such as basins or furrows for better yield and optimizing the water use. The standards
currently adopted by the minor Irrigation Dept. should be folowed and detailed designs and costs
should be prepared for comparing the varios options of above conveyance system. Such
demonstration should be established only where surface stabilization using vegetative barriers are
completed.
Rainfed Horticulture and Agro-Foresbty
75. On marginal arable lands, Horticulture as a perennial crop should be encouraged. Improved
practices by using crop cultivation should be continued between the fruit trees for 2 or 3 years to
maximize the benefits. The in-situ soil moisture conservation techniques like mulching practices or
FYM should be adopted. Instead of input subsidies on fencing, farmers should be motivated for
live hedge fencing. Frost protection measures should be applied in winter months. Monocultures
should be avoided by mixing a few other species with the main species in extensive plantation.
76. Cost sharing arrangements should be worked out so that the project provide non-labour inputs
and the beneficiary provide the unskilled labour for orchard establishment. Performance of
different fruit species/varieties under prevailing agro-climatic conditions should be maintained.
Animal Husbandry
77. The specific tasks in live stock should be to review the existing breeding techniques, identify the
best breeds suited for improvement and adopt progeny control methods for unwanted animals.
High milk yielding catte should be encouraged either by providing cash/cattle feed or by
establishing new live stock enterprises.
78. Construction of manure pits should be environmentally benign. The project should select a number
of farms in various districts of Shivalik region especially in a variety of ecological zones for animal
husbandry. The modus operandi should be imparting training and employing para-professionals
including promotion of the nutritional standards.
79. Routine monitoring of livestock performance by Extension ofricers having animal husbandry
background should be mandatory. Short training courses at village level in live stock husbandry,
nutrition and health should be conducted periodically.
Rural Infrastructure
80. No road should be constructed without considering environmentally amicable altemative
alignments. Any road should be constructed in the dry season. Topsoil and soil surfaces should be
protected, erosion-prone surfaces should be stabilized through turfing, planting a wide range of
115



Regional Environmental Assessment IWDP (Hills-Il)                       Execubve Summary
vegetation and creating slope breaks during construction. All quarries and borrow pits should be
rehabilitated. Special attention to drainage within or outside the right-of-way should be given. Oil,
bitumen and any other hazardous wastes should be properly disposed.
81. Provision of fish passes, minimizabon of loss of natural vegetation during construction, special
measures for sensitive (rare, endangered, protected) species, special measures to protect cultural
heritage sites should be the pre-requisites of any road construction project. Involuntary
resettlement should be absolutely minimised. Regulation of transport of materials and safety
designs (signage, speed humps, fencing and pedestrian crossing in market areas and village
centers) shall be the considered to be of utmost importance.
Sustenance of the Project
82. Environmental capacity building should be an important aspect to consider fbr this project. The
project should restore to institution building at the local level for sustaining the project's
interventions. Forward and backward linkages among the local level organizations shall need to be
developed for effective networking and sustenance. To achieve effective beneficiary partcipation,
each project implementation unit should be assisted by a social team. The prime responsibility of
the social team shall be to integrate the participatory and sodal aspects with the technical aspects
of the project and work together with the technical teams to develop and strengthen local
institutions.
83. Resorting to cost sharing and revolving development funds may improve sustainability of the
project. These would generate a sense of ownership over the resources and infrastructure created
by the project. The private sector should be involved in the project, especially in fodder a
84. The village development committees (VDCs) should have full responsibility of maintenance and
watch and ward after three years for all assets created on public/common/panchayat lands. On
private non-arable lands, the project should not support the cost of fencing, watch and ward for
subsequent maintenance. Subsidies should be discouraged and made more rationalized and
targeted.
Environmental Training Programmes
85. Training at all levels should be made an integral part of all programmes. Rapid Rural Appraisal
(RRA) and Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) mnethods should be used to determine the training
needs. Training should be arranged for the policy makers, administrators/managers, technical
advisors and research workers, potential extensionists and volunteers and all agricultural extension
workers.
86. The training modules shall include catchment-based planning and management methods; the
implications of socio-cultural factors on resource management; participatory approaches to
resource management; and appropriate technology (including low-cost and vegetative techniques)
aspects of soil and water conservation. A detailed syllabus for environmental training and the
schedule of such training has been given in the REA.
87. Research organizations, including universities, should strengthen applied, on-farm and adaptive
research in coordination with extension workers and farmers. Effbrts should be made to jointly
develop research agendas with extension workers and farrmers, to ensure relevance of the
research to the farming community; involve private institutions such as banks and commercial
organizations in the promotion of research. It would be required for the project to ensure the
116



Regional Environmental Assessment: IWDP (Hills-l1)                      Etxecibve summary
dissemination of research findings to the extension agencies in a format that is easily understood
by them.
RECOMMENDATION FOR FURTHER ACTIONS
88. The REA has recommended a senies of actions or studies to be undertaken to develop a
comprehensive framework for watershed development in the project area. The recommendations
were made considering that there is a need to develop further detailed structures and procedures
for optimizing the environmental benefits from watershed development and management projects.
89. The recommended actions and studies may broadly be classified into 4 groups. These are related
to project planning studies, mnonitoring and evaluation, decisions regarding project components,
and environmental sustainability.
Project Planning
90. Prioritization of the watershed/sub watershed/micro watershed locations based on ranking
techniques and development of criteria for qualification & selection of watershed in each district.
Resource planning shall be based on natural resource accounting, cost and benefit analysis, etc.
91. GIS application to geographic and attribute data shall be considered for describing real objects
with respect to position in a coordinate system for all the watershed development projects. This
would enable in manipulating a series of data simultaneously and changing spatial functions.
92. All available data from secondary sources such as maps, aerial photographs, satellite imageries or
digital data, statistics, reports, etc., should be collected for all the study areas. Based on the above
field observations shall be made for Environment & project attribute.
Monitoring and Evaluation
93. To understand the process inside watershed area, sampling techniques shall be developed and
determine the number of samples to be considered in analyzing cause and effects.
94. Effective indicators are to be developed for micro-shed through laboratories in Agriculture
Universities/Institutions, at the roots of effecive watershed management planning. Future study
should address structural analysis, watershed policy level indicators, and economic indicators to
evaluate the efficiency of the project.
95. Environmental impact studies for micro-watersheds shall be integrated with main watershed
studies to measure the micro & macro environment benefits. Monitoring techniques for measunng
the assets created in watershed areas has to be developed.
Decisions Regarding Project Cornponents
96. Evaluate the existing, traditional know how eco-technologies and rural technologies for various
components of the study so as to adopt these technologies for site-specific conditions. Technology
mnanagement coupled with data linkage from the demonstrated watersheds should be incorporated
for exact and non-exact matching of the different watersheds.
117



Regional Environmental Assessment IWDP (Hills-1l)                       Executve Summary
Environmental Sustainability
97. Legal and regulatory requirements shall be developed to protect beneficiaries, environmental
enhancement and capacity augmentation of the local self-government bodies.
98. Uncertainty and fuzzy analysis shall be carded out for each analysis for successful implementation
of watershed development. Comparative studies among the different watershed management/
development projects (parbtcularly, the projects in India and Nepal in the Shivaliks) should be
undertaken.
99. Training package modules for watershed/sub-watersheds/micro-sheds shall be developed for
project specific conditions and should not be generic in nature. An exclusive training at state level
shall be organised with villagers' participation in conducting training courses. Training exchange
programmes to disseminate the lessons learmt from demonstrative watersheds should be
incorporated in future studies.
100. Resource depletion (direct & indirect) and resource enhancement in watersheds shall be studied
in detail. Impact of the Project and remedial measures for project areas in the vicinity of the
environmentally sensitive areas such as National parks, etc., should be studied.
STRUCTURE OF THE REPORT
101. The REA report has been presented in 11 chapters.
Chapter 1: Introduction gives the context and need for an REA and outlines the objectives,
scope and methodology for the REA undertaken.
Chapter 2: Project Description describes the IWDP (Hills-II) project area, project objectives,
thrust areas and component/activities to be undertaken.
Chapter 3: Regional Environmental Setting, the natural and social environmental setting of
the region is described. This chapter also brings up the environmental issues important at the
regional level of the Shivaliks and the Karewas.
Chapter 4: Institutional and Policy Issues includes description of the national and regional
watershed development perspectives, highlights the policy and instiutional issues across the five
participating states, and outlines collaboration and co-ordination requirements with regard to
environmental management of the project.
Chapter 5: Baseline Environmental Status examines the current environmental scenario in
the project area including land-water-man interrelationship.
Chapter 6: Key Environmental Issues and Screening describes the environmental benefits
and risks in both the "with project" and "without project" scenario.
Chapter 7: Environmental Impacts and Analysis of Alternatives narrates the identification,
assessment and prediction of environmental impacts of the project It also analyses and compares
the "with project" and "without project" altematives, as well as the altemative project
components.
Chapter 8: Lessons from Previous and On-going Projects, important lessons with regard to
tools, structures, methods to enhance or conserve the environmental qualities in similar projects
are brought out.
118



Regional Environmental Assessment: IWDP (Hills-ll)                      Execubve Sumrmry
Chapter 9: Monitoring and Evaluation Strategy identifies applicable monitoring and
evaluation indicators, scaling and measuring techniques for the indicators and gives a monitoring
schedule specifying the responsible monitoring agencies.
rhapter 10: Consultaion describes the consultation and need for co-ordination and
collaborabon among the various project stakeholders.
Chapter 11: Environmental Management Plan recommends the various mitigation measures
for the anticipated adverse environmental impacts, along with implementation and monitoring
schedules. This chapter also includes recommended plan to ensure sustainability of the project and
post-project management. It outlines a series of actions and studies, which need to be undertaken
to enhance the potential environmental benefits from the project
A bibliography has been annexed to the report.
CONCLUSION
102.The REA has established that proposed IWDP (Hills-II) has a large potential for improving the
environmental as well as the socio-economic quality of the project area, provided various
environmental mitigation measures are implemented as recommended in the environmental
management plan.
103. After the exercise, it seems that such REAs are very useful tools in the projects of similar nature
and expanse. The REA helps bringing out in an integrated manner, the important environmental
issues in the project Environmental issues are to be mainstreamed throughout the project process
and are planned to be integrated both at macro and micro levels, in all aspects of the project:
participatory action plans, implementation, monitoring and evaluabon.
104. There is a strong need to make sure the environmental benefits of similar projects are assessed,
monitored and evaluated, and mitgation measures for various environmental concems are
mainstreamed into the project activities through effective implementation of the environmental
management plan.
119



