Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3243 IN 
LOAN NUMBER 4492 IN 
 
Uttaranchal Project Agreement 
 
(Integrated Watershed Development (Hills II) Project) 
 
among 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
STATE OF UTTARANCHAL 
 
Dated December 11, 2001
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3243 IN 
LOAN NUMBER 4492 IN
 
UTTARANCHAL PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated December 11, 2001, among INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF 
UTTARANCHAL. 
 
WHEREAS (A)  by the Development Credit Agreement dated July 14, 1999, as 
amended to date, (the Development Credit Agreement), between India (the Borrower) 
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-six million nine hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 36,900,000) (the Credit), to assist in financing the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, on the terms and 
conditions set forth therein; 
 
(B) 
by the Loan Agreement dated July 14, 1999, as amended to date, (the 
Loan Agreement), between the Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount equal to eighty-five million dollars ($85,000,000), 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement; 
 
(C) 
by the Project Agreement dated July 14, 1999, as amended to date, (the 
Project Agreement), between the Association, the Bank and the States of Haryana, 
Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh (the Project States), 
the Project States have agreed to undertake certain obligations with respect to carrying 
out of the Project; 
 
(D) 
the State of Uttaranchal (Uttaranchal), has replaced the State of Uttar 
Pradesh, as one of the States participating in the Project; 
 
(E) 
Uttaranchal has endorsed the letter dated April 15, 1999, received by the 
Association from Uttar Pradesh describing reforms that constitute the framework for 
improving the watershed development programs, including policy, institutional, and 
administrative reforms (hereinafter called the Policy Reform Program) and declaring its 
commitment to carry out such Policy Reform Program; 
 
(F) 
Uttaranchal, shall together with the remaining Project States carry out the 
Project (except Part B.5 (b)) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to Uttaranchal and the Project States part of 
Page  3
-2- 
the proceeds of the Credit as provided in the Development Credit Agreement, and part of 
the proceeds of the Loan, as provided in the Loan Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS Uttaranchal, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, as amended, and the Bank entering 
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, as amended,  has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined in the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, 
respectively) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) Uttaranchal declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall, under the overall coordination of MOA, carry out the Project (except Part B.5 (b)) 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial and agricultural practices, and the MOUs, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association, the Bank and Uttaranchal shall otherwise agree, 
Uttaranchal shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in  Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) Uttaranchal shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions Applicable to the 
Page  4
-3- 
Development Credit Agreement, and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of 
the General Conditions Applicable to the Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single 
Currency Loans (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of this 
Agreement and the Project (except Part B.5 (b)). 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions Applicable to 
the Development Credit Agreement, and Section 9.08 of the General Conditions 
Applicable to the Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans, and 
without limitations thereto, Uttaranchal shall prepare and furnish to the Association and 
the Bank, not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Association and the Bank, Uttaranchal and the 
Project States, a plan satisfactory to the Association and the Bank for the future operation 
of the Project. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) Uttaranchal shall, at the request of the Association and the 
Bank, exchange views with the Association and the Bank with regard to the progress of 
the Project (except Part B.5 (b)), the performance of their obligations under this 
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and the Loan. 
 
(b) 
Uttaranchal shall promptly inform the Association and the Bank of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project 
(except Part B.5 (b)), the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and the Loan, or 
the performance by Uttaranchal of its obligations under this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 3.01. (a) Uttaranchal shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound financial management and accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project (except Part B.5 (b)) of its 
departments or agencies responsible for carrying out such parts of the Project. 
 
(b) Uttaranchal 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association and the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as available, but 
in any case not later than six months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association and the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
Page  5
-4- 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association and the Bank such other 
information concerning said records, accounts and financial 
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the Association 
and the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, Uttaranchal shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system in order to enable 
Uttaranchal, not later than December 31, 2001, or such later date as the Association shall 
agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, 
each of which: 
 
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and application of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report; 
 
(ii) 
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
(B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast implementation targets; and  
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar 
quarter a Project Management Report for such period. 
 
Section 3.03. Uttaranchal shall, in collaboration with the Borrower, and not later 
than December 31, 2001, successfully develop, and thereafter maintain, a computerized 
financial management system for the Project, in accordance with the financial 
management manual, and in a manner satisfactory to the Association and the Bank. 
Page  6
-5- 
 
Section 3.04. Uttaranchal shall, in collaboration with the Borrower, maintain 
throughout the Project implementation period, a firm of chartered accountants with terms 
of reference and qualifications acceptable to the Association and the Bank, for reviewing 
the overall operation of the financial management system of the Project. 
 
Section 3.05. Uttaranchal shall, in collaboration with the Borrower, maintain 
throughout the Project implementation period financial management consultants with 
terms of reference and qualifications acceptable to the Association and the Bank, to 
provide support for the operation of the Project’s financial management system, and for 
training services. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement and the Agreement 
Amending the Loan Agreement become effective. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of Uttaranchal, the 
Association and the Bank hereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two 
dates: 
 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
 
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with their terms; or 
 
(ii) 
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement terminates 
in accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, 
the Association and the Bank shall promptly notify Uttaranchal of this event. 
 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions
 
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
Page  7
-6- 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or 
facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have 
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The 
addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
   Telex: 
 
INDEVAS 
   248423 
(MCI) 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for  
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
Address: 
   Telex: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
   248423 
(MCI) 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For Uttaranchal: 
 
Chief Secretary 
 
Government of Uttaranchal 
 
Dehradun 
 
India 
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Uttaranchal may 
be taken or executed by its Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as Uttaranchal 
Page  8
-7- 
shall designate in writing, and Uttaranchal shall furnish to the Association and the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person. 
 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
Section 5.04. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to 
Uttaranchal, and so long as the Development Credit Agreement shall not have terminated 
prior to the termination of the Loan Agreement: 
 
(a) 
the obligation of Uttaranchal to consult with, and furnish information, 
documents, plans, reports, records and statements to the Bank shall be satisfied to the 
extent performance in respect of such obligation is rendered to the Association; 
 
(b) 
the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish information to 
Uttaranchal shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are satisfied by the 
Association; and  
 
(c) 
all actions taken (including giving of approvals or granting of waivers) 
by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be 
taken pursuant to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, and 
in the name and on behalf of the Association and the Bank. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim 
 
Country Director, India 
 
STATE OF UTTARANCHAL 
 
By /s/ B.P. Pandey 
Page  9
-8- 
Authorized Representative 
Page  10
-9- 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
 
Section I
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
1. 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and 
September 1997, and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to the “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country.” 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for the purchase of goods shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(b) 
Preference for Domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Equipment and materials estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent may be 
Page  11
-10- 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Association and the Bank. 
 
(b) 
Works, except under Part A.1 of the Project, estimated to cost $20,000 
equivalent or more per contract, and costing up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$33,100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Association and the Bank. 
 
2. National 
Shopping
(a) 
Equipment and materials estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
Vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of up to $100,000 per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,700,000 may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Materials for watershed treatment under Part A.1 of the Project estimated 
to cost less than $20,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$20,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.5 of the 
Guidelines. 
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
(i) 
Satellite imagery, aerial photography, maps, proprietary equipment, 
spares, medicines, books, periodicals, software, semen, seeds, seedlings, plants and 
fertilizers estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000; and  
(ii) materials and equipment estimated to cost less than $1,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works (excluding watershed treatment  under Part A.1 of the  Project) estimated 
to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not 
exceeding $22,000,000 equivalent, may be procured either: (i) under lump-sum, fixed-
price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion 
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association and the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
Page  12
-11- 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully, or (ii) through direct contracting with NGOs or 
community organizations/VDCs, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of 
the Guidelines; or (iii) as a last resort, and with prior approval of the Association and the 
Bank, through force account in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.8 of the 
Guidelines and procedures satisfactory to the Association and the Bank. 
 
5. Force 
Account
Watershed treatments under Part A.1 of the Project which meet the requirements 
of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $12,250,000 equivalent may be carried 
by force account in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines. 
 
6. Community 
Participation
Watershed treatments under Part A.1 of the Project (other than those to be carried 
out under paragraph 5 above) and estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $55,000,000 equivalent may be procured through community participation 
procedures in accordance with paragraph 3.15 (iii) of the Guidelines.  
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association and the Bank for their review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to any contract for goods or works, estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first two contracts for goods and the first two 
contracts for works for Uttaranchal, estimated to cost less than $100,000, but more than 
$20,000, the following procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier or contractor, Uttaranchal 
shall 
provide to the Association and the Bank a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
Page  13
-12- 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any such contract, Uttaranchal shall 
provide 
to the Association and the Bank a copy of the specifications 
and the draft contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1  
to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997, and 
revised in September 1997, and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 2.13 through 2.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services for technical assistance or training under the 
Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Page  14
-13- 
 
Services for technical assistance or training estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Single Source Selection
(a) 
Services for under Part B of the Project may, with the Association’s and 
the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
Consultants’ or NGOs’ services for technical assistance or training which 
are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the 
Association’s and the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association and the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association and the Bank for their review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all 
consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall 
have been approved by the Association and the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
technical assistance or training estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 
2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
technical assistance or training estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but 
less than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other 
Page  15
-14- 
than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association and the Bank for their prior review and approval. The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  16
-15- 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
Uttaranchal shall not later than December 31 of each year, prepare an annual 
action plan for implementation of the Project activities (except Part B.5 (b)), acceptable 
to the Association and the Bank, and incorporating the agreed recommendations of the 
studies carried out under Part B.3 (a) of the Project. 
 
2. 
(i) 
Uttaranchal shall: (a) carry out Parts A and B of the Project in 
accordance with village development plans (VDPs) agreed with the Association and the 
Bank; (b) enter into a memorandum of understanding with VDCs acceptable to the 
Association and the Bank for carrying out such VDPs; and (c) prepare in consultation 
with the VDCs an operational manual, satisfactory to the Association and the Bank for 
carrying out such Project activities. 
 
(ii) as part of each of the VDPs referred to in (i) above, Uttaranchal shall prepare 
a
Project tribal development plan, acceptable to the Association and the Bank, in 
accordance with a policy framework agreed with the Association and the Bank, for the 
areas inhabited by tribal communities and nomads in the Project area, where watershed 
protection and development activities under Part A of the Project will be carried out. 
 
3. 
Uttaranchal shall select the NGOs assisting in the implementation of the Project 
in accordance with criteria and procedures agreed with the Association and the Bank. 
 
4. Uttaranchal 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association the carrying out of the Project (except Part B.5 (b)) and the achievement of 
the objective thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and the 
Bank, and furnish to the Association and the Bank, not later than December 31, 2001, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objective thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by March 31, 2002, or such later dates as 
the Association and the Bank shall request, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of 
the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and 
Page  17
-16- 
recommendations of the said reports and the Association and the Bank’s views on the 
matter. 
 
5. 
Uttaranchal shall: (i) select and upgrade the roads under Part A.3 of the Project in 
accordance with criteria and technical standards agreed with the Association and the 
Bank; (ii) maintain such roads in accordance with an action plan, consistent with the road 
maintenance policy, to be completed by December 31, 2001, as agreed with the 
Association and the Bank; (iii) ensure that any land needed for road improvement shall be 
provided by the occupant of such land in a voluntary manner, and in accordance with a 
memorandum of understanding, acceptable to the Association and the Bank, between 
Uttaranchal and the occupant of such land; and (iv) shall not commence upgradation of 
roads in locations where private land is needed until such memorandum of understanding 
has been concluded. 
 
6. 
Uttaranchal shall carry out annual updates of the study carried out on the cost and 
benefit sharing arrangements between the communities participating in the 
implementation of the Project and Uttaranchal, with respect to silvo-pastoral 
improvement and afforestation schemes on communal and government land under 
Part B.3 (i) of the Project, and reflect its recommendations in the annual action plans 
referred to in paragraph 1 above. 
 
7. 
Uttaranchal shall, in consultation with the Association and the Bank, maintain the 
share of the beneficiaries’ contribution in the cost of livestock breeding (artificial 
insemination and natural breeding services) at least 25% of the total cost of the service as 
determined by the study on the cost-benefit and willingness to pay under Part B.3 (a) (ii) 
of the Project. 
 
8. 
(i) 
Uttaranchal shall charge, in consultation with the Association and the 
Bank, a level of cost recovery of not less than 50% of the total cost of production, for 
horticulture, fodder production, and crop improvements package in private arable land. 
 
(ii) 
For the purpose of paragraph (i) above, the term “total cost of 
production” includes the cost of labor, seedlings, fertilizers and extension services.
 
