Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3243 IN
LOAN NUMBER 4492 IN
Project Agreement
(Integrated Watershed Development (Hills II) Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF HARYANA 
STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH 
STATE OF JAMMU AND KASHMIR 
STATE OF PUNJAB 
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
Dated July 14, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3243 IN 
LOAN NUMBER 4492 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 14, 1999, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and 
STATE OF HARYANA, STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH, STATE OF JAMMU AND KASHMIR, STATE OF 
PUNJAB, and STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH (the Project States).
WHEREAS (A) The Association has received a letter dated April 15, 1999, from 
each of the Project States describing reforms that constitute the framework for 
improving the watershed development programs in each Project State, including policy, 
institutional, and administrative reforms (hereinafter called the Policy Reform 
Program) and declaring their commitment to carry out such Policy reform Program;
(B)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between India 
(the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to 
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-six million nine 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 36,900,000), on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the Project 
States agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in 
the Development Credit Agreement and in this Agreement;
Page  2
(C)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount equal to 
eighty-five million dollars ($85,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Project States agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(D)
the Project (except Part B 5 (b)) will be carried out by the Project 
States with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower 
will make available to the Project States part of the proceeds of the Credit as 
provided in the Development Credit Agreement, and part of the proceeds of the Loan, as 
provided in the Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Project States, in consideration of the Association’s entering into 
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, and the Bank entering into the 
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in 
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined in the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, 
respectively) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Project States declare their commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall, under the overall coordination of MOA, carry out the Project (except 
Part B 5 (b)) with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and agricultural practices, and the MOUs, and shall provide, 
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association, the Bank and the Project States shall otherwise agree, 
the Project States shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in  Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) The Project States shall carry out the obligations set forth 
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions Applicable 
to the Development Credit Agreement, and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 
9.09 of the General Conditions Applicable to the Loan and Guarantee Agreements for 
Single Currency Loans (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in 
respect of the Project Agreement and the Project (except Part B 5 (b)).
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions Applicable to 
the Development Credit Agreement, and Section 9.08 of the General Conditions 
Applicable to the Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans, and without 
limitations thereto, the Project States shall prepare and furnish to the Association 
and the Bank, not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Association and the Bank and the Project 
States, a plan satisfactory to the Association and the Bank for the future operation 
of the Project.
Page  3
Section 2.04. (a) The Project States shall, at the request of the Association 
and the Bank, exchange views with the Association and the Bank with regard to the 
progress of the Project (except Part B.5 (b)), the performance of their obligations 
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and the 
Loan.
(b)
The Project States shall promptly inform the Association and the Bank of 
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the 
Project (except Part B.5 (b)), the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and 
the Loan, or the performance by the Project States of their obligations under this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Project States shall maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound financial management and accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project (except 
Part B 5 (b)) of the departments or agencies of the Project States responsible for 
carrying out such parts of the Project.
(b)
The Project States shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association 
and the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as available, but 
in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association 
and the Bank shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank such other information 
concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as 
the audit thereof, as 
the Association and the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably request.
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Project States shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to 
the Association for the strengthening of the financial management system in order to 
enable each of the Project States, not later than December 31, 2000, or such later 
date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and application of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and 
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
Page  4
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
Section 3.03. The Project States shall, in collaboration with the Borrower,  not 
later than: (i) October 31, 1999, prepare and adopt a financial management manual 
satisfactory to the Association and the Bank; and (ii) not later than March 31, 2000, 
successfully develop, and thereafter maintain, a computerized financial management 
system for the Project satisfactory to the Association and the Bank.
Section 3.04. The Project States shall, in collaboration with the Borrower, 
employ not later than January 31, 2000, and thereafter maintain throughout the Project 
implementation period, a firm of chartered accountants with terms of reference and 
qualifications acceptable to the Association and the Bank, for reviewing the overall 
operation of the financial management system of the Project.
Section 3.05. The Project States shall, in collaboration with the Borrower, 
employ, not later than January 31, 2000, and thereafter maintain until March 31, 2002, 
financial management consultants with terms of reference and qualifications acceptable 
to the Association and the Bank, for providing support for operation of the Project 
financial management system, and for training services.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and the 
Bank and the Project States thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following 
two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with their terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement terminates in 
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this 
Section, the Association and the Bank shall promptly notify  the Project States of 
this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  5
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United States of America
Cable Address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.                   64145 (MCI)
For Haryana:
Chief Secretary
Government of Haryana
Chandigarh
Haryana, India
For Himachal Pradesh:
Chief Secretary
Government of Himachal Pradesh
Shimla
Himachal Pradesh, India
For Jammu and Kashmir:
Chief Secretary
Government of Jammu and Kashmir
Srinagar 
Jammu and Kashmir, India
For Punjab:
Chief Secretary
Government of Punjab
Chandigarh, India
For Uttar Pradesh:
          Chief Secretary
          Government of Uttar Pradesh
          Lucknow, India
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Project 
States may be taken or executed by its Chief Secretary or such other person or persons 
as the Project States shall designate in writing, and the Project States shall furnish 
to the Association and the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Section 5.04. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to the 
Project States, and so long as the Development Credit Agreement shall not have 
terminated prior to the termination of the Loan Agreement:
Page  6
(a)
the obligation of the Project States to consult with, and furnish 
information, documents, plans, reports, records and statements to the Bank shall be 
satisfied to the extent performance in respect of such obligation is rendered to the 
Association;
(b)
the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish information 
to the Project States shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are satisfied 
by the Association; and 
(c)
all actions taken (including giving of approvals or granting of waivers) 
by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be 
taken pursuant to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, and in 
the name and on behalf of the Association and the Bank.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
Country Director, India
STATE OF HARYANA
By /s/ Naseem Ahmed
Authorized Representative
STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH
By /s/ A. K. Mohapatra
Authorized Representative
STATE OF JAMMU AND KASHMIR
By /s/ Vijay Bakaya
Authorized Representative
STATE OF PUNJAB
By /s/ Dinesh Chandra
Authorized Representative
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
By /s/ K. K. Jaiswal
Authorized Representative
Page  7
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997, and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to the “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country.”
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for the purchase of goods shall be grouped 
in bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Equipment and materials estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Association and the Bank.
(b)
Works, except under Part A.1 of the Project, estimated to cost $20,000 
equivalent or more per contract, and costing up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$33,100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Association and the Bank.
2.
National  Shopping
(a)
Equipment and materials estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of up to $100,000 per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,700,000 may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Materials for watershed treatment under Part A.1 of the Project estimated 
to cost less than $20,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
Page  8
$20,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.5 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
(i)
Satellite imagery, aerial photography, maps, proprietary equipment, 
spares, medicines, books, periodicals, software, semen, seeds, seedlings, plants and 
fertilizers estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000; and 
(ii) materials and equipment estimated to cost less than $1,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works (excluding watershed treatment  under Part A 1 of the  Project) estimated 
to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not 
exceeding $22,000,000 equivalent, may be procured either (i) under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association and 
the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has 
the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully, or (ii) through 
direct contracting with NGOs or community organizations/VDCs, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, or (iii) as a last resort, and with 
prior approval of the Association and the Bank, through force account in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines and procedures satisfactory to 
the Association and the Bank.
5.
Force Account
Watershed treatments under Part A.1 of the Project which meet the requirements 
of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $12,250,000 equivalent may be 
carried by force account in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the 
Guidelines.
6.
Community Participation
Watershed treatments under Part A.1 of the Project (other than those to be 
carried out under paragraph 5 above) and estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $55,000,000 equivalent may be procured through community participation 
procedures in accordance with paragraph 3.15 (iii) of the Guidelines. 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association and the Bank for their review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods 
and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to any contract for goods or works, estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for goods and the first two 
contracts for works for each of the Project States, estimated to cost less than 
$100,000, but more than $20,000, the following procedures shall apply:
Page  9
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or contractor, the Project 
States shall 
provide to the Association and the Bank a report on the 
comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any such contract, the Project States 
shall provide 
to the Association and the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft 
contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 2.13 through 2.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services for technical assistance or training under 
the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for technical assistance or training estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
(a)
Services for  under Part B of the Project may, with the Association’s and 
the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
(b)
Consultants’ or NGOs’ services for technical assistance or training which 
are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the 
Association’s and the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Page  10
Part D:
Review by the Association and the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association and the Bank for their review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all 
consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as 
shall have been approved by the Association and the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review 
 (a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
technical assistance or training estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
technical assistance or training estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
(other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association and the Bank for their prior review and approval.  The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
Each of the Project States shall not later than March 31, 2000, and thereafter 
not later than December 31 of each year, prepare an annual action plan for 
implementation of the Project activities (except Part B 5 (b)), acceptable to the 
Association and the Bank, and incorporating the agreed recommendations of the studies 
carried out under Part B 3 (a) of the Project.
2.
(i)  Each of the Project States shall: (a) carry out Parts A and B of the 
Project in accordance with village development plans (VDPs) agreed with the 
Association and the Bank; (b) enter into a memorandum of understanding with VDCs 
acceptable to the Association and the Bank for carrying out such VDPs; and (c) prepare 
in consultation with the VDCs an operational manual, satisfactory to the Association 
and the Bank for carrying out such Project activities.
(ii)  As part of each of the VDPs referred to in (i) above, each of the Project 
States shall prepare a Project tribal development plan, acceptable to the Association 
and the Bank, in accordance with a policy framework agreed with the Association and 
the Bank, for the areas inhabited by tribal communities and nomads in the Project 
area, where watershed protection and development activities under Part A of the 
Project will be carried out.
3.
Each of the Project States shall select the NGOs assisting in the implementation 
of the Project in accordance with criteria and procedures agreed with the Association 
and the Bank.
4.
The Project States shall:
Page  11
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association the carrying out of the Project (except Part B.5 (b)) and the achievement 
of the objective thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and the 
Bank, and furnish to the Association and the Bank, not later than December 31, 2001, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in carrying out of 
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objective thereof during the period following such date; and
 (c)
review with the Association, by March 31, 2002, or such later dates as 
the Association and the Bank shall request, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section, and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and the Association and the Bank’s 
views on the matter.
5.
The Project States shall: (i) select and upgrade the roads under Part A.3 of the 
Project in accordance with criteria and technical standards agreed with the 
Association and the Bank; (ii) maintain such roads in accordance with an action plan, 
consistent with the road maintenance policy, to be completed by March 31, 2000, agreed 
with the Association and the Bank; (iii) ensure that any land needed for road 
improvement shall be provided by the occupant of such land in a voluntary manner, and 
in accordance with a memorandum of understanding, acceptable to the Association and 
the Bank, between each of the Project States and the occupant of such land; and (iv) 
shall not commence upgradation of roads in locations where private land is needed 
until such memorandum of understanding has been concluded.
6.
Each of the Project States shall: (i) carry out, not later than February 29, 
2000, in accordance with terms of reference agreed with the Association and the Bank a 
study on costs and benefits sharing arrangements between the communities participating 
in the implementation of the Project and the Project States on silvo-pastoral 
improvement and afforestation schemes on communal and government land under Part B.3 
(i) of the Project; and (ii) update such a study on an annual basis and reflect its 
recommendations in the annual action plans referred to in paragraph 1 above.
7.
Each of the Project States shall not later than March 31, 2000, in consultation 
with the Association and the Bank, increase the share of the beneficiaries’ 
contribution in the cost of livestock breeding (artificial insemination and natural 
breeding services) to at least 25% of the total cost of the service as determined by 
the study on the cost-benefit and willingness to pay under Part B.3 (a) (ii) of the 
Project.
8.
(i)
Each of the Project States shall establish not later than March 31, 2000, 
and charge, in consultation with the Association and the Bank, a level of cost 
recovery of not less than 50% of the total cost of production, for horticulture, 
fodder production, and crop improvements package in private arable land.
(ii)
For the purpose of paragraph (i) above, the term “total cost of 
production” includes the cost of labor, seedlings, fertilizers and extension services.
