Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24219
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-24690)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR49.5 MILLION
(US$68.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
FEMALE SECONDARY SCHOOL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
May 29, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective - January 31, 2002)
Currency Unit = Taka
Taka 1.00 = US$ 0.0175
US$ 1.00 = Taka 57.00
FISCAL YEAR
July I  - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         - Asian Development Bank
CONTASA     - Convertible Taka Special Account
DSHE        - Directorate of Secondary and Higher Education
ESPD        - Education and Social Policy Department
FEAP        - Female Education Awareness Program
FESP        - Female Education Scholarship Program
GEP         - General Education Project
HSC         - Higher Secondary Certificate
JGF         - Japanese Grant Facility
M&E         - Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS         - Management Information System
MOE         - Ministry of Education
MTA         - Management Technical Assistance
NGO         - Nongovemment Organization
NORAD       - Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
OED         - Operations Evaluation Department
OSDP        - Occupational Skills Development Program
PIU         - Project Implementation Unit
PTA         - Parent Teacher Association
SLC         - School Level Coordinator
SMC         - School Managing Comnmittee
SOE         - Statement of Expenditures
SSC         - Secondary School Certificate
TPO         - Thana Project Office
UNDP           United Nations Development Programme
Upazila     - Administrative Subdivision
UPO         - Upazila Project Office ( earlier known as TPO)
UOPM        - Upazila Office Project Manager (earlier known as TOPM)
USAID       - United States Agency for Intemational Development
WSSP        - Water Supply and Sanitation Program
Vice President:  Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:   Frederic T. Temple
Sector Manager/Director:  Charles C. Griffin
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Subrata S. Dhar



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
Female Secondary School Assistance Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                12
9. Partner Comments                                                               13
10. Additional Information                                                       13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              16
Annex 3. Economnc Costs and Benefits                                            20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            25
Annex 8. Training, Workshop and Orientation Courses                               26
Annex 9. Borrowees Contribution to ICR                                            30
Map - IBRD No. 24276
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P00955 5                                     Project Name: Female Secondary School Assistance
Team Leader: Subrata S. Dhar                             TL Unit: SASHD
ICR 7ype: Core ICR                                       Report Date: May 29, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Female Secondary School Assistance            L/C/TF Number: IDA-24690
Country/Department: BANGLADESH                                         Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: ES - Secondary Education
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD.   07/06/1990                             Effective: 02/01/1993        06/09/1993
Appraisal:  06/16/1992                               MTR: 04/15/1997           04/15/1997
Approval:  03/11/1993                             Closing: 06/30/2000          06/30/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: Government of Bangladesh/Directorate of Secondary and Higher Education;
Goverment of Bangladesh/Ministry of Education
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                          Joseph Wood
Country Manager:     Frederick Thomas Temple                  Ann Hamilton
Sector Manager:      Michelle Riboud                           Martin Karcher
Team Leader at ICR:  Subrata S. Dhar                          Paula T. Valad
ICR Primary Author:  Subrata S. Dhar
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL-Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The main objective of the project was to increase girls' secondary school enrollments, and thus increase the
number of educated women capable of participating fully in economic and social development of the country. This
was expected to make Bangladesh a South Asia pioneer in supporting female secondary education.
Specifically, the project was expected to: (a) increase female enrollment in Grades 6-10 and their Secondary School



Certificate examination pass rate to enable them to continue their education or to qualify for employment; (b)
increase the number of secondary education teachers and the proportion of female teachers in the project-assisted
schools; (c) provide occupational skills training to school-leaving girls; (d) promote a supportive community
environment for girls' education through public awareness programs; (e) provide a healthier, safer, and more
attractive school setting for girls through improved water supply and sanitation; and (f) strengthen the Directorate
of Secondary and Higher Education (DSHE)/MOE through support for project implementation and capacity
building at national and thana levels.
The project's objectives were closely aligned to the country's education needs and development priorities. They
were in line with IDA's assistance strategy for Bangladesh which emphasized human resource development and
called for a greater focus on enhancing women's potential. The World Declaration on Education For All (EFA) in
March 1990, in Jomtien, Thailand, had emphasized the urgency of education for girls and women and elimination
of gender stereotyping in education. With primary education made compulsory and emphasis given to girls' access
to education, Bangladesh had rightly decided that action was needed to broaden female access to secondary
education.
Statistics related to female participation in secondary education justified this intervention. In 1989, 1990 and
1991, the female enrollment at the secondary level was 33.5 percent, 33.92 percent, and 33.90 percent,
respectively. In 1990, the female dropout rate in secondary schools was 65.9 percent compared with 57.6 percent
for boys. There were only 8,715 secondary schools in 1991 (BANBEIS, March 1992) against 50,174 primary
schools, with an enrollment of 12.87 million and a completion rate of 40.3 percent (Education For All: National
Plan of Action, 1995). Secondary school accommodation was limited, especially for girls. To simultaneously
increase female enrollments and reduce the female dropout rate, the Government of Bangladesh requested Bank
assistance for the Project.
The objectives were also in complete conformity with the high priority given by the government to women's
development. As primary education was expanding, and the role of female teachers was considered important
(subsequently the quota for women teachers was raised to 60 percent), women graduates from secondary schools
were expected to widen the pool of potential teachers for primary schools. Increasing the output of female
secondary school graduates would also enable them to enter the job market at a slightly higher level.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised during implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
The project included six components: (a) Stipend and Tuition Program (STP); (b) Teacher Enhancement Program
(TEP); (c) Occupational Skills Development Program (OSDP); (d) Female Education Awareness Program (FEAP);
(e) Water Supply and Sanitation Program (WSSP); and (f) Institutional Development Program (IDP).
Stipend and Tuiffon Program (US$41.8 million): The project was to support girls' education with stipends and
tuition grant, from grades 6 to 10, in 118 thanas. The component was designed to meet the rising cost of education
and to provide incentives to reduce high dropout rates at higher grade levels. Eligibility for stipends depended on
parents agreeing to their daughters (a) attending school for at least 75% of the school year; (b) obtaining at least
45% marks on average in final examinations; and (c) remaining unmarried through completion of SSC. This was
linked to the project objective of providing assistance to girls in secondary schools to help them complete their
secondary education successfully.
Teacher Enhancement Program (US$5.9 million): This component was designed, on the existing formula of
government contributions to private schools, to ensure availability of sufficient teachers in the project areas, and
finance the salaries of new teachers recruited on the basis of a teacher/student ratio of 1:30. It also intended to
raise the proportion of female teachers in secondary schools. At the beginning, only 7% of the teachers in the
project areas were women, as opposed to the Government's minimum quota of 10%. Recruitment was targeted at
-2 -



those qualified in English, Mathematics, Science and Home Economics to overcome shortage of teachers in these
areas. The project was designed so that recruitment would take place mainly in the later stages of the project in
order to cope with the increased enrollment in schools.
Occupational Skill Development Program (US$ 5.6 million): This program was piloted to assist about 8000
girls, in selected project areas, who were leaving formal schooling due to various constraints. The idea was to
provide these girls with occupational skills suitable for wage employment or self employment. Depending on
opportunities in and aroignd the project thanas, the program was designed along four strategies: (a) employment or
subcontracting within industrial sectors; (b) employment in public service jobs and with NGOs; (c)
self-employment or wage employment in traditional trades; and (d) self employment in new trades. Selected NGOs
were to provide training on self-employment The project was to finance job counselling and placement, salary
sharing with industrial enterprises or NGOs agreeing to employ project girls, self-employmnent stipend, self
employment credit through a revolving fund, studies, operating costs, and technical assistance in this area.
Female Education Awareness Program (US$4.7 million): The objective was to build mass awareness of the
educational, financial and social benefits of educating girls, and to create a social environment conducive to girls'
education, particularly completion of secondary education, promotion of employment of girls, and recruitment of
female teachers. The project was to finance: (a) mass media materials; (b) honors (e.g., awards, citations) for
School Management Committees (SMC), school teachers and communities; (c) research and special studies; and
(d) technical assistance and training for those involved in communication activities.
Water Supply and Sanitation (WSS) Program, (US$1.3 million): Under this component, the project intended to
assist secondary schools with coeducational facilities by promoting good hygiene and sanitation practices, and by
providing water and sanitation facilities. Students and school communities were to be involved in planning,
designing, implementing and managing their own programs. They were also to share 20% of the costs of
construction and mnaintenance of WSS facilities. The project was to finance (a) bygiene and sanitation motivation
program, (b) leadership, construction and maintenance training, (c) technical assistance and (d) 80% of the costs of
rehabilitation and construction of latrines and tube-wells. Subsequent maintenance costs were to be borne by the
schools.
Institutional Development Program(US$20.7 million): This component was designed to provide support for
both project implementation and capacity building. DSHE's weak implementation capacity, absence of any
secondary education office at the thana level, and the innovative and experimental nature of the project's
inter-sectoral activities necessitated institutional development support. The management structure for the project
included (a) an Interministerial Steering Comnmittee; (b) a consultative group; (c) a Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) with a Management Technical Assistance (MTA) team; (d) Thana (Upazila) Project Offices; (e) School
Level Coordinators; and (f) a Thana Advisory Cormnmittee (TAC). All newly recruited staff at the PRU and at the
field level were to be trained. A monitoring and evaluation system was to be put in place. The project would
finance administrative cost, project operating cost, technical assistance and training and semi-annual inspection of
fund flows from Agrani Bank to school girls eligible for stipends.
3.4 Revised Components:
In 1994, nearly twice as.many girls as estimated at appraisal were attracted to stipend entry points in Grades 6 and
9 in the 59 thanas selected for implementation of Phase 1. This positive response created pressure on the
Government to immediately expand the program to cover the entire country. In view of this the project was revised
in January 1995 to: (a) advance the second phase of the project for consolidated and simultaneous implementation
with the first phase; (b) revise stipend and tuition rates; (c) increase the number of stipend beneficiaries under the
project by allowing eligible girls in the madrasabs to participate in the stipend program; (d) establish an annual
review to monitor the progress of the project; and (e) reallocate the credit proceeds to enable the financing of the
proposed changes under the project. The final revised allocations for different components were as follows:
- 3-



Stipend and Tuition Program                 US$68.1 million
Teacher enhancement Program:                US$2.7 million
Occupational Skills Development Program:    US$2.3 million
Female Education Awareness Program:         US$1.7 million
Water Supply and Sanitation Program:        US$.3 million
Institutional Development Program:          US$13.3 million
Reduction in allocation for all five components except STP warranted adjustment in targets which underwent
several changes during the project life. On the basis of the MTR recommendation in April 1997, a bonus scheme
was added to the Stipend and Tuition Program from 1998. This was a small incentive to annually reward
schools/madrasahs that met certain monitorable, specified criteria on school performance and quality. The top
20% of the schools meeting those criteria were to receive a bonus that was roughly equivalent to a thirteenth month
tuition payment. MTR Mission also recommended a 'Pilot Scheme' in a few selected thanas to identify an effective
targeting mechanism for the longer term. The idea was to see if and how the Government could transform the
national program into a targeted one in view of its limited resources.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The formal "quality at entry" criteria were not introduced at the time the project was prepared. In retrospect, the
overall quality at entry can be rated as satisfactory based on the following: (a) consistency of the project concept
and objectives, and their alignment with the Government's education and women's development strategies and
priorities, as well as with the Bank's assistance strategy; (b) internal consistency of the project design and
activities under constituent components, providing synergistic support for the overall project objective; (c)
involvement of key agencies (MOE and other important government agencies at various levels, and the concerned
units of the Bank) at the preparatory stage; (d) realistic assessment of the borrower's implementation capacity,
particularly of DSHE, and the reliability of educational statistics; (e) assessment about possible misdirection of
funds; and (f) incorporation of lessons from prior Bank and other (USAID, NORAD) experimental projects.
Extensive analytic work was undertaken to inform the project design. A thorough analysis of the demographic
scenario that relates to female education, educational achievement by sex, possible outcomes of the project
intervention, education expenses for girls, size and possible expansion of the labor market for girls, institutional
capacity of various agencies of the Government and in-depth analyses of the proposed components of the project
provided a solid basis for project intervention. Although the simultaneous implementation of both the phases of
the project and an overwhelming positive response to the project changed the scenario dramatically, the rationale
for intervention and the design of the project proved to be valid throughout the entire life of the project. In the
absence of secondary education offices at the thana level, it was prudently decided that Thana Project Offices be
established for closer monitoring of implementation.
However, there was an underestimation of the enrollment response to the project at the entry level. This
necessitated reallocation of resources from other components to STP at a very early stage. While it did not
jeopardize the design of the project in general, it may have, to some extent, affected other interventions meant to
meet project objectives. For example, at appraisal,, it was estimated that 11,800 additional teachers would be
recruited. The number was later reduced to only 800. While the project focused primarily on access, quality of
secondary education should have received more attention during the design of FSSAP.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall achievement of the project was satisfactorv. The project achieved the goal of increasing female
secondary enrollment through the stipend and tuiti6n program. This is illustrated by the following facts: (a)
against the target of 3.32 million girl-years, the project actually reached 4.90 million girl-years of enrollment by
2001; and (b) girls' enrollment in project schools increased by 51.3% between 1994 and 1999 ( Miske, 2000, p.6)
-4 -



and girls' secondary school enrollment as a percentage of total enrollment increased from 44.73% in 1994, when
the project was launched, to 54.68% in 2000. Even at the beginning, popularity of the project catalyzed the
expansion of the stipend program to cover the entire country.
The project reached its revised target of recruiting 800 new teachers, with at least 40% of them female. Female
education awareness materials were produced and disseminated every year, resulting in increased community
participation in the project activities and a steady rise in student enrollment and retention. A total of 7984 units of
latrines and tubewells were in place against the target of 8059 units. The revised target of training 5240 girls in
occupational skills who dropped out of school was met. The IDP infrastructure and training targets were also met.
The MIS is functioning well, albeit with room for improvement in the information technology-related area of the
project, and in building and maintaining an education database. Because of the overall success, the project has
received an award of excellence from the Bank.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component A: Stipends and Tuition Program (STP):
The achievement under this component was satisfactory.
Stipends and tuition constituted by far the biggest component of the project with a share of 77% of the total project
cost. The criteria for receiving stipends were that girls would (a) attend classes at least for 75% of the total school
days, (b) obtain at least 45% marks on average at the annual examinations, and (c) remain unmarried till the SSC
exam. The girls received their stipends through their bank accounts once every six months (May and November)
and the institutions received the tuition fee at the budgeted rate, directly from the PIU through their accounts with
the designated branch of Agrani Bank.
Enrollment of girls as a percentage of total enrollment in project schools rose steadily from 44.73% in 1994 to
54.68% in 2000, reversing the girl:boy ratio. This exceeded the target. Between FY1994 and FY1999, the number
of awardees increased at an annual average rate of 36%. STP covered 1.054 million girls by 2001. The 4.90
million girl-years of enrollment at the end of the project was also far above the initial target. The largest number
(135,127) of girls reached grade 10 in 2001 with an increase of 16.85% over that of 2000. The success of the
project in raising girls' enrollnent calls for increasing the capacity or number of secondary institutions to
accommodate all eligible primary graduates.
Only three percent of the project girls dropped out, establishing a 97 percent survival rate. The stipend program
might have acted as an incentive for girls, who were once disqualified for not fulfilling the criteria, to continue in
school on their own and perform better. For example, 43.9% girls, previously disqualified, came back on the
stipend program in 1995 (MTR Report, p. 11). Overall, the success rate of the FSSAP girls in SSC was I to 3%
higher than the national rate in most of the project years. The percentage of girls reported to leave school for
reasons of marriage was low, in the range of 1.75% to 2.0% (Darnell, World Bank, 2000).
Some irregularities were reported in the adherence to the criteria for awarding stipends. Various supervision
mission reports raised quelstions about the veracity of enrollment and attendance as well as annual examination
marks. IDA therefore conducted an independent verification of the audit of-stipend and tuition for the academic
years 1996 and 1997 in 20 schools, in 20 different thanas. The report did not reveal any major flaw that would
compromise the achievement of the project objectives in a significant way. However, some lapses were noticed in
the project supervision by PIU, TOPMs and Agrani Bank. Records maintained by some school authorities were
questionable. There were cases of overwriting in attendance registers in nine schools. Some inconsistencies were
also observed between marks shown in FSP-3 and actual result books. Based on these findings, IDA set a
precondition that strong monitoring and supervision measures should be in place before extension of the project by
one year as requested by GOB in January 2000. The project was extended based on GOB action in this area.
Monitoring and supervision, however, still remained somewhat weak until the end of the project.
The correlation between die awarding of stipend and completion of the SSC exam is not very encouraging. In
.5-



1999, some 123,908 girls received stipend in Grade 10, but only 58% of the girls appeared for the SSC exam and
only 54% of those who appeared passed the exam (Miske, World Bank, 2000). Similarly, in 1996, only 55% of the
grade 10 girls in FSSAP institutions took SSC exam (Darnell, World Bank, 2000). In contrast, 90% of the girls
achieved a satisfactory 45% mark on annual exams, as reported by schools. This raises some questions about
quality and propriety of assessment in school exams, and whether the incentive structure adequately addresses the
issue of completion of SSC.
The Bonus Scheme (BS): The bonus scheme accorded recognition satisfactorily to the high performing
institutions which were acclaimed nationally through media coverage. This was certainly an incentive for schools
to perform better. However, it was also necessary to pay attention to low performing schools in order to increase
the quality of education as a whole. This was not considered under the scheme.
As a follow-up of the MTR recommendation about a pilot scheme to target the stipend program, a study entitled
"Design and Implementation of a Pilot Scheme for Targeting Stipend Recipients" was conducted by Pathmark
Associates in 2000 in three upazilas. The study suggested a number of alternative models to provide financial
support to the targeted girls. However, these were not implemented under FSSAP.
Component B: Teacher Enhancement Program (TEP):
Achievement under this component was satisfactory. The target was to recruit and deploy 800 teachers during the
project period, at least 40 percent of them female with an objective to achieve a teacher: student ratio initially of
1:30, which was later changed to 1:40, in the project schools. In four phases until 2000, a total of 1,419 teachers
were recruited and appointed, with 38 percent of them female. However, by the middle of 2000, only 655 teachers
were at their posts. The remaining teachers were recruited in the fifth phase to meet the set target. At the end of
the project, 756 teachers recruited under the project were working, with 306 of them (40.5) being female teachers.
Teachers were recruited for five subjects - Agricultural Science, English, Home Economics (100 percent female),
Mathematics and Science.
At the secondary level of education, the required minimum qualification for teachers is a degree in Bachelor of
Education. The PIU procedures of recruiting teachers locally through the SMCs were changed in 1995 to a central
recruitment method to ensure the quality of teachers and to avoid any undue local interference in recruitment.
Reportedly, centrally recruited teachers are performing better than the locally recruited ones.
During the whole implementation period, about 54 percent of the teachers did not accept the job offer or left soon
afRer joining. PIU identified the following seven
reasons for this behavior, particularly that of the female teachers: (i) place of posting in remote areas was not to
their liking; (ii) lack of adequate/proper accommodation; (iii) bad communication system; (iv) uncertainty about
job continuity; (v) lack of security for female teachers; (vi) poor salary and limited facilities, and (vii) getting better
jobs elsewhere. The female teachers had the added problem of being separated from their families. On the whole,
the project has nearly achieved its objective of recruiting the targeted number of teachers. However, with this
limited recruitment, the project did not aim at solving the problem of gender imbalance, but tried to redress it as
much as possible. Recruiting and retaining 40% female teachers, given the social realities of rural Bangladesh,
was not an easy task. The overall ratio of female teachers in project schools remained around 8%, below the
national target of 10%.
Component C: Occupational Sldlls Development Program (OSDP): OSDP met its the physical target, but it
was unsatisfactory in its contribution to achieving the overall objective of the project. oSbP addressed a different
audience - out-of-school girls - using a different implementation system through NGOs. The original target of
imparting skills training to 8,000 dropout girls was revised to 5240 girls in successive years. The first batch of
4,240 dropout girls were given skills training by NGOs contracted for the task. Training of another 1,000 girls,
initiated in 2000, was completed in June 2001, bringing the total number of trained girls to 5,240 which met the
revised target. The skills training program was conducted in 112 out of 118 project Upazilas. Girls were trained
in apiculture, poultry raising, sericulture, sewing and so on. The trainees received a Tk. 40 daily allowance while
- 6-



the training fee was paid directly to the training agencies.
The above outcome notwithstanding, there is a question whether OSDP, with its large daily allowance compared
to the monthly stipend, could have provided disincentives for girls to remain in school, which was the overarching
objective of the project, if continued for a longer period. At the end of the project, there is no information on how
many of the trained girls got self-employment or wage employment in keeping with their acquired skills which
makes it impossible to determine whether the training provided had any value added. A tracer study in this regard
would have been useful.
Component D: Female Education Awareness Program (FEAP):
Overall, the component is rated satisfactory. The communication activities envisaged under the project to create
or increase public awareness of the value of female education, social and financial benefits of educating girls and to
mobilize support for girls' education at secondary and higher levels were successfully carried out. Community and
parental support for female education has significantly increased. The baseline survey on "Knowledge, Attitudes,
Belief and Perception," commissioned by the World Bank in December 1993, had found that the majority of people
were aware of girls' education by that time and more than 90% of the guardians and relatives were supportive of
secondary education for girls.
Given this high awareness, FEAP rightly focused on attitude retention and motivation using a media mix and
various social activities that provided a broader social endorsement to the already existing positive attitude toward
girls' education. Posters, brochures and calendars were quite popular in the rural households. Audio-visual
documents shown by the electronic media reinforced the preexisting positive attitude toward girls' education.
Successive supervision missions confirmed the effectiveness of the program. The program, however, needed more
community focus and should have used some popular cultural activities for communication purposes such as
community theater.
Component E: Water Supply and Sanitation Program (WSSP):
Achievements under this component were satisfactory. The WSSP program achieved its objective of providing a
healthier and safer setting for girls in schools. A 'User Group,' consisting of members drawn from teachers,
students and parents, was formed in each project school. The groups participated in orientation workshops on
knowledge and skills in maintaining the water supply and sanitation facilities, in promoting hygienic practices in
the school and propagating the same at home and in the community. One precondition of installing WSS facilities
was that the community would bear 20 percent of the cost either in cash or kind. Given the success of the program,
the physical targets of installing tubewells and latrines were increased after the Mid-Term Review. A total of
3,999 latrines were constructed and 3,985 tube-wells sunk in the project schools during the project period, meeting
99 percent of the revised targets.
In March 1998, an initiative was taken to screen all tubewells in FSSAP schools. A total of 3,190 functioning tube
wells installed under FSSAP were tested for arsenic contamination. The exercise continued beyond the project
life. As of April 1, 2002, contamination has been detected in 600 tube wells, about 19% of all functioning
tubewells. According to the present practice, these tubewells were painted red to indicate that they should not be
used for drinking and cooking purposes. Altemative sources of water could not be provided under FSSAP as the
altematives are still being debated nationally, but the issue is being addressed under FSSAPH.
Component F: Institutional Development Program (IDP):
Overall, this component is rated satisfactory, although outcomes were not even in all six areas of intervention.
The management structure for the project included: ( a) an Interministerial Steering Committee; (b) a consultative
group; (c) a PIU with a Management Technical Assistance team; (d) Thana (Upazila) Project Offices; (e) School
Level Coordinators; and (f) a Thana Advisory Committee (TAC).
- 7 -



As contemplated in project preparation, the composition of the Interministerial Steering Committee was expanded
to include representatives from different relevant Ministries of the Government and other relevant agencies. The
Committee met once every two months and the mechanism was found effective in defining standard policies and
approaches. The Consultative Group was renamed as Implementation Monitoring Committee and chaired by the
Director General of DSHE. The Committee met every month and actively provided support in addressing project
issues.
The PIU, located in Dhaka, worked under the supervision of the Director General of Secondary and Higher
Education. It had the strength of 72 officers and supporting staff, headed by a Project Director. A Data Processing
Manager, with five supporting staff, headed the Data Processing Center (DPC). Each UPO had seven staff
members, headed by a Upazila Office Project Manager (UOPM). After revision in 1995, the position of the school
level coordinators was dropped from the project. Some.96 workshops and related training activities were
organized for project staff at all levels. All 118 UPOs were fully staffed and all officers had received training. The
MIS was quite comprehensive, making available to management detailed information on the implementation of all
major project components and program outputs. The PIU, with support from the Interministerial Committee and
the Implementation Committee from the top, and from DPC, the District Coordination Committees, the Upazila
Project Offices and the Thana Advisory Committees from the bottom, implemented the project generally
satisfactorily.
The Upazila Project Offices maintained close contact with local organizations like SMCs, PTAs and TACs.
However, effectiveness of SMCs and PTAs, particularly PTAs, in ensuring quality, accountability, and proper
reporting of attendance and enrollments to support disbursements is unclear. Much needs to be done in the
follow-up operation to enhance the roles of SMCs and PTAs. Sectoral dialogues should also address this issue.
Institutional capacity of DSHE could not be strengthened as planned. Creation of a central data base and MIS
coordinated by DSHE covering all four girls' stipend projects, as proposed during preparation, did not materialize
during the project life. The support from the Management Technical Assistance team was found unsatisfactory
and the proposed scale of its engagement was reduced at a very early stage of the project.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project was substantial. A management structure with different
supporting committees at various levels, a trained cohort of staff at the field level and at PIU and a number of
community organizations with appropriate training are all in place, as described under Component F above, to be
effectively used in a follow-up project. The effectiveness of the community level organizations and changing the
given power-relations ,vis-a-vis running schools with genuine community involvement are a function of a number
of social factors, perhaps, beyond the reach of.the limited intervention of the project. Recruitment of only 800
teachers, of whom 40 percent are female, cannot effectively change the gloomy national scenario. However, a 1%
increase in the overall ratio of female teachers in the project area is a significant step forward. Despite a late start
due to some initial problems in procurement, DPC has consolidated its activities and responsibilities. As
mentioned earlier, the.project could not contribute much to strengthening the capacity of DSHE.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
None.
-8-.



S.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Timely release of government's counterpart fund was always a problem. Disbursements were scheduled for May
and November every year. But the release of Govemment fund was always late which delayed the payment of
teachers' salaries, stipends and tuition. Systemic efficiency eluded the cycle of fund release mechanism that
involved MOE, MOF and the Planning Commission. The situation was exacerbated by inadequate coordination
between the principal branch of Agrani Bank and its 234 participating branches, causing delays in release of
stipend and tuition payments. This happened particularly after the first two years of the project due to changes in
Agrani Bank's senior management and lack of commitment of the management.
High turnover of key staff at PIU was another problem. There were three Project Directors during the life of the
project. Personnel changes in the Interministerial Steering Committee sometimes entailed changes in decisions
previously taken which delayed implementation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Monitoring and supervision of the project were weak. UOPMs were responsible for supervision and monitoring of
implementation of the project at Upazila level. The efficiency of supervision by UOPMs was somewhat
compromised as they lacked adequate authority. They also lacked adequate training or a career path and suffered
from a sense of insecurity. UOPMs' performance was less than satisfactory in checking enrolment, attendance and
results of annual examinations more diligently to ensure better performance by the girls in SSC examination. The
fact that PIU did not have the authority to take action against non-performing UOPMs was certainly another
constraint that affected the outcome of the project.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The original SAR estimated cost of the project was US$ 80 million, with GOB share of $12 million and IDA
contribution of $68 million or SDR 49.5 million. The actual cost of the project stood at US$85.8 million and IDA
financing was US$63.9 million.
A major factor that affected project implementation was systemic delays in the release of counterpart funds from
the Government (discussed in Section 7).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The government commitment to girls' education, which is a significant element of sustainability, is evident in its
expansion of the program throughout the country, and its allocation of additional financial resources for FSSAP.
The Government is convinced of the rationale for its longer term support to girls' secondary education as evident
in its pursuing of FSSAPII. The commitment of the new government to girls' education is further evidenced in its
decision to extend the stipend program to Grades 11 and 12. The fact that the Government is investing so much of
its own resources in girls' education speaks of its ownership of the country-wide program and its conviction about
the rationale for public support to girls' secondary education although secondary education is largely delivered
privately. In order to sustain such an intervention for a longer term, the Government understands that it needs to
devise an effective targeting mechanism. They are working on it under FSSAPII.
Another factor contributing to sustainability comes from the awareness generated about the value and benefits of
secondary education for girls, and the momentum created for enrollment of girls in school. This stands a fair
chance of being self-propelling even when the stipend support is eventually reduced or even withdrawn.
Increasingly, female graduates and the rising number of female teachers will be seen as role models for younger
siblings and other female relatives and friends. In addition, at the national level, considerable importance is
attached to women's development in general and creating opportunities for women in employment, business,
service industry and other sectors of the economy. These should also serve as pull factors to get the girls into
secondary education as a gateway to higher education and to qualify for a better place in the economy and in the
-9-



society. Given all these, the incentive for girls' education is likely to be sustainable.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
FSSAP was an innovative project, the first of its kind in many ways, which received overwhelming support both
from the Government and society at large. The Government has already undertaken a second FSSAP supported by
IDA. As discussed in 6. 1, government commitment for longer term support to girls' education and ownership of
such projects are evident. One major transition is the transfer of the institutional capacity built at PIU to the
Directorate of Secondary and Higher Education (DSHE) under FSSAP II. DSHE, which is a permanent body of
the Ministry of Education, will be the agency responsible for execution of the new project, making the capacity,
hopefully, more sustainable in the long run, unless it suffers from the endemic government problem of frequent
transfers. MIS is quite comprehensive to provide the basis for meaningful intervention under FSSAP II. Lessons
leamed during this project would also be useful. The cost of such a prolonged intervention is a major concern.
Under FSSAP II, the Government will review possible strategies for reducing the costs of the program during the
mid-term review.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
On the whole, the Bank's performance in lending was satisfactory. It played a proactive role in identifying the
project, in line with country's education needs and IDA's assistance strategy for Bangladesh. The Bank
commissioned a pre-project Knowledge, Attitude, Belief and Perception (KABP) survey in 1993 to better
comprehend the perspectives of the borrower, the stakeholders and the beneficiaries. The Bank staff worked
closely with the Government at the preparation stage, undertook extensive analytic work on various areas relevant
to the project during appraisal involving the major stakeholders. The analytic work provided a clear picture about
the ground realities regarding capacity, risks in implementation, extent and nature of intervention needed for each
component. The scenario somewhat changed with simultaneous implementation of both phases and with huge
enrollment response, but the analytic work provided a good basis for intervention. The project design was
innovative and, as evident from the overwhelming positive social response to girls' education even in the early
years of the project, the incentives and mechanisms to get girls in secondary schools worked very well. Funds were
released as agreed and scheduled. The Bank recognized this lending operation with an award for excellence in
promoting girl's education.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision is rated satisfactory. The supervision missions assessed the progress of implementation of different
components of the project, and made field visits to ascertain the situation and progress on the ground. The
missions, generally of 2-3 weeks' duration, made thorough assessment of the work of PIU and other related
entities. Based on the findings from discussions, meetings and visits, the missions identified the constraints and
problems, provided critical and constructive advice and guidance for result-oriented operation of the project, in a
Final Aide Memoire, which guided the work of the project until the next mission or other appropriate missions.
Responding to rapidly evolving needs of the project and the positive disposition both of the Government and of
society about girls' education, the Bank agreed to amend the DCA to reallocate resources to make more provision
for stipend and tuition program, and expand the scope of the stipend program in response to spectacular rise in
enrollment and huge demand for simultaneous implementation in all 118 project upazilas. Similarly, during the
course of project implementation, the Bank accommodated several other revisions, based on the recommendations
of the supervision missions, to respond to the changing needs of the project. During implementation, the Bank
proposed and supported several surveys, studies and audits to understand the ground realities and combat the
problems as they arose.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
- 10 -



Based on the above, the Bank's performance is considered satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower performance in project implementation was satisfactory.
The project was designed in line with the government plan and strategy for development of education. Following
the World Conference on Education for All, the borrower was fully committed to promoting girls' education at all
levels, particularly at primary and secondary levels. It also came at a juncture when the country's Fourth Five Year
Plan was just launched with commitment to education and women's development and priority was given to projects
like FSSAP. The Governirient's ownership of the project was evident from its active participation throughout the
project appraisal process, execution of preparatory studies (some of them supported by other donors like ILO,
UNDP, NORAD and Japanese Grant Facility) and in involving the relevant stakeholders in the project design.
Support from the highest levels of Government was accorded to the project since the early stage of preparation.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The overall performance was satisfactory. The project papers were ready on time. The Government's proactive
stance was reflected in the fact that it decided to advance the implementation of FSSAP in its totality from 1994
allocating additional resources from its own budget. It started its own project in 270 thanas, in addition to two
other donor-funded projects, to extend the program to the entire country. The Government maintained this
commitment throughout the process of project implementation and beyond.
As mentioned earlier, there were considerable problems with the release of counterpart funds, caught in a lengthy
bureaucratic approval process involving MOE, MOF and the Planning Commission, which delayed disbursement
of stipends and tuition fees on time throughout the life of the project.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Despite some weaknesses in the process, the performance of the implementing agency can be rated, overall, as
satisfactory. This innovative project faced a number of formidable challenges: (a) the wide coverage of female
students, the majority in private schools and madrasahs which would require special efforts in mobilization and
advocacy work; (b) involvement in 118 Upazilas covering 2,313 schools at appraisal, a number that went up to
5,556 schools at the end of the project; (c) participation of a large number of bank branches which would have to
manually handle a large number of small accounts and transactions; and (d) effective monitoring and evaluation of
project implementation. The project would also require effective participation of local communities, difficult even
at the best of times given the power-relations dominated by the rural elite.
PIU managed the administration of the project effectively despite changes of the Project Director three times
during the project life. Its financial management was in line with the Bank's standard. Audit reports of the
projects were received timely. Project management acted proactively on audit findings that required timely action
and clarification. The pace of audit settlement process in FSSAP was quite satisfactory. PIU involved reputed
firms of Chartered (Certified) Accountants to audit stipend accounts when necessary. Through periodic tripartite
meetings involving Foreign Aided Project Audit Directorate (FAPAD), MOE and PIU, 67 audit observations out of
101 observations from the period FY1993-FY2000 have already been resolved. The process of settlement of the
remaining 34 audit observations and another 22 for FY 2001 is going on. Considering the implication of any
unresolved audit observations on the follow-up project under the same Ministry or implementing agency, it has
been recommended that the on-going effort to resolve the audit observations be continued. However, these are
minor observations.
PIU followed the Bank's guidelines for procurement and procured all listed items within the budget limits. It
made a proper assessment of the work of the Management TA team at an early stage of the project and replaced it
with locally recruited effective and supportive staff.



The implementation unit maintained a good working relationship with the participating bank, obtained the services
of its computer unit for disbursement of stipend and tuition before establishment of PIU's DPC and MIS.
Disbursement was satisfactory. Total disbursement, as of December 2001, amounted to US$ 63.87 million
equivalent, representing 93% of the Credit of US$68.0 million equivalent. An undisbursed amount of US$4.34
million equivalent was cancelled, effective December 22, 2001. IDA funds were channeled through a Special
Account opened in Agrani Bank Principal branch, Dhaka. GOB's counter-part funds were available to the project
against advance withdrawal from the treasury after special permission from the Ministry of Finance. The
performance of Agrani Bank in disbursement was satisfactory during the first two years of project implementation
and less than satisfactory thereafter mainly due to staff change at the management level of the bank.
One weakness of PIU was in regular monitoring and supervision on the ground. The average performance of the
UOPMs was less than satisfactory as they lacked adequate training and management skills. Despite repeated
revelation of irregularities through supervision missions, PIU could not fully prevent fake enrollments and
doctoring of attendance rates and marks in annual examinations. This failure became more evident in the
performance of the FSSAP girls in SSC exams, as discussed earlier.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the above assessment, the overall performance of the borrower can be rated as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Overall lessons:
*   Educating girls with stipend support involves high investment, but yields high economic and social benefits.
*   A stipends and tuition program was an ambitious and ground-breaking initiative, covering all secondary
institutions in the country. All indications suggest that a profound change has occurred in the country with
regard to attitudes toward girls' education. Such an intervention needs to be sustained over a longer period to
effect lasting change. On the other hand, continuation of the country-wide program has a significant fiscal
impact on GOB's budgetary resources. To maximize the outcomes of the program and at the same time to
contain its fiscal impact, the Government should examine mechanisms for better targeting. This will be done
under FSSAP II.
*   Stipends programs which address demand-side constraints to girls' education can be powerful instruments for
increasing girls' enrollment and retention rates when well-designed and monitored.
* The FSSAP project design focused primarily on access, but equally important is the critical need to improve
the quality of secondary education. This is crucial to the country's effort to achieve its longer term human
development goals. GOB has also put quality improvement on the top of its education sector development
agenda. And donor assistance to help GOB tackle the underlying causes of poor quality of education in a
strategic way, particularly the quality of teachers and delivery of teaching services, can significantly contribute
to enhancing effectiveness of development assistance for the education sector of Bangladesh.
Lessons from preparation
*   The social response to FSSAP was somewhat underestimated at the preparation stage. This necessitated a
revision of the project at a very early stage. Social assessment should be carried out more rigorously and its
findings need to be incorporated in project design at an early stage.
* The role of local communities (SMCs and PTAs) needs to be addressed and defined more clearly so that they
could act more effectively to guard against malpractices in relation to adhering to the stipend criteria.
*   The female education awareness program, though successful in many ways, was by design a one-way
communication. In such programs, local knowledge and specific ground realities should be given due
importance. Sometimes, local media interventions, for example, folk theater and local literary practices, are
far more effective than the mass media. Posters, brochures and calendars emphasizing the message about
- 12 -



benefits of girls' education reinforce the preexisting positive attitude, but they sometimes fail to address local
constraints. The local media can play an important role in this regard.
*   Although OSDP, as a pilot, had its own merit, it might have acted as a disincentive to achieving the overall
objective of the project in poverty stricken rural Bangladesh. Daily allowance under OSDP being higher than
the monthly stipends for girls, though for a shorter period, had the potential of encouraging dropouts.
Evidently, the objective of OSDP was not clearly aligned with the objective of the project.
Lessonsfrom implementation
*    Many potential benefits of projects - management skills, increased access to data - are lost at project closing
if not integrated into the operational system of existing institutions. Within the Bangladesh portfolio, the
implementation record of FSSAP stands out as excellent. However, since the staff of the project'have been
recruited directly from outside or on secondment from other institutions, there is a risk that the gains might be
lost. Achievements from this project should be effectively integrated into DSHE. This is being addressed in
FSSAP II.
*   As evident from lower retention rate of newly recruited teachers, particularly of female teachers, in secondary
schools under TEP component, a much better incentive system should be in place. The social issues should be
considered much more comprehensively.
*    For a fair assessment of the impact of the Occupational Skills Development Program, a tracer study in the
early years of the project would have been helpful. A study could also inform the contention whether it
discourages enrollment, if continued for a longer period and repeated in an area. OSDP has been dropped
from FSSAP II.
*   Serious thought should be given to effective engagement of the communities in SMCs and PTAs and
safeguarding them from elite capture. Participation of women in SMCs is imperative since the project is
directed at promoting girls' education. They need training regarding school quality and management roles.
*   Better supervision and monitoring on the ground is critical for meaningful evaluation of the outcome of the
program and to check irregularities. Based on this lesson, under FSSAP I, more emphasis has been given on
field supervision.
*   The incentive system should be revised in a way that ensures completion of SSC exam.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
GOB has informed IDA that it has reviewed the draft Implementation Completion Report and agreed with its content.
However, the Government is of the opinion that the Occupational Skills Development Program (OSDP) component of
the project in its entirety is not a total failure. It has not acted as a disincentive for girls to continue in the schools as
OSDP was organized only once in most of the selected upazilas providing training to only about 40 dropout girls in
each upazila on a particular trade. GOB's detailed comments are in Annex 9.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N.A.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N.A.
10. Additional Information
The following persons contributed to the preparation of this ICR:. Subrata S. Dhar (Task Team Leader), Nurul
Islam Khan ( Consultant), Fatema Rosalynn Khan (Research Analyst), and Nazma Sultana ( Program Assistant).
We received substantive comments from Carolyn Winter, Peer Reviewer, (Senior Education Specialist, HDNED),
Ana Maria Jeria ( Senior Human Resource Specialist, ECSHD), Irajen Appasamy (Operations Analyst, SASHD),
Nancy Zhao (Operations Adviser, SACBD), Hena Mukherjee (Lead Education Specialist, SASHD), Mohammad
Sayeed (Disbursement Officer, SARFM), Suraiya Zannath ( Senior Financial Management Specialist, SARFM),
- 13 -



Zafiul Islam (Senior Procurement Specialist, SARPS). We also received valuable external comments from Dr. Hon
Chan Chai and Dr. Mokhlesur Rahman.
- 14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
(1) (a) Female enrolment In project thanas by (1) (a) Female enrollment In grade 10  1) (a) Female enrollment In grade 10
year; (b) rato of girls to boys enrollment In  Increased by 142% over project duraton In  increased by 16.85% over project duration in
project thanas by year; (c) female sUpends  project thanas.               project Upazillas.
awarded to girls by year; (d) number of girls' (b) girls enrollment (54%) has surpassed  (b) Girls' enrollment (54.68%) has surpassed
SSC passes; (e) number of female teachers boys' enrollment (47%).         boys' enrollment (45.32%).
recruited and trained.               (c) A total of 1.054 millon girls are receMng  (c) A total of 1.054 million girls are receiving
stipends.                            stipends.
(d)                                  (d) During 1996-2000, a total of 95.735 girls
(e) At the end of the fourth phase of teacher passed the SSC exam representng 35.32
recruItment 655 teachers had taken up their pass rate.
appointments. 44% of them female.    (e) At the end of the fith phase of teacher
recrultment. 800 teachers had taken up their
appointments, 40% of them female.
(2) Number of dropout girls entering and  The project has provided skills training to  The project has provided skills training to
completing occupational skills training  4240 drop-out girls. Training for another  5,240 dropout girls
programs.                            1000 girls was Inftiated In in the last fical
year (2000-01) and was expected to be
completed in June 01.
(3) Number of public awareness campaigns  About 500.000 calendars and stckers were  About 920.000 leaflets. 340,800 brochures,
through different media.             distributed In the fiscal year 2000-01. Short  332,500 posters. 841.500 calendar, 300.000
films on female education and campaign  stickers and 3,250 diary were distributed
films were scheduled to be shown In  during the project life. A 30 minute feature
project Institutons and public piaces. Prizes film, a 60 minute documentary film and and
were to be awarded to the best students,  a number of audio-visual materials each of
teachers. SMCs and PTAs In project   three minute duraton were produced and
schools.                             shown by the elctronic media. Prizes were
awarded to the best students, teachers.
SMCs and PTAs and project schools.
(4) Number of girls and co-educational  A survey was conducted In all 118 project  A total of 3.985 tube-wells and 3.999 latrines
schools In project thanas equipped with safe upazilas to follow up on the status of arsenic were constructed during the project period. A
water and sanitafton fadlites.       contamination of tubewell water. The rate of survey, conducted in all 118 project Upazilas
contamination Is 9.56% in the total project  revealed that 18% of all tube-weUs In the total
area, with most contamination In Barisal  project area were affected by arsenlc
where over 20% of the tubewelis are  contamination.
contaminated.
(5) (a) Number of PIUIDSHEIMOE staff  (a)                                 (a) Detailed list in Annex 8.
trained by category and evel (national and
distrkt/thana); (b) established MIS and made                              (b) Data Processing Center established wih
it functional (data on thana Institutions.                                MIS which had elaborate data onupaziia
students, personnel, assessments); (c)                                    Insttubons, students, personnel.
number of staff traned In data collection and                             assessments, etc., (c) all staff (6) at PIU
analysis.                                                                 were trained In necessary computer
programs.
Output Indicators:
4trig:                                            AWaVLaO .  * .~~1 ' ,I
No output lndicators were mentioned In the
log frame.
End of project
- 15 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal  Formally Actual/Latest % of Revised
Original   Revised    Estimate     Appraisal
Project Cost By Component       US$     US$ million US$ million
million
A.   Stipend Program                            41.8        68.1         64.3         94%
B    Teachers Enhancement Program                5.9         2.7          2.6         95%
C.   Occupational Skills Development Program     5.6         2.3          2.3        100%
D.   Female Education Awareness Program          4.7         1.7          1.6         97%
E    Water Supply and Sanitation Program         1.3         0.3          2.1        709%
F.   Institutional Development Program
I    Project Implementation Unit            1.8         2.2          2.1         97%
2    Thana Project Offices                  5.7         7.5          6.8         91%
3    School level coordinators              5.0
4    Project Management Training            5.4          0.9         1.5        167%
5    Monitoring & Evaluation                1.9          1.8         0.0          0%
6    Management Technical Assistance        0.9         0.9          0.9        100%
Exchange lost2                                                  1.5
Total Project Costs                    80.0        88.4        85.8         97%
The project was restructured and the original appraisal estimates were changed and all the expenditures
were incurred according to the restructured estimates.
2 Due to fluctuations of exchange rate the GoB incurred the loss from the credit amount.
- 16 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ millionequivalent)
Procurement    Methodl
Expenditure Category           ICB         NCB          Other2      N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Civil Works                                     -            0.6          -        0.6
-           (0.5)         -       (0.5)
2. Goods: Equlpment, materials,       -           0.6           0.3          -        0.9
vehicles and furniture
-          (0.6)         (0.1)         -       (0.7)
3. Stipends                           -            -           41.8          -       41.8
(41.8)                (41.8)
4. Technical Assistance, inspection   -            -            10.2         -        10.2
fees and studies
-  -        (10.2)        -       (10.2)
5. Training and training materials    -            -            12.0         -        12.0
-  -        (12.0)        -       (12.0)
6. Incremental teachers salaries      -            -            14.6         -        14.6
-  -        (2.7)         -       (2.7)
Total                                             0.6           79.4         -        80.0
(0.6)        (67.4)                (68.0)
-17 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ milion equivalent)
Procurement    Method
Expenditure Category          ICB        NCB         Other'      N.B.F. Total Cost
1. Civil Works                                  -           2.9          -       2.9
(2.1)        -       (2.1)
2. Goods: Equipment, materials,     -           0.6          0.8         -        1.4
vehicles and furniture
-          (0.5)        (0.4)        -       (0.9)
3. Stipends                                      -          64.3         -       64.3
(56.6)               (56.6)
4. Technical Assistance, Inspection                          1.2                  1.2
fees and studies
-           (0.9)        -       (0.9)
5. Training and training materials  -           -            1.8         -        1.8
-  ~     (1.5)        -       (1.5)
6. Incremental teachers salaries    -           -           14.2         -       14.2
-           (0.3)        -       (0.3)
Exchange lost                                               (1.5)                (1.5)
Total                                           0.6         85.2         -       85.8
(0.5)       (63.4)        -       (63.9)
'The expenditures were incurred according to the restructured estimates.
-18-



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component       Appraisal Estimate          Formally Revised         Actual/Latest Estimate         Percentage of Revised
Estdmate
Bank Govt. CoF.    Total   Bank   Govt. CoF. Total Bank      Govt.  CoF.   Total   Bank    Govt.    CoF.
Stipend Program          41.8    -           41.8    59.9   8.2         68.1   56.6     7.7          64.3  94%     940/
Teachers Enhancement      2.7   3.2           5.9     0.9   1.8          2.7    0.2     2.4           2.6  21%     135%
Program
Occupational Skills       4.7   0.9           5.6     1.4   0.9          2.3    0.2     2.1           2.3   14%/   227%
Development Program
Female Education          4.7    -            4.7     1.7    -           1.7    0.5     1.1           1.7  29%      0%
Awareness Program
WaterSupplyand            1.2    -   0.1      1.3     0.3                0.3    2.1     0.1           2.1  690%     0%
Sanitation Program
Institutional Development        -              -       -    -                           -             -
Program
1   Project               03    15            1.8     0.6   1.7          22     0.1     2.0           2.1   19%    123%
Implementation Unmt
2   Thana Project Offices  0.2  5.5           5.7     0.4   7.1          7.5    0.2     6.6           6.8   58%     93%
3   School level          5.0                 5.0                                        -             -
coordinators
4   Project Management    5.4    -            5.4     0.9    -           0.9     1.5     -            1.5  171%     0%
Training
5   Monitonng &           1.3   0.6           1.9     1.2   0.6          1.8            0.0           0.0   0%      0%
Evaluation
6   Management            0.7   0.2           0.9     0.7   0.2          0.9    0.9      -            0.9  128%     0%
Technical Assistance
Exchange lost                                                                1.5    0.0           1.5   0%       0%
Total Cost           68.0  11.9   0.1    80.0    68.0  20.4     -    88.4  63.9    21.9     -    85.8   94%     107%
- 19-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic analysis was undertaken in SAR, and, therefore, no NPV or ERR was reported. The main benefits
expected of the project were: (a) closing the gap in access to secondary education between girls and boys, (b)
increase in the proportion of girl graduates and decrease in the average number of years of schooling it takes to
produce one girl graduate, (c) beneficial impact on fertility (d) increase in the demand for education by
encouraging present primary and secondary school age girls to receive secondary education qualifications, thereby
improving their quality of life.
The gap in access to secondary education between boys and girls has actually reversed in project schools. Now the
girl: boy ratio stands at 54.68: 45.32 in 2001, compared with 44.73: 55.27 in 1994. The course completion rate
for girls has improved from 34.1% in 1990 to 75% in 2001. The enrollment in project schools has inicreased by
218% over the project period, an indication of increased demand for secondary education. However, SSC graduate
rate for girls remains between 20 and 22%.
The project has had remarkable impact on fertility rate due to late marriage. An analysis of the Bangladesh
Demographic Health Survey, 1996/97 and 1999/2000 (preliminary) data shows a strong positive relationship
between women's education and quality of life indicators. The higher a woman climbs on the educational ladder,
the better off she and her family are on most health and family welfare indicators. Women with no education have
a fertility rate of 3.93, compared to 3.27 for women with some primary education, 3.0 for women who complete
primary education, and 2.1 for women who complete secondary education or beyond.
Education delays childbearing especially for young women between the ages of 15 and 19. For example, the
percentage of young women 15-19 without education who have begun childbearing is 54 percent compared to 39
percent for women with some or completed primary education, and 19 percent for women with secondary
education or beyond. The percentage of fully vaccinated children bom to women with no education is 50 percent
compared to 57 percent for children whose mothers have some primary education and 70 percent for children
whose mothers have secondary or higher education. The percentage of women with no education who have ever
heard of HIV/AIDS is 6 percent compared to 13 percent for women with some primary education, and 58 percent
for women with secondary education or more.
The standard rate of return analysis was applied to the 1995/96 Hqsehold Expenditure Survey data to estimate the
private returns to schooling in Bangladesh. Findings showed that each additional year of schooling yields about a
10 % return on the earnings forgone by the household (Male 10.72% and Female 19.05%). For girls at the junior
secondary level, the rate is 11.79 ( Education Sector Review, Vforld Bank 2000).
The social rate of return for secondary education for females Was 16.2 %, which is almost double the estimated
returns for males (8.6 %). The returns to junior secondary aod secondary education for females in Bangladesh are
not only positive but also are above the good investment threshold.
The facts above indicate a strong positive correlation between women receiving secondary education and the
indicators of quality of life.
- 20 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/ear      Count          Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Idenffflcation/Preparation
July 22-29, 1990             1   One project officer
October 30 -                 I   one project officer
November 17, 1990
June 9 - July 5,             9   One project officer, two technical
1991                             officers, one senior program
officer, two program officers, two
consultants, one project monitor
October 1 -                 3    One project officer, one program
November 2, 1991                 officer, and one consultant
February 28 -               10   One project officer, one chief
Marchi 28, 1992  -               operations officer, one project
monitor, one senior program
officer, two program officers,
three consultants, and one
institutional community
development specialists
Appraisal/Negotiation
June 24 - July 24,          11   One project officer, one
1992                             senior program officer, two
program officers, one
counsel, one human
resources economist, one
economist, one disbursement
officer, one operations
officer, and two consultants
April 3 - May 7,             8   One project officer, one human
1993  -                          resource economist, one program
(pre-effectiveness)              officer, one senior operations
officer, one project monitor, one
disbursement officer, one
economist and one consultant
Supervision
June 17 -July 4,             2   One senior operations
1993                             officer, one consultant
Dec. 2-20, 1993              2   One senior operations officer,     S             S
one consultant
April 30 - May 8,            S   One principal economist, one        S            S
1995                             senior operations officer, one
senior sociologist, one education
specialist, one consultant
July 16-26, 1996             4   One senior education specialist,    S             S
one senior sociologist, one
program officer, one
disbursement officer
- 21 -



April 2 - 15, 1997           6   Two senior education specialists,  S            S
(Mid-term Review)                two senior economists, one
program officer, one
disbursement officer.
Jan. 21 - 29, 1998           4   Two education specialists (one    S             S
senior), one operations analyst,
one disbursement officer
Feb. 7-15, 1999              4   Two education specialists (one    S             S
senior), one financial
management specialist, one
disbursement officer
Feb. 17-23, 2000             5   Two education specialists (one    S             S
senior), one financial
management specialist, one
disbursement officer
Nov. 29 - Dec. 18,           4   One senior education specialist,  S             S
2000                             one research analyst, one senior
financial management specialist,
one disbursement officer
ICR
Nov 2001- May                    One senior operations             S             S
2002                             officer, one research analyst,
one consultant
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              168.7                      293.6
Appraisal/Negotiation                    59.4                       130.9
Supervision                            340.2                       899.5
ICR                                       18                         16.2
Total                                   586.3                      1340.2
(c) Trust Fund:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. of Staff Weeks             US$ C0)
Identification/Preparation              2.0                        5.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                   2.0                        5.7
Supervision                            81.6                       332.6
Total                                  85.6                       343.7
- 22 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
L Macro policies                      O H OSUOM O N        * NA
F Sector Policies                     OH *SUOM ON          O NA
Li Physical                           O H  *SUOM O N O NA
Li Financial                          OH   * SUOM O N      O NA
Ol Institutional Development          0 H * SU0M 0 N       0 NA
O Environmental                       O H *SUOM O N O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction             O H  *SUOM      O N O NA
O Gender                        *H OSUOM        ON O NA
L Other (Please specify)        O H OSUOM O N        * NA
L Private sector development          0 H O SU *M 0 N      0 NA
Li Public sector management           0 H O SU *M 0 N 0 NA
L Other (Please specify)              O H OSUOM O N * NA
- 23 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
[3 Lending                                         OHSOS        OU     OHU
3 Supervision                                      OHS OS       OU     0 HU
(3 Overall                                         OHS OS       OU     O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                           Rating
I Preparation                                       OHS OS      OU     0 HU
 Government implementation performance            O HS O S     O U    0 HU
 Implementation agencyperformance                 O HS * S     O U    0 HU
 Overall                                          OHS OS       OU     0 H1
- 24 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Bangladesh Bureau of Educational Information and Statistics (BANBEIS), March 1992.
Bangladesh Demographic and Health Survey, 1996/97 and 1999/2000.
Bangladesh Female Secondary School Assistance Project, Mid-Term Review Report, the World Bank, Washington
D. C., May 1997.
Darnell, William G., Bangladesh Female Secondary School Assistance Project (FSSAP), Implementation
Considerations, AED, Washington D. C., October 2000.
Draft Aide Memoire, Government of Bangladesh, Female Secondary School Assistance Project II, Technical
Papers, March-April 2000.
Education For All : National Plan of Action, 1995.
Final Aide Memoire, The World Bank, Washington D. C., April 1999.
GOB, Ministry of Planning, Planning Commission, Revised Project Proforma for Female Secondary School
Assistance Project (FSSAP), July 1995.
GOB, MOE, DSHE, Stipend Operation Manual for Nationwide Female Stipend Program, Dhaka, January 1996.
Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh, Female Secondary Education Stipend P - 2nd Phase,
Ministry of Education, Summary of Draft Report of Impact Study of the Female Secondary Education Stipend
Project (Pilot Phase).
Implementation Completion Report (Borrower's Report), Dhaka, October 2001.
Khandker, Shahidur R., et al, Subsidy to Promote Girls' Secondary Education: The Female Stipend Program in
Bangladesh, The World Bank, February 2001.
Miske, Shirley J., et al, Beyond Access: Improving Educational Quality In FSSAP Schools in Bangladesh, The
World Bank, Washington D. C., October 2000.
O'Gara, Chloe and Jain, Shilpa, Once Incentives, Now Entitlements: Examining Household and Community
Factors in the FSSAP Program in Bangladesh, The World Bank, Washington D. C., October 2000.
PIU, FSSAP, Implementation Completion Report, October 2001.
PIU, FSSAP, Project Completion Report (1993 - 2001), Dhaka.
PIU, FSSAP, Semi-Annual Progress Report, January-June 1999, Dhaka.
PIU, FSSAP, Annual Progress Report, Academic Year 2000, Dhaka.
The World Bank, Development Credit Agreement, Credit # 2649 BD.
The World Bank, Education Sector Review, Vols I, II and III, 2000.
The World Bank, Final Aide Memoire, Supervision Mission (February 17-23, 2000).
The World Bank, Final Aide Memoire, Supervision Mission (November 29 - December 18, 2000).
The World Bank, Project Status Report, Seq #19 Archived Version.
The World Bank, Project Status Report, Seq #20 Current Version.
The World Bank, Project Appraisal Document, Female Secondary School Assistance Project II, Februar, 2002.
The World Bank, Staff Appraisal Report, Female Secondary School Assistance Project (FSSAP), February 1993.
- 25 -



Additional Annex 8. Training, Workshops and Orientation Courses ( reported by PIM)
List of Local Training /Workshops/ Orientation Courses
Si no  Field of training                                           Participants
I    Project Launch Workshop                                     34 Persons
2   FEAP Implementation Plan Workshop                            PIU Officials and others
3   Module Writing Workshop on 10 Topics (to train TOPM & APOs)  PIU & MOE Officials
4   MIS Forns Dissemination & Taining Program for TOPMs/ APOs    59 TOPMs & 48 APOs
5   Training of Headmasters/ Headmistress/ SLCs (at thana)       2750 SLCs
6   Workshop on development of Training Materials                Selected 2 TOPMs, 2 APOs, 2 SLC & some
representatives from NGOs and PIU Officials
7   Training on Opening of Bank Accounts                         110 TOPMs and APOs
8   Training Program for SLCs (Thana wise)                       SLCs of Dhaka,     Rajshahi, Chittagong,
Khulna & Barisal Division
9   Workshop for DEOs                                            53 DEOs & ADEOs
10   Training for SLCs (Dhaka Divn.)                             350 SLCs
11  Training for SLCs (Chittagong, Khulna, Barisal & Rajshahi Divn.)  900 SLCs
12  Briefing of Headmasters/ Headmistresses & SLCs               Selected Headmasters/ Headmistresses &
SLCs
13  Nationwide Stipend Launching Program                         High official from  MOE, DSHE, Agrani
Bank, PIU officials & others
14  Orientation course for PIU officers                          All PIU Officials
15   Orientation course for TOPMs                                TOPMs & APOs (in charge of TOPMs)
16  Computer Training for Typist and Steno- Typist               All typists and steno- typists of PIU
17  Foundation Training Course for TOPMs/APOs (Newly recruited)  Newly recruited 118 thana level Officers
(TOPMs & APOs)
18   Workshop on Finalization of Task Sheet.                     FSSAP, FSSP, SEDP, Agrani Bank, DSHE,
MOE, WB & others
19   Training on financial management for the newly recruited accountant Accountant cum clerks of 59 thanas
cum -clerks (59 thanes)
20   Disbursement Seminar                                        D.D. (Finance)
21   Training  on financial management for Accountant (Previousl Accountant cum clerks of 59 thanas
recruited in 59 Thanas)
22   Computer Training for the Executives                        FSSAP, FSSP, SEDP, DSHE        &  MOE
Officials
23   One day workshop on Finance Work plan.                      The Finance section staff and personnel of
FSSAP along with the other concemed PIU
personnel attended the workshop
24   Two days workshop on OSDP/WSSP/FEAP/ TEP implementation FSSAP, DSHE, MOE & NGO representatives
strategy.
25   Two days workshop on MIS system & development of stipend manual. FSSAP, FSSP, SEDP, Agrani Bank, DSHE
& MOE Officials
26   One day Discussion Meeting on Rapid Study and approval of TOR.  The concerned officials from FSSAP, DSHE,
MOE & WB. Beside TOPMs for six thanas
& HMs for six project Schools attended the
meeting
27   The FSSAP workshop at Washington and the Intemational Evaluation The Project Director of FSSAP and  five
Conference at Vancouver, Canada.                             officials participated in the workshop at
Washington. The International Evaluation
Conference at Vancouver was participated by
eight concerned Officials from MOE, FSSAP
& FSSP
28   Workshop on stipend disbursement issues (2nd installment) on 1991 118 TOPMs and FSSAP, DSHE, MOE & WB
- 26 -



and distribution of MIS & award confirmation form            Officials & Others
29   Workshop on implementation of WSSP                           62   selected  TOPMs   &    121  School
Headmasters concemed FSSAP officials
30   Computer Training on MIS data entry & processing             FSSAP officials and Typist cum clerks
31   Workshop on MIS & other issues                               118 TOPMs from 118 thanas
32   Workshop on WSSP implementation (2nd phase)                  121 TOPMs, Headmasters & Headmistresses.
33   Workshop on sustainability and follow-up of Female Stipend Program. 119 Participants, MOE, DSHE, FSSAP,
FSSP, SEDP, WB, NGOs, Agrani Bank,
_ __________________________________________                 Janata  Bank  &   Donor Agencies
34   Launching workshop in connection with Rapid Studies          35 participants (consultants-12, FSSAP, FSSP
and SEDP Officers)
35   Orientation workshop on Auditing of Thana Project Offices    DD/AD/PO of FSSAP
36   Orientation workshop for newly recruited APOs                Newly recruited APOs, 8 Nos.
37   Financial Management workshop                                DD/AD/POs of FSSAP
38   Workshop on stipend disbursement Issues and dissemination of MIS TOPM -118  PIU - 35
_ forms                                                      Total - 153
39   Orientation workshop on audit reports, 1995                  PIU   Officials,  Agrani  Bank  Officials,
Members of C/A firn (Howladar & Yunus
Co.), Members from DSHE.
40   Workshop on draft final audit report                         PJU   Officials,  Agrani  Bank  Officials,
Members of C/A firm (Howladar & Yunus
Co.), Members from DSHE.
41   Orientation workshop on Rapid studies                        PIU Officials
42   Training Course on store keeping & Inventory control         01 (Store Keeper of PIU)
43   Workshop on draft report of six Rapid Studies                Officials from MOE, DSHE, FSSAP, FSSP,
SEDP, WB, NGOs, Pathmark Associates
(Consultants) & others
44   Workshop to review the progress of project components        TOPMs of 118 TPOs & PIU Officials
45   Orientation Course on WSSP implementation                    TOPM-09, Headmasters- 120
46   Workshop with MTR Team                                       PIU Officers, MTR Team  Total 22 Persons
47   Training on Project Management & Development                 2-PIU Officers
48   Orientation Course on WSSP implementation (15 thanes)         15 TOPM + 150 HM =165 Persons
49   Orientation Course on WSSP implementation (54 thanas)        15 TOPM + 350 HM =365 Persons
50   Computer Training for Executives (DD+ADs)                    2DD+6AD= 8 Persons
51   Computer Training. for DET on Photoshop Program.             02 (DETs of PIU)
52   Computer Training. for PIU officials.                        02 PIU officers
53   Computer Training on POPMAP                                  01 PIU officer
54   Administrative and Financial management Training for PIU Officers  29 PIU officers
55   Computer Based presentation system using power point         01 Asst. Director
56   Orientation Course on WSSP implementation (23 thanas)        23 TOPM + 191 HM =214 Persons
57   Orientation Course on FEAP and OSDP implementation.           118 TOPM's
58   Orientation Course on WSSP implemnentation (71 thanas)       71 TOPM + 288 HM =359 Persons
59   Orientation Course on WSSP implementation (45 thanas)        45 TOPM + 288 HM =333 Persons
60   Computer Training on New Dimension of Office-97, Excel-97 and I DET, I Asst Auditor = 2 persons
Word-97
61   Workshop on stipend disbursement issues.                     PIU Officers &I 18 TOPMs of 118 Thanas.
62   Orientation Course on WSSP implementation                    MOE, DSHE PIU officials, Head of Inst. and
APOs
63   Workshop on Improvement of the quality of Education      and DSHE, HSEP, SEDP, FSSAP, FSSP, and
Management leading to academic supervision and monitoring.    concerned officials.
64   Briefing Session on Occupational Skills Development Program  PIU  officials concemed with OSDP and
.____   Training Organizations
65   Orientation Course on WSSP implementation                    MOE, DSHE PIU officials, Head of inst. and
APOs
66   Workshop on the Implementation of the Bonus Scheme           Officials from  the Agrani Bank, the PIU
officials and the TOPMs.
- 27 -



67   Workshop on Targeting Scheme.                                PIU officials, DEOs, TEOs, TOPMs, APOs,
Head of the institutions.
68   Workshop on Stipend and other issues.                        PIU officials, the TOPMs and the APOs of
118 thanas.
69   Computer Training on Visual Foxpro                           01 PIU Officer (DET)
70   Orientation Course on MIS Responsibilities of TOPMs          118 TOPM Concerned PIU Officials
71   Computer based Project Planning, Monitoring & Evaluation     01 (AD -M&E)
72   Computer Package course on Ms Word, Ms -Excel & Ms. Foxpro   02 (A/O, PO)
73   Prevention of Hardware Maintenance & operation               PIU Officials & Class-lll employees
74   Computer based Project planning M&E and Decision Support System  01 Project Officer (M&E)
75   Application of computer based on windows-98 office-97, Word-97 and 01 AD (Stipend)
Excell-97
76   Orientation Course on WSSP Implementation                    HMI Super, APOs Concerned PIU Officials
77   Workshop on Stipend disbursement Issues                      118 TOPMs, Concerned PIU Officials
78   Orientation Course On FEAP Implementation                    118 TOPMs & Concern PIU Officials
79   Onentation course on WSSP Implementation                     216 HM/ Super & Concerned PIU Officers
80   Training on Computer Applications                            01 DD (Program Operation)
81   Training. on Project Management and Development.             02 AD (M&E), PO (Field)
82   WSSP orientation course                                      106 Head Masters
83   WSSP Workshop at thana level                                 Teachers and Students of local schools and
local elites.
84   PC Hardware Maintenance and trouble shorting                 I (one) Computer Programmer
85   Orientation course on WSSP Implementation                    75+211 Persons
86   Briefing Session for the Workshop on WSSP at thana level     25 UOPMs
87   Workshop on Water Supply and Sanitation and Social awareness o  3850 Persons
health and hygiene practices with special reference to strengthenin
Rhe funetions of Users Group at thana level
88   Computer Training on Oracle 8i &     Developers 6 at Axiom 01 Person
technologies Ltd
89   Trining Course on Office English                             01 Pepon
90   Workshop on Problems and Solutions in Stipend Disbursement at the 251 Persons
field levels
91   Workshop on Financial Requirement, Allocation, Expenditure an  118 Persons
Audit and Accounts
92   Orientation Course on WSSP Implementation                    370 Persons
93   Computer Training on Presentation Skill Development based on Powe 01 Person
lPoint 2000
94   Workshop on Selection of Under served Areas for the Outreacl 40 Persons
Program of roposed FSSAP-2
95   Project Management for UOPMs                                  118 Persons
96    Financial Management for APOs                                118 Persons
List of Overseas Training / Study Tour Programs
SL. No. Program                         Days  Participants from   No.of        Time Schedule    Venue
Participants
I    Training     on      Computer    14   PIU, MOE             14          18-8-97 to 31-8-97 Singapore
Management
2    Training on Project Management   10   PIU, MOE, SHE & FD 04            25-9-97 to 4-10-97 USA
3    Training on Project Management   10   PIU, MOE             06          27-10-97       to India
5-11-97
4    Training     on      Financial   14   PIU, MOE             10          5-9-97 to 18-9-97 Malaysia
Management
5    Study   Tour  on   Community     15   PI, MOE, PM Office, 15           15-8-97 to 8-9-97  China & Thailand
Awareness                             UPOs
- 28 -



6    Study Tour on Water Supply &    15   PIU, MOE, POs       15         28-8-99 to 11-9-99 Australia   &
Sanitation  Facilities in  Rural                                                    Malaysia
Schools - A Comparative Study.
7    Advanced Training on Project    15   PIU, MOE, UPOs      14          26-7-99 to 9-8-99 Indonesia
Monitoring and Evaluation
8    Study Tour on Social Awareness  15   PIU, MOE, UPOs      14          26-7-99 to 9-8-99 Australia & New
on Female Education with Special                                                     Zealand
Reference to Health and Hygiene
- A Comparative Study
9    Advanced Training on Project    15   PIiU, MOE, DSHE, 8              4.9.99 to 18-9-99  U.S.A
Management                           Planning Commission
- 29 -



Additional Annex 9. Borrower's Contribution to ICR
1. Background:
Almost half of the total population of Bangladesh is women. Their educational attainment is among the lowest in the
world. The 1991 census showed that only 20% of the women were literate. One of the challenges of the country's
education system was low enrolment and low attainment of girls in the secondary education level. During the early
'90s, the disparity in access to secondary education between boys and girls was very significant. In 1990, only about
33% of the total enrollees in secondary schools were girls. Further the proportion of girls completing secondary
schools was less than half the rate for boys.
In order to make the women folk of the country conscious, educated and capable, the Government of Bangladesh
launched a series of programs from January 1990 that aimed at exempting girls living outside the metropolitan areas
from paying tuition fees from the grades 6-8. But this program was soon considered to be insufficient for continuing
their education up to grade 10. As a result, it was necessary to launch a broad-based stipend program for achieving
the objectives and targets of the Fifth Five Year Plan. It may be mentioned that stipend program for the girls was
first introduced on experimental basis in one upazila (Shahrasti in Chandpur) only with the support of USAID
during the Eighties. Later on, NORAD expanded this program to seven upazilas. Inspired by the success of these two
programs, the Government of Bangladesh and IDA decided to undertake Female Secondary School Assistance
Project (FSSAP) with a view to reducing the disparity in access to secondary education between boys and girls.
The Objectives
The FSSAP was an integrated package designed to incorporate a number of interventions to close the gender gap in
secondary education and raise the status of females in the economy and the society. The specific objectives of the
project were to:
a)      increase the number of girls' enrolment in grades 6-10 and assist them to pass their SSC/Dakhil
examination;
b)      increase the number of secondary education teachers in the project schools and raise the proportion of
female teachers;
c)       provide occupational skills training to school leaving girls interested in entering the labor market;
d)       promote a supportive community environment for girls' education through widespread public awareness
about the merits of female educational, social and economic development;
e)       provide a healthier and safer environment for girls by enhancing school attractiveness though community
participation in school-based water supply and sanitation programs and
f)       provide, for the project, implementation support and capacity building assistance at national and thana
(now upazila) levels.
Initially, the FSSAP was to be implemented in two overlapping phases in 118 Thanas (59 thanas in 1994 and 59
thanas in 1997), which were identified on the combined basis of low income, low female literacy levels and low
female attendance levels. A larger number of applicants than originally appraised made the Government of
Bangladesh decide to implement the FSSAP in all 118 thanas simultaneously in 1994 and to expand the subventions
concept into a Nation-wide Female Stipend Program in all the rural upazilas. Under this program three other stipend
projects undertaken were:
a)       Secondary Education Development Project (SEDP), an ADB-supported project covering 53 upazilas, now
under Secondary Education Sector Improvement Project (SESIP);
b)       Female Secondary Education Stipend Project (FESP), supported by NORAD in 07 upazilas (now 19
upazilas)
c)       Female Secondary Stipend Project (FSSP), financed by GOB alone in 282 upazilas (now 270 upazilas).
- 30 -



Upon the launching of the nation-wide female stipend program, the original monthly stipend rates proposed under
FSSAP were reduced to make the rates affordable on a nation-wide basis with the huge number of girl students
involved.
The project objectives were in conformity with the pronounced strategy of the government for girls' education and
women's development. The project components were designed in way that each component corresponded with an
objective of the project. The components were structured after a thorough joint appraisal by the Government and the
World Bank.
2. Components of the Project
The components of the Project were:
i)       Stipend and Tuition Program (STP)
ii)      Teacher Enhancement Program (TEP)
iii)     Occupational Skills Development Program (OSDP)
iv)      Water Supply and Sanitation Program (WSSP)
v)       Female Education Awareness Program (FEAP)
vi)     Institutional Development Program (IDP)
3. Implementation experience: Output by Component:
3.1 Stipend and Tuition
Stipend and tuition program was the core component of FSSAP. The main objective of FSSAP was to
increase the secondary school enrolment of girls. With a view to attracting the Class-V graduates to
secondary schools, FSSAP had been providing stipends to the girls and tuition to the schools/madrasahs
against the stipend recipients.
The eligibility criteria for receiving stipends were:
a)    the girl will attend school at least for 75% of the total school days;
b)    she will obtain at least 45% marks on an average in the final examination
c)    she will remain unmarried till the S.S.C. Examination
The class-wise rate of stipends and tuition is given in table- 1 below:
Table 1: Rate of Stipends and Tuition
Grade        Stipend   Tuition (inTk.)            Book Allowance     SSC Exam. fee
(in Tk.)   Govt.                      Non-Govt.         (in Tk.) Tk)
6            25/-       10/-                      15/-
7           30/-       12/-                       15/-
8           35/-       12/-                       15/-
9           60/-       15/-                       20/-               250/-
10          60/-       15/-                       20/-               250/-
As a result of the introduction of this stipend and tuition program the enrolment of girls at the secondary level
increased tremendously. The number of girl students increased to 4.90 million girl-years against the targeted 4.54
million girl-years after the completion of admission in the academic year 2001.The growth was, in fact, far above the
Staff Appraisal Report estimates and projection trends. As a result the number of girls surpassed the number of boys
in the secondary level in 1999. It may be mentioned here that at the time of launching of the Project in 1993, the
enrolment of girls in secondary schools was 30% only against 70% boys. However, the MIS data reveal that even
though more girls are enrolled in the secondary education, they endure the same low quality education as their male
classmates in the rural schools. Of course, there were instances of some fake enrolment of girls (girls only in paper
- 31 -



but nonexistent) in some schools in the inaccessible areas.
The MIS study found very low dropout rates from the participating institutions, with a maximum of 3.00 percent in
any given project year for all classes. Absenteeism was higher than estimated in actual terms. However, many
institutions were found inflating attendance up to 75% required to get stipend.
Although schools reported that about 90% of the girls had obtained 45% marks or above (one of the eligibility
criteria for receiving stipend), their SSC pass rate was disappointing. There were real concerns about inflation of
marks in many cases. The SSC pass rate of the FSSAP girls students was slightly higher than the national average in
different years.
Disbursement of stipends and tuition were regularly delayed due to various reasons including non-availability of
GOB counterpart fund on time. New methodology should, therefore, be evolved to expedite the stipend disbursement
process and release of GOB counterpart fund.
The MTR Mission recommended that a 'Pilot Scheme' be taken in a few selected thanas to identify an effective
targeting mechanism for the longer term. It was felt that with the success and eventual completion of the
donor-supported stipend programs, it might be necessary for the Government to transform the national program into
a targeted one in view of the limited resources. Consequently a study entitled "Design and Implementation of a Pilot
Scheme for Targeting Stipend Recipients" was conducted by hiring Pathmark Associates in 2000 in three upazilas,
namely, Gazaria (Munshiganj), Raipur (Laxmipur) and Kamalganj (Moulovibazar). The study suggested a number
of alternative models to provide financial support to the targeted girls.
Bonus Scheme:
The FSSAP introduced the Bonus Scheme in 1998 on the basis of a recommendation made by the World Bank
Mid-Term Review Mission in April 1997. Bonus Scheme was a small incentive mechanism to highlight the
importance of school quality. Under this program FSSAP rewarded schools/madrasahs annually that met
pre-specified performance criteria. The top 20% of the qualifying institutions received a bonus that was roughly
equivalent to a thirteenth-month tuition payment (ie. Tk. 15.00 multiplied by the number of schools' stipend
recipient girls). A two-tier ranking system was used to select the institutions for bonus. This acted as an incentive for
schools to perform better.
3.2. Teachers Enhancement Program (TEP)
The objective of this program was to increase the number of secondary school teachers in some specific subjects in
the project schools and raise the proportion of female teachers. The subjects were: English, Mathematics, Science,
Home Economics and Agricultural Science. There was a provision for recruiting 800 teachers, based on a
teacher-student ratio of 1:40.
Under this program as many as 1557 additional teachers were recruited centrally in five phases and posted to
different project schools based on requirements. Of them 756 teachers (306 female teachers) are now working in
different project schools. It may be mentioned here that every year since the first recruitment in 1996, some teachers
left the schools due to a variety of reasons, such as lack of proper accommodation in the school area, lack of good
communication system, lack of security especially for the female teachers, securing better jobs elsewhere and so on
as revealed in the results of a survey conducted by the PIU in 2000.
The target of recruiting 800 teachers and retaining them in their workplace was nearly met. Another achievement of
TEP is that among the newly recruited teachers there are about 40% female teachers. These teachers have already
proved their efficiency in enhancing the quality of education through their sincere teaching. The process of transfer
of the services of these teachers to the regular revenue budget of the government is now underway.
- 32 -



3.3. Occupational Skdlls Development Program (OSDP)
The objective of this program was to provide skills training to the drop-out girls interested in entering the labor
market. During the entire project period 5240 drop-out girls were imparted training through NGOs on different
trades such as (i) Sewing and Embroidery (ii) Poultry and Vegetable Cultivation (iii) Sericulture (iv) Apiculture v)
Mat Making and so on.
Of the many trades on which training was imparted to the drop-out girls, sewing was considered to be the most
popular course, not only because each trainee girl received a sewing machine, but also because it imparted a
permanent skill that could be used for income generation as well as for domestic purposes. The Project organized
training courses in various selected trades for 5240 drop-out girls through NGO during the project period. An
evaluative study should be conducted to assess the impact of the program on the trainees.
3.4. Female Education Awareness Program (FEAP)
The main objective of this component was to promote a supportive community environment for girls' education
through widespread public awareness of the benefits of female educational, social and economic development.
To achieve this objective FSSAP undertook the following activities every year:
a)       Development and production of printed materials, such as colorful leaflets, posters, brochures, calendars,
diaries and their distribution among the target groups.
b)       Production and showing of motivational documentary films and short films on female education and on
FSSAP activities in the project institutions and important public places.
c)       Production and showing of campaign films (advertisement) in the electronic media.
d)       Organizing girls rallies and prize-giving ceremonies for the best students, best teacher, best school, best
School Managing Committee (SMC), best Parent Teachers Association (PTA) and best essay writer at the
upazila level.
This component was proved to be effective in creating awareness among the community about the benefits of
educating girls, but it could be redesigned to make the students, teachers, guardians aware of the quality of
education. Future programs of this kind should, therefore, focus more attention on quality of secondary education
rather than quantity only.
3.5. Water Supply and Sanitation Program (WSSP)
The main objective of this program was to provide a healthier and safer environment by enhancing school
attractiveness through community participation in school-based water supply and sanitation facilities. Under this
program 3999 latrines were constructed and 3985 tube-wells sunk in the project institutions. A 'User Group'
consisting of members from the teachers, students and parents was formed in each institution for imparting and
developing knowledge and skills to maintain the facilities and promote hygienic practices. This component was
effective in enhancing school attractiveness through installation of pure drinking water and sanitation facilities in
the project institutions with the help of community.
The water samples of 2091 tube-wells were tested for arsenic contamination. Of these 296 tube-wells were arsenic
contaminated and were sealed. In future programs like this, attempts must be taken to ensure supply of arsenic-free
water to avoid serious health hazards.
3.6. Institutional Development Program (IDP)
In order to effectively implement and manage a project of the size and complexity of FSSAP, an institutional
development program was included in the Project. This included the creation and strengthening of a PIU and
- 33 -



building up of a strong implementation capacity at the upazila level.
Under this Program, a PIU consisting of 72 staff headed by a Project Director and Thana Project Office consisting of
7 staff headed by a Thana Office Project Manager (TOPM) each in all the 118 project thanas (now upazilas) were
established. A number of committees such as a National Steering Comnmittee headed by the Secretary, Ministry of
Education at the national level and an Implementation Monitoring Committee headed by the District Education
Officer at the District level to strengthen coordination between the four stipend projects and a upazila Advisory
Committee headed by the Upazila Nirbahi Officer (UNO) to monitor the progress of implementation of the
respective projects were constituted. Under this program a comprehensive MIS capability has also been developed at
PIU which processed and analyzed necessary inforrmation and data. The Data Processing Center (DPC) managed the
MIS. The DPC was staffed by one Data Processing Manager, one Computer Programmer and four Data Entry
Technicians. The Upazila Project Offices enabled the PIU to maintain close contact with the schools, SMCs, PTAs
and other local organizations. Besides, required training were provided to the officials and staff at every level.
The 72 officials and staff of PIU and 826 officials and staff at the field levels all worked hard with sincerity and
dedication for the successful implementation of the Project.
However, sudden transfer of some key personnel from PIU during the project period hampered the effective and
timely implementation of various components of the project to some extent. In order to ensure continuity of smooth
operation of any project it would be necessary for allowing the skilled project personnel to continue to offer their
services in the position they are posted as far as possible.
- 34 -



The component-wise physical and financial progress of the Project is given in Table-2
Table-2: Component-wise Physical and Financial Progress   (In Lakh Taka)
Items of                   Target Ias per PP)      Actual Progress
work (as per PP)            Financial   Physical   Financial   Physical
(Quantity)       ~~(Quantity)
1                         3          4           5           6
1. Stipend to Girls from Grades 6-10.   37714.27  45.39 Lakh  37506.10    49.04 Lakh
IGirls year              Girls year
2. Water Supply and Sanitation Program   1100.20   L=4037      1097.32    L=3999
(WSSP)                                         T=4022                 T=3985
3: Teacher Enhancement Program (TEP)    779.14     800 Per    747.92      800 Per
4. Female Education Awareness           290.51     L.S         283.39     L.S
Program(FEAP)
5. Occupational    Skills  Development 351.29      5240 Girls  349.65     5240 Girls
Program (OSDP)
6. Manpower
a. Project Implementation Unit (PIU)   348.61    72 Per      347.25     72 Per
b. Upazilla (Thana) Project Office (UPO)  2617.81  826 Per   2599.47     826 Per
7. Project Management Training (Trg.and  278.57    LS         268.69      LS
Training materials)                            _
8. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)       0.65                 .65         LS
9. Technical Assistance,  Inspection Fees  437.76  192 MM      408.30     LS
and Studies
10. a. Vehicles                          135.10   125 Nos.     135.10     125 Nos.
b. Equipment (PIU + UPOs)            139.58    827 Nos.    139.58      827 Nos.
c. Furniture (PIU + UPOs)            97.21     3047 nos.   97.21       3047 nos.
d. Computer                          73.63     LS          73.31       LS
e. Telephone, Fax and Intercom       18.46     LS          17.53       LS
11. Others   a.  Office  Accommodation  79.28      1 18+PIU   79.28       118+PIU
(PIU + UPO)
b. Consumables (PIU + UPOs)          387.14    LS          387.14      LS
c. TA and DA of officers             269.39    LS          255.05      LS
d. Bank Service Charge (outstanding)  500.00   LS          390.00      LS
TOTAL                                    45618.60              45182.96
- 35 -



4. TRAINING
A large number of training programs, both in-country and overseas, were organized during the project period to
create awareness about the FSSAP project and its objectives, to familiarize staff with their responsibilities and to
impart them with basic skills and competencies. A total of 96 local training programs and workshops/orientation
courses were organized for PIU staff, upazila officers, and officials of other agencies involved in the implementation
of the Project. In addition to local training programs, a number of overseas training/study tour programs were also
organized.
5. PROCUREMENT
In order to undertake frequent field visits by the field level officers and officers of the PIU with a view to ensuring
smooth operation of the Project 5 (five) vehicles of different types (two jeeps and three microbuses) for the PIU and
120 motor bikes, (118 for UPOs and 2 for PIU) were procured. A total of Tk. 135.10 lakh was spent for the purpose.
To equip the PIU and UPOs various types of useful office equipment were procured at a cost of Tk. 139.58 lakh.
Under this component, a sum of Tk. 97.21 lakh was spent for providing various types of fumiture to PIU and 118
Upazila Project Offices.
In order to establish a strong MIS at PIU, a good number of required hardware and software were purchased at a cost
of Tk. 73.31 lakh. With a view to establishing communication network with UPOs, DEOs, DSHE, MOE, World
Bank and other concemed offices telephone, intercom, email and intemet facilities were installed at PIU at a cost of
Tk. 17.53 lakh.
6. DISBURSEMENT
The disbursement performance of the Project was satisfactory and timely throughout the entire implementation
period of the project. Out of a total allocation of SDR 49.50 million to be provided by IDA for the project, an amount
of SDR 47.22 million was disbursed up to 30 June 2001. An application (no. 34) for disbursement of SDR 371116.30
was sent to World Bank on 10 October 2001.
7. PERFORMANCE OF AGRANI BANK
A Participation Agreement was signed between the Ministry of Education and Agrani Bank for provision of banking
services under the Project. Although there were some delay every year in the disbursement of stipend to the girls and
tuition to the schools against the stipend recipient girls and salaries to the additional teachers, the overall
performance of Agrani Bank was more or less satisfactory. Barring a few exceptions, all the concemed officers and
staff of Agrani Bank, both at the central and field levels, were cooperative and helpful throughout.
A number of factors such as (i) lack of effective coordination among UOPMs, DEO and Agrani Bank Officials (ii)
inadequate manpower and other resources at the branches (iii) security problems when transporting stipend money to
remote locations (iv) long processes for opening accounts for girls-all conspired to delay the disbursement of stipend
and tuition. These issues will need to be addressed in the implementation of any future stipend program.
8. AUDITS
8.1. General Audit.
The Foreign Aided Project Audit Directorate (FAPAD) conducted annually the audit of accounts of FSSAP. There
were as many as 101 audit observations made by FAPAD during the period from FY 1992-93 to FY 1999-2000.
- 36 -



Broad Sheet Replies to all the year-wise audit observations with recommendations and comments of MOE were sent
to FAPAD in due time. Several bilateral and tripartite meetings were held during the past two years to resolve the
observations. 44 audit observations have so far been resolved.
More bilateral and tripartite meetings are being held to resolve the remaining unresolved observations.
8.2. Special Audit of Stipends and Tuition Accounts:
Every year a huge amount of money was disbursed to the hundreds of thousands of stipend recipients and institutions
through a large number of bank branches in the rural areas. It was very important to make sure that these funds were
used for the intended purposes. With this end in view, a covenant was incorporated in the Participation Agreement
between MOE and Agrani Bank to carry out special audit of stipends and tuition accounts by a chartered Accountant
Firm. To meet this requirement Howlader Yunus & Co., a renowned chartered accountant firm, was first hired to
audit the 1994 and 1995 stipends and tuition disbursement. The audit for the academic years 1996 and 1997 was also
carried out by Howlader and Yunus & Co. While the audit of the stipend and tuition accounts for the academic years
1998 and 1999 was carried out be M. I. Chowdhury & Co., another renowned chartered accountant firm of
Bangladesh.
Based on the observations of all these audits remedial measures were taken by both Agrani Bank and FSSAP.
9. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Technical assistance to the Project was aimed at assisting the PIU in three major areas: (i) monitoring and evaluation
of the Project through a well-developed MIS; (ii) audit and inspection and iii) training and community mobilization.
In 1993, a Management Technical Assistance (MTA) team of Consultants, Institute of International Research (IIR),
was contracted for a period of 156 staff-months. However, the team failed to accomplish the tasks assigned in the
TOR. As a result the IIR's contract was cancelled by the government after 56 staff-months. The services of three
local consultants engaged to assist the foreign team were also terminated.
The MIS consultant contributed extremely to enable FSSAP to develop capacity to process its own data
independently. A Data Processing Manager had been working for the entire project period to assist the PIU in the
management of its DPC and in the implementation of the MIS system designed by the MIS consultant.
A local firm, Pathmark Associates, was hired in May 1996 to conduct six rapid studies on the project.
10. EVALUATIVE STUDIES
FSSAP conducted three evaluative studies in the year 2000, namely,
a) study on the Role of SMC and PTA in Ensuring Quality Education of Girls in Project Schools;
b) study on the Identification of Reasons for the Appointed Teachers (Specially Female) not joining their posts under
TEP; and
c) study on the Performance in the SSC examination of stipend Recipients of FSSAP.
11. Lessons Learned:
* In future intervention of the same kind, more attention should be paid to the issues of fake enrolment and fake
attendance. The fact that the SSC results of the FSSAP girls are not commensurate with the their overall
performance during the stipend years raises question about the quality of education in the schools. This needs to be
addressed.
* Constraints of the female teachers in staying in remote villages are considerable. To solve some of the social
problems, PTAs and SMCs should have a more proactive role. Deficiencies in incentives should also be seriously
considered.
- 37 -



* Better physical environment and separate latrine facilities in school were found to have a positive impact on
attracting girls to school.
* There was weak monitoring and supervision at the field level. UOPMs were the link between the field and the PIU.
But their weak capacity to monitor and supervise the activities of schools was largely due to the fact that they
wielded no such authority. Some UOPMs reported to have been threatened by influential people of the schools and
community. These factors, compounded by the lack of training and the absence of clear career paths, bred insecurity
and prevented the UOPMs from carrying out their duties effectively and efficiently in many cases. Accountability,
monitoring and supervision system both at the PIU and field levels should, therefore, be strengthened in the similar
future projects.
* There should be a more simplified bureaucratic process for release of counter-part funds that involved various
agencies of the Government.
* The services from the participating bank should be rendered in a more professional and timely manner.
Coordination between implementing agencies on the ground and Agrani Bank was less than efficient. This needs to
be addressed.
* The members of the SMC, PTA, in particular, and the community, in general, were not that much aware of the
quality of education. Instead most of them were happy just in sending their daughters to schools without having any
concern for and knowledge about quality education. It would, therefore, be of utmost importance to widen the role
SMC and PTA members and increase the participation of community in the upcoming project to derive lasting
benefit.
12. Evaluation of the Performance of the World Bank:
The performance of the World Bank right from the identification to the completion of the Project was extremely
satisfactory. The donor-borrower relationship was cordial, beneficial and productive during the entire project period.
Supervisory Missions were very professional, timely and constructively critical providing necessary advice and
guidance for the proper and effective implementation of the Project. Both the donor and the borrower were
responsive positively to the practical situation and needs that arose during implementation Problems, constraints and
bottlenecks in the implementation of the Project were correctly identified and adequately addressed. The concerned
officials of the donor agency, both at the local office and headquarters, were extremely generous in extending their
cooperation, advice, support and guidance throughout the process of implementation of the Project The coordinated
efforts of the officials of both the donor and the borrower ultimately culminated in the successful implementation of
the Project which received a World Bank award for excellence in girls' education in 2000.
13. Utilization of Funds for the Interest of the Target Beneficiaries:
FSSAP was mainly a stipend program for secondary school girls. More than 80 percent of the total project cost was
spent for stipend to girls and tuition to the schools against the stipend recipients. The project's Teacher Enhancement
Program (TEP) was designed to provide additional teachers to the schools who are contributing to enhancing the
quality of secondary education. The tube-wells and twin latrine facilities provided to the institutions under the Water
Supply and Sanitation Program(WSSP) of the Project are being used by the students. Dropout girls were imparted
training on different trades under Occupational Skills Development Program (OSDP) of the Project. The Projects
Female Education Awareness Programs (FEAP) was proved effective in making the people aware of the benefits of
girl's education.
In view of the above considerations and the achievement of the main objective of the Project in increasing the
secondary school enrolment of girls, it can definitely be said that the funds were utilized properly for the interest of
the target beneficiaries (i.e. girl students) for whom the Project was designed.
- 38 -



' t   \  <  ', I N D I A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'       BANGLADESH         92
; A~ ",'tAom: R tFEMALE SECONDARY SCHOOL
A;S XK). A \~~~R~t                                ASSISTANCE PROJECT
,t)' 1)  91 tt  ,F >  ,  t                                t    1 ~~~~~L-PROJECTTHANAS
-26- <>S - t< ' oh                                                THANA HEADQUARTERS         THANA BOUNDARIES -
[t8gF! 51 >   3\IiLip_ _  srF-n i/' r          *  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS  -DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
*X                    <,0 g c1\ hJ -z-qt- s 'F '- -'{ d @ ~~~~0 DIVISION HEADQUARTERS  = DIVISION BOUNDARIES
Slr9,, ,, I .q-e ee1~~~~~~~~~ NATIONAL CAPITAL        -       -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
t-    >./o.X.)-7tEr.-.-
-25'(                2-5\ S         ,
WK/12 b                    :,
6&, > 1j ii'[' n";,(
L~~~~ :V.                                   >.-X                       r 
RINDIA                                A                                                                     '
S   f :  ;S tS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                   e~a
b ,   \ t J ^ g  \  V  -   :   1   r:   i   ^                                          t U  1 3> ' ............. 4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
-2r                                                                                                                    24=- t0o  11L<28 E  U_t 0 2
t _   |~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~ N          DA  5   Y A I R  
.  \  4  :             0   1   20  3   410  5 MILE                                       \ th    YANMA
Z   .-.  s.   \   Aw  Z  2 1   0   2 0   4 0   150   E 0  KIL O M E TE R S                   \  \        21~~~~~~~~~~J .
C   w  / ASRI LANKA                       goo                       91@                       912       \,        oJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-23'                                                     F-                              23t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0









-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IMAGING
Report No.:                     24219
Type;            UsR



