                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                    Report No. 26226




                 PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENTREPORT

                                   BANGLADESH

              FEMALESECONDARY SCHOOL ASSISTANCEPROJECT
                                   (CREDIT 2469)



                                    June 20,2003




Sector and ThematicEvaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

CurrencyEquivalents(annual averages)

Currency Unit =Taka

1993                           US$1.oo                       Tk 39
2001                           US$1.oo                       Tk 54



AbbreviationsandAcronyms

DHSE                               Directorate of Secondary and Higher Education
FFSAP                              Female Secondary School Assistance Project
GDP                                Gross domestic product
ICR                                Implementation Completion Report
LIL                                Learning and InnovationLending
M I S                              Management Information System
N G O                              Non-governmental Organization
NORAD                              Norwegian Agency for Development
OED
ssc                                Operations Evaluation Department
                                   Secondary School Certificate
TVET                               Technical and vocational education and training
UNESCO                             UnitedNations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural
                                   Organization
USAID                              U.S. Agency for InternationalDevelopment

* As ofJuly1,2001, Project Performance Audits have been renamed Project Performance Assessments




Fiscal Year

Government:                    January 1-December           31




Director-General, Operations Evaluation                                  : Mr.Gregory K.Ingram
Acting Director, Operations Evaluation Department                        : Mr.Nils Fostvedt
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation                                  : Mr.Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                                             : Ms.HelenAbadzi

                                                             i



   OED Mission:Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellenceand independencein evaluation.


About this Report
      The OperationsEvaluationDepartmentassessesthe programsand activitiesof the World Bankfor two
 purposes:first, to ensurethe integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocessand to verifythat the Bank'swork is
 producingthe expected results,and second,to help develop improveddirections, policies,and proceduresthrough
the dissemination of lessonsdrawn from experience.As partof this work, OED annually assessesabout 25 percentof
the Bank's lendingoperations.Inselectingoperationsfor assessment, preferenceis givento those that are
innovative, large, or complex;those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for which
 Executive Directorsor Bank managementhave requestedassessments;and those that are likelyto generate
important lessons.The projects,topics,and analyticalapproachesselectedfor assessmentsupport larger evaluation
studies.
      A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is based on a reviewof the ImplementationCompletion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsibleBank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussionswith projectstaff and beneficiaries.The PPARthereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR,as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.
      Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED managementapproval. Once cleared internally,the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank departmentand amended as necessary.The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review;the borrowers'comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors.After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the OED Rating System
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessarylevel of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic methodto arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevance of Objectives: The extentto which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectiveswere achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance.Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency:The extent to which the projectachieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higherthan the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible.This rating is not generallyapplied to adjustment operations.
      Sostainability:The resilience to risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      Institutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improvesthe ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resourcesthrough: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability,and predictability of institutional arrangementsand/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate,which derives from these
institutional arrangements. InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact includes both intended and unintendedeffects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expectedto be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementationthrough appropriatesupervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possibleratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly
unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibilityto ensure
quality of preparation and implementation,and compliedwith covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly unsatisfactory.


                                                                            ...
                                                                            111



Contents

PrincipalRatings          ...........................................................................................................................           v

Key StaffResponsible              ....................................................................................................................          v

Preface  ..........................................................................................................................................             ..
                                                                                                                                                              vi1

Summary     .......................................................................................................................................            ix

Background      ....................................................................................................................................            1

Objectives andImplementationofthe AssessedProjects                                               ..........................................................     2

        ImplementationExperience ................................................................................................                               4
        Student Response in Project Areas Was Overwhelming....................................................                                                  4
         ...despite Financial and Procedural DifJiculties................................................................                                       6
        Paucity of Data to Assess Project Effects Robustly ............................................................                                         8
        Did FSSAP Significantly Stimulate Girls' Enrollments in Grades 6-10? ..........................                                                         9
        Do FSSAP Students Go to School?...................................................................................                                    11
        Did FSSAP Help Girls Pass the Secondary School Leaving Examination?.....................                                                               12

Ratings  ................................................................................................         .........................................    15

        Institutional Development Impact.....................................................................................                                  16
         Sustainability ....................................................................................................................                   16
        Bank Performance ............................................................................................................                          17
        Borrower Performance .......................................................................
Issuesfor FutureConsideration                        .................................................................................................         18

        For Secondary Education Poor Girls Need Special Help ................................................                                                  18
         Quality Issues are Still Unresolved ..................................................................................                                20
        Private Secondary Education Poses Serious Challenges in Bangladesh .........................                                                          21
        Lessons..............................................................................................................................                 22

Annex A ProjectActivities
          .                                 .......................................................................................           ,.................25
Annex B BasicData
          .                     ....................................................................................................................           31


Tables

                                                                                                                                                                4
Table 2 Secondary-Level EnrollmentsBefore andDuring Stipend Programs.............................
Table 1.Tuition andfees giveninthe form of stipends ..................................................................
        .                                                                                                                                                      11

This reportwas preparedby HelenAbadzi. who assessedthe projectinJune 2002.The report was editedby
WilliamB.Hurlbut. andPilarBarqueroprovidedadministrativesupport.


                                                        V



PrincipalRatings

                                 ICR*                              ES*                             PPAR
Outcome                       Satisfactory                                                Moderately Satisfactory
Sustainability                   Likely                                                             Likely
Institutional                 Substantial                                                          Modest
Development
Borrower                      Satisfactory                                                       Satisfactory
Performance
Bank Performance              Satisfactory                                                       Satisfactory
*The ImplementationCompletionReport (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsibleoperational division of the Bank. The
Evaluation Summary (ES) is an intermediate OED product that seeks to independentlyverify the findings of the ICR.
OED review of the ICR has not been completed, pendingfinalizationof the PPAR.

Key StaffResponsible

              Project                  Task Manager/Leader             Division Chief/            CountryDirector
                                                                       SectorDirector
   Appraisal                              Paula Valad                 Martin Karcher              Ann Hamilton
   Completion                             Subrata S. Dhar             Charles C. Griffin          FrederickThomas
                                                                                                  Temple


                                               vii


Preface

        This ProjectPerformance Assessment Report (PPAR) covers an education project
Bangladesh: Female Seconday SchoolsAssistanceProject (Credit 2469-BAN), which was
approved for an IDA credit o f US$68 million equivalent infiscal 1994. Total project cost was
US$88.4 million equivalent. After a one-year extension, the project closed on June 30,2001, and
an undisbursed balance of US4.35 million was cancelled.

        The assessment was conductedto study the effectiveness o fBank strategy insome
extremely poor areas of the country with complex cultural and gender-related problems.

        The PPAR i s based on the following sources: the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR), Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), Credit Agreement for the project, and project files,
particularly the supervision reports. An OED mission visited Bangladesh inJune 2002 to collect
other pertinent information. The mission visitedupazila offices as well as 12 schools and
madrasas inthe upazilas o f Savar, Kalyapur, and Homna The author thanks the govemment
officials who receivedthe mission for their extensive cooperation. Thanks are also given to the
country office staff who helpedthe mission.

         Following standard OED procedure, copies o f the draft PPARwere sent to the relevant
govemment officials and agencies for their review and comments, butnone were received.


                                                   1x


Summary

       The Bangladesh Female Secondary School Assistance Project (Credit 2469-BAN) was
approved for an IDA credit o fUS$68 million equivalent infiscal 1994. After a one-year
extension, the project closed on June 30,2001, and an undisbursed balance o f US$4.35 million
was cancelled.

       This complex, innovative, and highly acclaimed project gave tuition and stipends to all
girls inlow-literacy areas o fBangladeshto help those inthe poorest areas attend secondary
school and graduate from grade 10. As a condition for receiving stipends, the girls were to
maintain satisfactory grades and attendance, and parents had to agree to delay the girls'
marriages.

       Over the life o f the project, enrollments o f girls in supported schools more than doubled,
and overall about 1.6 million girls received stipends. Also, donor and government funds helped
expand stipend awards to girls in all rural areas, an event that has greatly increased access to
secondary schools inrural areas. Unfortunately, most supported students didnot graduate:
school-leaving examinationpass rates o f grade 10 students were about 21-29 percent inthe years
when data were available compared withnationalaverages o f about 31-42percent. Thus, the
dual objective o f increasing enrollments and assisting girls so that they would graduate was only
partly achieved. Project efficacy was compromised because crucial educational support to
students was reducedin the first year o fthe project to accommodate more students. The stipends
were reducedto amounts too small to cover the school-related expenses, and the 11,800 teachers
were to be hired were reducedby 96 percent; ultimately only 655 o f the revisedtarget o f 800
reported for work. Data from schools reported that 90 percent o f students attended at least 75
percent o f the time and had scores o f at least 45 percent. However, repeated classroom
observations by Bank missions invarious schools showed attendance at 50-60 percent o f
enrollments, and some classrooms hadno space or teachers to accommodate the students
enrolled. Without attending class or receiving (often unaffordable) private tuition, students
cannot master the content and pass examinations.

       Significant data distortions resulted because some o fthe almost exclusively private
secondary schools (e.g. 9 inone random sample o f 20) overstated student enrollments to
maximize tuition revenues. (Bangladesh has almost no public secondary education, but subsidizes
teacher salaries inmany private schools.) Schoolmanagement committees and parent-teacher
associations were expected to provide quality control, but according to project-financed studies,
the almost exclusively male members sometimes represented special interests, and the very poor
parents were not represented inthe committees. A Bank-financed study estimated financial
leakage o f stipends at 30 percent.

       Onthe positive side, reports o f enrolledmarried girls and dropouts due to marriage were
very few. Though fewer than a third of the girls graduated, being enrolled had a benefit. Later
marriages mean a lower fertility rate as well as reduced risks o f teenage pregnancy complications.

       Project outcome i s rated moderately satisfactory because main objectives were only
partly achieved. Institutional development i s rated modest. Sustainability i s rated likely, because
commitment to increasing enrollment and gender equity remains strong inBangladesh. Borrower
performance i s rated satisfactory because, despite problems, the government made a great effort
and implementedthe project. Bank performance i s also rated satisfactory, particularly because o f
the project's innovative design.

                                                X



Lessons

      Experience with the project confirms a number o f OED lessons from education projects:

   0  The very poor may enroll children to school inresponse to food or money. However,
      parents may do the minimumnecessary to get the desired benefit and not necessarily
      encourage children's attendance. Incentives must be tied to attendance, study, and
      passing o f examinations.

      Enrollment in school, although important, does not automatically bringabout education
      and information acquisition. Access to education o f low quality has dubious benefits.
      Given systemic difficulties, governments and donors must provide the very poor with the
      means to help them attend classes regularly and learn the requiredmaterial.


   0  People may modify social customs for earnings and status, particularly ifthese customs
      have drawbacks. Award o f stipends or possibly even simple cash transfers to families
      may be useful inpostponingmarriages for girls who didnot attend or finishprimary
      school, perhaps inthe form o f stipends for vocational training. The FSSAP experience
      may be useful ineradicating undesirable customs inother countries.


   0  Significant amounts o f overstated data ina database may make it hard to assess project
      effects. Decisions based on incorrect data may not help intended beneficiaries. Projects
      should aim at establishing realistic parameters and criteria for inclusion invarious
      programs in order to have greater data accuracy.


   0  Programs that have much social appeal may receive political support and be more
      sustainable. Thus, political support i s important. However, popular projects may also be
      harder to modify if governments perceive that their political benefits will be reduced;
      thus, criterion-based provisions for reviews shouldbe established early on.




                                                                          Gregory K.Ingram
                                                                          Director-General
                                                                          Operations Evaluation

                                                          1



Background

1.1       Women's education has been a long-term concern o f the government o f Bangladesh.
Female educational attainment levels have been among the lowest inthe world, preventing the
population from participating fully in development processes. The national literacy rate for
females was 20 percent in 1990 (age 5+) while that for males was 35 percent. Gender disparity in
education access, while present throughout the education system, widened significantly between
primary and secondary levels. In 1991, 75 percent o f girls ages 6 to 10 were enrolled inprimary
school but only 14 percent of girls ages 11to 16 were insecondary school. By comparison, 85
percent o f primary-age boys and 25 percent o f secondary age boys were enrolled.' IDA
responded to the country's education and populationissues by financing a series o f projects in
primary education and health that targeted the poor.2Despite those efforts, however, the lower-
income girls continued to get only a few years o f low-quality primary education and then went on
to early marriages, perpetuating a vicious circle o fpoverty and population increase. Also, the
stock o f girls qualified to go on to higher education or become teachers remained low.

1.2       In1977, alocalNGOinitiative was started to providegirls who hadcompleted primary
school with stipends for secondary school iftheir parents agreed to delay their marriage. It
expanded to six upazilas3with USAID financing from1988 to 1992. The program resultedin
raising female enrollment and attendance levels, increasing numbers o f girls completing grade 10
(who generally performedbetter than the national average in Secondary School Certificate, or
SSC, examinations), and delaying marriage. It also supplied tuition income to the schools that
operate inlower-income areas. In 1990, the government decided to expand the program and
invited the donor community to participate. Donor participation was necessary, because inthat
year the government abolished tuition for all girls injunior secondary grades, gr. 6-8; enrollments
at that level increased immediately by about 50 percent, and much financial support was needed.
Mere tuition waiver was insufficient to keep many girls in school; they needed extra help with
school expenditures.

1.3       IDA'Sprojectpreparationand design provedto be very challenging and complex. Itwas
impossible to target stipends only to the very poor students. Families make different schooling
decisions for boys and girls, so even families with some means might deprive girls of secondary
education. Also, Bangladesh has almost no public secondary schools. About 97 percent o f its
secondary schools are private, about 75 percent secular, and 25 percent religious (madrasa). Often
buildingsare onland donatedby communities or localbenefactors, but decisions regardingtheir
functions are made by private persons. Most private schools receive teacher salaries from the
government and are thus heavily subsidized, but they have no government supervision. L o w
salaries and a limitedpool of suitably educated people (particularly women) create chronic
teacher shortages. The schools locatedinpoorer areas charge low tuition and have very little
infrastructure, often lacking water or bathrooms. After an extensive study through a Japanese
Grant F a ~ i l i t yIDA designed a program o f graduated stipends and tuition fees for all girls in
                     , ~


1. 1991BangladeshPreliminaryCensus.
2. E.g. The FourthPopulationandFamily HealthProject(Credit 2559-BDof 1991) to improvewomen's access to
health, nutrition, andfamily planning services, and the GeneralEducationProject(Credit2118-BDof 1990) to expand
primary education, includingNGO schools.
3. Upazilaor thana is ageographical administrativedistrict.
4. Accordingto appraisalestimates, the average annualpersonalcost of secondaryeducation for girls inGrades 6-10 is
about US$54equivalent per student, rising from US$40 inGrade 6 to US69 inGrade 10. Madrasaswere excluded
fromthe projectas appraised. Implementationwas to be intwo phases, 59 upazilas ineach.

                                                          2


grades 6 through 10 residinginthe 118 most impoverishedupazilas. Those upazilas were
selected on the basis o f average income, female literacy, and female school attendance, but had a
mix o f economic levels, thus many beneficiaries were not poor.

 1.4      The appeal o f the stipendprogramwas such that in 1994 the govemment expanded it to
all 460 rural upazilas o fthe country. IDA agreed to reduce stipend amounts and finance girls'
attendance at madrasas, which had previously not been included. Inseparate but similarly
structured projects, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) financed stipends and tuition for 53
upazilas, the Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation (NORAD) for 19 upazilas, and
the govemment financed the remaining 270 upazilas. (Supervision inthe government's program
i s reportedly more limited, and NORAD does not finance stipends for madrasas.) After the first
IDA-financed project was completed, a follow-on IDAproject for US$121 million equivalent
became effective inMay 2002 (Cr. 3614-BAN).

Objectives and ImplementationoftheAssessed Projects

1.5       The Female Secondary School Assistance Project (FSSAP) was to stimulate a significant
increase in secondary school enrollment o f girls, thereby enlarging the stock o f educated women
capable o f participating fully ineconomic and social development o f the country. Specifically, it
sought to:

     0    increase the number o f girls enrolled inGrades 6-10 and assist them to pass their SSC
          examination:      so that they may continue their education or qualify for employment as
         primary and secondary school teachers, agricultural extension agents, health and family
         planning workers, NGO field workers, etc.
     0    increase the number o f secondary education teachers inthe project schools and raise the
         proportion o f female teachers;
     0   provide occupational skills training to school-leaving girls interested inentering the labor
         market as self-employed workers, semi-skilled and skilled workers, and private sector
          entrepreneurs;
     0   promote a supportive community environment for girls' education through widespread
         public awareness about the merits o f female educational, economic, and social
          development;
     0   provide a healthier and safer setting for girls by enhancing school attractiveness through
         community participation in school-based water supply and sanitation programs; and
     0    strengthen the Directorate o f Secondary and Higher Education (DSHE) inthe Ministry o f
         Education(MOE) through implementation support and capacity-building assistance at the
         national and thana levels.

1.6      Most o f the predominantly private schools serving the targeted upazilas were unattractive
and lacked separate washrooms and toilet facilities for girls. The number o f female teachers and
administrators was small, depriving girls o frole models to stimulate employment aspirations.
Early on, IDA expressed concern about the secondary education curricula, because they were not
adaptedto rural conditions and didnot provide many practical and useful skills. Components
were inserted duringappraisal to increase the number o f teachers (particularly women) and
improve toilet facilities, but it was not possible to intervene much inthe curricular and
instructional issues. ADB was about to implement a Secondary Science Education Project that
would strengthen science education curriculum and teaching, upgrade science facilities in about


5. As phrased, this objectivehas two parts, which must bothbe achievedfor the objectiveto be achieved. The PPAR
must assess the extent to which girls receivedassistanceinpassingthe SSC examinationandwhether they passed.

                                                     3


halfthe secondary schools, and enhance the project implementation capabilities o f the Directorate
o f Secondary and Higher Education6IDA'SGeneral EducationProject included studies o f major
secondary areas needing improvement, including planning, management, financing,
examinations, curriculum and textbooks, academic supervision and inspection, teacher education,
and female participation. These studies were expected to lead to educational quality
improvements. Thus, FSSAF' did not have a quality improvement objective. It depended on
other projects for quality improvements, but their outcomes proved limited.

1.7       The FSSAP components were revised in 1994, when nearly twice as many girls as
estimated at appraisal requested stipends. To serve more students, stipend amounts and numbers
o f teachers were reduced, though objectives were not amended. Thus, project components were:

     e    Stipend and Tuition(US$68.1 million, originally US$41.8 million, 77% o fproject
          costs): provision o f small stipends to female students ingrades 6-10 attending at least 75
          percent o f the time and obtaining annual examinationmarks o f at least 45 percent.
          Originally, stipends amounted to US$18-US$45 per student per year,' but were reduced
          to US$5-UD$16 by 2001 (Table 1). The stipends were to cover full tuition and Board
          examination costs and an increasing proportion o f school fees, textbooks, stationery,
          uniforms, shoes, transport, and kerosene (for lamps), reflecting girls' rising educational
          costs and need for an extra incentive inupper grades to reduce highdropout rates. Tuition
          was paid directly to qualified institutions.

     e    Teacher Enhancement(US$2.7 million, originally US$5.9 million, 3 percent o fproject
          costs): increase the number o f qualified teachers (especially female) inprogram-assisted
          schools.

     0    OccupationalSkills Development(US$2.3 million, originally US$5.6 million, 3 percent
          o f project costs): directed at out-of-school females and provided primarily cottage-
          industrytrainingthrough nongovernmentalorganizations (NGOs)with emphasis on
          textiles and agriculture.

     0    Water Supply and Sanitation(USS0.3 million, originally US$1.3 million, 0.3 percent
          o f project costs): to assist schools with drilling tube wells andproviding toilet facilities.
          Schools contributed20 percent o f the investment.

     e    FemaleEducationAwareness (US$1.7 million, originally US$4.7 million, 2 percent o f
          project costs): to buildpublic awareness about the value o f educating girls. Activities
          focused on productiono f videos and printmaterial for national distribution.

     0    InstitutionalDevelopment(US$13.3 million, originally US20.7 million): to develop the
          capacity o f the DHSEto implement and improve quality o f secondary education. This
          component included local training, technical assistance, maintaining local upazila
          program offices, monitoring and evaluation functions, and the project implementation
          unit(PIU) for atotal o f 13percent o fthe budget. The Agrani Bank, which disbursed
          funds to the students and schools, received2.5 percent o fthe tuition and stipend budget.
          Thus, administrative expenses amounted to about 15 percent o ftotal project cost.

1.8       Communities were to have oversight o f the project; eachparticipating institution was
required to have a school management committee to ensure that the school would meet program



6. An ADB follow-onproject appraisedin 2002 includedcurriculumandtextbook improvements,teacher training,
infrastructuredevelopment,and educationmanagementimprovements.
7.US$18 inGrade 6, US20 inGrade 7, US22 inGrade 8, U S 3 6 inGrade 9, and US$45 inGrade 10.

                                                          4


requirements. Parent-teacher associations were to be formed to discuss education problems and
concerns and help appoint female teachers.

ImplementationExperience

1.9        A projectimplementationunit (PIU) was set up at the Ministryo fEducation.
Implementation proved a Herculeantask, but most planned activities were carried out. (See
Annex A, Table 1.) Agreements were made with about 4,800 mainly private subsidized secondary
schools to accept the FSSAP tuition and conform to reporting requirements. The ministry
appointed 118 upazila-levelproject officers, who served as contacts with the schools. About
3,800 latrines and tubewells were constructed inthe participating schools to accommodate the
girls, and an awareness campaign was conducted. A management information system (MIS) was
developed to record data for at least 2.5 million girls at a time when Bangladeshhad a limited
capacity for this work. Officers o f the Agrani Bank showed much initiative inthe early stages o f
the project and set up a mechanismto distribute the stipends and tuition; and even allowed use o f
their computers for the nascent MIS. Duringthe first year o f implementation, project components
were reconfiguredto accommodate all girls who would apply. Thus, the number o f teachers to be
hired was reduced by 94 percent (from 11,800 to 800), and stipend amounts were cut by about 70
percent to the present level (Table l), i s considered insufficient for very poor families.'
                                             which
Project costs rose, and the government increased its counterpart funds share from 10 to 15
percent.

Table 1. Tuition andfees giveninthe formof stipends
   Grade       Monthly     US$      Monthly        US$      Tuition-
                                                            Monthly US$ Annual      Annual    US$ annual
             stipend (Tk) annual    Tuition - Annual                              Books and
                                  government                   non-               Examinatio
                                    schools               government              n Fees (Tk.)
                                       (Tk)                  schools
     6           25        5.36         10         2.14         15        3.21

     7           30        6.43         12         2.57         15        3.21

     8           35        7.50         12         2.57         15        3.21

     9           60       12.86         15         3.21         20        4.29       250        4.46

     10          60       16.07         15         3.21         20        4.29       250        4.46



Student ResponseinProjectAreas Was Overwhelming..                        .
1.10      According to data providedby the PIU data processing center, the enrollment o f girls in
FSSAP-assisted schools increasedby 105 percent from 462,000 in 1994 to 948,000 in 1999.
Ultimately about 1.6 milliongirls obtained about 4.9 million girl-years o f scholarship^.^
Absenteeism was reported to be only about 4 percent." Approximately 90 percent o f the girls
reportedly had at least a 75 percent attendance rate and achieved at least a 45 percent mark on the
annual school examinations. The comparative rates for boys inthe same schools are 86 percent
and 81 percent. (Comparative data for schools assisted by other stipend programs were not




8. Householdsstill must pay over Tk.500 more indirect costs and about Tk.2000 more every year to send their girls to
school from Class 6 to Class 10.Households able to send agirl to school must have adisposableincome of
approximatelyTk.2500 (about USrS50) andbewilling to forgo opportunitycosts as well (Darnell,2000).
9. Scholarshipswere for an average of three years, but some girls were supportedfor moreyears than others.
10. Ibid, p. 16.

                                                        5


available.") The government attributes gender parity in secondary educationto increased
enrollmentsdue to tuition-and-stipendprograms. Before implementation, girls constituted 33
percent o f enrollments, butby 1999, overall female secondary-school participation inthe country
had risen to 54 percent (Table 2). Two government staff members interviewedby the OED
mission attributedthe increased enrollments mainly to free tuition, because tuition must be paid
on a specific date, when parents may not have money.


               Number of FSSAP StipendAwardees byYear (All Classes Combined)




                    1994            1995            1996             1997          1998          1999
                                                            Year


1.11     Duringappraisal, there hadbeen concerns that negative attitudes toward girls' education
mightresult inhigher dropout rates. However, these didnot materialize, and stipend recipients
have stayed enrolled in schools. The percentage of girls reportedto leave school for reasons o f
marriage has been minimal, about 1.75 to 5 percent inthe early years o f the project, and dropped
to 0 in 1997.     Data collectedby the FSSAPPIU indicate a dropout rate o f only 1to 2 percent,I3
much lower than the nationwide rates, which range from 2.9 percent in grade 6 to 20.5 percent in
grade 10 (Annex A, Table 2). Thus, relatively few girls received the occupational skills training
                                  l4
that was planned for dropouts (Annex A, Table 2).




11. IDA mission observations and interviews.(Darnell, William G., "Bangladesh FemaleSecondarySchoolAssistance
Project(FSSAP), ImplementationConsiderations," AED, WashingtonD. C., October 2000.)
12.Ibid, p. 40.
13. Female Secondary SchoolAssistance Project.Monitoring Girls' Performancefrom the Year 1994-97.Ministry of
Education, undated(p. 11).
14. "A Study of Girls Dropout andNoncompletionof Programmeinthe Primaryand SecondaryEducationin
Bangladesh." 2000. Dhaka: UNESCO.Inmost cases the parentsseem to makethe decision.

                                                               6


 ,,.despiteFinancialandProcedural Difficulties

 1.12      With a project o f this size and social appeal, problems arose, some o fwhich hadnot been
identified sufficiently during appraisal. These are extensively documented intwo studied5and in
financial audit reports that sampled Agrani bank records and enrollments o f about 400 schools.                           16

The reports receivedmuch attention, and efforts were made over the years to reconcile and settle
the many irregularities found. (See also Annex A, Tables 3 and 4.)" The most important issues
reported are:

 1.13       Overstatement of girls' attendance and performance. Most schools apply the
marriage, attendance, and performance criteria; disqualifications increased every year, ranging
from 8% o f enrollments in 1994 to 15% in 1998.18 However, some schools may overstate
attendance and give inflated grades. Some may also admit to grade 6 girls who failed grade 5.19
Several schools were found to keep two registers, one for the FSSAP (form FSP-3) and one for
themselves, while others made corrections to the registers2' One financial audit found that "the
percentage o f overwriting inattendance registers ranged from 5 percent to 88 percent innine o f
the 20 schools visited." Ina survey o f 28 schools regardingreasons for not appearing at the final
SSC examination o f grade 10, 8 percent o f girls said that their grades or attendance were
falsified.21The poor results at the end o f grade 10 were incompatible with the reported attendance
and annual scores. The financial auditors concluded that more than 60 percent o f the stipend
recipients didnot achieve 45 percent marks in school examinations.

1.14       Excessivecharges in schools. A number o f schools also presented fictitious stipend
recipients and charged arbitrary fees to their students. The audit reports stated that the samples
were random. Though actual frequency o f the incidence inthe project i s unknown, a random




15. Miske, Shirley J., et al, "Beyond Access: Improving Educational Quality InFSSAP Schools inBangladesh." The
World Bank, Washington D.C., October 2000 O'Gara, Chloe and Jain, Shilpa. "Once Incentives, Now Entitlements:
ExaminingHousehold and Community Factors inthe FSSAP Program inBangladesh." The World Bank, Washington
D.C., October 2000.

16. Directorate o f Secondary and Higher Education. FSSAP. "Special report on Stipend, Tuition, and Salary Accounts
o f the Academic years 1998 and 1999." June 12,2001. M.I.Chowdhury and Co. Chartered Accountants, vols. 1-4. The
auditor undertook a detailed assessment o f FSSAP implementation at 20 randomly selected schools, one each in20
upazilas, for the academic year 1997. Vol. 4, a Bank-branch and upazila-wise report contains 270 pages o f various
financial and attendance irregularities. Vol. 3 shows comparisons between the school registry and the FSP-3 form and
contains 144pages o f examples where registries had been tampered with, didnot agree, had been overwritten, did not
tally with the official figures. Vol. 2 shows the SSC results o f the awardees. An audit conducted in 1995 by Howladar
Yunus and co. identified about 77 schools invarious financial irregularities.

17. Female Secondary School Assistance Project. "Workshop on the Problems and Solutions in Stipend Disbursement
at the FieldLevel." May 2000. NAEM, Dhaka.
18. Miske, 2000, p. 7.
19. The intemal audit reports over the life o f the project list over 300 schools with various violations in sampled areas,
but absolute numbers and overall levels o f incidence inFSSAP schools are unknown. (Female Secondary School
Assistance Project. "Workshop on the Problems and Solutions in Stipend Disbursement at the FieldLevel." May 2000.
NAEM, Dhaka, p. 3-4).

20. Chowdhury Financial audit Vol. 1, p. I11"most o f the managements o f the institutions adopted unfair means in
respect o f preparation o f FSP-3 form, presumably for getting tuition fees and also under pressure from local elites for
obtaining stipends for the students irrespective o f fulfilling eligibility criteria." For example, Bulbul Girls school in
Islampur upazila had 17 fake students out o f 67 (25%); another school reported fake students o f 7-16% per year.

21. Female Secondary School Assistance Project. "Study on the Performances in SSC Examination o f Stipend
Recipients o f FSSAP." Dhaka: February 2000.

                                                       7


sample may be representative o fpopulationparameters, which can be estimated.22The reports
refer to:

     0    "many fake students receiving stipends" (p. 3 vol. 1; also see Box 1, Annex A);
     0    teachers or headmasters taking commissions o f Tk 10-30 from the students (87 percent
          o f the audited sample, vol. 1, p.44);
     0    principals keeping girls' checkbooks and issuingchecks themselves;
     0    fees collected fi-om students at the time o f stipend disbursement such as game charges
          and examination fees. (For example, students inthe Homna upazila reported fines for
          absences to the OED mission.)

1.15      Though the amounts o f money involved ineach instance o f financial irregularities
mentioned above are very small, together they have a sizeable impact.23However, PIU staff and
project documents highlightedthe financial problems that FSSAP schools have. The government
often greatly delays disbursements o f the funds to these predominantly private schools (Annex A,
Table 6). Chronic delays inpaying for salaries may leave the predominantly schools with no other
choice than to somehow get extra income. The mission could not verify the extent o fthis
occurrence. Inaddition, some schools report that they are unable to meet their financial
responsibilities with the tuition amounts that the government pays and charge girls for building
use and other fees, thus increasing the private cost to them. There i s a concern that schools may
bereluctant to receive the poor girls who can afford only government fees.24

1.16      Limitedteacher recruitment. About halfthe 800 female teachers who were to be
recruitedby FSSAP didnot go to their posts. A survey found several reasons: low social status,
poor salaries, and lack o fpermission from families. The government requiredthat teachers be
assigned indistricts distant from their homes so that they would attend classes and not family
duties, but this limitedthe number o f recruits, particularly women. Many qualified graduates do
not find the profession attractive invillages. Furthermore, the audit found that though all the
project teachers were eventually paid, mostwere notpaidintime and many left the job.
Overall, every year, more than 10 percent o f secondary teachers leave teaching.25The teachers
who stay have low qualifications, and about 60 percent o f them obtained low scores in school.
Math, science, and Englishteachers are scarce, so, student skills inthese important areas may be
limited.

1.17      Specialinterestsof schoolmanagementcommittees.The committees should exercise
accountability and quality control, but there i s little evidence that they exercise any influence over
the school management inthe appointment o f teachers. Instead they may exert influence in
awarding stipends to ineligible girls.26A survey o f 16 schools found that members didnot meet


22.Nevertheless, a small andunstratifiedsamplewill have a largestandarderror of the estimate.

23. Relying on householddata (HIES 2000 dataset), Bank researchers lookedat the amount studentsreceivedin2000,
comparedit with the ministry andfound a 30% difference.By comparison 75%ofFoodfor Educationfunds were
unaccountedfor. (("Leakage And TargetingOf The Female SecondaryStipendsProgram: EvidenceFromThe 2000
HouseholdIncomeAnd ExpenditureSurvey." Informal researchnote; DEC 2001.; also see Khandker, ShahidurR., et
al, Subsidy to Promote Girls' SecondaryEducation:The FemaleStipendPrograminBangladesh, The World Bank,
February2001). Nevertheless, some of the reportedleakagemay be due to error inrecalling what services
beneficiariesreceived.
24. Bangladesh:EducationSector Review,Vol. Ip. 67,2000.
25. FemaleSecondarySchoolAssistance Project.December 1999. "Identification o f Reasonsfor The Appointed
Teachers (EspeciallyFemale)Not Joiningtheir PostsUnder TEP ofFSSAP." Ministry o f Education.p.2.
26. O'Gara and Jain, 2000.

                                                            8


regularly, and that educational quality issues were not highpriority.*' Parent-teacher association
members that were to be crucial inquality control, also met irregularly and didnot seem to
represent the parents o f poor girls; most were grade 10 graduates, with concems o f their own.
Since the girls' guardians are male, women were rarely involved.

1.18      Weak upazila-levelproject officers. These do not visit often the schools that implement
FSSAP, and there i s no inspection format or schedule. Also, the 118 officers are too few to
supervise the 4,800 schools o f the project. Some have oversight o f more than 100 schools and no
means o f conveyance. They also have lower rank than school head masterdmistresses, and
district officials may give them additional duties unrelated to their primary responsibilities. The
financial audit found 15 percent o fthem involved incommissions and cheating (vol. 1,p. 35).
These officers are centrally recruitedto regular posts by the government, and cannot easily be
punished or fired.

1.19      Limitedpower bythe projectimplementationunit.Clearly, the PIUshouldhave the
ability to levy penalties on wrongdoers. However, district offices have no responsibility for
FSSAP, so upazila-levelproject officers must send reports o f improprietiesto the division or
zonal level. Ministry-level FSSAP staff can only issue letters o f instruction to schools. They
may merely report irregularities to the ministry and advise that subsidized salaries be stopped.
Officials inother departments decide whether to pursue these, and they may be subject to
pressure. Nevertheless, the PrcT has made efforts to control corruption and has recuperated money
on a number o f occasions.

1.20      Expendituresfor low-level staff. The upazila offices were decreed by the government to
have seven persons, o f whom five or six are auxiliary (orderlies, guards, sweepers). They are
often indistrict offices, where many other such staff are available. Thus, the total number o f
employees inthe 118 project upazilas i s about 826. The PIU itself has 73 staff positions, half o f
which are clerks, drivers, guards, sweepers, and members o f the lower subordinate staff. This
large number o f auxiliary staff i s common inBangladesh, but the funds expended couldbe used
for quality improvement purposes.

1.21      Problematicdisbursements.To enable the girls to buy school supplies, stipends should
disburse twice a year, inMay and November. Counterpart funds (amounting to 15 percent o f
disbursements) were often delayed, so stipend disbursements were delayed. Inaddition, Agrani
Bank management changed soon after project effectiveness. The new management did not hire
more staff as agreed, and often did not open booths inremote areas for the students. Bank
branches were found to keep the funds undisbursed for three months, while paying no interest.
(The financial audit estimated foregone interest o f Tk 4 million, USS74,OOO.) Also, the Agrani
Bank sometimes disbursed stipends without girls' identification photos or signatures2*.

Paucity of Datato Assess ProjectEffectsRobustly

1.22      The ministry's M I S maintains very few variables o f students and                           Though each
girlhas an identificationnumber, no follow-up information i s obtained through schools and
upazila officers. So, it i s not known whether specific students passed the SSC examination or
even whether they appeared for it. Socioeconomic data are not collected, nor were baseline data

27. Female Secondary Schools Assistance Project. June 1999. "The role o f SMC and PTA inEnsuring Quality
Education of Girls inProject Schools." Dhaka: Ministry of Education.
28. Audit vol. 1, p. 34. Absolute numbers o f delayed disbursements unknown.
29. Because the private sector pays better for such technical skills, the Ministryhad few candidates qualified indata
management or evaluation.

                                                             9


collected on school-level enrollments and attendance. Intheory it mightbe possible to linkthe
school database with the BANBEIS (educational statistics) school database, but FSSAP gave
schools different identification numbers. Data on boys inthe same schools or district, needed for
comparison, are also not collected. To carry out the analyses shown in subsequent sections, OED
relied on figures existing invarious sectoral documents. Comparable figures often do not exist
across years, making comparisons over time very difficult.

 1.23      Rather than improve the accuracy o f its database, the PIU conducted surveys on various
issues basedon samples whose selection criteria were unclear. Short multiple-choice
questionnaires were usedwhich contained vague andjudgmental statements (such as "guardian
not serious about education," "guardian not aware"), and most o f the respondents chose "other
reasons." Thus, the studies done in2000 on the activities o f school management committees, the
reasons why appointed teachers did not appear, and perfonnance inthe SSC examinations do not
help project managers understand the specific reasons why students or teachers dropped out. PIU
data also are sometimes inconsistent with larger data sets. For example, dropout rates are much
higher innational data than inFSSAP; yet all rural areas are now covered by the various female
stipend projects, and it i s hard to believe that urban areas have much higher dropout rates.                   30
There are three staff members inthe PIUresponsible for evaluation (one assistant director and
two project officers), but they do not have a backgroundinevaluation or statistics. So, important
problems inthe project continue to be without clear answers.

1.24       The extent o firregularitiesinenrollments, attendance, and grades is not known, but the
validity o f FSSAP data and subsequent analyses i s dubious.31 Unfortunately, exaggerated
attendance rates and grades may have compromisedthe quality o f the data and may overestimated
student achievement and project effects. The government and donor community get the
impressionthat more students are being educated than actually are. Such distortion may have
implications for sectoral financing and project design.

DidFSSAPSignificantly Stimulate Girls' EnrollmentsinGrades 6-10?

1.25       Many more teenage girls now are seen along the highways going to school, and this
popular perception i s often given as evidence that FSSAP increased enrollments. Ifattendance
rates are low, to what extent i s this effect due to financial aid? Without comparative data for boys
and girls before and after the project, it i s hardto estimate the counterfactual, the effects of
FSSAP inparticular and stipend programs ingeneral3' However, some conclusions can be
reachedby examining country-wide data.

1.26       The girls seen along the highways may be a more direct result o fthe ever-increasing
number o f students completing primary                         Due to steady increases inprimary-school


30. Hossain, Mosharraf and Anisatul Fatema Yousuf. March 2001. "Future o f Girls' Education inBangladesh." Dhaka:
Academy for Planning and Development. (p. 17). Manydatasets exist invarious aspects o f education in Bangladesh,
but they consist o f few subjects or variables, and are not very useful.

31. FSSAP arguably has the best organized data base o f all financial assistance projects. However, data for all projects
mustbe integratedinone database. There have beenno funds for this activity or to carry out comparative analyses.
     -_
32. According to a Bank analysis, among poorer households, enrollment rates o f girls injunior secondary schools are
45 percent higher than for boys, whereas among non-poor households the difference is only 22 percent. However, male
teenagers have some well paying-opportunities, so inmany countries, secondary-school enrollments tend to be higher
for girls. At any rate, the extremely poor usually do not finish primary school and are not eligible for FSSAP stipends.
33. Due to government and donor efforts, about 68 percent of primary-school students completed primary school in
1999, up from 53.1 percent in 1996. O f the approximately 19 million children inprimary education, about 42 percent
go on to secondary education.

                                                          10


enrollments, girls' enrollments increased considerably inthe 10 years before FSSAP.34
Secondary-level enrollments significantly increasedbetween 1983 and 1993 (the year FSSAP
started; Table 3), with girls' enrollments growing at 9.4 percent annually, while boys' grew by
3.4 annually.35 Girls' enrollment rate increases accelerated to 13.3 percent annually during the
years o f FSSAP implementation, and by 1999 girls' enrollments had overtaken boys'. The
 `difference-in-difference' o f enrollments for girls i s higher than for boys. InFSSAP schools,
enrollments increased by 105 percent between 1994 and 1999, while girls' enrollments nationally
increased comparably, by 111percent (Table 2; this figure includes other financial aid programs
as well as all urban schools.) Thus, the pushfor girls' enrollments had started before FSSAP-type
programs. The numbers o f girls inFSSAP schools indeeddoubled between 1994 and 1999, but
this increaseis very close to the nationalrate o fincrease. Nevertheless, the projectprobably
had an effect on enrollments, because low-income areas would be expected to have a lower-
than-average rate o f increase.

 1.27     The continuing increase ingirls' enrollments may indeed be attributable to the FSSAP-
type stipend schemes, but it may also be due to the fkee tuition for girls in grades 6-8 established
in 1990, or differences inenrollment changesbetween rural andurbanareas, for which clear data
do not exist.36The effects o f free tuition and stipends are inextricable at this point. It i s difficult
to attribute increased enrollments to only stipends because the stipend amount i s insufficient for
paying poor girls' expenses and, according to financial audits, often arrives too late to pay for
needed expenses. On the other hand, project staff reportedthat parents may be enrolling girls,
because it costs nothing, and even a small stipend i s considered an honor. So, one or more o f
these measures may have increased enrollments. However, more detailed studies are needed
regarding the role o f tuition, stipends, and parental decisions.




34. Primary-level female gross enrollments are about 74.5 percent. O f the girls' cohort, 58 percent survive to complete
grade 5, but only 16 percent appear in secondary school examination (SSC). (Hossain, Mosharrafand Anisatul Fatema
Yousuf. March 2001. "Future o f Girls' Education inBangladesh." Dhaka: Academy for Planning and Development.)
Also "A Study o f Girls Dropout and Noncompletion o f Programme inthe Primary and Secondary Education in
Bagladesh." 2000. Dhaka: UNESCO, p. 3,49.
35. Ministry o f Education. National Education Survey (post-primary) 1999. BANBEIS. Girls' enrollment inmadrasas
increased by 30.8 percent annually during the same period.

36. See also transition data in Bangladesh: Education Sector Review, vol. 2, p. 78, Table A-2. Girls' transition rates to
secondary school overtook boys' in 1991, before FSSAP became effective and the difference remains constant.

                                                                11




 Type of                               Enrollment                             Rate of increase
institution
I                I       I   1983    I    1993     I   7999     1     1983-7993       I    7993-7999         11




                 %       8%           31%          40%
Higher secondaryTotal    388,222      936,395      1,455139     141       9.2         55       7.6
                 Male    320,111      644,829      893,395      101       6.6         39        5.4
                 Female68,I11         291,566      561,744      328       15.7        93        11.5
                 %       18%          31%          39%
    Source: Post-primary National Education Survey- 1999 BANBEIS (adapted from Hossain and Yousuf p. 16)



   D o FSSAP Students Go to School?

    1.28      Though absenteeism i s reportedto be 4 percent and 90 percent o f students reportedly
   meet attendance and achievement criteria, observations suggest otherwise. Consultants and
   FSSAP staff who visit schools consistently see 50 to 60 percent o f students in class rather than
   the reported minimumo f 75 per~ent.~'            Inaddition, they reportthat many classrooms donothave
   enough space for the students reportedly enrolled inthem. Similarly, PIU staff estimate that
   students really attend school on average about 60 percent o f the time.38Desultory attendance may
   mean that students do not build a domain o f relatedinformation and thus may know very little o f
   the subject matter. PIU staff expressed the view that girls in grades 6-10 know the material o f
   that grade even if they do not pass the examinations, but there i s no basis for making this
   assumption.

    1.29      To observe schools insession, the OEDmission visited upazila offices as well as 12
   schools and madrasas inthe upazilas o f Savar, Kalyapur, and H ~ m n aMost~schools didnot . ~
   expect the mission, and the sample was incidental. However, better than-average schools were
   probably sampled, because the mission could only travel about 100 lulometers from Dhaka, in
   areas that are somewhat better o f f than more rural parts o f the country. (More remote areas were



   37. Damell, William G., BangladeshFemale Secondary School Assistance Project (FSSAP), Implementation
   Considerations, AED, Washington D.C., October 2000.
   38. This figure i s comparable to a reported attendance o f about 70 percent inprimary schools, which i s considered
   optimistic. (Reported by UNICEF staff who were interviewed by the OED mission.)
   39. Sharifbagh Kamil Madrasa, Dhamrai Girls School, Harding Secondary School, A1Hajj Faffar Babari School,
   Anjona Model High School, Kalyapur Girls' High School, Shenratoli Bhuvaneshwari Girls High School, Mauna High
   School, Mathabhanga Bhoirob High School, Shuzon Choifila Girls' School, Dulalpur Chandra Bahumukhi Girls
   School. also Madrasa.

                                                            12


affectedby floods and a strike and could not be visited.) Onthe other hand, harvestingactivities
mightseasonally affect attendance.

1.30      Though o f limited scope, the OED mission observations were consistent with those o f
consultants and FSSAP staff visiting other times duringthe years4' The number o f students
present inclass on the days o f the visits was low; average attendance o f classes visited was 54
percent, much lower than the official 75 percent (Annex A, Table 5). School staff cited the
morning rain as a reason for absenteeism, as well as the harvest, for which many students are
missing.When classes were coeducational, they oftenhad about as many girls as boys, but at
least 15 of the classesvisited clearly did not have enough space for the number of students
they claimedto haveregistered.Some administrators claimed that it i s possibleto fit all
students inthe allocated classes by keeping them standing ifthey all come to school someday.
The frequency o fthis phenomenon raises concerns that schools may expect that a number o f
registrants will be students only nominally.

1.3 1     Students who were asked why others were absent often cited rain, illness, weddings,
travel, visiting grandmother, agricultural work. The mission visited the houses o fthree girls who
hadbeen absent. One complained o f headache, the other was visiting a married sister, and the
thirdhad fallen from the boat carryingher from school andhad gottenher only uniformwet. She
could not come to school without a uniform. Clearly, girls face obstacles while going to school in
the morning, including precarious cane bridges, but they are not allowed to come to school later,
after the rain stops. Other reasons for absence were systemic. Many schools function as
examination centers, and reportedly may be closed for 83 days a year, while upper-level students
take examinations. (Many schools function only for one shift, and it i s unclear why classes cannot
take place later.) After weeks o f closed schools, administrators reportedthat some students may
simplynot come back. Abuse maybe another factor; inone school, a teacher was observed
beating girls on the head with a stick.

1.32      The missionrepeatedly heard claims that students' guardians "are not aware" o f the need
to go to school, and indeedthe parents o f absent students visited by the mission were not
disturbed by their daughters' absence. However, principals reportedthat the students who are
absent are often low performers, and some o f the absent girls had lost their stipends for
performance reasons. One study indicated that parents may decide not to send the girls to school
partly because they perceive that the girls learn little in school, and that their time i s better used
elsewhere. This may imply that without quality improvement, enrollment rates may not produce
the desirednumber o f graduates.41

Did FSSAPHelp Girls Pass the SecondarySchool Leaving Examination?

1.33      Although schools report that 90 percent o f the girls achieve a satisfactory 45 percent
mark on annual exams, few o f those who finish the five years o f secondary school obtain a
secondary school certificate (SSC>". According to the project MIS, only 55 percent o f the grade



40. E.g. Damell, 2000; also UNICEF staffreported visiting schools and noting an attendance o f about 50%

41. Ministryo f Education. "Targeting Stipend Recipients' Survey" (2000). Parents, teachers, management committee
members, and girls themselves revealed a number o f reasons for not enrolling in secondary school, despite the
opportunity to receive stipends. While insufficient funds was the main reason, the other considerations had to do with
the quality o f schooling, and a variety o f economic and social issues.
42. The SSC examination i s not unitary; different tests are given by the four boards o f the country. These are not
standardized, and higher pass rates inone year may merely indicate an easier test for that year. Because the SSC
permits admission to the overcrowded higher secondary education, the government tries to limit the number o f students
who pass, while public outcry encourages higher pass rates. Pass rates have dropped inthe 1990s, from 66% in 1992 to

                                                            13


 10 girls inFSSAP institutionstook the SSC examination in 1996, and o f this group 41 percent
passed. (National average pass rate i s about 52 percent pass;43comparable results for boys and
rural areas are not known.) The net tenth-grade completion rate was 22 percent for FSSAP
schools. Given a reported2 percent attrition each year, about 21 percent o f the FSSAP students
who entered grade 9 graduated, compared with an estimated survival rate o f 31percent for all
               Thus, the FSSAP secondary educationpassrate was 67 percent o fthe nationwide
female pass rate. In1998, the percentage o f FSSAP school SSC participants who passed was
slightlyimprovedfrom 41 to 46 percent (compared to 45 percent o f females nationwide). In
 1999, about 123,908 girls receivedstipendingrade 10, but only 58 percent appeared inthe SSC
exam and 54 percent passed it, a net o f 31percent o f stipend recipient^.^^ By comparison, 42.1
percent o f all female students ingrade 9 completed secondary school in 1999, and the ratio o f
FSSAP to overall secondary student completion was 70 percent.46The students who did not
receive the certificate either didnot appear inthe examinationthat screens students for the SSC or
didnot pass the examination. (Figuresfor bothcases are unknown.)

 1.34     L o w attendance may be one reason why few girls take or pass a screening examination
prior to SSC4' Attendance and achievement are highlycorrelated and statistically significant in
every year for bothmale and female students.48 (However, attendance may be related to
proximity o f student residences to schools, denoting a more urban residence and higher
in~ome.)~'Students who cannot afford private tutors completely depend on attendance to learn
the material andpass examination^.'^ Ifthey do not attend sufficiently and also lacktutors, they
have a minimal probability o f passing the examination.

1.35      However, school quality may cause low student attendance, because ifparents think that
students' time i s not well spent, they may occupy them elsewhere. InFSSAP schools, teachers are
few, their qualifications are low,        51and administrators interviewedby the mission report that many

45% in 1998. Nationwide, girls and boys have similar scores. (Bangladesh: Education Sector Review, 2001, vol. 2, p.
28).
43. Bangladesh: Education Sector Review, 2001, vol. 2, p. 70, Bank estimates,

44. Ibid, p. 70; Few comparable data exist on SSC passes and completion rates by gender, and a direct longitudinal
comparison was not possible.
45. Miske, S., et al. "Data Tables from Project MIS." Compiled June-August 2000.

46. National Education Survey, p. 144. The reported average annual dropout rate o f 2% was applied to FSSAP student
numbers, giving a 29.5% survival rate. Similar data for other years do not exist. Boys' secondary education
completion rate for 1999 was 53.3% o f grade 9 entrants, and the national average was 47.9%.
47. The P I U did not collect these data, and nationwide-data are also not known.
48. Correlations are from ,387 to .935 for girls and from ,281 to ,834 for boys. Low- performing institutionshad lower
attendance, took fees o f more than 300 Tk per year, and their students needed tutoring more often. ("Female Secondary
School Assistance Project. 1999. A case study o f good and bad institutions." Dhaka: Ministryo f Education).
49. Everyone percent increase inthe proportion o f students with over 75 percent attendance is associated with an
increase in the proportiono f students achieving above 45 percent on their end-of-year examinations. This i s consistent
with the research that indicates that the more hours students attend school, the more they tend to leam. (B.Fuller, D.
Holsinger, et al., "Secondary Education inDeveloping Countries." Washington, D.C.: World Bank, 1993). Regressions
were calculated by Miske (2000) as part o f project research, but the attendance data used were probably inflated;
correlations between achievement and real attendance might be stronger.
50. Students interviewed by the mission who receive private coaching reportedly pay in200 Tk per month,
approximately the annual value of the stipend. Clearly, poor girls cannot afford to pay for coaching with their stipends
and afford basic expenditures as well.
51. Female Secondary School Assistance Project. December 1999. "Identification o f Reasons for The Appointed
Teachers (Especially Female) Not Joining their Posts Under TEP o f FSSAP." Ministryo f Education. Many teachers
have themselves receivedbarely passing scores, but the report does not contain specific data.

                                                             14


are also often absent. (Absence statistics are not kept.) The schools had the obligation to hire
extra teachers, but many did                The instruction observed by the OED mission did not seem
conducive to elaboration o f complex                          Itconsisted o f ateacher lecturing, one student
recitingmaterial, and students silently listening. Almost all students had their own textbooks, but
many didnot understand the equations they copied on their notebooks. A survey in28 schools of
girlsregardingreasons for not appearing inthe SSC hinted on how parental lack o funderstanding
o f school processes interacted with low quality o f education: lack o f guardians' "awareness" (20
percent o frespondents), work and housework (about 25 percent), negligence in studies, non-
appearance inpre-tests, early marriage, illness, work, lack o f preparation, disqualifying marks in
the pretest, and fake grades in scho01.~~The           girls who had failed had less educatedparents.55,

1.36      The girls do not receive assistance for passing examinations. Helping girls pass
examinations i s part o f the first and most important project objective. The OED mission inquired
inall schools visited about specialmeasures to helppoor girls come to school or passthe
examination, as would be expected, given the main FSSAP objective. N o special measures had
been institutedin any school, though some schools provide fkee coaching for the students
competing for national merit scholarships (who may not be the poorest). None o f the principals
expressed concern about the students who were absent or failing, andnone o f them reported
visiting homes to find out reasons for absence or encourage students to come. None o fthem
expressed any special knowledge regardingthe obstacles that very poor girls might face every
day, such as collecting firewood, feeding young siblings, and traversing rivers. Consultant reports
express the concern that the private and unsupervised school managers may cut costs at the
expense o f educational quality, and keep classes crowded knowing that many students will cease
attending and will only exist on paper. They may thus "push out" the poorer students or at least
do nothing to help them                   The relatively small number o fthose who pass and the fact that
some years FSSAP pass rates approximate national averages may lead to a hypothesis that those
who are staying inschool and passing examinations may be those who would have done so
without financial aid.

1.37      Statistics now indicate that the gender gap in Bangladesh has closed for secondary
education; this i s considered a major achievement inlight o f persistent and large deficits in
female secondary school enrollments elsewhere inSouth Asia. However, much work remains to
be done through the country, not exclusively inFSSAP areas, to ensure that increased enrollments
are translated into learning outcomes and improvedperformance on examinations. The gender
gap statistic may be of little value if many enrolled girls go to school mainly to collect
stipends or if they do not learn enough material to pass examinations. These problems are
not unique to the FSSAP. The government and the ADB stipend projects also face low pass rates,


52. Recruitment may have been complicated by the ministrydecision to recruit centrally and by a requirement that
teachers should be assigned to districts distant from their homes.

53. Passively listening to information without active elaboration to tie concepts to previously known material a few
seconds after presentation, retention o f new information i s limited.(Schachter, D., 2001. "The Seven Sins o f
Memory." New York: Houghton-Mifflin).
54. Female Secondary School Assistance Project. "Study on the Performances in SSC Examination o f Stipend
Recipients of FSSAP." Dhaka: February 2000.
55. (p. 12) A survey o f 214 teachers in 16 schools found that 55% gave homework daily, 30% collect homework from
students inthe class, 15% collect homework monthly. 36% o f teachers evaluate monthly. (Female Secondary Schools
Assistance Project. June 1999. "The role o f SMC and PTA in Ensuring Quality Education of Girls inProject Schools."
Dhaka: Ministry o f Education). The study did not explore the performance o f the majority o f the students who either
didnot appear inthe examinations or failed, and how failure was connectedwith quality of education. It is also
unknownwhat happensto girlswho failed to graduate.
56. Miske2000; O'Gara and Jain 2000.

                                                            15


falsification o f documents, and ultimately a low quality education, despite a reportedly
tremendous upsurge inenrollment. (Figures were not available duringthe mission.)
Significantly, the donor-financed Food for Education Programhas increased enrollments without
increasing attendance or achievement." It i s important to understand what incentive programs
accomplish, particularly when the education provided i s o f low quality.

1.38       Did the FSSAP help delay marriages? The number o f girls whose marriage has been
postponed as a result o f the stipends i s unknown and hard to estimate. Since dropout due to
marriage was nearly zero (according to field reports), and reports o f married girls enrolled were
few, it i s likely that even the girls who did not frequently attend school stayed unmarried.
UNICEF staff interviewedby the OED mission expressed the hypothesis that poor parents, who
inBangladeshmustpay a dowry, finditusefulto receive the stipendbypostponingtheir
daughter's marriage and thus also postpone the dowry payment. The stipend may be treated as
earnings from ajob. Nevertheless, the population slice thus benefiting from marriage delay may
berather narrow. To be eligible for secondary-school stipends, girls shouldhave graduated from
primary school, so 57 percent o f Bangladesh girls are still at risk for early marriage.58The
remaining 43 percent include the country's urban middle class, which does not marry at 14.

Ratings

Outcome

1.39       Few projects have receivedthe acclaim and publicity o fFSSAP. It was an innovative
project, first o f its kindinmany ways, which received overwhelming support from both the
government and society at large. Its objectives and strategy were relevant to the economic needs
o f the country. It receiveda World Bank award for excellence in girls' education in2000, and the
UnitedNations Secretary General, K o f i Annan, referred to it ina speech in2002.59

1.40       OED rates projects on the basis o frelevance, efficacy, and efficiency. The IDAhuman
resource development strategy for female school attendance inBangladesh was highly relevant to
the economic needs o f 1993. Female school awareness campaigns succeeded inbringinggirls to
school, tubewells and bathrooms were built as planned(Annex A). However, efficacy and
efficiency were modest, partly because the project reduced crucial educational support to students
after effectiveness. The stipends were reducedto amounts too small to cover school expenses, and
the number o f teachers to be hired was reducedby 96 percent. A vocational training program for
the dropouts has not achieved its target o f training 8000 students, partly due to the fact that
marginal students tended to remain nominally enrolled.

1.41      The dual objective o f increased enrollments and assistance inpassing examinations was
only partly achieved. The number o f girls enrolled inFSSAP upazilas increased at a rate
approaching the national average for girls' enrollments, but they received little ifany instructional
support. Aside from general upazila targeting, FSSAP and its follow-on project have no special
activities to help very poor girls stay in school once they enroll. Fewer than a third o f students
entering grade 10 leam the requiredmaterial and pass the school leaving examinations, about 30


57. DFID. Bangladesh: Assessment ofPrimaryEducationProgramme(PEDP). January2002 (p. 10).
58. Girls' gross primary enrollment i s 74.45 percent, 58 percent of whom survive to endof grade 5, thus 43% of a
cohort is eligible to attendsecondary school. Of those girls, rural residentsare eligible for stipendsunder one of the
stipend programs.
59. Speechby UnitedNationsSecretaryGeneral, Kofi Annan at the New York MillenniumSummit: "Trade andAid in
aChangedWorld." March 19,2002.

                                                    16


percent fewer than the national average. Without satisfactory learning outcomes, the girls cannot
become teachers or get employment that will significantly empower them and alleviate their
poverty. Thus, project outcome i s rated moderatelysatisfactory.

1.42       It is highlylikely that some girls may graduate because o fthe program, buttheir
numbers are hard to estimate. On the other hand, some o f the people interviewedvoiced concerns
that the program may have lowered educational quality by crowding classes andreducing
individual attention or interaction opportunities for students. Some government staff believe that
girls with stipends will not learnmuchbut will make sure their daughters will. However, this was
not the intendedpurpose o fthe project. It appears that without educational support, small stipends
may not be very effective means inhelpingvery poor girls complete secondary education. (The
effect o f free tuition by itself remains unknown.) Nevertheless, the project may have given a
benefit to very poor stipend recipients who remainedunmarried, even ifthey didnot learn much
inschool. Latermarriagesmeant a lower number ofchildrenbornas well as some protectionto
women who might otherwise be at risk for teenage pregnancy complications.

Institutional DevelopmentImpact

1.43     The project helpedbuilda PIU, which has performed satisfactorily and has served as a
model for the government- and donor-financed stipend programs. Contrary to expectations,
however, the project did not result ininstitutional improvementso f schools that have received
students with stipends or inimproved supervision by the ministry.The parent and community
associations that would have served as quality controls didnot develop to safeguard students'
interests. Overall, institutional development impact i s rated modest.

Sustainability

1.44     Sustainabilityi s defined as resilience o fproject net benefits inchanging circumstances.
The country's commitment to girls' education i s likely to continue because o f significant
political and social rewards, such as reduced population growth. The stipend programitself i s not
sustainable without donor aid, andprobably shouldnot continue for long, lest the stipends
become entitlements to students and schools. The government cannot continue to pay for tuition
and stipends or service the debt that it i s taking on for education reform at all levels. The
question i s whether the benefits o f FSSAP are sustainable. These can be defined invarious ways:

    0    Delayed marriage, regardless o f actual learning - sustainability likely, since teenage
        motherhoodi s often unsafe and may lead into lifelong poverty.

    0   Employment benefits to the majority o f the girls who do not pass SSC       - uncertain, since
        the amount o f usable information they learned i s uncertain. Stating that they have gone
        to school up to grade 10 may confer some social or financial benefits.

    0   Continued enrollments o f poor girls in school ifthere are no stipends or tuition subsidy -
        unlikely given documented parental indifference to attendance, particularly ifquality o f
        education remains low. Parents may continue enrolling girls iftuition remains fkee.

    0   Financial sustainability o f the stipendprogram without donor support -unlikely, because
        even with donor support the government i s often unable to meet its obligations.

1.45    Many o f the factors involved are unknown. Nevertheless, sustainability i s rated likely,
because commitment to increasing enrollment and gender equity remains strong inBangladesh

                                                           17


Bank Performance

1.46     Overall Bank performance i s rated satisfactory.It was highly satisfactory during
appraisal; very dedicated staff worked tirelessly to design the project and preventpotential
problems. Unfortunately, project design didnot adequately foresee the risk that schools mightbe
more interested incollecting fees than educating poor students. Also, during implementation, the
Bank was entirely focused on expanding enrollments; it usedreported attendance and enrollment
data as proxies for achievement, and severely reduced stipend amounts and teacher numbers. The
low examinationpass rates in schools may be partly due to these decisions. The Bank could have
decided to amend project objectives and delete the part o f the objective related to helping students
pass the SSC examination, but it chose not to.

1.47     The mission heard concerns from government and donor staff that inthe last three years
o f the project the Bank has given it little attention. Budgetary limitations and repeated
reorganizations have affected the ability to supervise intensely; there was Bank management
turnover, and staff had much other work to do inother countries and little money to spend. For
example in fiscal year (FY) 1999, only US$41,600 were spent on supervision. Though
supervision budgets improved infiscal years 2000 and 2001 (US$115,400 and US$95,000
respectively), the project may have receivedlimitedsubstantive attention during its critical
years.6o Insome respects, this lack o f attention i s mirrored inthe Implementation Completion
Report (ICR), which makes almost no mention o f the corruption, low attendance, and low
performance projects that researchreports have extensively written about. These reports are
mentioned inan ICR annex, and their conclusions are not summarized. The issues raisedtherein
are not shown as risks on p. 28-29 o f the project appraisal document (PAD) o fthe follow-on
project. Given the Bank's avowed zero tolerance o f corruption and the reservations about the
project's effectiveness, it might have been wise not to finance a second project usingthe same
procedures.

1.48     The follow-on project could have focused on the documented difficulties o f giving poor
girls a good secondary education. Given the improved economic conditions inmany targeted
upazilas, the truly poor could have been targeted more closely. However, the preparationbudget
and divisional attention were also limited. Thus, the project retained criteria and procedures that
hadbecome obsolete.

Borrower Performance

1.49     All parties that assumed power inBangladesh after project appraisal have shown a strong
commitment to girls' education. This overriding government concern has supported primary
education and also population efforts inthe last 10 years. Thus, the program was expanded to all
rural areas despite donor advice about distributingmoney to the non-poor. Though delays in
counterpart funds were frequent, the Ministry o f Education supported the PIUand considered this
program important for its poverty alleviation strategy. On the other hand, the government created
offices inupazilas with unnecessary employees and centrally recruited some staff who do not live
intheir areasofappointment andmaynotbe there fulltime. Nevertheless, the government made
a great deal o f effort. Borrower performance i s overall rated satisfactory.

1.50     However, the government has been unable to stop the mismanagement that burdens the
stipend programs. The account audits conducted by the Foreign Aided Project Audit Directorate


60. SASED management i s ofthe opinion that supervision was adequate. The borrower evaluation o f IDA
performance states that `the performance o f the Bank right from the identificationto the completion o f the Project was
extremely satisfactory.'

                                                        18


showed about 101 audit observations from fiscal 1993 to fiscal 2000. Though many were
resolved, the multiple reports are indicative o f the difficulties donors face inaddressing the needs
o f the poorest. " For example, the government had to centralize teacher recruitment because
teachers hadto pay luckbacks to local council members for appointments. Because corruption in
Bangladesh i s endemic and extensive, sizeable portions of donor efforts fail to reach their target.
The Bank has documented the problems extensively, and the donor community has encouraged
opportunities for openness and information to the public. However, the results o f this process are
not yet evident. For example, the follow-on project requires that participating schools reapply
rather than be automatically renewed, but it i s unknown whether this measure will be applied
reliably.

1.5 1      To improve governance and quality o f education, FSSAP I1will attempt to improve the
accountability o f the school management committees. The vehicle will be a contract between the
government and the committee, but the process will require adequate monitoring. The upazila
project officers do not appear to have the stature and clout to bringthis about. Management
committees have local political influence that may runcounter to the interests ofpoor students.
More intensive leadership i s neededby the government inthe follow-on project. The Bank might
also increase supervision and use independent observers for greater objectivity. Also, successful
projects involving parents may be emulated, such as the EDUCO project o f El Salvador.

Issues for Future Consideration

For Secondary EducationPoor Girls NeedSpecialHelp

1.52       Secondary school attendance as practicedinBangladesh i s not well suited to the lives o f
the very poor girls. They must finish all their morning housework, and negotiate geographical
obstacles at a precise time so as to be allowed to enter the school. They must go to school during
harvest and market days and minimize work-related absences ifthey are to have any hope o f
passing the SSC, particularly since they usually cannot afford private tutoring. Since these
children may have had l o w performance inprimary school, they may start out disadvantaged and
quickly fall behind.62This may be one reason why Bank-financed household economic survey
data indicate that children who complete secondary school come from households with higher
income.63The poor may be actively targeted, and options include the following:

1.53      Focus on narrower geographicaltargeting. Some PIU staff members believe that
tuition must remain free for all girls in grades 6-10. Butrather than distribute small sums to
students who need them less, the project mighttarget narrower areas, e.g. specific low-income
unionparishads or moujas. There the very poor could receive increased amounts reflecting actual
schooling expenditures. This strategy was considered for FSSAP I1and rejected, reportedly due
to the political appeal o f the stipend program and the difficulty inaltering it ~ountry-wide.`~


61, "Taming Leviathan:Reforming GovemanceinBangladesh.An Institutional Review." Washington, DC: World
Bank, 2002. (p 110).
62. Only 22% of primary school studentsachievedminimumcompetencylevelsinreading,math, andwriting in 1999.
(Greaney, Vincent, Shahidur Khandker, andMahmudulAlam. 1999. "Bangladesh: Assessing Basic Leaming Skills."
World Bank:Dhaka.)
63. Bangladesh: EducationSectorReview, 2001, vol. 2, p. 70. Forhouseholdswith accessto electricity, the probability
of girls completinglower secondary school is 33 percenthigher than for householdswithout electricity.
64. A study entitled"Design and Implementationof aPilot Scheme for TargetingStipendRecipients" was conducted
by PathmarkAssociates in 2000 in three upazilasand suggested altematemodelsto provide financial support. But these
were not implementedinthe follow-on project.

                                                    19


Nevertheless, donors might consider limitingfinancing to methods that cost-effectively focus
resources on the very poor.

1.54     Change the criteria to reflect reality. The attendance and grade criteria were set up
arbitrarily, with the intention o f stimulatinggirls to perform better. It i s unknown how effective
stimulithey havebeen, butthey have certainly stimulated false enrollmentdata. Criteria could
instead be set at commonly observed levels, for example, 60 percent attendance (though this
amount o f attendance i s clearly insufficient for learning) and 34 percent marks (the lowest
passing grade). Rural education i s often o f lower quality, so the low marks should not be
considered unusual. More realistic criteria might also produce more accurate student statistics.
Despite much discussion, however, the old criteria were retained.

1.55     Remove some of the obstacles facing the poor. It i s important to understand what
challenges poor girls face intheir schooling efforts (such as collecting firewood and feeding small
children inthe morning, coming to school hungry or anemic, having no light to study inthe
evening). Unfortunately, girls falling behindmay often avoid school and give trivial excuses for
absence, which are taken at face value. The obstacles identified by the OED mission suggest
improvements along the following lines:

        Abolish compulsory uniforms; actively inform the girls that they must come to school
         even ifthey cannot wear a uniform on a particular day.

        Allow girls to come to school any time, even two hours late. To maintain discipline, they
         could report to the principal, give a good reason, and discuss how delays can be avoided
        inthe future.

        Ifpossible, change the vacation schedule ofspecific schools to avoid absencesinrural
        areas duringthe rainy season and enable students to helpwith harvest.

        If schedules cannot be changed, teach duringthe dry season the students who will be
        away duringthe rainy season (including boys who may work more extensively during
        harvest) .

        Inschools usedas examination centers, conduct classes inthe afternoons or onweekends
        to enable students to catch up.

        Enable poor students to participate inprivate tutoring. Hold make-up sessions for those
        who for various reasons miss classes.

        Facilitate student self-study after school hours, employ peer tutors.

        Raise funds from community businesses to buy books for poor students, whose stipends
        are insufficient. Try to get part o f the charitable (zakat) money that often benefits mainly
        madrasas.

        Focus awareness campaigns on impressingparents that children should be sent to school
        regularly and not be merely enrolled.


        Reallocate unspent money to educational support. Targeting the poor more closely has
a cost. Sums o f money are often undisbursedbecause some girls become ineligible or because
schools overestimate enrollments and are subsequently discovered. Also, the Agrani Bank should

                                                          20


pay interest on the undisbursed money it retains. These funds could be reallocated to help the
very poor innarrow low-income areas.

 Quality Issues are Still Unresolved

 1.57      FSSAP didnot focus on the details o f educational delivery and quality improvement
because it relied on ADB secondary education projects (including science education) that
intendedto bringabout major systemic changes. However, the effects o f these projects have been
limited. The current ADB project (Ln. 1690; FY 2000-2006) has suffered setbacks and may not
meet its goals in supporting sectoral quality improvements. The weaknesses o f this project
affectedthe instructional outcomes o f FSSAP.

 1.58      FSSAP I1i s focusing more on quality. It includes salary support for teachers, training o f
school management committees, and mobile training units for in-service teacher training.
However, the PIUhas little leadership intraining and a limitedunderstanding o f issues. It has
written terms o f reference, plans to advertise inthe paper for consultants, and expects actions
according to their expertise. Butworldwide, in-service training has had limited effectiveness in
modifying classroombehaviors, and there are few experts who can create better results. Also,
people o f limited education may process information differently in some respects, and this issue
mustbe taken into account when planningtraining for school management committees.
Furthermore, the incentive structure for teachers (that i s likely to bringinthe badly needed
English,math, and science teachers) has not changed, and trainingmay not enable behavior
change inthe absence o f incentives. Greater expertise ininnovative training and better targeting
o f the incentive structure are needed to bring about quality improvements.

 1.59      Madrasas may not teach needed courses. Many girls register inmadrasas, which may
be seen as safer places, near their homes, and possibly easier                       However, madrasas do not
offer much science or social studies, courses that students needto cross the digital divide into up-
to-date occupations. The grade 10 "dakhil" examination administered by the madrasa board
includes Koran, Hadith, Arabic first and secondpaper, Islamic thought (filaand usul-e-fila-),
Islamic history, Farsi and Urdu, English, Bengali, "ordinary" mathematics, and one elective.66By
comparison, the Secondary School Certificate examination for grade 10 in arts includes Bengali
first and second paper, Englishfirst and second paper, mathematics, religion, social sciences,
general science, and one elective. (The examination inscience includes mathematics, chemistry,
physics, biology, and botany.) By going to madrasas, girls may obtain little education that i s
relevant to labor market needs.

 1.60      NORADdoes not finance stipends for education inmadrasas, and the Bank's project did
not include madrasa studies when it became effective. Despite the political sensitivity o f this
issue, the Bank should have requested curricular changes fiom the madrasa boardbefore
financing stipends to religious institutions.




65. The dakhil madrasa completion rate for girls is about 88% in grades 6-8 and 52% in grades 9-10 (UNDP National
Education Survey p. 146).
66. Curriculum and Textbook Wing. Bangladesh, Madrasa Education Board, Dhaka. "Program and Instructional
Information", 1999, p. 1. A science option is available inmany madrasas, but reportedly few girls choose it. Students
may learn more science ingrade 11. For example the mission found that chlorophyll was taught inmadrasas at that
level for the first time.

                                                       21


Private Secondary Education Poses Serious ChallengesinBangladesh

1.61     Industrialized countries have historically relied on a strong public sector for education o f
the poorer pe~ple,~'  butthe Bank supports apolicy o f almost exclusively private secondary
education inBangladesh. Ifthe Government intends to rely on the private sector to provide
secondary education and meet the growing demand for it, it needs to create the conditions for
private schools to reachthe poor and deliver good quality education to them. Ifprivate schools
cannot reach the poor because their costs exceed their revenues, then the government must step
up into the fray, either providing the service inpoor communities or providing sufficient
incentives so that the schools reach the poor. At this time, the stipends go directly to the schools,
and the parents have little say ininfluencing how the schools spendthat money; the school
owners have probably few incentives to improve quality, since their revenues are linkedto the
number o f students enrolled rather than to the number o f students attending classes. Parents, who
have no control over the stipend, cannot punishor reward schools based on performance usingthe
leverage that the stipend could give them, and decide on their children's schooling based on other
considerations (i.e., agricultural work). The schools that helpedimplement the FSSAP could in
principle be more responsive to the poor ifparents hadmore influence inthe schools decisions or
intheir financing. Inother countries (e.g. ElSalvador, DominicanRepublic) such oversight has
been effectively constituted, but thus far, the poor parents whose children attend the FSSAP
schools have not been effective overseers. Thus, the low-end private schools are not subject to
many checks and balances.

1.62     Relying entirely on the private sector for secondary education may require more funding,
since school owners must take care o f the infrastructure. It may also require more government
oversight, as the government needs to ensure that taxpayers' money i s well spent. A more active
government role i s needed inensuring that the poor are reached, through closer supervision,
government ownership o f schools, or with stronger financial support for poor communities. The
OED missionexpected that higher revenues would leadto higher investments but saw no
evidence o f it. Aside from the project-financedbathrooms, the schools hadno new buildings,
materials, computers or other investments that would benefit students. While there may be
reasons why this has not been the case, the government and the donor community need to explore
further why such investmenthas not happened, define priorities (teachers vs. physical
infrastructure) and design mechanisms to achieve it.

There is a Needfor MoreExtensiveImpact Evaluation

1.63    The stipend program o f Bangladesh i s a large social experiment, whose benefits must be
evaluated in detail, with respect to FSSAP as well as to the other parallel programs. The data that
exist thus far leave many questions unanswered, such as:

    0   H o w do boys and girls inthe FSSAP and other types o f schools compare interms o f
        actual attendance patterns, annual examination results, approval to take the SSC,
        presentation for SSC, primary school achievement, repetitionrates, repeated presentation
        for SSC, participation inthe science, art, commerce, and technical tracks?

        D o some stipend recipients go to school all the time and some almost not at all, or do
        most students go to school ineffect part-time?




67. E.g.George, Susan andFebrizio Sabelli. 1994. "Faith and Credit: The World Bank's Secular Empire." Boulder,
Colorado:WestviewPress.

                                                        22


         Many students performed low inprimary school. H o w likely are weaker students to
         remain in secondary school or pass the SSC examination?

         H o w do girls who maintainedstipends compare with those who lost them in social and
         academic terms?

         What i s the relative importance o f free tuition vs. stipends indetermining which girls stay
         inschool andgraduate?

         H o w many extra SSC graduates do the various stipend programs produce over a baseline
         o f those who would attend secondary schools without stipends?

         What educational and social benefits do girls get who ultimately fail SSC?What
         academic material have they learned inthe five years o f school, giventheir attendance
         records?

         H o w many more girls pass SSC compared to those who would pass ifthere were no
         stipends inthe FSSAP areas?

         What i s the cost to produce one additional SSC graduate?

         What i s the achievement level o f madrasa school graduates inEnglish,mathematics, and
         science compared to those o f formal schools inthe FSSAP areas?

         FSSAP started in 59 upazilas, and the government program started in 1994. Do statistics
         show ajump inenrollments consistent with these timefi-ames?

1.64     It is recommendedthat donors conduct an impact evaluation o fthe entire stipend
program. Inresponse to a Brazilian cash transfer program, methods have been developed to
simulate the effects o f alternative program designs on welfare and behavior, based on micro-
econometrically estimated models o f household behavior.68 These could be used inBangladesh.
Also, an independent thirdparty (e.g. UNESCO) mightbe invited to verify attendance and other
project events on a regular basis.

Lessons

1.65     Experience with the project confirms a number o f OED lessons from education projects:

         The very poor may enroll children to school inresponse to food or money. However,
         parents may do the minimumnecessary to get the desired benefit and not necessarily
         encourage children's attendance. Incentives must be tied to attendance, study, and
         passing o f examinations.

         Enrollment in school, although important, does not automatically bringabout education
         and information acquisition. Access to education o flow quality has dubious benefits.
         Governments and donors must provide the very poor with the means to help them attend
         classes regularly and learnthe required material.


68. An ex-ante microeconomicmodelingexerciseshows that studentsbenefitingfrom the BrazilianBolsaEscolamight
have improvedattendance,but the funds might have alimited impactonpovertyreductionor inequalitylevels
(Bourguigon,F., F. Fereira, andP. Leite. ("Ex-ante Evaluationof ConditionalCashTransfer Programs: The Case of
BolsaEscola." Seminarpresentedat the World Bank, October 22,2002).

                                           23


0 People may modify their social customs to obtain earnings and status, particularly ifthese
  customs have drawbacks. Award o f stipends or possibly even simple cash transfers to
  families may be useful inpostponingmarriages for girls who didnot attend or finish
  primary school, perhaps inthe form o f stipends for vocational training. The FSSAP
  experience may be useful ineradicating undesirable customs inother countries.


0 Significant amounts o f overstated data ina database may make it hardto assess project
  effects. Decisions based on incorrect data may hurt intended beneficiaries. To ensure the
  integrity and accuracy o f data, therefore, projects should aim at establishing realistic
  parameters and criteria for inclusion invarious programs.

0 Programs that have much social appeal andpolitical support criterion-based provisions
  for reviews should be established early on. It may be harder to modify such projects if
  governments perceive that their political benefits will be reduced.

0 Successful pilot projects may be scaled up as full operations, but size may create
  unforeseen problems. Implementersmust carefully assess the benefits and risks o f
  scaling up.


                                                                   25


Annex A. Project Activities

Table 1. Female Secondarv School Assistance Proiect (Cr. 2469-BAN)
    Components/
   subcomponents              Activities          Targets to be achieved            outputs                   Outcomes

 Stipends               Six cohorts              3.32 milliongirl-years     4.9 million girl-years   Girls' enrollment increased
                        50% new students,                                   apparent dropoutrate     by 51.3% in targeted areas
                        grades 6-10                                          only 3%                 Nationwidefemale
                                                                             in 3379 schools         participationincreasedfrom
                                                                             1579 madrasas           44.73% in 1994to 54.68% in
                                                                                                     2000.
 Teacher                Incrementalcosts         11,800 additionalteachers    655 recruitedafter     About 655 in place in 2001,
 Recruitment            of salaries             Target revised to 800 after  proceedingswere         few in math or science,
                                                 credit amendment            reallocatedfor          about 50% refused rural
                                                                             scholarships            appointments;only 8%
                                                                                                     schoolsfemale in FSSAP
                                                                                                     schools
 Occupational Skills    Training programs        8000 students              About 4500 students      Training in ruralfemale
 Training               for school dropouts                                  in 112 upazilas7        occupationsprovided by
                                                                             StipendTk 40 per day    local NGOs (poultry,sewing,
                                                                            for training             sericulture,etc); quality
                                                                                                     unknown
 Female Education       Increasepublic           500,000 calendars and       About 920 leaflets,     Awareness of the program
 Awareness              awareness                stickers, short films,      340,800 brochures,      was high
 Program                                         awards                      841,500 calendars,
                                                                             300,000 stickers, 3250  Unknownif the written

                                                                             diaries distributed;2   materials reachedthe poor

                                                                             documentaries,          population

                                                                             awards given
 Water Supplyand
 Sanitation Program     latrines and                                         3985 tubewells          Schools acquiredtubewells
                        tubewells in                                                                 and latrines,students able to
                        schools                                              3999 latrines
                                                                             constructed             use them.
                        Reductionof              Surveyconducted, of 3198,   Rainwaterinstallations  Contaminationreduced
                        arsenic tubewell         18% contaminated            in some schools         somewhat
                        contamination
 Institutional
 Strengtheningfor       Upazila-level            118                         118teams 7-person       Project officersweak
 Directorateof          project officers                                     appointed, 5 low-level;

 Secondary and                                                               nophonesor
 Higher Education                                                            computers

                        Ministrystaff            Studytours, local training  Study tours and         Effects unclear
                        training                on computer use              training carried out
                        Formationof              Interministerialcommittee   Committeesformed        Committeesfunctional,
                        committees               Consultativegroup                                   effects unclear
                        Monitoringand            Managementinformation       System set up and       System useful in obtaining
                        evaluation system        system                      functioning,few         rough data
                                                                             variables monitored
                        Monitoringstudies        7                           7 studies conducted     Low-qualityquestionnaires
                                                                             by the PIU              yielded mainly unusable
                                                                                                     results



Table 2. Dropout incidence in secondary schools of Bangladesh
            Grades                            Total                           Male                          Female
               6                                 3                             3.1                            2.9
               7                               4.6                             3.5                            5.4
               8                              11.8                             7.8                            15.7
               9                                11                             9.7                            12.1
              10                                19                            17.6                           20.5
Source: Bangladesh Educational Statistics, 1999, BANBEIS; in Hossain, Mosharraf and Anisatul FatemaYousuf. March 2001. Future
of Girls' Education inBangladesh. Dhaka: Academy for Planning and Development; p. 17.

                                                                             26


        Table 3. Issues and Solutions Presented at Proiect Comdetion
                         PerceivedProblems                                                       Possible Solutions

                         Failure to enforcepre-conditionsfor students receiving stipends         Disciplinaryaction against Headmastersfor not
                                                                                                 enforcingpre-conditionsor for illegibleifictitious girls.
                         Ineligible girls receivestipends; some inmorethan one institution; some
                         fictitious                                                              Students andguardiansto be better informedabout the
                                                                                                 pre-conditions;increasepublicity about the
                         Incorrect Informationto Project authority                               preconditionsthrough FEAP

                         Two sets of attendanceregisters andresult sheets                        DEOs/ UOPMs visit schoolsregularly to ensureH M s
                                                                                                 submit accurate informationon time

                         InefficientTeachers                                                     SMC maderesponsiblefor ensuringteacher quality;
                                                                                                 recruit teachers centrally

                         SMCsilocal political persons misusepower; SMCs not beingresponsible     StrengthenPTA; Chairmanof SMC to sign stipend
                                                                                                 forms
                         Lack of legal action againstcorruptedinstitutions
                                                                                                 Establishmechanism for taking actionagainst
                                                                                                 institutions
                         Lack of administrativepower over institutions (schoolsandmadrashas      Establishfull administrativepower of DE0 over
                                                                                                 UOPM and UOPM over the institutions
                         Donot attendmeetings at DE0
                                                                                                 UOPM who not attenddistrict educationoffice
                                                                                                 meetingsto be >punished=.
                         Weak monitoringand supervision;absenceof inspectionformat
                                                                                                 UPOM to visit schools and validateannual andmid-
                                                                                                 year data with inspectionformat providedby >higher
                                                                                                 authority=.
                         Do not get informationintime for processing
                                                                                                 UOPMs shouldbe given moretime to submit
                         UOPM involvedin activities other than stipends; suchas voter lists,
                         distributing relief, etc                                                 >priority= information


                         Some officers and staffabsent from their posts                          MinimizeUNO requests for UOPMs to take on non-
                                                                                                 FSPtasks.

                         Lack ofcommunication facilities                                         District educationofficers to ensurepresenceofUOPM
                                                                                                 presenceat station

                                                                                                 Providetelephones,computer, to UOPMs
                         Lack of control over the UOPMs                                          Give DEOs control over the UOPM

                         Lack of supervisionby the DEOs                                          Increaseacademicsupervisionof schoolsby district
                                                                                                 educationmanagers
                         DE0 coordinationmeetings are not regular                                DE0 meetingsto be regular
                         Lack of coordination amongUOPM, DE0 andBank Officials                   All partiesneedto work together to improve
                                                                                                 coordination
                         Lack ofmanpoweriabsenceof bank officer at booths during stipend
                         disbursementbranches do not get adequateshare ofthe service charge      Provide additional manpower, service charge fhds and
                         (such as TNDA)                                                          security to branchat stipenddisbursementtime; officer
                                                                                                 mustbe present at disbursement
                         Securityproblem when carrying moneyto remote areas.

                         No branches in many Upazilas                                            Considerusing other banks' branches

                                                                                                 Improve communicationsand get the IBCA to branch
                         CommunicationsproblemsbetweenHQand Branch; delay in sending             office on time; designatearesponsible officer at Agrani
                         IBCAto branch office                                                    Bank for FSP.

                         Long process in openingaccounts for the girls; entry of deposits into   Open accounts using SS cardonly; Discardpassbook
                         passbooks time consuming                                                system
                         Chronic six-month delay inreleaseof Govemmentfunds to the projects      Address the issue with Ministry of Planning andor
                         Dataare suspect; unclear how many students are real andactually go to   Finance
                         school
                         Reportsof financial irregularities                                      Independentvalidationis needed

                                                                                                 A financial specialistto addressthem

                        I,Academy for Educational DeveloDment. Observations madeduringi DHSEsponsoredworkshopsto improve
timely and efficient disbursement bf stipends. May 2000.      '

                                                        27


Box 1. Cause for Concern: Fraud inAttendanceRegisters
~
NETROKONA, Apr 18: Massive irregularities in the implementation o f Female Secondary School
 Assistance Project (FSSAP) are seriously hampering the scope o f female education in all 10 thanas
 [upazilas] o f the district, reports UNB.

 A large sum o f money has been ending up in the pockets o f a group o f unscrupulous teachers and
 officials o f the concerned sectors every year from the beginning o f the project in 1990, guardians allege.
 [...] The school authorities in many cases allegedly misappropriated the stipend money by showing
 inflated figures in their records. The authorities o f almost all the schools and madrashas o f Netrokona
 Sadar, Atpara, Kendua, Mohonganj, Kaliaguri, Madan, Barhatta, Kalmadanga, Purbadhala and
 Durgapur thanas are said to be involved inthe malpractice.

 The schools and madrashas allegedly maintain three sets o f attendance registers. Of these one i s for the
 actual attendance of students inthe class. The second one, where names o f more students are enlisted, i s
 to used collect stipend money which is later embezzled. The last set is kept prepared for Education
 Ministry's scrutiny to get government grants and aid. It is even said that the authorities o f the schools
 and madrashas themselves prepare answer scripts o f `fake' students which they show to raise the
 allotment o f stipend money to them.

 The authorities, allegedly in connivance with some dishonest bank officials, thana level officials o f the
 education department, are misappropriating the government grants as well. Local guardians have
 demanded immediate probe into the matter and called for necessary action against the malpractice to
 create proper educational atmosphere inthe secondary schools and madrashas.

 Excerpted from % Dudy Star, Bangladeshi Daily Newspaper on the Intemet April 19, 1999, Volume 2, Number 237,
 http://dailptamews.com/ 199904/ 19/n90419 lO.htm#BODY2



    Table 4. An example of attendanceirregularities at one madrasahnotedby the FSSAP
    team of consultants
                   Name                 Class       Attendance on FSP-3 Form       Attendance on SchoolRegister
               Ayesha Akter                8                   89                              46
               RokeyaAkter                 8                   88                               31
               Fatama Khatun               9                   91                               28
               Amena Akter                 9                   89                               41

                                                28



Table 5. Sample ClassAttendance Ratesin SchoolsVisitedbythe OED Mission
Sample                            Proportion
classes     Total      Present

    6       209          143         .68
    6        44           33         .75

    6        58           24         .41

    6        70           45         .64

    6       120           15         .63

    6       146           84         .58

    7       177          118         .67
    7        41          25          .53

    1        72           44         .61

    1       115           64         .56

    8        80           20         .25

    8        90           24         .27

    8       143           87         .61

    8        85          41          .48

    8        69          29          .42

    8        68          45          .66

    8        63           13         .21

    8       191      82 (boys and    .43
                        girls)
    9       136           76         .56

    9        55           24         .44

    9        54           32         .59

    9        65           39         .60

    9        59          45          .76

   10        60           22         .37
   10       122           86         .70
   10        54          23          .43

   10        31           18         .58

   10        52          25          .48

   I O       56          26          .46

  10    7 (girls) 13  6 (9 boys      .75
science     boys      present)


Average attendance: 54%

        Through field visits, OED collects qualitative information, which i s integrated with
quantitative data where available. The limitedtime to assess projects (approximately one week
per project) means that missions have limited time inthe field, and that travel to remote areas i s
often not possible.

                                               29


State staff opinions
         The mission interviewed donor and PIU staff, as well as school principals. The questions
posedto them were:

What were the benefits o fthe project?
What problems didimplementation face?
Which components worked best inbringingabout results, which didnot?
H o w effective were the various consultants who worked on the project?
What training didyou receive through the project? Didit teach you what it was supposed to?
What would be different ineducation sector ifthe project had not existed?
What can be done to enable the poorest students to come to school?

                                                             30



 Table 6. Opinions fromInterviews Regarding Various Project Aspects
                                                                                                                 Response
                                                                                                                 Frequencies
What were the most important benefits of the project

Girls are now seen going to school along the highways                                                                a
Girls' marriages postponed                                                                                           7

More childrenwere not born                                                                                           3

Project pays girls to stay unmarried,so it is a population and not an education project                              3


                                                                                                                I
  hich componentsworked best in bringing about results, which did not

\Latrineswere very important                                                                                     1    4     1
Use the educated unemployedas teachers rather than poorlyeducated "trained" teachers                                  1

Hiring local teachers was bad idea. They may start their own businessor work in the fields, and neglectschool

What would be different in education sector if the project had not existed?
 Enrollmentswould be lower                                                                                            2
                                                                                                                 I
  hat have been the project's most important problems?                                                                       I
  ithout 90% attendance, passing the exam is impossible                                                               7

Madrasas easier, but also strict, they don't have TV
           -                                                                                                          4

Madrasa rules especially relaxed,easier to pass the dakhil examination                                                4

Enrollmentincreased, but quality dropped                                                                              4



Headmastersin more remote areas often take the money from the bank, give it to the girls, keep a commission           1

the girls with stipends may not learn much butwill make sure their daughters will                                     1

Girls may not go to school if they menstruate

Why is girls' attendance low?

They are not serious                                                                                                  5
 Parents uneducated, unaware                                                                                          5

 Harvest                                                                                                              3

 They are absent during menstruation                                                                                  2

 Sexual harassment                                                                                                     1

 Football                                                                                                              1

 What were the most important obstacles in project implementation?

 School managementcommitteeshave special interests,not necessarilyacademic                                            3

 Parent teacher associationshave no power, low interest, low education                                                3

 School managementcommitteeguided by 1-2people, does not representcommunity interests (they are private               3
 schools, after all)
 There is no interaction between parentsand school authorities                                                        3

 FSSAPstagnating after an early very good start                                                                       2

 Projectshould have been pronouncedsuccessfuland ended                                                                2

 Social standing improveswith the scholarships, not necessarilybecause the peoplewant the money.                       1

                                                           31


Annex B. Basic Data

BANGLADESH             SECONDARY SCHOOL ASSISTANTPROJECT(CREDIT 2469)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                                        Appraisal             Actual or            Actual as % of
                                                         estimate          current estimate      appraisal estimate
Total project costs                                       88.4*                  85.8                   97
Original Principal                                                               68
Cancellation                                                                     4.35
*Appraisal original was 80.0. The project was restructuredand the original appraisalestimateswere changed and all the
expenditureswere incurredaccordingto the restructuredestimates.




                                                                Original                           Actual
Negotiations
Board approval                                                06/16/1992                         03/11/1993
Signing                                                                                          03/11/1993
Effectiveness                                                  02/01/1993                        06/09/1993
Closing date                                                   06/30/2000                        06/30/2001




Staff Inputs(staff weeks)
                                                                 ActuaVLatest Estimate
Stage of Project Cycle                          N" Staff weeks                               US$ ('000)
Identitication/Preparation                             168.7                                    293.6
AppraisaVNegotiation                                    59.4                                    130.9
Supervision                                           340.2                                     899.5
ICR                                                      18                                       16.2
Total                                                 586.3                                   1,340.2

                                                   32


  Mission Data
                            Date        No. of    Specializations represented           Performance Rating
                       (month/year)    persons                                      Implementation Development
                                                                                      progress      objective
Identification/   July 22-29, 1990        1    1 projectofficer
Preparation
                  Oct. 30-Nov. 17, 1990   1    1 project officer
                  June 9-July 5, 1991     9    1 project officer, 2 technical
                                               officers, 1 senior program officer, 2
                                               program officers, 2 consultants, 1
                                               project monitor.
                  Oct. I-NOV.2, 1991      3    1 project officer, 1 program officer,
                                               and 1 consultant
                  Feb. 28-March 28,      10    1 project officer, 1chief operations
                  1992                         officer, 1 project monitor, 1 senior
                                               program officer, 2 program
                                               officers, 3 consultants, and 1
                                               institutionalcommunity
                                               developmentspecialists.
Appraisal/        June 24-July 24, 1992  11    1 project officer, 1senior program
Negotiation                                    officer, 2 program officers, 1
                                               counsel, 1 human resources
                                               economist, 1 economist, 1
                                               disbursement officer, 1 operations
                                               officer, and 2 consultants.
                  April 3-May 7, 1993     8    1projectofficer, 1humanresource
                  (Pre-effectiveness)          economist, 1program officer, 1
                                               senior operations officer, 1project
                                               monitor, 1disbursement officer, 1
                                               economist and1consultant.
Supervision       June 17-July4,1993      2    1senior operations officer, 1
                                               consultant
                  Dec. 2-20, 1993         2    1senior operations officer, 1                            S
                                               consultant
                  April 30-May 8, 1995    5    1principaleconomist, 1senior                             S
                                               operations officer 1senior
                                               sociologist, 1education specialist,
                                               1consultant
                  July 16-26, 1996        4    1senior educationspecialist, 1                           S
                                               senior sociologist, 1program
                                               officer, 1disbursement officer
                  April 2-1 5, 1997       6    2 senior education specialists,2
                  (Mid-term Review)            senior economists, 1program
                                               officer, 1disbursement officer.
                  Jan. 21-29. 1998        4    2 education specialists (one
                                               senior), one operations analyst, 1
                                               disbursement officer.
                  Feb. 7-15, 1999         4    2 education specialists (1senior), 1
                                               hancialmanagement specialist, 1
                                               disbursement officer.
                  Feb. 17-23              5    2 education specialists (1senior), 1
                                               financial management specialist, 1
                                               disbursement officer.
                  Nov. 29-Dec. 18,2000    4    1senior educationspecialist, 1
                                               research analyst, 1senior financial
                                               management specialist, 1
                                               disbursement officer.
ICR               Nov. 2001-ay 2002            1senior operationsofficer, 1
                                               research analyst, 1consultant



