Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 2469 BD 
Development Credit Agreement
(Female Secondary School Assistance Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 11, 1993
CREDIT NUMBER 2469 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 11, 1993, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
Page  2
(a)
"Agrani Bank" means Agrani Bank established as a Banking Company under 
the Bangladesh Bank's (Nationalization) Order 1992;
       (b)   "Bangladesh Bank" means the Central Bank of Bangladesh established under 
the Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972 (P.O. No. 127 of 1972) as amended to the date of this 
Agreement;
       (c)   "Special Account" means the Convertible Taka Special Account referred to 
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and described in the Circular dated September 2, 
1991 as revised on May 4, 1992 and December 24, 1992 of the Finance Division of the 
Borrower's Ministry of Finance entitled "Procedures for Operation of Convertible Taka 
Special Account (CONTASA) of IDA Aided Development Projects Under Government 
Departments/Autonomous/Semi-Autonomous Bodies," as such Circular may be amended from 
time to time in agreement with the Association;
       (d)   "DSHE" means the Directorate of Secondary and Higher Education of the 
Borrower's Ministry of Education;
       (e)   "FY" means the Fiscal Year of the Borrower which runs from July 1 to June 
30;
       (f)   "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education; 
       (g)   "Taka" means the currency of the Borrower;
       (h)   "Thana" means the lowest administrative unit in the country;
       (i)   "Project Area" means the area included in the 118 Thanas selected by the 
Borrower for inclusion in the Project with the approval of the Association; and
       (j)   "Project Schools" means schools in the Project Area selected by the 
Borrower for inclusion in the Project and which have entered into Cooperation 
Agreements referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
       Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty-nine million five hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 49,500,000).
       Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
       (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Taka a special deposit account in a bank acceptable to the Association on terms and 
conditions  satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
       Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
       Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
       (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
Page  3
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
       (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
       Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
       Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
       Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
March 1 and September 1 commencing September 1, 2003 and ending March 1, 2033. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on March 1, 2013 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
       (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
       (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
       Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
       Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the Ministry of Education with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
       (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
       Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
       Section 3.03. The Borrower shall establish a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) 
responsible for implementing the Project. The PIU shall be headed by a Project 
Director who shall be accountable to the Director General, DSHE. The Project Director 
shall be assisted by the Deputy Project Directors.
Page  4
       Section 3.04. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the 
Borrower shall appoint Agrani Bank to be responsible for Project-related banking 
activities. For this purpose, the Borrower shall enter into a Participation Agreement 
with Agrani Bank satisfactory to the Association. The Participation Agreement shall 
provide inter alia for: (a) the procedures for distributing stipends; (b) Agrani 
Bank's responsibilities on maintaining records; and (c) auditing of Agrani Bank 
activities under the Project.
       Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 1996 carry out 
jointly with the Association a comprehensive mid term review of the progress of the 
Project and soon thereafter shall implement the recommendations of such review. The 
review shall cover inter alia: (a) evaluation of the impact of the Project on 
enrollment of girls in secondary schools; (b) recruitment of additional teachers; (c) 
the implementation of the occupational skills development program; (d) the 
implementation of the female education awareness program; (e) the implementation of 
the water supply and sanitation program; and (f) the implementation of the 
institutional development program.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
       Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
       (b)   The Borrower shall:
             (i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
            (ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than nine months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
           (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
       (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
             (i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
            (ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for he fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
           (iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
            (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Page  5
       Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
       (a)   the Borrower has issued a circular temporarily suspending the Free 
Tuition for Girls Policy in the Project Schools;
       (b)   the Borrower has established the PIU referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement and has appointed the following officials for the PIU with qualifications 
and experience satisfactory to the Association and that these officials have taken up 
their posts; (i) three Deputy Project Directors; (ii) two Assistant Directors 
(Operations) and one Assistant Director (FEAP); one Assistant Director (Training); 
(iii) seven Project Officers (Field); (iv) one Project Officer (FEAP); (v) one Project 
Officer (Monitoring and Evaluation); (vi) one Project Officer (Statistics); (vii) one 
Project Officer (Training); (viii) one Computer Programmer; (ix) one Data Entry 
Technician; (x) one Accountant; (xi) one Clerical Accountant; (xii) one Auditor; and 
(xiii) the Team Leader of the Management Technical Assistance (MTA) team;
       (c)   the Borrower, through MOE and Agrani Bank have executed the Participation 
Agreement referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement; and
       (d)   the Project Proforma for carrying out the Project has been approved by 
the Borrower.
       Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
       Section 6.01. The Secretary, or the Additional Secretary, or any Joint 
Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Senior Assistant Secretary or Assistant Secretary of 
the Economic Relations Division of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
       Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
       For the Borrower:
            Economic Relations Division
            Ministry of Finance
            Government of the People's Republic
              of Bangladesh
            Dhaka, Bangladesh
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   BAHIRSAMPAD             642226 SETU BJ
                   Dhaka
                                           Facsimile:
                                           8802813088
       For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
Page  6
                                           Facsimile:
                                           2024776391
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
                         PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
                         By /s/ K. M. Ejazul Huq
Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
Regional Vice President
South Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works                370,000        80%
(2)   Equipment, materials,      440,000        100% of foreign
      vehicles and furniture                    expenditures,
                                                100 of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory) and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(3)   Stipends                27,360,000        100%
(4)   Technical                6,840,000        100%
      assistance,
      inspection fees
      and studies
(5)   Training and             7,570,000        100%
      training
      materials
(6)   Incremental              1,750,000        80% in FY95,
      teachers' salaries                        65% in FY96,
                                                50% in FY97,
                                                30% in FY98, and
                                                20% in FY99
(7)   Unallocated              5,170,000
Page  7
           TOTAL              49,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
       (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
       (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
       (c)   the term "incremental salaries" means salaries to be paid to teachers 
recruited as a result of this Project.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent 
of SDR 220,000 on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
September 30, 1992; and
       (b)   payments made for expenditures under Categories (1), (2) and (3) for any 
secondary school unless: (i) that school has signed the Cooperation Agreement referred 
to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) the headmaster/headmistress and/or the 
School Level Coordinator have completed the training courses acceptable to the 
Association.
4.     Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement of goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $20,000 may be required by the 
Association upon the basis of statements of expenditure under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
       The objectives of the Project are to: (a) provide financial and other 
assistance to girls in secondary schools (Grades 6 to 10) to enable them to complete 
their secondary education; (b) increase the overall number of secondary education 
teachers and to raise the proportion of female teachers; (c) provide occupational 
skills training to school leaving girls; (d) provide a supportive environment for 
girls' education; (e) provide a healthier and safer setting for girls in schools; and 
(f) strengthen the Borrower's capacity in delivering education services.
       The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Stipends
       Providing stipends to secondary school girls moving through Grades 6-10 to 
cover costs of tuition, public examinations, school fees, textbooks, stationary, 
uniforms, shoes, transport and other related expenses.
Part B:     Teacher Enhancement
       Recruitment of additional secondary school teachers in the Project Schools.
Part C:     Occupational Skills Training
       Training of school-leaving girls as self-employed workers, semi-skilled and 
skilled workers, and private sector entrepreneurs.
Part D:     Female Education Awareness
       Carrying out an education awareness program to educate the public on the direct 
and indirect benefits of female education. 
Part E:     Water Supply and Sanitation
       Improving hygiene and sanitation practices in Project secondary schools through 
the provision of hygiene education, latrines, tubewells and carrying out minor civil 
works.
Page  8
Part F:     Institutional Development
       Strengthening DSHE's/MOE's capabilities in Project implementation at national 
and thana levels through the provisions of technical assistance, equipment, office 
furniture and vehicles.
* * *
       The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     Procurement Procedures
1.     Except as provided in paragraph 2 hereof, equipment, materials, vehicles and 
furniture shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Association and in accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.     Equipment, materials, vehicles and furniture estimated to cost the equivalent 
of less than $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.     Contracts for civil works may be awarded after direct negotiations with school 
community groups, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part B:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
       (a)   With respect to the first two contracts irrespective of value for 
equipment, materials, vehicles and furniture and thereafter each such contract 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for 
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to 
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in 
respect of such contract.
       (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
       (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.     The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
       In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Page  9
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Project Management
1.     The Borrower shall, establish a Management Technical Assistance Team and 
appoint the Team Leader to assist the PIU and DSHE staff with implementation of the 
Project. The Team shall consist of experts in educational planning, management, 
organization, training, monitoring, computer services and independent inspection of 
schools in the Project Area. All members of the Management Technical Assistance Team 
shall have qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association.
2.     The Borrower shall, not later than July 15, 1993 appoint the rest of the 
members of the Management Technical Assistance team and the rest of the staff of PIU 
required for the Project.
3.     The participating schools shall nominate a School Level Coordinator for the 
Project and the PIU shall confirm such nomination. The Coordinator shall be 
responsible for implementation of the Project at school level and provide assistance 
to students on school-related and personal problems.
4.     The PIU on behalf of DSHE shall enter into a Cooperation Agreement with each 
Project school in the Project Area satisfactory to the Association. The Cooperation 
Agreement shall specify the purposes, major activities and expected duties to be 
carried out by DSHE and the Project School and the eligibility criteria for 
participating under the Project. The Cooperation Agreement will be signed by each 
Project School by October 15, 1993 for that school to be eligible for the first 
academic year.
5.     The Borrower shall take all appropriate measures to ensure that the proportion 
of women among new teachers in Project Schools are at least 20% by 1996, 30% by 1998, 
and 40% by 2000.
6.     The Borrower shall take all appropriate measures to ensure that tuition fees 
for girls in the Project Schools are not raised above the Consumer Price Index 
increases during implementation of the Project.
7.     The Borrower shall take all appropriate measures to ensure that eligible 
secondary school girls in the Project Schools will continue to be financed after 
academic year 1999 until they have graduated in grade 10.
8.     The Borrower shall ensure that total recurrent costs of additional teachers 
salaries under the Project are included in the budget for each Fiscal Year with effect 
from FY 1995.
9.     The Borrower shall, not later than August 1, 1996 submit to the Association for 
review a comprehensive progress report on the implementation of the Project as the 
basis of the mid-term review referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement. The terms 
of reference for the report shall be satisfactory to the Association.
10.    The Borrower shall, not later than August 1, 1993 establish a Management 
Information System (MIS) under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
The Borrower shall use the MIS for inter alia tracking key Project indicators relative 
to the stipend program, and for monitoring and evaluating the progress of Project 
implementation.
11.    The Borrower shall, not later than August 1, 1993, establish Thana Project 
offices in about 59 Thanas in the Project Area, and adequately staff them with 
personnel having qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association. 
Project offices for the remaining 59 Thanas will be established at a date to be agreed 
between the Borrower and the Association after reviewing the findings of the mid-term 
review to be carried out pursuant to Section 3.05 of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  10
       (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
       (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
       (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $4,100,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
       (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
       (b)   (i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
       (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
       (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
Page  11
pursuant to paragraph of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
