Document of
FILE Copy                        The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repor No. P-2073-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION               RETURN         TO
REPORTS DESK
OF THE                            WITHIN
PRESIDENT                       ONE WEEK
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS OF THE BANK AND TO THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE CORPORATION
ON A
PROPOSED TWELFTH LOAN BY THE BANK TO
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A. S.
WITH GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
AND A
PROPOSED FOURTH LOAN BY THE
CORPORATION TO
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A. S.
May 11, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit                            Turkish Lira (TL)
US$ 1                                        TL  16.32   1/
TL  1                                        US$ 0.061
TL  1,000                                    US$ 61.27
TL 1,000,000                                 US$ 61,270
TSKB Fiscal Year           =       January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
DESIYAB             Devlet Sinai ve Isci Yatirim Bankasi
(State Industry and Labor Investment Bank)
DYB                 Devlet Yatirim Bankasi
(State Investment Bank)
EEC                 European Economic Community
EIB                 European Investment Bank
KfW                 Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LDRs                Less Developed Regions
LIBOR               London Inter Bank Offered Rate
SEE                 State Economic Enterprises
SMLI                Small- to Medium-Sized Labor-Intensive Industries
SPO                 State Planning Organization
SYKB                Sinai Yatirim ve Kredi Bankasi
(Industrial Investment and Credit Bank)
TSKB                Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi
(Industrial Development Bank of Turkey)
1/    Appraisal Report is based as a rate of exchange of US$ I = TL 16.32.
On March 1, 1977 the rate stood at US$ 1 = TL 17.50.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS OF THE BANK AND TO THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE CORPORATION ON A PROPOSED
TWELFTH LOAN TO TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S. (TSKB)
WITH GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY AND A
PROPOSED FOURTH LOAN BY THE CORPORATION TO TSKB
1.        I submit the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed loan
by the Bank to Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi A.S. (TSKB) with the Guarantee
of the Republic of Turkey for the equivalent of US$74 million to help finance
private sector industrial development. Amortization would conform substan-
tially to the aggregate of the amortization schedules applicable to subprojects
financed under the project, and would not exceed 15 years. The interest rate
on the Bank loan would be 8.20 percent per annum. Additionally an IFC loan
of US$50 million to TSKB is proposed, out of which US$10 million would be for
IFC's own account and the balance is intended to be placed with participants.
The interest rate on the loan portion for IFC's own account ("A" Loan) would
be 10-1/4 percent per annum and the interest rate for the participants'
portion ("B" Loan) would be based on the London Interbank Offered Rate for
6 months deposits plus a margin of about 2 percent. The "A" Loan would be
repaid in about 9 years and the "B" Loan in about 5 years including grace
periods.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report (No. 1272-TU) entitled "Country Economic
Memorandum - Turkey" dated October 21, 1976, was circulated to the Executive
Directors on November 2, 1976.
3.        Despite an uncertain domestic political situation resulting in
frequent changes of Government since 1971 and, more recently, an international
recession, Turkey has succeeded in maintaining an impressive rate of economic
growth. GNP growth in real terms, in the period 1970-75, has averaged 7.8
percent annually. Industry, power, transport and construction were the
sectors contributing most to this growth rate. Due largely to a decrease in
agricultural production, reflecting poor weather conditions, the growth rate
dropped to 5.5 percent in 1973; it recovered to 7.4 percent in 1974, and
reached 8 percent in 1975, at a time when recession prevailed in many other
countries. The average growth of the past years compares favorably with the
targeted growth of 7.9 percent per annum during the Third Plan (1973-77).
Within the context of this rapid economic growth, however, the Government is
faced with problems which require the establishment of priorities as well as
of corrective measures. These include in particular (a) insufficient mobil-
ization of public resources; (b) high rate of inflation; (c) employment
generation problems; (d) deterioration in the balance of payments; and (e)
inadequate coordination among Government agencies in project implementation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank/IFC authorization.



- 2 -
4.        The budgetary situation in the last decade has been dominated by
the relatively rapid growth of public expenditures. Although tax revenues
have grown rapidly, increasing by an unprecedented 48 percent between 1974
and 1975, the increase has been insufficient to offset the rise in Government
expenditures and transfers. As a result, there is a continuing overall bud-
get deficit which increased from TL 6.6 billion in 1973 to TL 7.2 billion in
1975. As a consequence, Central Bank financing of the Treasury rose from TL
400 million in 1973 to about TL 4 billion in 1975. In 1972 and 1973, the
Treasury introduced stricter control of current expenditures and succeeded
to some degree in shifting the sources of finance for the budget deficit
from the Central Bank to the sale of Government bonds to the public, which
nearly doubled from TL 3.6 billion in 1974 to TL 7.4 billion in 1975.
5.        The State Economic Enterprises (SEEs) play a major role in the
Turkish economy. They operate the nation's railway network, most of the
power system, and account for 40 percent of employment and half the net output
of mining and industry. Despite the substantial increase in the sales reve-
nue of the SEEs, their profitability remains low (in 1975 the SEEs suffered
a net loss of TL 3 billion). The Government uses the SEEs as instruments for
social and economic objectives such as import substitution, income distribu-
tion, employment creation and growth of underdeveloped regions. In addition,
the Government's pricing policies, the difficulties in attracting qualified
technical and managerial staff because of the salary structure in the public
sector, and weaknesses in coordination, have seriously eroded the financial
position of the SEEs in recent years. Government attempts at legislative
reforms in these areas have been unsuccessful due to serious differences among
Turkey's political parties.
6.        The rate of domestic inflation has been high in recent years.    How-
ever, in 1975, domestic price increases slowed down markedly as measured by
both the wholesale price index (from 30 percent in 1974 to 10 percent in 1975)
and the GDP deflator (from 27 percent to 16 percent over the same years). In-
flationary pressures in Turkey have been partly fueled by growth in domestic
liquidity, which averaged about 27 percent per year during 1970-75. Other
contributing factors include increases in minimum wages, in agricultural
support prices for domestic and export products, as well as substantial in-
creases in import prices, particularly oil and its derived products. Measures
to reduce the growth of domestic liquidity, without discouraging investment
and growth, are essential to ensuring an ease in inflationary pressures. The
recent trend towards rapid increases in Central Bank financing of the public
sector, particularly of some of the SEE investment programs, however, needs
careful re-examination. In late 1974, the Government raised interest rates to
encourage private savings and long-term lending. The interest rate on medium-
term credit was raised from 12 to 14 percent and rates on time deposits up to
one year from 4 to 6 percent. A preliminary assessment indicates that in 1976
inflationary pressures have worsened, as wholesale prices increased by 19 per-
cent during the year. The restoration of domestic price stability, therefore,
remains a key problem on which Government policy must be focused.
7.        Turkey's development strategy, as outlined in three successive five-
year plans, emphasizes investment in capital-intensive industries with its



- 3 -
consequent greater emphasis on growth of output through higher labor produc-
tivity rather than on increased employment. As a result, the labor surplus,
including underemployment in agriculture, has doubled since 1962. It now
stands at two million, equivalent to about 13 percent of the labor force.
Until 1973, emigration of workers, especially to Germany, partially eased
the pressure on employment. Between 1965 and 1973, net emigration of workers
totalled about 450,000; but the recent economic slowdown in Europe consider-
ably reduced Turkish labor emigration from 136,000 in 1973 to only 20,000 in
1974 and 5,000 in 1975. With prospects of further net emigration of Turkish
labor to Europe reduced, at least in the medium-term, unemployment should be
a major concern of economic policy, and where appropriate, labor-intensive
production methods need to be emphasized in the formulation of projects.
8.        The preliminary results of the 1975 census indicate a drop in the
growth rate of urban areas between 1970 and 1975, as compared to the period
1960-1970. This is partially attributed to the fruition of irrigation and
land development schemes. Speedy implementation of rural development programs
should continue to help slow the rural to urban migration and contribute to
the easing of unemployment in both rural and urban areas. However, even with
these measures, and faster growth than planned in construction and services,
unemployment will continue to be a significant problem.
9.        The Third Plan (1973-77) constitutes the first phase of Turkey's
long-term strategy for the period 1973-95, by which time Turkey is scheduled to
be fully integrated into EEC. The ultimate objective is to raise standards of
living by 1995 to those of Italy in 1970, through rapid industrialization and
decreasing dependence on external resources. The Plan aimed at annual growth
rates of 7.5 percent in GDP, 12.7 percent in fixed investment, and a marginal
national savings ratio of 38 percent. An annual increase in commodity exports
and imports of 7.1 percent and 9.4 percent respectively was projected by the
Plan, which, taken together with projected growth in invisible earnings
(mainly workers' remittances) was expected to result in a decline in gross
inflows of official external assistance.
10.       Prospects for continued high economic growth remain good, although
the Third Plan's projections have proven to be optimistic in terms of the
anticipated increase in savings and a manageable balance of payments position,
with reduced levels of external assistance. Experience during the last three
years has shown that present efforts to mobilize greater domestic savings to
support a rapid growth of investment, especially in the public sector, need
to be considerably intensified. The Plan anticipated that two-thirds of the
increase in national savings would come from the public sector, through in-
creases both in surpluses of the SEEs and in tax revenue. Given the perfor-
mance of SEEs and delays in implementing a general reform, the anticipated
rapid growth in their surpluses has not yet materialized and, indeed, some of
them continued to be heavy drains on the public exchequer. Given the present
domestic political outlook, it may be difficult to repeat the unusually good
1974 to 1975 tax performance to raise tax revenues, to the extent envisaged by
the Plan. There is nevertheless scope for increases in future years, but only
if appropriate policies are pursued more vigorously, such as improving tax
administration, widening tax coverage to include agricultural incomes and



service incomes, increasing the rate of property taxation, and introducing a
value added tax. Domestic resource mobilization in the public sector will
continue to be a significant constraint in the growth of public investment.
Besides taking steps to improve significantly the financial performance of
some of the key SEEs, including appropriate pricing of some of the goods they
produce or services they provide, increased borrowing abroad, as well as
increased long-term borrowing from the domestic private sector, are necessary
to achieve the ambitious public sector investment targets. Because Turkey's
development program requires funds in excess of savings that can be mobilized
domestically, and because these cannot be provided in adequate amounts if
foreign finance is limited to the foreign exchange cost of high-priority
projects, some local cost financing by foreign lenders will continue to be
required.
11.       With the favorable impact of the devaluation and stabilization
measures, Turkey's balance of payments position in the early 1970s remained
comfortable; in fact, there was a substantial surplus in its overall balance
of payments in 1973, and Turkey's foreign exchange reserves increased
significantly. Turkey, however, experienced deficits in 1974 and 1975, with
net reserves declining by about $431 million in 1974 and $417 million in
1975. This was due partly to a sharp increase in the trade deficit and a
slowdown in the growth of workers' remittances, as well as to a reduction in
official capital aid inflows. The large trade deficits resulted mainly from
the increase in import volume and the unprecedented rise in import prices
generally, and oil prices in particular.
12.       In 1975 imports were $4.7 billion and were increasing at a rapid
rate, while exports were $1.4 billion and registered an 8 percent decline
over the preceding year because of the recession in major importing countries.
This happened despite Government measures, including an effective depreciation
of the exchange rate (by 26.3 percent between April 1975 and February 1977)
through successive small adjustments, liberalization of tax rebates and
relaxation of export controls. Workers' remittances rose rapidly until 1973
and continued to grow until 1974, but they decreased by 8.5 percent in 1975 as
compared to 1974. Their future is uncertain due to the temporary restriction
on further entry of foreign workers into the major labor-importing countries
of Europe. Recent agreements between Turkey and Libya to send Turkish workers
to Libya, and the possibility of similar arrangements with the oil-producing
countries, should help to somewhat ease the situation. As a result of these
developments, gross reserves decreased to about $1.0 billion by December 1975
(the equivalent of about 2.7 months of 1975 imports) and to about $1.1 billion
by December 1976.
13.       The trends of 1975 seem to have continued through 1976.     A prelim-
inary assessment shows that the balance of payments situation has further
worsened. The current account deficit for 1976 is estimated to be larger than
the deficit in 1975, due to some increase in imports and a decline in workers'
remittances. Export earnings, however, have recovered significantly as a
result of Government's actions and a revival of European demand. While the
prospects are that Turkey can increase its exports at a fairly high rate,
provided appropriate domestic policies are introduced to give adequate
incentives for exports, Turkey's balance of payments is likely to remain



-5-
under significant pressure in the immediate years ahead. The Government
should also avoid fixing prices for domestic purchases of exportable commodi-
ties at levels above those prevailing in international markets, in an effort
to encourage their exports instead of consumption in Turkey. Even more
important, is the need to contain the growth of imports within foreign ex-
change availabilities.
14.       A disturbing feature of the balance of payments situation is the
sharp increase in short-term external debt. This has essentially resulted
from the convertible lira accounts scheme, under which non-residents are
permitted to open accounts denominated and repayable in foreign exchange.
Since these deposits carried till March 1977, an attractive interest rate of
1.75 percent above the Eurodollar market rates, the scheme appears to have
been used extensively by several foreign banks. Deposits under this scheme
rose from $120 million in May 1975 to about $1 billion by the end of 1975,
and according to preliminary estimates may have reached about $1.7 billion
by the end of 1976. Since the foreign banks concerned may shift their money
at any time if they get more attractive terms elsewhere further growth of this
type of short-term debt needs to be strictly controlled and Turkey should con-
tinue to attempt to gradually replace a portion of this short-term indebted-
ness through medium-term loans and in general, to lengthen the average maturity
of its external debts. In March 1977, in an attempt to lengthen the maturities
of convertible lira accounts, the Government changed the rate on most deposits
to 0.75 to 2.25 percent above the Eurodollar market rates depending on the
maturity of the deposits.
15.       At the end of 1975, Turkey's medium- and long-term external debt
outstanding and disbursed amounted to $3.3 billion ($4.6 billion including
undisbursed), 94 percent of which was public or publicly guaranteed debt.
About 58 percent of this debt was held by governments and about 33 percent by
international organizations. The Bank Group's share was 13 percent with an
undisbursed pipeline of $588 million at that time. Debt service payments
amounted to an estimated $270 million in 1975, equivalent to 12.5 percent
of exports of goods and non-factor services, the Bank Group's share being
12 percent. Despite the aforementioned deterioration in the balance of pay-
ments, the debt service ratio can be expected to remain within acceptable
limits in the medium-term, provided sound overall debt management policies
as well as borrowing practices are pursued. Meanwhile, Turkey continues
to be creditworthy for Bank financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
16.       The 1970 economic stabilization program and devaluation of the
Turkish lira, which improved the balance of payments, enabled Bank Group
lending, which had previously been intermittent, to be established on a con-
tinuing basis at a high level. As of March 31, 1977, the Bank Group has
lent $1,391.2 million to Turkey through 48 lending operations (or 42 projects,
since both loans and credits were provided for some projects), including 14
IDA credits totalling $178.1 million. Fourteen of these operations have



- 6 -
been in agriculture and rural development (including multipurpose projects),
seventeen in industry (including DFCs), ten in power, and the rest in urban
development, transportation, education and tourism. Agriculture and rural
development account for 26 percent of the funds lent, industry and DFCs for
about 38 percent and power for about 26 percent. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1977,
respectively, with notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Implementation
of projects has been satisfactory in the private sector, but less so in the
public sector where significant delays have resulted from political uncer-
tainty, limited coordination among agencies, staffing problems and related
administrative delays. Disbursements have consequently been slower than
expected. To improve this situation, the Government established, in mid 1975,
a ministerial coordinating committee, supported by a new secretariat located
in the Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for coordinating all aspects
of Bank Group operations. In connection with this new framework, in June 1975
the Government and the Bank initiated joint quarterly reviews to identify and
resolve key bottlenecks impeding satisfactory project implementation. So far,
six such reviews have taken place, the most recent one in January, 1977. The
results so far have been gradual but encouraging, and key policy problems
affecting Bank projects now receive concerted high-level attention. However,
the current political standoff occasioned by a weak coalition government has
prevented reaching follow-up solutions on some of those policy problems.
17.       Bank lending to Turkey is now mainly directed at supporting Turkish
efforts to improve: (a) income distribution and the level of living standards
through rural development efforts, urban planning, increased employment and
incomes opportunities; (b) the long-term capacity to earn or save foreign
exchange, through promotion of industrial and agro-industrial exports and
tourism; and (c) lagging public sector saving, through the operations of the
SEEs. In support of these objectives, it is proposed to continue to devote
the Bank's development efforts to certain key sectors, of which agriculture
is the most important. In this sector, emphasis is being put on rural develop-
ment, the strengthening of agricultural credit mechanisms, and livestock.
Industry (including mining and DFCs), where the gradual strengthening of the
SEEs is the key task, will also receive significant support. This program
is supplemented by projects in tourism, power, urban development and transport.
18.       Until recently, Bank lending was focused mainly in two geographical
areas: (i) the Istanbul region, with emphasis on urban planning, water supply,
power distribution and industrial finance; and (ii) the Cukurova region around
Adana on the southern coast, with emphasis on power, irrigation, and fruit and
vegetable production. Lately, however, the focus has been broadened to in-
clude the Anatolian plateau and eastern Turkey in support of efforts to widen
the geographical base of development and help the Government improve the eco-
nomic condition of segments of the population in areas which had been relatively
neglected in the past. Projects under preparation include rural development,
grain storage and agricultural credit, as well as more traditional projects
such as wastewater disposal in Istanbul, a hydroelectric project, and a second
railways project.



- 7 -
19.       IFC has invested in the production of nylon yarns, pulp and paper,
glass, aluminum, steel, cement, and tourism. As of March 31, 1977, gross
IFC commitments totalled $157.86 million, of which $83.80 million were still
held by IFC. The Corporation is currently investigating additional investment
opportunities in the industrial sector, including textiles, motor bicycles,
inorganic chemicals, and automotive components.
PART III - INDUSTRY AND THE ROLE OF TSKB
The Industrial Setting
20.       The industrial sector has been growing at a rapid rate, increasing
from 13 percent of GDP in 1950 (in current prices) to 17 percent in 1960, and
21 percent in 1975. The Government's direct involvement in industry continues
in areas where the private sector faces unusual difficulties because of long
gestation periods, heavy capital requirements, or high risks. At present, the
public sector accounts for about 50 percent of the value added in manufacturing
and mining, and is a major producer of steel, petroleum refining, fertilizers,
petrochemicals, and pulp and paper. The private sector in Turkey focuses
mainly on consumer goods as well as durables, (textiles and clothing, leather
and leather products, rubber products and plastics, pharmaceuticals, chemicals,
light metal products). Only recently has it also ventured into intermediate
and investment goods production. The private sector accounted for about 50
percent of industrial investment during 1973-76, and about 65 percent of total
industrial employment.
21.       The Government has traditionally viewed industrialization as Turkey's
instrument for achieving high rates of economic growth, the development of less
developed regions, as well as structural changes in the economy. Industrial
development policy has thus stressed import substitution, the application of
advanced technology and, more recently, a shift of emphasis from consumer goods
to intermediate and investment goods industries. High protection and generous
incentives, introduced to support these policies, have resulted in the devel-
opment of a fairly modern public sector, largely oriented to the domestic
market.
22.       The performance of the manufacturing sector has been impressive.
During the past ten years or so, manufacturing grew at an annual average rate
of 11 percent. The share of manufacturing in total fixed investment increased
from 20 percent in 1964 to an estimated 31 percent in 1976. With rising in-
cremental capital-output ratios, industrial employment has grown slowly--from
9 percent of total employemnt in 1964 to only 13 percent in 1976. Export of
manufactures, which ranged between $80 and $100 million during the 1964-70
period, increased sharply thereafter and in 1976 reached an estimated $700
million. They now represent some 36 percent of total Turkish exports. Rising
demand, particularly from European countries, the devaluation of the lira in
1970, incentives and, generally, a more outward orientation account for this
development. Despite this remarkable growth performance, the volume of ex-
ports is still relatively low, with manufacturing exports accounting for only



- 8 -
3 percent of the total value of manufacturing production. A large number of
private sector enterprises cannot exploit their export potential because they
are, for the most part, small, inefficient and financially too weak to break
into the export markets.
23.       The success of domestic industry has depended largely on protection
through tariffs, levies and taxes on imports, quota restrictions and absolute
prohibition of some imports. Their extent and scope, however, have had mixed
effects on industrial development. While they have raised substantially the
domestic prices of imported goods and locally produced goods which have an
import content, because of a protected and expanding domestic market, they
have tended to discourage the growth of industrial exports. The tendency
towards the application of advanced technology has also not only led to a
capital intensive approach to production, but has discouraged the increased
use of the available labor force. While the emigration of excess Turkish
labor to Europe, and especially to Germany, until 1973 had mitigated the
potential unemployment problem, the recent and continuing decline in worker
emigration suggests a reorientation to make increasing use of Turkish labor
in both the public and private sector, and to adopt more labor intensive
technology wherever possible.
The Financial Setting
24.       The major sources of long-term institutional finance for private in-
dustry are TSKB, the Industrial Investment and Credit Bank (SYKB) which pre-
dominantly finances domestic currency expenditures, and the Halk Bank (Peoples
Bank) which lends to very small-scale, almost artisan-type, enterprises mostly
in domestic currency, whose needs are also being studied by SPO. Roughly 44
percent of total private fixed investment is financed by the intermediaries
mentioned above; the balance comes from internally generated funds, bond issues
and direct foreign investment. The State Investment Bank (DYB), to which the
Bank has made two loans, the last one in March 1977, is the only financial
institution which provides long-term finance to State Economic Enterprises
(SEEs), satisfying about 30 percent of their requirements in recent years.
25.       The capital market in Turkey is thin.   Share issues by private
corporations to the outside public are very limited. The bond market is
dominated by Government issues, which enjoy an almost captive market. Govern-
ment bonds are highly liquid and yield 11 percent tax free while corporate
bonds yield 18 percent and are subject to tax. Some 80 percent of the Gov-
ernment bond issues have been placed with financial and other public insti-
tutions, and only 17 percent directly with savers. Despite this situation,
the practice of issuing bonds by private corporations has been growing in
recent years, with TSKB playing an important role in guaranteeing and placing
some of the principal issues. In the absence of any meaningful stock ex-
changes, private bond issues reached TL 1.6 billion in 1976, a relatively
small amount in relation to needs. In contrast, during 1971-76, private
savings and time deposits grew at 22 percent per annum and reached TL 34
billion at the end of 1976. To encourage the issue of equity to private
industrial enterprises, especially those located in the less developed re-
gions, the Investment Finance Corporation was established by a group of banks
in 1976, and TSKB played a key role in establishing this corporation.



- 9 -
26.       The role of foreign private investments in industrial development
is limited. While the official policy is to accept them when they lead to a
transfer of new technology, provision of training, contribution to export
earnings, and entail no monopoly or special privileges, in practice the policy
has been restrictive through administrative delays, which effectively dis-
courages foreign investors. Foreign direct investments rose from $27 million
in 1973 to an estimated $100 million in 1976, accounting for only about 15 per-
cent of total private fixed investment.
27.       Since 1975 the use of convertible lira accounts has caused a con-
siderable inflow of private short-term capital for investment in industry.
Under this scheme, the Central Bank converts foreign currency deposits held
by Turkish commercial banks into lira and assumes the foreign exchange risk.
The commercial banks are authorized to pay up to 2.25 percent over the
Eurodollar market rates, and can lend 75 percent of the proceeds to local
borrowers in lira.
28.       In April 1975, the Government established a new banking institu-
tion, the State Industry and Labor Investment Bank (DESIYAB), to mobilize the
savings of migrant workers for investment in the private sector, mainly in
the less developed regions. DESIYAB's authorized capital is TL 1 billion,
owned 85 percent by the Treasury and 15 percent by the SEEs. Eventually, 49
percent of its share capital, with a guarantee of a 12 percent dividend, will
be made available to the public, preferably to persons who work or have worked
abroad. DESIYAB may make equity investments or extend loans for up to 15
years. The establishment of this new financial intermediary should comple-
ment TSKB's efforts in promoting the development of less developed regions,
an effort which TSKB has successfully launched since 1974 with the support
provided by the Bank's last two loans.
TSKB's Role in Implementing the Government's Industrial Policies
29.       TSKB, established in 1950, is one of the oldest and most experienced
development finance companies associated with the Bank Group, and has played
an important role in Turkey's private industrial sector for many years. It
provides about 10 percent of the financing of total fixed private investment
and almost 25 percent of the foreign exchange requirements of the private
manufacturing sector. The high standard of its technical appraisals have been
readily accepted by commercial banks, enabling them to join with TSKB in the
joint financing of an increasing number of projects. TSKB has also been
actively involved in furthering the Government's policy of decentralizing in-
dustry by allocating about half of its resources to the financing of projects
in the less developed regions of Turkey.
30.       In its earlier years, TSKB's operations were concentrated in the
industrialized areas of Turkey, predominantly in the Istanbul-Izmir area.
Encouraged by the Bank, TSKB spread its operations to the less developed
regions of East Anatolia to support national industrial policy, and has
established two new branch offices in that part of Turkey. Following its
promotional drive in the LDRs (see para. 47 for definition), TSKB raised
its financing of projects in the most underdeveloped areas from an average



- 10 -
of 21 percent of loans and equity investments approved in 1973 and 1974 to
41 percent in 1975 and 1976. TSKB also succeeded in locating projects and
attracting investors away from industrialized centers and into underdeveloped
pockets within the more industrialized Western and Central Regions, and has
been active in promoting and financing export-oriented industries, another
essential Government policy for a country whose balance of payments will, in
the medium-term future, continue to be under considerable pressure.
31.       As part of its regular operations, TSKB also undertakes intensive
subsector analysis and market studies covering a large number of industries,
enabling itself and potential clients to make rational and profitable invest-
ments. For example, it is presently undertaking a series of such studies on
the rationalization of the private sector textile industry. The information
resulting from these specific subsector studies will not only help in foster-
ing regular business in these areas, but also in fostering the establishment
or growth of those specific industries on sound lines. Similar studies in the
past have helped TSKB to operate more efficiently and also are expected to
provide a basis for helping to finance medium and small-scale labor intensive
industries. The development of these industries is now a necessary part of
the Government's endeavors to reduce growing unemployment. It will not be
an easy objective to achieve, and will require special efforts to implement
successfully. TSKB has shown that it is willing to make this critical effort.
These specialized activities of TSKB, and the encouragement of them through
our proposed loan, are discussed in more detail below and in Part IV.
32.       Financial Structure and Performance.    TSKB's authorized and sub-
scribed share capital is TL 425.4 million, of which TL 280.4 million has been
paid in as of mid-1976, and the balance will be called before the end of 1977.
The principal shareholder is Turkiye Is Bankasi, Turkey's largest commercial
bank, which holds 22 percent of the share capital. The balance is distributed
among a number of Turkish and foreign banks and other institutions, and IFC
holds six percent of the shares. TSKB has received seven Bank loans and four
IDA credits, totalling $233 million. Disbursements of Bank loans to TSKB have
traditionally moved quickly, in marked contrast to some of the loans made to
the Government. IFC has extended three loans totalling $60 million to TSKB,
of which $45 million was placed with participants.
33.       As of June 30, 1976, foreign exchange borrowings from international
financial institutions (including IFC syndications) accounted for about 74
percent of TSKB's domestic and foreign resources, totalling $241 million
equivalent. The remaining 26 percent of its resources included: (i) a local
currency subordinated loan from the Government of TL 368 million ($22.5 million
equivalent) on which repayments start in 1981; (ii) various Government lira
loans from revolving foreign aid counterpart funds totalling TL 85.5 million
($5.2 million equivalent); (iii) bonds successfully floated in the domestic
market of TL 300 million (18.3 million equivalent); and (iv) equity of TL 602.2
million ($36 million equivalent).
34.       Total domestic resources mobilized during 1975 and 1976 fell short
of forecast levels. From mid-1974 to mid-1976, the share of Government funding
dropped from one-half of TSKB's domestic resources to one third. During this



- 11 -
period, TSKB tried to make this up by floating bonds of TL 50 million in 1974
and TL 200 million in 1975, and increasing the paid-up share capital in the
first half of 1976 by TL 87.1 million. Due to the ceiling on the lending rate
(14 percent) and the high cost of floating lira bonds (over 18 percent), TSKB
could tap the domestic bond market only at a negative spread. This restricts
domestic resource mobilization and results in a declining share of lira opera-
tions. The interest rate and other financial issues are being examined in
financial sector studies currently being carried out under the auspices of the
Ministry of Finance, which are expected to be completed later this year. In
1975 and 1976, TSKB's operations were helped by receiving parallel financing
from Turkish commercial banks of about TL 1 billion, substantially more than
expected; commercial banks were enticed by the high quality of appraisal
reports TSKB could make available to them.
35.       At the end of June 1976, TSKB's total assets had reached TL 5.5
billion, with its loan and equity portfolio amounting to TL 4.8 billion.
Commitments increased by about 30 percent annually in 1972-76. The level of
TSKB's commitments has been erratic, reflecting primarily TSKB's continued
dependence on resource availability, rather than a decrease in demand for
TSKB's financing. Low commitments in 1972 (TL 676 million) and 1974 (TL 613
million) contrast with a high commitment level in 1973 (TL 1,079 million) and
1975 (TL 1,362 million). In the first half of 1976, there was a slight fall
in foreign currency commitments while local currency lending rose above the
1975 level; equity investment doubled in 1975 and retained a high level in
1976. The upsurge of equity investment reflects TSKB's active role in devel-
oping projects in the less developed regions.
36.       Since 1974, the growth of TSKB's net profit (after tax and provi-
sions) has slowed down, mainly because of the negative interest spread on
resources raised in the domestic bond market. Net profit as a percentage of
average net worth dropped from 20.7 percent in 1973 to 17.2 percent in 1975.
Earnings in the first half of 1976 were at the 1975 level. As a percentage
of average total assets, administrative expenses increased from 1.4 percent
in 1973 to 1.6 percent in 1975, reflecting TSKB's intensified development
efforts. TSKB's dividend rate remained at 15 percent with the pay-out ratio
hovering around 40 percent in 1974 and 1975. The dividend yield on TSKB's
shares was 11 percent in 1975 compared with 10 percent in 1974. This is still
low but of no real consequence to TSKB's ability to broaden its equity base.
37.       The debt/equity ratio was 5.5:1 at June 30, 1976 compared to the
maximum limit under the Bank's last loan of 6:1. Given the maturity of the
institution and the soundness of its portfolio, an increase of TSKB's debt
limit to 8.5:1 has been agreed (Loan Agreement, Section 4.06).
38.       Organization and Management.    TSKB is an exceptionally well managed
institution. Mr. Resid Egeli, the former General Manager, retired in November
1976. He had been associated with TSKB for twenty-four years and, under his
continuous and able leadership, the institution grew and attained its present
stature. He was succeeded by Mr. Ozhar Eroguz, 47 years old, who was Senior
Assistant General Manager. Mr. Eroguz has been with TSKB for almost two



- 12 -
decades; he is competent and well regarded by the business community and by
the staff. Since 1974, TSKB has been organized into four regionalized opera-
tions departments, each headed by a Department Manager, and central Engineer-
ing and Research Departments. Regionalization has proven to be successful
and TSKB is considering establishing additional branch offices in the less
developed regions. In early 1975, a Planning and Budgeting Department was
established. Its main function consists in preparing annual lending and
investment programs based on demand projections for funds prepared by the
Regional Departments. It also monitors the progress of the lending and
investment programs and reviews the performance of the Regional Departments.
39.       TSKB has a staff of 142 professionals.    Staff strength has increased
by 7 percent since the end of 1974. This growth seems small, in relation to
TSKB's additional promotional and economic work; but its increasing reliance
on outside consulting services has relieved the pressure for a rapid increase
of its own staff. Internal promotion and competitive salary scales have been
important factors in the low turnover of staff.
40.       Operating Policies and Procedures.    The operations of TSKB are
governed by its statutes and policy resolutions which have been amended several
times since 1950, and most recently in 1977. Projects supported by TSKB
should benefit the Turkish economy with special emphasis on attainment of the
production targets of Turkish development plans, contribute to the competitive-
ness and export targets of Turkish industry, have a positive influence on the
balance of payments, improve productivity and product quality, try to balance
regional distribution of investments, and improve income distribution. A
policy resolution adopted by TSKB's Board in April 1977 specifies regional
allocation targets for 1977 and 1978, and establishes targets for TSKB's
assistance to smaller, labor-intensive projects during the same period.
41.       TSKB provides extensive services to its clients and the Government,
ranging from basic research and project identification to promoting and assist-
ing in the implementation of financially sound and technically well-conceived
projects. TSKB also assists in arranging co-financing. TSKB operates within
the following constraints to limit its risk: (a) not more than 15 percent of
TSKB's equity and quasi-equity (subordinated Government loan) may be committed
to any single project; (b) not more than 5 percent of TSKB's equity and quasi-
equity may be committed to any equity investment; (c) not more than 25 percent
of the subscribed capital of any given company may be purchased by TSKB (if
TSKB acts as an underwriter, the limit is raised to 50 percent); (d) total
equity investments may not exceed TSKB's paid-in share capital and reserves.
42.       TSKB lends at an interest rate of 14 percent per year, the legal
ceiling established by the Government. However, due to the transaction tax
and other fees, the effective cost borne by TSKB's clients is 19 percent. In
1976, the Central Bank assumed the foreign exchange risk on direct medium and
long-term borrowing by Turkish firms from foreign commercial banks and finan-
cial intermediaries such as TSKB. The borrower is required to pay a 1 percent
fee on the full amount of the loan and 1 percent per year on the outstanding
balance.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE BANK PROJECT
History and Objectives of the Project
43.       The proposed project is the twelfth IBRD/IDA operation to assist
TSKB. The project was appraised in November 1976 and negotiations were held
in Washington in March 1977. The Turkish delegation was headed by Mr. Asaf
Guven, Chief Economic and Financial Counselor of the Turkish Embassy, and Mr.
Ozhan Eroguz, General Manager of TSKB. This project takes account of the
findings of the Project Performance Audit Report on the ninth and tenth Bank
lending operations to TSKB, which indicated that the promotional work done
by TSKB was beneficial, and noted the high cost of raising local currency
resources.
44.       As explained earlier in this report, the Government's industrial
policy under the Third Plan included decentralizing industry from the country's
large urban complexes and concurrently developing the less developed regions
of the country. At the same time, due to the drastic curtailment of Turkish
workers going to Europe, it was necessary to focus on the employment generation
aspect of new industrial development. For some time the Government and the
Bank have been in agreement that TSKB, which has since its inception been
heavily dependent on Bank loans to maintain a reasonable level of activity,
should make concerted efforts to diversify its sources of foreign exchange so
that it would no longer have to rely on the Bank to continue its operations.
45.       The objectives of the proposed loan are to encourage TSKB:     (i) to
continue, and maintain, its regional development efforts emphasizing resource
allocation to the less developed regions; (ii) to substantially increase the
amount and proportion of its lending to small- to medium-sized labor-intensive
industries; and (iii) to increase and diversify its resource mobilization in
the capital markets, at home and abroad. Project details are provided in the
Loan and Project Summary in Annex III of this report, and in the report
entitled "Appraisal of Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi A.S., Turkey", (Report
No. 1450b-TU dated April 25, 1977) which is being distributed separately to
the Executive Directors.
Assistance to Less Developed Regions (LDRs)
46.       In connection with the last Bank loan (1078-TU), TSKB's Board
approved a policy under which in 1975 and 1976 a substantial proportion of
total resources, including the Bank loan, would be allocated to projects in
the LDRs as defined by the State Planning Organization. TSKB has lived up to
this commitment, despite numerous difficulties it encountered, particularly in
the least developed part of the country, Eastern Anatolia. Most critical have
been the lack of entrepreneurship, equity finance and management expertise
in those regions. Frequently, there have been significant time lags, ranging
from 5 to 10 months, between approval and commitment of loans. To speed up
the process, TSKB has played a major role as developmental catalyst, ranging
from identification of promising investment subsectors and help in preparation



- 14 -
of investment proposals, to the provision of seed capital and the establish-
ment of a pilot company together with a small number of local shareholders.
Commitment of a loan to such a pilot company would then depend on its ability
to attract further shareholders and to secure competent management.
47.       Despite such difficulties and the heavy burden on its staff, TSKB is
determined to play its part in implementing the Government's key regional de-
velopment policy by continuing its promotional drive in the LDRs with the same
vigor as in the past two years. To this end, it is considering strengthening
the existing branch offices or opening new ones. The SPO is currently revising
its 1974 classification of regions according to stage of developent, but the
results of this exercise will not be available before 1978. For the proposed
loan, a simplified classification and regional allocation has been accepted by
the Government and TSKB. It sets out targets for TSKB's total operations in
Eastern Anatolia and Central Anatolia (with the exception of a few developed
provinces in the latter) and establishes a ceiling on operations in the eight
most developed provinces, located mainly in Western Anatolia. The following
table indicates targets for the allocation of TSKB's total resources during
1977 and 1978 among regions and provinces and shows TSKB's allocations of
resources since 1973:
Regional Classification             1973-74     1975-76      Targets 1977-78
A. Eight most-developed
provinces                         61           21             below 25
B. Less-developed areas
(Central Anatolia
excluding three
developed provinces
plus Eastern Anatolia)             21          41          at least 40
C. Remaining semi-
developed areas
(balance)                         18           38             about 35
100          100                  100
48.       TSKB has amended its Statement of Policies to reflect the above
targets. Clearly the most important objective is to ensure that TSKB will
continue to provide maximum assistance to the less developed areas. Directing
at least 40 percent of its total resources to these areas, TSKB will maintain
its developmental role in this respect. This is an ambitious goal calling for
further substantial efforts by TSKB to promote, appraise and assist projects
in the LDRs. A ceiling on investments in the most developed provinces, on
the other hand, recognizes that while TSKB has a legitimate role to play in
promoting more advanced technologies in Turkish industry, it should limit its
assistance to these advanced provinces so as to maintain its role in LDR's and
the rest of Turkey. Demand in the eight most developed provinces for TSKB's
long-term financing is expected to exceed its resources and this should enable
TSKB to continue to give priority to deserving investments.



- 15 -
Assistance to Small- to Medium-Sized Labor-Intensive Industrial Projects (SMLI)
49.       An analysis of TSKB's operations since 1973 shows that it has fi-
nanced a broad spectrum of projects of a variety of sizes, including a number
of comparatively small projects (fixed assets around $500,000), mainly in the
LDRs. In the context of Turkish modern industry, small- to medium-sized labor-
intensive industrial projects is being defined as those with maximum fixed
assets per project of $2.3 million (TL 35 million equivalent) and maximum in-
vestment per job of $17,000. Using this definition (based on 1975 prices),
TSKB's financing of SMLI projects over the period 1973-76 was as follows:
(Jan.-Oct.)
SMLI Operations                          1973     1974      1975       1976
Number of projects                       24       23        35         26
Total foreign exchange and
TL financing ($ million)                 6.8      6.6      19.8       13.3
Average fixed assets/project
($ million)                              0.6      0.7      1.1         1.0
Average cost per job ($'000)              7        9        10         11
As can be seen, TSKB's assistance to SMLI projects increased sharply in 1975.
TSKB attributes the 1975-76 upsurge of its SMLI financing to its promotional
drive in the LDRs. The fact that the projects promoted had the tendency to
be related to basic food processing (e.g. flour) or construction (e.g. bricks
and tiles) in subsectors with a fairly steady, but slow, growth rate meant
that the possibilities for continuing to promote such projects in the LDRs
seem to be somewhat circumscribed, particularly as the back-log of demand
seems to have been largely satisfied. However, prospects for SMLI financing
in the more developed provinces seem to be promising and TSKB is planning
to tap this market, which consists of subcontractors producing components
for the automotive, electrical equipment, durable consumer goods and capital
goods industries. TSKB will also continue its action program in the LDRs.
The accent, both in the more developed and less developed regions, will be
on enterprises and technologies which are more labor intensive, in order
to help alleviate the growing unemployment described earlier.
50.       Because of the lack of sufficient market data, it is difficult, at
this stage, to quantify with any degree of certainty the potential for TSKB's
SMLI business during the next two years. However, an understanding was reached
that TSKB would try to double the 1975-76 level of foreign exchange and TL
approvals of SMLI projects, defined as having fixed assets per project below
$2.3 million and cost per job below $17,000 (both in 1975 prices), as follows:



- 16 -
1977/78 SMLI Financing (approvals)
Foreign exchange                                    $30 million
TL operations                                       TL 500 million
SMLI financing as % of total operations                  20%
51.       Because of the necessity to blend long-term Bank and KfW funds (the
latter institution is also insisting that its funds be earmarked for the fi-
nancing of medium-sized projects defined as having total fixed assets under
$5 million), with shorter-term funds raised in the international capital
markets, only part of the foreign exchange requirements of SMLI projects can
be financed with the proceeds from the proposed Bank loan. Taking these
factors into account, TSKB agreed during negotiations that an allocation of
$15 million of the proposed Bank loan would be an appropriate amount for sub-
lending to SMLI projects (Loan Agreement, Section 2.02(c)).    An understanding
was also reached that the target for local funds would be TL 500 million. The
above targets are reflected in an amendment to TSKB's Statement of Policies.
Resource Mobilization
52.       Foreign Exchange.   Foreign exchange commitments over 1977-81 are
forecast to grow at an average annual rate of about 20 percent and for the
period January 1977 to June 1979 projected foreign exchange commitments total
US$334 million. The uncommitted balance of TSKB's foreign exchange resources
at the end of 1976 amounting to $57 million is expected to be fully committed
by mid-1977.
53.       To raise the required foreign funds of $277 million TSKB will have
to make a major effort to tap the international capital market. KfW made a
loan of about $13 million in January 1977 and is expected to make further
loans totaling $25 million before mid-1979. Negotiations for a $10 million
export credit line from the French Government were concluded in April 1977.
An EIB loan of $18 million is expected in the first half of 1979. The pro-
posed Bank loan of $74 million is expected to meet approximately 25 percent of
the fresh foreign exchange resources needed during this period. The remaining
requirements will have to be raised by TSKB in the international capital
markets, including export credits and Arab sources. In this respect, IFC is
assisting TSKB through a loan of $50 million, of which $40 million is intended
to be placed with commercial banks as participants. The short- and medium-
term funds raised in the international markets will be blended with the Bank's
long-term loan to meet subproject requirements.
54.       To explore the resource mobilization opportunities in the Arab
world, TSKB representatives visited several institutions in Kuwait, Saudi
Arabia and Bahrain in 1976, and are expected to visit Kuwait again in late
May 1977. These visits served to establish first contacts with Arab lenders
and to obtain information on lending terms. TSKB plans to follow up with a
firm resource mobilization campaign in the very near future, and encouraging
contacts have already been made with the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank and the



- 17 -
Kuwait Fund. However, TSKB is likely to continue to face difficulties,
such as the requirement of a Government guarantee for repayment, which most
national donor agencies and investment institutions in the Middle East require;
the likelihood that the Turkish Government itself will borrow heavily in the
international capital markets to finance the foreign exchange requirements of
a larger number of state projects during the next Five-Year Plan (1978-82);
and the preemption of the market through the use of the convertible lira
deposit scheme (para 27). Nevertheless, an understanding was reached that
TSKB would make its best efforts to raise at least an additional $50 million
equivalent in medium to long-term loans from the international market prior
to June 30, 1978.
55.       Domestic Currency.   TSKB's projected growth of domestic currency
operations, averaging 12 percent per annum over the period 1977-81, is con-
servative. For the period January 1977 to June 1979 commitments for lira loans
and investments are expected to total TL 952 million and TL 565 million respec-
tively. As in the past two years TSKB's operations will require about three
times more foreign exchange than lira financing. Local currency loans will
have a term of mostly 5-7 years, in line with the maturities of lira resources
raised through the issue of bonds. The relatively short term of lira loans
does not cause liquidity problems for TSKB's clients, because longer term in-
vestments in domestic currency are financed predominantly with the sponsors'
own funds and the balance by commercial banks in the form of revolving medium-
term credits.
56.       The uncommitted balance of local funds available at the end of 1976
was TL 210 million. In 1977 and 1978 and the first half of 1979, TSKB plans
share capital increases totalling TL 310 million and to sell TL 131 million
of equity investments. An understanding was reached during negotiations that
TSKB will float bonds amounting to TL 325 million to fill the resource gap in
local currency in 1977 and 1978, and will raise its share capital by an aggre-
gate amount of TL 310 million by mid-1979. Since 1975 TSKB had paid an in-
terest rate of 18 percent for local bonds, which is 4 percent above its
Government controlled relending rate of 14 percent. However, TSKB still
enjoys the advantage of carrying a substantial, but diminishing, portion
of its outstanding domestic borrowing at a relatively low interest rate.
57.       To maintain a balanced financial structure, TSKB will continue to
issue bonds in increasing amounts after 1978 and to raise its share capital.
It also intends to make use of the Central Bank's rediscount facilities as
soon as possible and by 1979, expects to raise TL 100-150 million a year from
this source. Under this scheme, limited to TSKB's lira lending, the last
five maturities of its non-repeater subloans are eligible for rediscounting
at 13 percent. TSKB is building up a stock of projects for approval by the
Central Bank, to serve as a standby facility until 1979 for unforeseen cash
needs. An understanding was reached with TSKB that it will make use of the
Central Bank's rediscount facilities as soon as practicable. Amounts to be
received from the Central Bank would be in addition to the lira resources
projected to be mobilized during 1977 and 1978.



- 18 -
58.       During past years, TSKB had asked the Government to make TL funds
available to it out of long-term EIB, KfW and USAID loans repaid by the
original beneficiaries to the Turkish Government but not yet due for repay-
ment to these institutions. No agreement could be reached because the Turkish
Government insisted that TSKB assume the foreign exchange risk. However, with
the Government's recent decision to assume the foreign exchange risk on the
principal of private foreign borrowings, a major obstacle to tapping revolving
local counterpart funds has been removed. TSKB has approached the Government
again, and if encouraged, will follow up with a formal application.
Other Features of the Project
59.       Economic Rate of Return (ERR).   For a sample number of projects
approved by TSKB in 1975 and the first half of 1976, the weighted average
ERR expected was about 20 percent, which is well above the opportunity cost
of capital, estimated at about 12 percent. TSKB will compute the ERR for
projects with total fixed assets above $2.0 million. TSKB has agreed that
the ERR of subprojects financed by TSKB from whatever source will normally
be above 15 percent (Loan Agreement Section 3.06).
60.       Amortization Schedule.   As usual with Bank loans to DFCs, the pro-
posed loan would have a flexible amortization schedule, which would conform
substantially to the aggregate amortization schedules of the subloans made by
TSKB to its borrowers. In order to allow TSKB to blend long-term with medium-
term funds the terms of the proposed loan to TSKB would provide for a grace
period longer than usual with a maximum repayment period (including grace)
of 15 years. The principal amount of the loan ($500,000) earmarked for TSKB's
promotional expenditures will be repaid in eight equal payments starting in
1981 (see para. 63).
61.       Free Limit.  TSKB's continued good record of operations justifies
a free limit of $3 million, (Loan Agreement Section 2.02 (b)). This would
permit the Bank to review about 12-15 projects over the two year commitment
period of the loan. In addition, TSKB will report periodically on its per-
formance in meeting the objectives of the proposed loan, and will submit
individual and aggregate data on its financing of SMLI projects to enable
the Bank to monitor its performance.
62.       Spread on Bank Loan.   TSKB will continue to retain a net spread of
2.5 percent as permitted under the eleventh loan. The balance between the
gross spread of 5.8 percent, and the 2.5 percent net spread to TSKB plus
1 percentage point to finance promotional expenditures, will be paid to the
Government as guarantee fee (Loan Agreement Section 4.11).
63.       Special Promotion Fund.   Since its creation, in 1973, the Special
Promotion Fund has allowed TSKB to strengthen its development program espe-
cially in the promotion and assistance of projects in less developed regions.
TSKB has applied the resources of the Fund to the study of a wide sample of
subsectors. With the studies and research so financed, TSKB has been able
to identify investment opportunities in LDRs which are now receiving TSKB's



- 19 -
financial and technical assistance. Given TSKB's need to undertake a major
economic and promotional effort to build up its lending program in the LDRs,
and now to increase its impact on SMLI projects, the continuation of the
Special Promotion Fund under the proposed loan appears fully justified. As
in the past, TSKB will continue to inform the Bank of the detailed use it
intends to make of this facility. This fund, established under a prior Bank
loan, will be replenished by allocating to it a portion of the gross spread
under the proposed loan (1 percentage point) (Loan Agreement Section 4.11).
Out of the proceeds of the proposed loan, an amount of $500,000 would be made
available to TSKB to finance foreign exchange expenditures related to its
research and promotion program. Such a facility would enable TSKB to speed
up its payments to foreign consultants on whose services it will rely to an
increasing extent in the preparation of the planned studies on labor-intensive
industrial technology and export markets (Loan Agreement Section 2.02 (a)(ii)).
64.       Projected Financial Performance and Position.    TSKB's profits after
tax and provisions are expected to rise by 72 percent from TL 114.1 million in
1976 to TL 196.7 million in 1979 and by 36 percent to TL 267.7 million in 1981.
However, the rate of return on average net worth is likely to decline from
20.6 percent in 1976 to 18 percent in 1979 and to 16.1 percent in 1981. This
reflects the expected decline of TSKB's overall spread from about 4 percent
in 1976 to 3.5 percent in 1977 and to about 2.5 percent in 1981 due to the
increasing share of higher cost market funds in TSKB's resources. It is also
reflective of the higher risks and additional costs of TSKB's continuing
involvement in the promotion and financing of projects in the more remote
areas of Turkey in furtherance of national policy.
65.       TSKB's total assets are expected to increase from TL 6.1 billion
at the end of 1976 to TL 17.0 billion at the end of 1981. Total portfolio
is projected to increase from TL 5.2 billion in 1976 (85 percent of total
assets) to TL 15.5 billion in 1981 (91 percent of total assets). Long-term
debt will grow from TL 5.1 billion in 1976 to TL 14.2 billion in 1981. Under
this loan it is proposed that the debt/equity ratio be raised to 8.5:1 (see
para 37).
66.       Projected cash flow statements for the period 1977-81 show that the
debt service coverage will decline slightly over the next five years, from
1.26 in 1977 to 1.16 in 1981, due to increasing repayment of the subordinated
loan which the Government granted to TSKB in 1968. Similarly, the interest
coverage is forecast to show a slight decline, from 1.26 in 1977 to 1.17 in
1981, as a result of TSKB's reduced spread. Both ratios remain satisfactory.
Project Benefits and Risks
67.       TSKB has a record of successful operations over the past 25 years
and is a well managed, profitable and financially sound institution. Its
success in redirecting resources to, and encouraging ownership of industries
in the less developed regions, has had considerable economic benefits for
the country. TSKB has also performed valuable services for the Government
by undertaking industrial subsector studies and participating in studies on



- 20 -
Turkey's financial sector. TSKB's new drive to devote a fixed amount of its
financial resources, together with technical assistance, to relatively small,
labor-intensive industries will have a direct impact on the Government's
efforts to reduce unemployment.
68.       These development-oriented activities, undertaken in furtherance of
national economic policies, bring with them the risk of making TSKB somewhat
less attractive to foreign commercial lenders, at a time when TSKB needs to
rely to an increasing extent on commercial foreign loans. However, TSKB's
recent progress in tapping the international capital markets attests to its
acceptance as a creditworthy borrower.
PART V - THE IFC LOAN
69.       In addition to its equity investment in TSKB (presently 6 percent
of subscribed capital), IFC has assisted TSKB in the past with three loans,
totalling $60 million, out of which $45 million was placed with participants.
With the present syndication IFC seeks to introduce TSKB to a wider circle of
foreign financial institutions to encourage greater independence for TSKB in
its future fund raising efforts. It is proposed that IFC make a loan of $50
million to TSKB, of which $10 million would be for IFC's own account and the
balance be placed with participants. The interest rate on the loan portion
for IFC's own account ("A" Loan) would be 10-1/4 percent per annum and the
interest rate for the participants' portion ("B" Loan) would be based on the
London Interbank Offered Rate for 6 months' deposits plus a margin. The "A"
Loan would be repaid in about 9 years and the "B" Loan in about 5 years
including grace periods. The terms of the IFC loan are outlined in more
detail in Annex V.
70.       IFC's strategy of raising a substantial amount of loan funds through
participation of private banks ties in with one of the main objectives of the
IBRD loan, which is to increase and diversify TSKB's resource mobilization in
the capital markets at home and abroad. Whereas TSKB should be able to raise
on its own loans from other official lenders, export agencies and some specific
Middle Eastern sources, it needs in its present stage IFC's assistance in
approaching the Euro markets for substantial amounts.
71.       Contacts with major international banks and other sources have con-
firmed that special efforts will have to be made to place an amount of $40
million with such institutions at the present time. These banks are closely
monitoring their Turkish exposure in view of the country's economic and
balance of payments situation (see Part I), and the amounts raised in the past
by Turkey in the foreign capital markets. TSKB itself, however, is considered
by them as a high quality borrower. An international bank (Citibank/Citicorp
International Bank Ltd.) has been asked by TSKB in close consultation with IFC
to assist in finding participants in the IFC loan on a floating rate basis.
The major involvement of an important international bank such as Citibank
appears to be essential in finding and attracting co-participants for raising



- 21 -
$40 million in the international capital markets. It enables IFC to extend
its own marketing abilities by utilizing the extensive resources and contacts
of a private financial institution. It will also help TSKB to establish a
close relationship with this and some other major foreign banks, and thereby
prepare this institution for the time when the official lenders have reduced
or phased out their lending to TSKB.
72.       Citibank, which holds a $10 million participation in the third IFC
loan to TSKB, over a long time has shown a strong interest in establishing
close relationships with TSKB. At present Citibank is in the process of
forming a syndicate of banks which together with Citibank would subscribe
$30 million in the "B" Loan, and, market conditions permitting, preferably
$40 million. IFC's "A" Loan, which in any event would be limited to $10
million, is subject to raising an amount of at least $30 million through
participations. The terms of the "B" Loan will be finalized as the syndica-
tion progresses. At the moment banks are not willing to lend at a longer term
than five years to Turkish private borrowers. The interest rate of the "B"
Loan is expected to be about 2 percent above LIBOR and the front-end (par-
ticipation) fee at about 1-1/2 percent of the amount of the "B" Loan, which,
together, is in line with the cost of funds provided under the convertible
lira deposit scheme. Turkey has recently revised the interest rate for
convertible lira deposits and permits its commercial banks now to pay 2-1/4
percent above LIBOR for 5-year deposits.
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUI4ENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The draft Loan Agreement between TSKB and the Bank, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Bank, the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement, the text of a Resolution approving the proposed loan by the Bank
and the text of a Resolution approving the proposed loan by the Corporation
are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The draft
agreements conform to the normal pattern for Bank loans for development
finance companies.
74.       In accordance with Article III, Section 3(ii) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Corporation notice of the proposed IFC loan has been given
to the Government of Turkey.
75.       Turkey is not a signatory of the ICSID convention, and, in any case,
there are no contractual arrangements between Turkey and a national of a con-
tracting state out of which a dispute could arise.
76.       Features of the Loan Agreement between TSKB and the Bank of special
interest are referred to in paragraphs 46-63 of this report.
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed loans would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and with the Articles of Agreement of the Corporation.



- 22 -
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
78.       I recommend that:
(a) the Executive Directors of the Bank approve the proposed Loan
and Guarantee Agreements;
(b) the Board of Directors of the Corporation approve the proposed
Loan by the Corporation.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 11, 1977



UN IX 
P-age 1 ofi 6 Pages
TURKEY- SOCIAL IMOICAVORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KNT)                   ---           -------~---
---- ;; ------- ;;                  ~~~~TURKEY                              REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       70.6                                          MOST RECENT                                              *
AGEXO.       513.3                       1960       1970    ESTIMATE           COLOMBIA        IRAN           ITALY
--   - - - -  - - -    - - - - -      . .  . . . .     - - -  - - -   - - - - -  -
GNiP PER CAPITA CUSS)                      260.0       480.0       . 860. 0 Ito.o4.                 690.0       2000.0
POPULATION4 AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPUATIO   (M;ID-Y. MILO)27.8 -                      35.6        40.2 I/2.6                      2.15a
POPULATION DENSITY                                    4.            10/                 80         1.          7.
PER SQUARE KM.                          35.         460         50                   1.08.0           1      789.0
PER SQUARE KMq. AORIC.  LAND              .         67.0        74.0                 92.0       107.0       29.
VITAL StATISTICS                                                                       4.           591.
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND          -44s.8       40.6        39.4                4.            591.
CRUDE OEATH RlATE PER THOUSAND          16.9        14.4        12.5                 11.0        18.2         9.7
INFANT MtORTALITY RATE (jTHOU)         1a7.0/a.b.c145.0            .                 D0j.a     140.0         29.6
LIFE EXPECTANCY At BIRTH (YRS)          49 j        54.4        56.9                .5          LO8A,       70.9
GROSS REPRODucTION RATE                  2.v         2.6 1a                         3.2          3 .4        1.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (I)
TGTAL                                    3 . 0         5         2.4A~                2.9         3.1         0.8
URBAN                                    S.liVa      If91.I      4 -Zjj               5.5a        5.0         0.8
URBAN POPULATION It OF TOTAL)             3 1.9       38.5          41 8/a             60.0        41.0         51.5
AGE STRUcTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                          41.1        41.8           .                47.0         46.0/a      24.4
15 TO 64 YEARS                          55.2        53.9          ..50.4                         so0.07      65.2
65 YEARS AND OVER                        3 .5        4.3           .                 3.0          t. o7a;    10.4
AGE DEPENOENCY RATIO                        0.8        03.9          .                  1.03.
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  1.0          l.1It                                                   lo,: ,a
FAMILY PLANNING-
ACCEPTORS (CUMJLATrIRE. THOU)            0.0                    484. O C            306.9       662.4
USERS (I OF MARRIED WOMEN)               5.3         8.2...                                      10.0
EMPLOYMENT
T-OTA;L LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         13000.0/o   14500.0/_   is5o00o0s.           6200.0       8700.0     19600.0
LABOR FORCE IA AGRICULTURE (l)            71.0        67.0         60.0                39.0        43.0         19.3
UNEMPLOYED CZ OF LABOR FORCE)              2.OI &f .011                                 7.0         2. 0         3.1
IN4COME DISTRIBUTIOA
IFP9IRATE INCOM   REC-0 871-
HIGHEST   52 O F HOUFSEHOLDS            3 3 . 0d~   32 8/If        .                31.9/        2 9. 7/
HIGHEST 201 I F HOUSNKIGS               61. 0  j    60.6 7-f                        60.1         5 4.4/
LOWEST   201 OF HOUSEHOLDS               4.0 j9~.    2.9           ..                 3.5/        4.G 
LOWEST   40% OF JIOUSENOLDS             11.0 L.a     9 :4          .                 10.1        12.7/
DISTRIRUtION OF LANID OWNERSHIP
I  WE  YTOP-101 OF OWNERS              .        53. 0....
I OWNED BY SMALLEST lOZ OWNERS               .           . 9...
HEAkLTH AND NUTRITION
POPULMTION PER PHYSICIAN                3 220. 01   222 0.0 ,    213 0.02100                     30.          50.
POPULATION PER NJRSIlAG PERSON          3260.01Osh  I aao0.OE&   12400 j-                .       32130. 0     4 70.0/b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED              A50.0       4 90. 0     09.0a                450.0       780.0        90o.0W7
PER CAPITAt SUPP..Y Of-
CALORIES (1 OF REQUIREMENTS)           110.0       110.0)      129. 0               9 7.0        e6.0       1 26.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                 78.0        168.40       91.0               51.0         53.0       1 00. 0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PUJLSE             .         22.04          .                29. 0 A      14.0/4      42.0
DEATH RATE C/THOU) AGES 1-4               16. OLd     15.0/b         .                  8.4 h                    1.0
EDOUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                          75.3a      111.0        105.0               102.0        83.-0      101.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                        14.0        28.0         32.0                23.0        2 6. 0      59.0
YEARS OT SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                11.0        11.0        11.0                11.0         12.0        1 3. 0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(Z OF SEC3NDARY)                        18.0        1 4.0       14.0                25.0 If       3.0        28.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE CZ)                   4 0.04       ss.o          ..73.0                          ..        97-0
HOUSING
PERSO;,-NS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)               2.0          1.9           ..                            2. 2/a.d
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATIR                             81.0        64.0            ..                           87. 0/a.e_
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
Cl OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    29.0        41.0...                                      2 5.0/4
'RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (1)                       2.0        18.0..-                                       4.0O/a
CONSUMPTION
RADIO REEIVERS (PER THOU POP)            49-0        89.0       106.0               105.0         9 3. 0     218.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)              2.0          4,0         6.0                11.0        10.0        190.0
ELECTRICITY (KAMPYR PER CAP)             102.0        247.0       304.0               414.0       2 46. 0    2266 .0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                  0.8          0.7         1.7                 2.B         0. 4         5. 3
SEE NOT_ES AND OEFINIOS O         EES



Page 2 of 6 pae
NOTES
Oslesa otherwise noted, date for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 196 cod 1970, ad for Moat Recent Estimate between
1971 and 1973.
- The long-term strategy of Turkish planning currently gives the 1970 level of Italy as its objectives.
TURIY                1960         1955-60;   /b  Derived fran ample aurvey entimafee (9,700 housp-holde);      Ic  Might be undereatimated,     Id  1963;
is 15 years eadwoer;    /f  1962;    jj  Disposable income     /b  Including assistant nurses and midwives;     71   Pers ons six
years and over who tell the census takers that they can read and write..
1970    Ia  Excludes 17 eastern provinces;     /b  1965-67;    Ic  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to labor force 15 years
and over;    /d  15 ye.ar and over, excludes unempFloyed;    /e  Registered only;    /f  Disposable incomec;   jg,  lnloding
assistant nurses and midwives;     lh  1964-66;   iN   Peroeo.  six years entd over who tall the census takers that they carn read
and write;     Li1 1965-70.
MOST? RECEN  ESTIMATE-     /a  1973;   /b  1970-75;    Ic  13 years and over, excludes unmployed,      Id  Including aspistent nurses and
midwives;     fe  1964 - June 1974, 866  being IUD's..
COLI9IIA             1970    Ia  Rate booed on burial permits;     lb  1964-70;    /c  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 years and over to total labor force;
-   Z7: Econoically active population;      Ise 1964-66; -If    Total aecondery inciudes teacher training at the third level,
IRA                  1970    la  1966;    /b  Households, (urban);    /c  1964-66;    /d  Excludes nomoadic trlbee;    Ie  mhaids only.
ITALY                1970    Ia  Ratio of population tonder 15 and 65 years and over to total Labor force;      lb  Hospital personnel;     Ic  Including rural
hospitela and medical centers.
R11, October 20, 1976
DEFIIiITIOM OFSOCIAL ThDECATM
Land Area (thee.2                                                                      PDulatiots Par nurein erso   -population, divided by onoher of pru-tlcing
Total1  Total surface are  comprising lead are  and inlaud waters.                      eels aed female acdos nuse,       t-oi-d' or "tectlfled' nurses,. sd
ugric. -Moatr recent estimars of agricultural ares used temporarily or peme-            auxiliary personnel with training orexrin.
nently for crops, pesruree, market 6 kitchen garden  or to lie fallow.               Posulation mar hossiral bed - Population divided by nunber of hospital beds
available in public and private general and specioliced hospital sad
GNIP mar capita (iUS$) - GliP per capita astimatas at -urrent market prices,             rehabilitation centers; sac.ludas nursing hones and eeteblitsheete for
cacltdby sine ronversion method as untld la-k Patlas (1973-75 basis);            custodial and pteventive ..re.
1960; 1970 sad 1975 date.                                                           Per capita soupply of caleies 1% of requirementsl - Computed ir-on nergy
equiveleot of met food oupp1ie available In country per capita per day,
Porsisni-en nd vital scatietic                                                           available supplIes onmpriss d-estcic prodorion, Isperna lass ..port., sod
Population (mid-year miLlion)   As of July first'  if net -1silble, overage              changes In stonk; net supplies exclude seine] feed, seeds, quen.rittesuar.d
of two end-year estimates; 11160, 1970 and 1975 data,                                  is fond! processing and lessee Is distributIon; requiremnts were estimated
by FAO based on physiulogical Maded for nornol activity asd health ceneid-
Population density -Fpr soucre bat - Mid-yeer population per square kilometer            ering environmental tempersture, body welghta, age end sex distributions of
(100 heeteras) of total are.                                                          population, and allowing l10X for waste at household level.
Posulation, density -par esquare k of eerie, land - Computed as above for              Per capite supmly of  ronis (crane, mar day) - Protein contest of par capita
agricultural loand only.                                                               net supply  f fodpr    Ma;nt suPply of teed is defimed as above; require-
mania f or all otastries established by UISDA Ecountic Research Ner,ices
Vital statistics                                                                         provide for e ninless  allowance of 60 gras of total protein par day, and
Crude birth rate mar thonsend. evaracs - Annual live births per thousand of              20 gras of animal end pulse protein, of which 10 gras should be animal
mid-year papuletion; ten-year aritlesetic averages ending is 1960 end 1970,            protein, these standards are lower than these sof 5 grams of total protein
and flue-year average ending in 1975 for nest recet   stimate,                         end 23 gram  sof asial pratsis as an --erge for the world, proposed by FiO
Crude dasth rate per thoassend. aver.ae - Asnual deaths per thousand of mid-year         in the Third World Pond Nancy.
population; ten-year arithmeetIc everegSM ending is 19,60 end 1970 end five-         Per capita protein supply fron animal and pulse - P1rotein supply of food
ye,ar average enIg in 1975 for nest recent estimate,                                    derived fram animals and pulses in ginas per day.
Infantnerteltyate i/thou] - Annual deaths of infants onder one y-er of age         Death rate C/thou] ages 1-4 - Annual deeths per thousand tn age group 1-4
per thousand lIive birtha.                                                             years, to children in thia age group; suggested as en indicator of
Life sepectancy at birth (yre] - Average nomber of years of life remaining at            malsutrition.
birth; usually five-year .-aveaes ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countnneo.                                                                       Educetien
Cross -repOd-utien rare - Averegs somber of live d-ughtara a woman aill bear           Adjuste.d enrollment ratio - primary school - Enrllment of a11 egee as pe-
in ker normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-specifIc              centage of primary scheet-age population; Includes ehildren aged 6-11 years
fertility etate; usually five-year averags ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975               hot adjusted for diffe-ren-t lengths of primary edux..tion; for countries with
for developing countries.                                                              universal educa.tion, enrollmsent may excee d 1001 since some pupIls are bel1n
Population g4rewt sret it) - total - Compoud annua   grouth est, of nid-y-s              ma above the efficte1 sobsl age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 end 1970-75.                                         Adlusted enro11nent rstio - sec-ondry school - Computed aso above; secondary
PopulatIon graowth rate (7,1 - urban! - Computed like growth rate of total               education requir.est laser feur years of approvd primary iestruction;
population; different definitions of urban areas may effect aneparability of           providee genere1, vocational or teacher training gestructions for pupils
data amnong c-mtries.                                                                  of 12 to 17 years of age; cerreepondence cour.ea  are generally excluded.
Orbeu populatiam C?. of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different         Years of sebooliag provided (first and second levels] - Total years of
dafinitions sof srban ares esy affect comparability of data eamog evsetries.           schooling; at secondary tane1, vocetienl instruction, my he partially or
MS Strueture (seroemil - Children                                 ~~~~complalaly excluded.
*00 _ry_tu_ __   rcont    -_Chtdr.  (I-lb yern) , working-age (15-44 Y*yae),           Vocational enoletf       of secondary) - Veeation1 institutioMa include
and retired (65 years and over) as percen.tages of mid-year popualation.               technial idutra       orohrpgam         wicOeatldpndsyore
Ace epedeny rtio- Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and swr to th,se              departments of secondary institutions.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                               Adult literecy rate (T.) - Ltrtadu1te (able to read and write) as par-
Econmic desendenoy r'atia - Ratio of POPulation -eder 15 sad 65 ssd ever to              restage of total adult populetion aged 15 years ond over.
the labor force1 in age group of 15-64 years.
Family plaoi a -aceptors, (cumulative, thou)  - itoutive numb-r Of acc eptors      H.-is
of birth-control deviesa under ...spioa of nationl fmily planning program            Persons Far room (urban) - Average aunber of perons per roo   In -nopied
sinus inception.                                                                       conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwellings e-1lde eon-permanent
Family planning - users ft of married woamn) - Peentagee of married womsen, of         structures and unoccpied parts..
child-bearing  ag (15-44 y-ara] who use birth-cetral devices to all married          Occupied dwltiinGs without piped water C') - OccuPied convectional dwellings
women In ensa age group.                                                               In urban and rural area  without isaide or outside piped water fecilitice
Employment                                                       ,.::.:e ....~~~~~~~~~~~a pretage of efl macPied dwellings.
Desloynent                                                      icceac ~~~~~~~~~~~~~to ale-rriciry ft of all dwellings) - Convectional dwellings with
Total labar f-re  (theusand) - Ecnm-icOlly active person, including armed                electricity in living quarters as percent of totoI dwellings. is urbas and
forces and unemployed but necluding heueivee, students, etc. ; definitions             rural ares..
invriou    onties are not comparable.                                               Rural dwellic conce       oeetiity CT        - Computed as above for rarel
Lao  orce is as1riuturst.   CT) - Agricultural labor farce (in ifening, forestry,     dwellings onl.
hunting and fishing) as pereenisge of total labor farce.
U-mePloved ft of labor force)  .-Unmplyed era usullp defined as persona who            Conseptios
are able end willing to take aJob, out of a Job on a given day, reimand out          Radio receivers (mar thou pap] - All typos of veceivers for radio broadceste
of a Job, end seeking work for a specified minimum period not exceeding one            to generel public per thous and of population; emeludes onli.eeaed receivers
week; may net be comparable between countries dse to different definitIons             in emantries and in ye"r. when reg istration of radis sets was is effect;
of unemployed ad source of data, e.g., mpluynet office stotitica, sample               data for recent years may not be comparable since meat countries eboliabed
surveys, compulsory unemployment insurance,                                            li.ens ing.
P'asena   ae(mar they eop] - Pass enger .sre comprise mater ears seating
Inc-* distribution - Percentage of private is-case (both In cash and kind)               les  thn ifght person; estludes    mbolance, hearses and military
received by richest 5t, richest 201, poorest 201, end poorest 401 of house-            vehicles.
holds.                                                                               Electricit (kwh/yr mar cap)I - Annual conoomPtion of industrial, coereial,
public and private elecrricity in kilowatt hours per capita, generally
Dli.tribotion of lend ownerehip -percentages of land ow,ned by weslthi.st 10%            bas.ed on production data, without allowance for losses in grids but ally-
and poorest 101 of land owners.                                                         iag f or Imports and exports of electricity.
NewePrint (ha/yr mar rap) - Per capite ennuel consumption in ailograms
Deal   n           Murto                                                                 estimtetd from domestic production plus net imports of newsprint.
Paaton mrphysician - Population, divided by suster of practicing
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.



ECORONOC  DI9ELOPHENT  DATA  SKEET                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~PARe 3 of 6
1974
A CT2 U A L.                   EST.              PRaJECTION                            RWh     AE                         Shar
1968  1972    1973      ~~~19 74  =TY         1976       180       198         87        73-75       75-80       8-5          O    O
4.  NATIONAL. ACCOIIOTS.lA                                                                                                                                                          .   tPi.
(TL-iOlIlion, 1974 Prices)
1.  CSP                                  277.0     357.       371.1     40.3.5     439.89    474.93     643.1     951.3         6.0         8.8         7.9        8.1         100.0
2.iGale  from Teen  of Trade             1.7    -10        -25          D.c        1.8        1.8       2.7        3.3         -----
3.  GDY                                  275.3      356.1     368.6     403.5      438.0     472.4      640.4      948.0         --                     7.9         8.2        1oo.0
4.  lepoets                    25.~  ~~~~~~        ~~~1 40.0  44.2  58.2  687.0     66.7      R6.0      119.5       13.0   .0      0          .          .           14.
5.  fopore                                171        26.1      28.7    .29.9      -  96      -38.0     -5.       -90.3          1.           .          32         1..
6.EpersT.AI.-1.                                  25.        26.2    -29.9      -27.8     -     I6.    52.3    -' 87.0        11..0                  1.          10.9           74
7.  Resource Gap 77    4.9.7                         14.       18.       28.        39.2       3.        3.7        32.6        13.2       29.0         2.7      -07             70
8.  Tota   Cmsomp tloe                   236.       307.1     318.5      347.2     375.4      394.6     526.8     .762.2         6.1        8.5         7.0         7. 7         86.0
9.  lereteet                              53.13      63.5      371.4      84.6     101.7      108.4     147.3      318.4        4.0        19.3         7.7         8.2         31.0-
10.  Re..ec.e available                   277.7      3752.6    399       431.3      477.2      503.0     474.1      980.6         7.        10.6         7.2         7.8        107.0
II.  005                                  40.2       500       52.6       563        62.6      778       113.6     180.9         5.7 : 567769.1        12.6        10.3          14.0
12.  Pactoc Service Income      ~~~4.1     15.5      19 .0      17.1,     13.9       12.6      1.1.6      10.3       36.0      - 12.6      -  3.1I        2.2          4.2
13.  Net Correct Trarofer       0.~~~2 0.2           0.3        0.3        0.3       0.    03             0.4         .C         0.0         0.0         4.6           -
14.  005                                   44.5       65.7      71.9       73.7,     76.7       90.9     123.5      196.5         0.6        5.2        10.3         9418.3
13.  071                                  281.3     3 72.8     389.4      420.0     45338      487.1     654. 7     961.6        4.7         7.4         7.6         0.0         1540
16.  087                                  279.4      371.6     384. 9     420.8     431.9)     405.2     652.0      958.3         6.7        8.1         7.6         8.0         104.0
17.  GDPatCorrec     TL                   112.2      228 .0    293.3      403.5     512.0        -         .          -          21.1       32.0          -                        -
8 A R E    0 F  0. D. P.                                              080870 RATES
S. SECTORt 010PUrT
(at c..ot-at 974 prin.e)
1.  Indistry                   ~~~~~     ~~~~24.0  27.8  27.6  27.6       27.5       27.6      29.8       32.8        6.5         8.9         9.7       1o0.-
2.urocne                                  36.0       33.       29.1       29.6      29.        29.0      25.0       20.6         1.2        9.6         4.4         4.0-
3.  Services                              40 .0      41.4      43.3       42.8      42.9       43.4       45.2      46.0         7.6        8.4         9.0         9.0-
C. PRICES
(Ge dolla-e 1974 . 1003
1.   xot     en   ledee                   38.2    - 59.5       6 5.6     100.0     105.5     618.1      153.9      219.0         3.        27.          7.           . 
2.IprPEvlee                               59.1       64.6      77.2      100       112.5      120.1      18.       22.            .        210          7.           .
3.  ers  f - Trade Ordee               64.6       92.1      85.0      100.0      93.8       95.0      95.1       96.3         5.8        4.7         0.3         0. 2-
4.  Averae    -h.ba. Rate                  0.111      2.071     0.071      0.072      0.069     0.063      -                      .           -                      -
D. SELECTED INDICATORS            1968.73    19733.5   1975-80    1980.85              E.IBRFRE(il.)1965                                        1970       1975
1.  IC(R                  3.1        3:4     ~   ~~~~~~~2:1  2.8                 1.  Clrillae Labor Forc                   12.9       13.7       13.6
2.   Ienr   alelt                            .        1.5       0. a       09                     2.  ciollEer EaploOmet                     17.5      13.1       14.3
3.  Aveg      atca     orisRt             18.:4      20.4       18.5      210.1                   3.   m-epilon-t 11 ef 1.1331                          4.          .
40.   - Rarttv.i aloa  S-one   Rate       24.8       3,2.3      21.0      23.0                         PerCent Sbaree:
5.  ImporLts / 001                          7.        93        13.3      12.3                        3.1  Asrcctort-                       74.3       67.1       65.8
4  ....createon  I CDP                    19.        21.       22.9       23.0                        3.2   Ind.etry                        1.          36        1.
2.  Reroorce Gop / GOP  3.6  1.6       5.8       4.3                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~             ~~~~~~                 ~~3.3  Servicer  14.5  19.1  22.5
F.  PBLI   FLANC3/1                       1965      1970       1972       1973      1974       1975
lee % of A. 17)
C.-Crrc    Orreec                       17.6       22.4      20.1       19.9       13.6      20.4
-Tao Rer...e                         14.)       16.3      17.4       17.5       16.1      18.2
2.  Current Espoedit-r                    15.0       17.7       19.1      18.3       15.4       ra
- Defenc   Capendit-r                  4.1        3.4       3.5        3.4       3.4        00
3.   oig                                   2.4        4.7        18        1.7        2.2       00
4. CsapitalEledtr                           .          .         3.8       39         43        e
- PubLic Secio                         8.0       10.0       8.8        8.8       8.7       10.1
3/ Comp .e. t may not add op don to roodig.
7/ 0976.0980
31 central Gp-ermnm...cpt where otherLm         noted.
a)Si.ce detaleld act.a1 data for 1936 or     not ava ilable as pot, ths figure  for 1976 in Ibis   ne.    r  projections   ba..ed ordate   pto 1935.
Aprorat  er       h-o   - orea, ba,e been made Io the teal to reflect ther cha7ge  dorim8 1876 Iii bred order of mgltteidee.                               4114177



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
a)
IMIORT' DETAIL
1968      1972      1973      1974     1975      1976      1980      1985
A. CCNSTAN1 197T PRICLS
(MillionsIt  of DoIIais)
1.  Food                       11.6      44.5     (16.0     276.4     195.1     183.8     166.6     167.2
2.  Other Consumer Goods       24.7     291.9     206.1     422.9     489.8     471.9     4PF.9     581.8
3.  Petroleum                 267.8     481.I     552.6     762.9     744.8     760.7     932.0    1374.3
4.   ntcrrnediate Goods       379.7     690.1     848.5    1151.8    1309.7    1323.0    1607.5    2386.1
5. Capital Goods              607.0     959.6    1044.0    1163.6    1484.5    1471.3    1697.3   2327.6
6. Total Goods (c.i.f.)      1290.8    2467.2    2717.1    3777.6    4223.9    4211.7    4892.3    6837.0
7. Non-Factor Services        231.8     303.3     304.4     400.0     404.8    415.8     472.5     634.1
8.  Total Goods & NFS        1522.6    2770.5    2821.5    4177.6    4628.7    4627.5    5364.8    7471.1
B. PRICE INDICES 1974 = 100
1.  Food                       60.2      56.6      69.9     100.0      83.0      87.0     113.0     153.0
2.  Other Consumer Goods       79.4      72.2     106.3     100.0     114.5     121.9     164.2     230.3
3.  Petroleum                  23.9      32.2      40.1     IflO.0    109.2     118.4     159.2     223.2
4.  Intermediate Goods         83.3      64.2      79.2     100.0     111.9     119.2     160.5     225.1
5.  Capital Goods              58.8      75.9      88.8     100.0     117.2     124.8     168.1     235.7
b. Total Goods k'c.i.f.)       59.2      63.3      76.8     100.0     112.3     119.5     161.6     226.2
7. Non-Factor Services         58.8      74.9      88.8     100.0     114.5     121.9     164.2     230.3
8.  Total Goods & NFS          59.1      64.6      77.2     100.0     112.5     120.1     161.R     227.3
C.  CURRFN] VALUES
(Mili ons of Dollars)
1. Food                         6.9      25.2      46.1     276.4     161.9     159.9     128.3     255.8
2. Other Consumer Goods        19.6     210.8     219.1     422.9     560.9     575.2     802.8    1339.9
3. Yettroleur                  64.0     154.9     22i.6     762.9     813.3     901.9    1482.8    3067.5
4,  Tntermediate Goods        316.3     443.5     672.3    1151.8    1465.6    1557.7    25b0.1    5311. 1
5. Capit.il Goods             356.9     728.3     927.1    1163.6    1739.8    1836.2    28t53.2   5486.1
6. -roteil Goods (c.i.f.)     763.7    15(2.7    2086.3    3777.6    4741.4    5030.9    7907.2   15466.4
7. Non-Factor Services        136.3     227.3      92.7     400.0     463.5     506.9     77J.8    1460.4
8. Total Goods & NFS          900.0    1790.0    2179.0    4177.6    5204.9    5537.8    8683.0   1692b.8
Country Programs Department It
lurope, Middle East and NorLh Afrlca Region
a)    Since detailed actual data for 1976 are not available as yet, the figures for
1976 in this annex are projections based on data upto 1975. Appropriate
revisions, however, have been made in the text to reflect the change& during
1976 in broad order of magnitudes.
4/14/77



AUMEX I
Page 5 of G
E X F O R        T    A I L a)
968     1972    1973      1974      1975     1976      1980      1983
A. COX-SLAlAT 1974 X'CIS
(Mil IThoas of r,Di Jars)
1. 1. Co'ttOn                        641.0   495.6   698.2     235.3     376.0    511.0     561.5     71i.1
2. Tn5ac                          231.2   i21.5    19A.4    204.5     130.9     193.8    212.9     271.7
3. HazelnuLS (Filbeots)           142.1   143.0    134.3    173.2     138.8     191.8    210.8     269.1
4. RjiAins                         42.3    69.2    113.2     53.9      56.6      75.8      83.3    106.3
5. Minls,1g and Quarry Products    60.1    45.2     47.6     79.0      70.3      94.2     124.8    201.0
2.     Manufactured Gouda            135.8   402.0   bt.2.4    601.3     445.8     601.7    951.7    1913.9
3.     All Otber Goods               120.9   185.9   260.2     185.0     163.1     236.6    374.0     752.2
4.     Total rowoi (t.o.b.)         1373.4  15G5.4   2094.3   153'.2    1381.5    1904.9    2519.0   42A .3
5.     Non-Factor Services           130.2   297.1   279.4     590.8     665.2     718.7    916.9    1410.b
b.     Total Goods and NP5          1'r63.6  1862.5  2313.7   2123.0    2046.7    2623.6   3435.9    5C42.1
B. PPlCE INODI.F F(174 - 300)
1. 1. Cotton                          21.7,   33.6    43.8     100.0      60.0      75.7     94.1     151.9
2. 'ohtceo                         41.0    59.]     67.0    100.0     140.0     147.7     196.0'    774.9
3. Ilazelnutn                      53.5    79.8     90.6    100.0     110.0     117.2     157.8    221.3
4. RtrIlns                         53.4    44.1     50.1    109.0      80.0      85.2     114.7    160.9
5.  firliSig and oQ.irrvl Proditcts  43.4  77.2     87.6    100.0     150.0     159.8     215.1     301.7
2.    lLnnufacturefd Goods           .46.9    59.0    67.0     100.0     111.9     119.2    160.5     225.1
3.     All Other Goods                61.3    77.2    87.6     100.0     114.5    121.9     164.2     230.3
4.    l'otel Cnods (f.o.b.)            f,.1   56.5    62.9     loo.n     101.3     111.2    150.2     215.2
5.     Non-Factor Setvices            59.9    75.4    85.5     100.0     114.5     121.9    164.2     230.3
6.     Total Goods and IIFS           38.2    59.5    65.6     100.0     105.5     114.1    153.9     219.0
C. CURREFNT VALUES
(Millioff s ot  )nIllaro)
1. 1. Cotton                         139.1   191.3    305.8    235.3     225.6     386.8    523.4     945.9
2. Tobacco                         94.8   130.9    132.9    204.5     183.3     286.2     417.3     747.0
3. Hazelnt'ts                      76.0   116.5    121.7    173.2     154.1     224.8     332.7     595.6
4. Raisins                         22.6    30.5     56.7     53.9      45.3      64.6      Q5.6     1,7.1
5. tMining and Q(uarry Products    26.1    35.1     41.7     79.0     105.5     150.6     268.5    CC..4
2.     Manuf:nctured Goods            63.7   237.2   430.4     601.3     498.8     717.2   1527.2    4308.2
3.    All Other 8oods                 74.1   143.5   227.9     lY.5.0    186.7     288.4    614.1    1732.3
4.     Total Coods (f.o.b.)          496.4   885.0   1317.1   1532.2    1399.3    2118.6    378i.7   9105.5
5.     Non-Yactoc services            78.0   224.0   238.9'    590.8     761.7     876.1    505.6    3249.1
C.     Total Goods and NFS           574.4  1109.0   1556.0   I2323.    21G6.0    2994.7    5289.3  12355.6
Country Programs Depattuet II
Europe, Mtddle East end North Afriea Region
a)   Since detailed actual data for 1976 are not available as yet, the figures for
1976 in this annex are projections based on data upto 1975. Appropriate
revisions, however, have been made in the text to reflect the changes during
1976 in broad order of magnitudes.
4/14/77



iNto  is,.  iNTO  iN?!  1976  573~~~~~~~~~~~~SLAMOfPAMU A74  ISTII? ASSSTNC  ?.S. 540  05
o.  (ONCTI (04CL-J81I  60  roo oio    is.   il,o   sa.     i..    547    5147   S0.     .ooo,a0  Ise  icn..
B.  74002 INOLuOZO. I 95  012.0  0094.2  1794.4  li39".0  i4.4.    05N37.4 79.   .4 444.  73101.0  430  ef.
.* wt ME ol1101iSOE     002    3I,      4.    il4    lli    00.    11.     170    1104.1  1314.  305   fh
IF.7  4060  *&N606 .LAN 7,31  .4.0    .45.2  0.     42i   .1. .'l:.S    .13.    .51. I  aj,g   -1),0 .312.
9.  CUO*t..1  764.0(51  INOOI  I.e  1.0  13.0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I'l":192 70  040  01.4 I 27.3I  10.3  13.0  44 5.
4.  IALA~01  04 0019047 ACCOUNT  .01,10  .020.0  -.00.  061,0  .700.4  .1672.0  .1410.0  -136030  .INI5.?  .7S7, i  .19164.6  .279S.1
N II-90A.":    43013   068.9  37SIN. 400            Ii)    13.     0,    000    i0.     064    33$
411 DISGU019..02.6     -to.'  *os.i  a,4.    03.     I Ise.  11   .3.    .364.7  .339.2  -107.42  .0472*
II 7. Ni 3154656N0       04,    20.    24.    10.     00,   07.    52.    60.      3.    00      372   21
ISi A I 4o60a10..T  .2.0,       .1.0.  .1.I5   .0,1  .4I    .41       .      .       0     .       0.
0. w NA i100(1?S..                .     144    01    0.9    00.3     0      .      2      .       4      .
04. I71.0fN,    "El 00744%'
Is. (CasH4 IN 0(2(0200
I. * 266611110  .004.0  .134.9  .144.0  .?47.s  030.4  640.0  .4  .344.9  .4  .i40,4  .0i9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.16.7  .601 .364
6021654s1 (hO07 or 10  3.     4~    03.     102   01. Pi014.0   245.2  01::.9  0390.64  i90.3  1714.4  1407.0
~~~~~~4.4                                   (MOl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NIftIl 019Y 030S50451(3 ONLY:  ........
I.  0f........01         ...0.0 .0.....066...0......lo
177.0  It  I'  .'N.:..'llllL Al 904,            '4~~~~~~~~~~~~~31.4  13.6
22"707.?   113
.0  6501060(676  246,0  i6..I  003.9  194.0  049.9  060.0  *0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a  L22(750
.601 3  oC 1916794(6,l-L  PLANND61                              P1149C241  T4117T00U94.               LG'     3.3
iC0N0~~~~~~~012  045 ~~~~~~~Iii.?  4.7  61 30  .0     4.0  33062.7                                      2.0
.7504404  I477721.            .      .     2469    44.0  I90.2  074'L 'OILCISILT 3107
.6 30435         .4     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0  .0 0  .0  .0  0791 'L, E' (03146                  0,
. 2 0U1LOC  LOANS  n1    la     *5      ,t     .0     .0     .0  0406  PUBLIC 3(21  10160100OOous       4,
4.02664 MI 3IL7146 0                                                oNIUII                                4'
0.=4040 0L'222 OP0 Of147L
T00051             40.220  43.600  34.700  30.300  30.700  04.9gm0?
"I 4 "641  0677,05  016(..) * 1  *00   05     00T*05 
I.64404041  0101      0.0     ,20   2140    4.0     010   0.000         nld.07  C.to. .!,  o.4  ?71.  ot  to.  ot  ttoo
C.3 07 FE000           66,5   404,   40.5   02,i    10.    4~         0 Sta. 4.40c.t.1dt  o  91  r  n  r.10i  .01  4  0.
0611131           42,0  o5j~    .4,6   .0.0    60,0   004.        194 toboo. ord, .  b..o.tt. .  .  .
0I00'l   000SE         ! 4I    '62100  19 ..  .6.0 .9  1.   -02.2         I196 L
03746 5067 5160l0(      .034.7  .141.0  .255.7  .200.9  .065.15  .270,4
NSf 146014                                                                        6/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~414077
N155  1,e  00192.                57     07     0.      .S`   L
4567 lIsRI  floO                 .       .      .      4,    12.9
P0.6, 0760 IiOc?0027o, 6160440  6.7  1.1~ ~~~~~ 6I*7  0.0 6.2 i.
SINS  0i16. 17P0203 ~~(214C.6122  06.5  30,9 4.  19.4 1.
917 ?64o55y5tQs~~~~~~30  0155,  05.2~~~A  91.9  40.6  89.8  7.  19.1
065  009 I003  0001011    S.     5.4    I..    13.5  04.0    7.
0iSONSE41.N0            T%7    44     70     0.     48     0
449054  700/0D0,'046 100lo .  7.;    7.  s .   6.7    00.5   10,1
St7 IC0[f              3.9    S1.    0,0     9,0    5,1   04.



ANN'EX II
Page 1 of 11
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1977)
Loan of
Credit                                                            (Less Cancellations US$M)
Number                                                             Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Thirteen loans and eight credits fully disbursed                  203.1   92.3
587-TU   1969    Republic of Turkey      Seyhan irrigation
STAGE II                  12.0             0.3
236-TU   1971    Republic of Turkey      Livestock I                       4.5      0.3
748-TU   1971    Republic of Turkey      Education                 13.5             5.8
762-TU   1971    Republic of Turkey      Fruit and Vegetable       10.0             5.5
257-TU   1971    Republic of Turkey      Fruit and Vegetable              15.0      0.9
281-TU   1972    Republic of Turkey      Irrigation Rehab.                18.0      4.5
817-TU   1972    Republic of Turkey      Steel Mill Expansion      76.0            10.1
844-TU   1972    Republic of Turkey      Istanbul Water Supply     37.0            24.4
324-TU   1972    Republic of Turkey      Istanbul Urban Dev.               2.3      0.8
845-TULa 1972    IGSAS                   Fertilizer Industry       42.0             5.8
330-TU   1972    Republic of Turkey      Livestock II                     16.0     10.7
873-Tu   1972    TSKB                    Industry                  40.0              .3
883-TU   1973    Republic of Turkey      Ceyhan Aslantas           44.0            44.0
360-TU   1973    Republic of Turkey      Ceyhan Aslantas                  30.0      7.2
892-TU   1973    Republic of Turkey      Istanbul Power Dist.      14.0            12.9
893-TU   1973    Turkish State Railway   Railway Project           47.0            15.3
957-TU   1974    Republic of Turkey      Antalya Forestry          40.0            14.4
1023-TU   1974    TEK/TKI                 Elbistan Power           148.0           132.4
1024-TU   1974    DYB                     Industry                  40.0            19.2
1078-TU   1975    TSKB                    Industry                  65.0            35.9
1130-TU   1975    Republic of Turkey      Rural Development         75.0            73.9
1248-TU   1976    Agriculture Bank of
Turkey (TCZB)           Agriculture Credit       63.0             63.0
1258-TU   1976    State Pulp and Paper
Industry (SEKA)        Newsprint                 70.0             62.6
1265-TU   1976    Republic of Turkey      Livestock III             21.5            21.5
1194-TU   1976    TEK                     Power Transmission II     56.0            56.0
1310=TU   1976    Republic of Turkey      Tourism                   26.0            26.0
1379-TU   1977    DYB                     Industry                  70.0            70.0
Total                                          1213.1   178.1    723.7
of which has been repaid                       98.5     2.6
Total now outstanding                          1114.6   175.5    723.7
Amount sold                   3.6
of which has been repaid    1.8                 1.8    -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b              1112.8   175.5
Total undisbursed                               699.3    24.4    723.7
/a   Includes $18.0 million approved on April 15, 1976
/b   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
A.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 587/143 Second Seyhan Irrigation Project: US$12 million
Loan and US$12 million Credit of February 20, 1969. Effective Date: June 17,
1969. Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Work on Stage II of the Seyhan Irrigation Project is being performed
in a satisfactory manner, although cost recovery remains a problem. An inte-
grated. training program for TOPRAKSU, the Agriculture Service and DSI has been
prepared and is being implemented. The project is expected to be completed by
the end of 1977.
Cr. No. 236 First Livestock Project: US$4.5 million credit of February 22,
1971. Effective Date: December 23, 1971. Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
Project funds are fully committed, and 152 subborrowers will benefit
under the Credit. This falls short of the 250-300 estimated at appraisal due
mainly to price increases. Imported cattle have performed well in excess of
appraisal estimates. Overall, the project has been successful in establishing
a nucleus of over 3,000 high-quality dairy animals in Turkey, providing a
valuable basis for upgrading the national herd; also setting up demonstration
farms, building infrastructure, and in promoting dairy modernization through
provision of credit and supporting technical services to dairymen, and provid-
ing a solid basis for implementation of Livestock III.
Ln. No. 748 Education Project: US$13.5 million loan of June 9, 1971. Effec-
tive Date:  September 29, 1971.   Closing Date:  September 30, 1978.
The project is about two years behind schedule, due mainly to initial
reluctance to provide the project unit with adequate qualified staff and author-
ity commensurate with its responsibilities. However, implementation is now
proceeding well and disbursements are expected to continue at a high level.
The overall educational objectives of the project are now receiving adequate
attention. Regulations for establishing national and local advisory committees
for vocational and technical education have been approved. Interim actions
have been taken regarding operation and staffing of the Management Training
Institute, pending passage of legislation formally establishing it.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 762/257 Fruit and Vegetable Export Project: US$10 million
Loan and US$15 million Credit of June 22, 1971. Effective Date: May 19, 1972.
ClosinR Date:  June 30, 1977.
Citrus development and its financing, substantially behind schedule,
are now gaining momentum. An efficient system of extension has been estab-
lished and there is strong demand for credits for orchard rehabilitation and
development.   Construction of marketing facilities is proceeding satisfac-
torily. A contract has been signed for the purchase of a Ro/Ro ferryship under
this Project; construction of the ferryship is well advanced, and delivery is
expected this summer. The refrigerated trailer and towing units component have
been fully implemented.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
Cr. No. 281 Irrigation Rehabilitation Project: US$18 million credit of
January 25, 1972. Effective Date: April 27, 1972. Closing Date: June 30,
1977.
Project construction schedules were revised in 1973 and reviewed
in 1975, with the new completion dates for Silifke, Koprucay and Tokat sub-
projects being more than two years behind the original schedule. Progress on
construction of irrigation and drainage channels and on-farm works at Silifke
and Tokat is now proceeding well, but on-farm works are still behind schedule
at Koprucay because of the extremely short annual work season. The training
program has been developed and is being implemented.
Ln. No. 817 Steel Mill Expansion Project: US$76 million loan of April 28,
1972. Effective Date: August 4, 1972. Closing Date: December 31,1977.
The project is expected to be completed in early 1978, nearly three
years behind original schedule, due to delays in beginning procurement, stem-
ming largely from inefficient management. Due to an increase in prices
approved by the Government, the project's cash requirements for 1976 have been
met. However, the company still needs substantial financing for meeting the
large cost overruns for the project. Government is actively exploring ways to
cover the expected 1977 shortfall, including steps to find a long-term solu-
tion to this problem.
Ln. No. 844 Istanbul Water Supply Project: US$37 million loan of June 30,
1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The supply of water for Istanbul has increased by 69 percent since
1971, and water supply to the Asian side has doubled in the past year, but
shortages persist, particularly for municipalities adjacent to Istanbul.
Project progress is about one year behind appraisal estimates, but is now
reasonable. ISI's Board is expected to decide shortly on the recommendations
of its management and accounting consultants. It is tackling the problem of a
continuing high percentage of unaccounted for water by a large-scale program
of meter replacement. Meanwhile, a request for increased tariffs remains
under Government consideration.
Cr. No. 324 Istanbul Urban Development Project: US$2.3 million credit of
June 30, 1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: June 30,
1977.
Consultants have completed Phase I of the general urban planning
and urban transport/land use modeling studies, also work on wastewater and
bus/traffic engineering and control projects. Plans for Phase II are cur-
rently under consideration.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
Ln. No. 845 IGSAS (Istanbul Fertilizer Company) Project: US$42 million loan
of June 30, 1972 as amended April 18, 1975. Effective Date: October 6, 1972.
Closing Date: October 31, 1977.
The project has commenced trial production. The estimated cost to
complete shows an increase from $130 million to $145.9 million of which $2.2
million is in foreign exchange. The cost overrun will be covered by the Gov-
ernment, the State Investment Bank and the shareholders.
Cr. No. 330 Second Livestock Project: US$16 million Credit of September 28,
1972. Effective Date: January 5, 1973. Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The fattening subproject is progressing satisfactorily and almost
all funds have been committed. The Village Livestock Development (VSD) sub-
project, after a slow start resulting from initial difficulties in recruitment
of technicians and consultants, which have been overcome through application
of suitable incentives and in gaining the confidence of farmers in the program,
is now progressing rapidly, with 75 percent of the funds committed.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 883/360, Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project: US$44
million loan and US$30 million credit of March 22, 1973. Effective Date:
March 20, 1974. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Construction of diversion tunnels has met with difficult rock condi-
tions and several cave-ins, but as a result of revised tunnelling methods, the
diversion is now expected to be completed before the 1978-79 flood season,
which is about one year behind the contract date and two years behind the ap-
praisal estimate. After some initial delays, progress in construction of the
irrigation works is satisfactory and by the end of 1977 the system will be
ready to deliver water to about 36,500 ha or about 64 percent of the appraisal
estimate. On-farm works are also progressing satisfactorily, with about 20
percent of the land levelling, 10 percent of surface drains, and 5 percent of
feeder roads constructed. A permanent director and full time subject matter
specialists have been appointed to the project Extension Service and hiring of
field staff is continuing.
Ln. No. 892 Istanbul Power Distribution Project: US$14.0 million loan of
May 25, 1973. Effective Date: September 28, 1973. Closing Date: December
31, 1978.
The project has been delayed by about four years mainly by slow pro-
curement action; however, this is now almost completed. Costs have increased
by nearly 140 percent over appraisal estimates. Consultant studies of the
Istanbul power market and of the proposed reorganization of the company's
electricity and transport services have been completed; a study of its gas
operations is underway. The Government is reviewing proposals on how it will
cover the increased project costs and revitalize the company's finances.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
Ln. No. 893 Turkish State Railways: US$47 million loan of May 25, 1973.
Effective Date: August 28, 1973. Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
Although tariffs have been raised twice since the loan was made, the
Borrower continues to fall short of meeting many of the financial and operat-
ing targets in the revised Plan of Action agreed with the Bank in mid-1975,
and other provisions of the Loan and Guarantee Agreements have not been carried
out as scheduled. Track renewals, rolling stock, and locomotive production,
the latter financed by another external lending institution, were accelerated
in 1975 and 1976, and in physical terms the project is substantially completed.
About two-thirds of the loan has been disbursed.
Ln. No. 957 Antalya/Akdeniz Forest Utilization Project: US$40 million loan of
January 28, 1974. Effective Date: May 26, 1976. Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
Following the approval by the Executive Directors of needed changes
in the agreements arising from a site relocation, the loan was declared effec-
tive. Construction has begun at the new site and the project is expected to
be completed by the end of 1978, about 2 years behind the original schedule.
The cost overruns are being met by the Government and the State Investment
Bank. Some cases of sub-standard civil works construction have occurred, and
a corrective program has been initiated.
Ln. No. 1023 Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project: US$148 million loan
of June 28, 1974. Effective Date: June 1, 1976. Closing Date: July 30,
1982.
The loan was declared effective on June 1, 1976, following increases
in bulk supply tariffs and other measures agreed upon between the Government
and the Bank, permitting disbursements to begin also under the loans from EIB
and KfW, who co-finance the project with the Bank; the Goverment is arrang-
ing additional financing. Although engineering and contracting are proceed-
ing, project implementation was delayed, and has faced critical problems for
lack of staff, efficient management, effective coordination among various
agencies and unsatisfactory performance of civil contractors. Since the Bank
and co-lenders reviewed the situation in January 1977 and again in late April
with the Turkish authorities, the remedial measures initiated by Turkey have
had quite encouraging results in improving project coordination and in the
physical aspects of project implementation.
Ln. No. 1024 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$40 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: September 30, 1974. Closing Date: Decem-
ber 31, 1978.
Submission of subprojects has been completed, and eleven projects
totaling $40 million have now been approved. Project implementation is
satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
Ln. No. 1078 TSKB (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$65 million
loan of January 22, 1974. Effective Date: April 24, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
The loan brings Bank lending to TSKB to $233 million. TSKB has
encountered difficulties in mobilizing additional domestic and foreign finan-
cial resources but nevertheless has raised substantial sums, and also is
channelling a significant portion of its lending to Turkey's underdeveloped
regions. The loan is almost fully committed.
Ln. No. 1130 Corum-Cankiri Rural Development: US$75 million loan of June 23,
1975; Effective Date: January 2, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The loan was declared effective following establishment of the
project extension service and after the appointment of a project director
and two deputies. Recruitment of extension staff and some construction work
have commenced.
Ln. No. 1194 Second TEK Power Transmission Project: US$56 million loan of
June 14, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The original effectiveness date of September 14, 1976 is again
being postponed for the fourth time to August 31, 1977 at the request of the
Government to permit the Government and TEK to meet, before effectiveness,
certain financial requirements under their agreements with the Bank.
Ln. No. 1248 Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries: US$63 million loan of
May 5, 1976. Closing Date: September 30, 1981.
The original date for effectiveness of September 1, 1976, has been
postponed four times to May 31, 1977 to allow time to execute the required
arrangements resulting from cancellation of the cattle fattening component
of the project.
Ln. No. 1258 Balikesir Newsprint:    US$70 million loan of May 21, 1976.
Effective Date: October 15, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1265 Livestock III: US$21.5 million loan of May 26, 1976. Effective
Date: February 25, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1310 South Antalya Tourism Infrastructure: US$26 million loan of
July 9, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Original date for effectiveness of November 30, 1976, has been
extended twice to May 31, 1977 to provide additional time for the Government
to meet the conditions of effectiveness.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 11
Ln. No. 1379 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$70 million loan of
March 23, 1977. Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
The date for effectiveness is July 21, 1977.



Annex II
Page 8 of 11
TURKEY - SUMMARY OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of March 31, 1977
Undtsbursed
Investment       Fiscal                                 Type of                                                   Held      Including
Number          Year             Obligor              Business          Equity       Loan          Total       by IFC  Participations
64TU,  IZ2TU    1964, 1967   Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma    Development           3.37        60.00        63.37        16.30        0.59
149TU, 220TU    1969, 1972   Bankasi A.S.              Financing
2451U, 64-ITU   1973, 1975
310TU, 328TU    1976
112TU, 155TU    1966, 1969   Sentetik Iplik            Textiles              1.42         3.15         4.57         1.26         -
186TU, 211TU    1971, 1972   Fabrikalarti A.S.
159TU, 189TU    1970, 1971   Viking Kagit ve           Pulp, Paper and       0.67         2.50          3.17        2.39         -
Seluloz A.S.             Paper Products
178Th           1970         Anadolu Cam               Glass and Glass       1.58        10.00         11,58        7.53         -
Sanayii A.S.             Products
184TU, 320TU    1971, 1975   Nasas Aluminyum Sanayti   Aluminum Sheet        1.37         8.58          9.95        6.57         -
ve Ticaret A.S.           and Foil
248TU           1973          Akdeniz Turistik         Tourism               0.27         0,33          0.60        0.48        0.09
Tesisler A.S.
269TU            1974         Borusan Gemlik Boru      Steel Pipe            0.44          3.60         4.04        3.38          -
Tesisleri A.S.
281TU            1974         Aksa Akrilik Kimya       Textiles               -           10.00        10.00        8.00          -
Sanayii A.S.
293TU           1975          Kartaltepe Mensucat      Textiles               -            1.30         1.30        1.11          -
Fabrikasi T.A.S.
299TU           1975          Sasa Sun'i ve Sentetik   Chemicals              -           15.00        15.00        7.50         2.50
Elyaf Sanayji A.S.
302TU           1975          Aslan ve Eskihisar       Cement                 -           10.60        10.60        5.60          -
Muttehit Cimento ve su
Kireci Fabrikalari A.S.
309TU            1975         Doktas Dokumculuk        Iron Foundry          1.07         7.50          8.57        8.57         1.57
Ticaret ve Sanayji A.S.
342TU           1976          Asil Celik Sanayi ve     Iron and              3.11         12.00        15.11       15.11        15.11
Ticaret A.S.              Steel
Total       13.30       144.56       157.86       83.80        19.86
IFC-CAMZ/Finance and Management
April 20, 1977



Annex II
Page 9 of 11
Sentetik Iplik Fabrikalari A.S.
IFC has made four investments in this Company, which was formed
in 1962 to produce nylon and polyester yarn. The first three investments
enabled the Company to expand its yarn capacity from 1,000 mty in 1965 to
8,560 mty in 1972 in successive phases, and to add and later to expand its
polymerization plant. The fourth investment, made through a pre-emptive
rights issue, was used to finance a further expansion to enable the Company
to produce nylon-66 and polyester yarns. The Companv operates well. Sales
in 1976 reached Tr. 530 million compared TL 403 million in 1975 and profits
increased from TL 17 million to TL 25 million. (IFC/R75-47)
Viking Kagit ve Seluloz A.S.
IFC's investment helped finance the construction of a mill to pro-
duce 13,500 mty of tissue and commercial wrapping paper and 5,000 mty of
mechanical pulp.   The mill was completed in 1971 at cost 50% higher than
the original estimate due largely to a 67% devaluation of the Turkish
currency during construction and the domestic inflation that followed. The
Company has been unprolitable since startup, mainly because of increasing
costs of raw materials and controlled domestic sales prices. Additionallv,
the cost overruns were financed for the most part with (debt, which has
placed an excessive burden to financial clharges on the ComDoany. As a result,
Viking is nIow in default to its principal creditors. The Company's operations
and prospects are imiproving and wavs to refinance and restructture the Company
are being studied. (IFC/R75-21)
Anadolu Cam Sanayii A.S.
The project is to establish a plant to produce 53,000 mty of flat
glass and 80,000 mtv of clear and amber glass containers at an estimated
cost of TL 300.7 million.   The Company started commercial operations in June
1973, about 10 months behind schedule due mainly tc Ielavs in completion of
civil work and in the development of the sancd quarrv. As a result of these
delays, together with the devaluation of the Turkish lira by 67% (August 1970)
and additional working capital needs, the Company reported an overrun of
TL 221.0 million, which has been financed through additional loans and equity.
As a result of low levels of production and higher than anticipated operating
costs not offset by increased sales prices, the Company's accumulated losses
amounted to about TL 200 million through 1975. In 1975 arrangements were
made for Turkiye Is Bankasi (TIB) to acquire a 30% interest in ACS through a
share capital increase.   At the same time an agreement was made to market
ACS' products jointly with those of the glass companies owned by TIB. A
plan to reschedule the maturities on loans from ACS' major creditors, including
IFC, has been implemented.   With its first year of profitable onerations in
1976, ACS has benefited from the financial and organizational restructuring,
and continuing profitability in 1977 is expected.     (IFC/R77-]8)



Annex II
Page 10 of 11
Nasas Aluminum Sanayii ve Ticaret A.S.
IFC has made two investments in the Company which was established
in 1969 to make aluminum sheet and foil products. The Company has now a
capacity to process 21,000 mty of aluminum ingots into 15,000 tons of sheet
and 6,000 tons of foil products. During 1975 the Company made a net profit
of TL 29 million on total sales of TL 374 million. Profits and revenue are
expected to have increased substantially in 1976. (IFC/R76-56)
Akdeniz Turistik Tesisler, A.S.
Construction of the 700-bed vacation village on Turkey's
Mediterranean coast was completed in 1974 at a cost of US$5.5 million,
compared with an original estimate of US$4.1 million. The Company has
incurred small losses during its initial years of operation but anticipates
a profit together with higher occupancy in 1977. Prospects are improved
in light of the recent association of Club Mediterranee with the venture.
(IFC/R75-77)
Borusan Gemlik Boru Tesisleri A.S.
The project is to construct a new plant to produce 120,000 mty
of welded steel gas and water pipe. The plant has been completed at a
cost of TL 300 million, twice the original estimate. IFC is exercising
pre-emptive rights in connection with a share capital increase intended
to cover 25% of the project cost overrun. The balance of the overrun is
being covered by additional medium and longterm loans. (IFC/R76-62)
Aksa Akrilik Kimya Sanayii A.S.
The project is-to expand the Company's facilities for the production
of acrylic fiber from 9,000 mty to 25,000 mty. The project has been completed
at a cost of TL 665 million as compared with the original estimate of TL 725
million. The reduction was mainly due to revaluation of the Turkish lira
with respect to the Italian lira. During the first nine months of 1976,
Aksa's sales and profits increased by 43% and 36% respectively. (IFC/R76-56)
Kartaltepe Mensucat Fabrikasi T.A.S.
The project consists of the construction and operation of a new
integrated textile plant with capacity for about 2,400 mty of yarn and
about 10.6 million meters per year of woven material. The mill also has
capacity for finishing, dyeing and printing of between 15 to 20 million
meters of fabric per year. Total project cost was estimated at TL 266
million. The project was completed at a cost close to the original esti-
mate early in 1976. (IFC/75/85)
Sasa Sun'i ve Sentetik Elyaf Sanayii A.S.
The project is to construct and operate a new plant to produce
60,000 mty of dimethyl terephalate (DMT) as a raw material for its existing



An.-e: II
Page 11 of 11
operations. Project cost is estimated at TL 687.5 million of which IFC and
a participant are providing US$15.0 million in loans. The project is expected
to be completed in the third quarter of 1977 with an anticipated 46% overrun.
SASA's operations regained profitability in 1976 after a loss in 1975 due to
a downturn in the textile market. Profitable operations are expected to con-
tinue in 1977. SASA has made additional borrowings to cover its cashflow
shortfall and cost overruns. (IFC/R75-41)
Aslan ve Eskihisa Muttehit Cimento ve Su Kireci Fabrikalari, A.S.
The project is to expand and modernize an existing cement plant.
The project is expected to be completed by August 1977, eight months behind
schedule. The final cost is expected to exceed the originally estimated
TL 413 million by about 33%. Owing to the cost overrun and unexpected
losses caused by increased operating costs and controlled cement prices,
the Company has financial difficulties. It is increasing its share capital
and seeking additional longterm loans. (IFC/R75-52)
Doktas Dokumculuk Ticaret ve Sanayii A.S.
The project is to construct and operate a foundry for the manu-
facture of gray iron castings for the Turkish tractor and automotive
industries. The project was completed in early 1977 at a total cost of
TL 501 million, about 5% above the original estimate. The loan portion
of the investment was approved in 1976 by the Turkish Government and
approval of the equity portion has recently been granted. (IFC/75-12)
Asil Celik Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S.
The project is to construct and operate a plant for the production
of 80,000 mty of special steels for the Turkish automotive, tractor and
commercial vehicle industries. The project cost is estimated at TL 1527.4
million, 8% above the original estimate, with financing from IFC (US$12
million as a loan and about US$3.1 million in equity), Japanese suppliers'
credits (US$38.1 million) and local loan and equity sources. The project
is expected to be completed in mid 1979. The loan portion of the IFC
investment has been approved and approval of the equity portion is anti-
cipated. (IFC/R76-32)
These notes are designed to inform the Board of Directors on the
status of the existing projects and to report upon the problems, including
those relating to undisbursed investments, which are being encountered and
of the actions that are being taken to remedy such problems. These notes
are not comprehensive in terms of factual content nor are they intended to
present a balanced evaluation of each investment. Reference is made at
each note to the prior report upon each investment contained in the Monthly
Report or in other submissions to the Board.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY
BANK LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi A.S. (TSKB)
Guarantor:         Republic of Turkey
Loan Amount:       US$74 million equivalent, in various currencies.
Terms and          Repayable substantially in conformity with the aggregate
Con4itions:       of the amortization schedules for sub-loans and investments
for which withdrawals from the loan account are approved
or requested. Sub-loans should be repaid over a maximum
period of 15 years after signature of the Bank Loan Agree-
ment including an appropriate period of grace. Interest
at 8.20 percent per year.
Relending Terms:   The Borrower will on-lend at an interest rate of 14 percent
per annum; amortization depends on individual sub-projects,
and is expected to range from 10 to 15 years. The Govern-
ment will assume the foreign exchange risk in respect of
the principal of the Bank loan against a fee payable by
the sub-borrower.
The Project:       The objectives of the proposed loan aim at encouraging
TSKB: (i) to continue, and maintain, its regional develop-
ment efforts emphasizing resource allocation to the LDRs;
(ii) to substantially increase the amount and proportion
of its lending to small- to medium-sized labor-intensive
industries; (iii) to further reinforce its role in the
non-financial aspects of development banking (technical
assistance services); and (iv) to increase and diversify
its resource mobilization at home and abroad.
Financial
Projections:       (in TL million)



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Financing Plan:
1977     1978      1979     1980      1981
Loan and Equity Investments      2,052     2,565    2,995     3,548    4,209
Other Long-Term Assets (Net)          8        9       17        20       22
Working Capital Increase             11      (60)      53       138        (1)
2,071    2,514     3,065    3,706     4,230
Financed Through:
Internal Cash Generation (Net)      108      120      133       144      157
New Share Capital                    97      107      106       213      213
New Long-Term Debt                1,733    2,171    2,662     3,200    3,735
Sale of Equity Investments           36       43       52        62       74
Loan Collections Net of
Debt Repayments                    97       73      112        87       51
Liabilities & Equity:
Current Liabilities                 428      525      641       765      924
Long-Term Debt                    6,405    8,039    9,914    11,973   14,209
Equity                              806      996    1,195     1,506    1,822
Earnings:
Gross Income                        962    1,242     1,560    1,906    2,293
Financial Expenses                  573      788    1,030     1,293    1,567
Administrative Expenses             121      145       175      212      258
Profits before tax as
% of Net Worth                    33.3      30.6     28.9      26.2     25.1
Long-Term Debt/Equity Ratio           6.3      6.7       7.0      6.9       6.9
Disbursements:
(Bank's Financial Year, US$ '000)
FY77       FY78     FY79     FY80     FY81
Annual            4,200    24,400    32,400   12,400      600
Cumulative        4,200    28,600    61,000   73,400   74,000
Procurement:        Through normal commercial channels, but with comparison
of offers from more than one supplier.
Consultants:        None
Appraisal Report:   No. 1450b-TU, dated April 25, 1977, issued by the
IDF Division, EMENA Region.



ANNEX IV
TURKEY
SUPPLEMENTAL BANK PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I:
Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Pre-appraisal                           August 23 - September 23, 1976
(b)  Appraisal                               October 25 - November 16, 1976
(c)  Negotiations Completed                  March 25, 1977
(d)  Loan Effectiveness Planned              August 31, 1977
SECTION II:
Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
SECTION III:
Special Conditions
(a) TSKB will allocate not less than 40 percent of its total resources
to the less developed regions during 1977 and 1978 (paras 47, 48);
(b)  TSKB will allocate $30 million of foreign exchange resources,
including $15 million from the Bank loan, for SMLI projects
during 1977 and 1978 (para 51);
(c) TSKB will float local bonds amounting to TL 325 million in
1977 and 1978, and will raise its share capital by an aggregate
of TL 310 million by mid-1979 (para 56).



ANNEX V
TURKEY
IFC
Loan Summary
Borrower:            Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi A.S. (TSKB)
Loan Amount:         US$50,000,000, of which
"A" Loan: US$10,000,000
"B" Loan: US$40,000,000
Repayment:           "A" Loan:  In 14 approximately equal semi-annual install-
ments, commencing in 1980 and ending in 1986.
"B" Loan: In approximately equal semi-annual install-
ments with final maturity falling due 1982.
Interest Rate:       "A" Loan:  10-1/4 percent.
"B" Loan: Up to 2-1/4 percent over the London Interbank
Offered Rate (LIBOR) for six months' deposits.
Commitment Fee:      "A" Loan:   1 percent per annum payable in U.S. dollars on
the undisbursed portion of the loan, commencing to accrue
30 days from the date of approval by the Board of Directors
of IFC.
"B" Loan: Up to 1 percent per annum, payable in U.S
dollars on the undisbursed portion of the loan, commencing
to accrue on the date or dates that IFC shall have received
formal commitments from Participants.
Partification Fee:   Up to 1-1/2 percent of the amount of the "B" Loan.
Other Fees:          Up to US$80,000.
Prepayment:          Repayable on 30 days' notice on any interest payment date
at par plus accrued interest.






25'                     30-                    35-0-
BULGARIA                         Blok S\K
ULJ5 r J  A  I,A                N   KASTAM   N   /
nQ  R    *~PIT  N              \     ~<         ,,,                _, L      O,0SV      N >
AD~~                           ~~ A                              A A \NGEMRS~(._ lZ 
RN                                  0 ;L 
~~~ CANAKKALE~~~~~~~~~~\CNK     C 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UZA1$'  / /  ANKR A Q/-    ~RGO            2   AR
< b o r 8 :1                                              G MOSTHEELPDARVNCE
e Y rA/  /             -IRSEM,QN I I      POINCMS
A/i e d J t e r S o n : o n f; e ENT S Y R IA (o LESUVLP RVNE
z AYD/~Y~//           KON AN\KA ~   --                       IYRA(R    o
_/lJ)DENI  URDU  /                     ,-~~~~/  URFAR URN
-35- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~K   EHI  ANK   RAZ IR I                   Kr REGIONA BNIV'FFCE
t-C ~ ~ /.1  YOGA    S I V A (S           DIISRTV  ITIT
~~~~~4 RGOAL hUDRE
OTUNCELI                       8 MOS 3EVLA-D PROVINC ES
~~~KILOVETERSO0~  ,     ~             i'  R I A              SEMINGVL; PROVINCES
0   50   I00  150  200                     ,/_-                     NTERNATION~ALBOUNDA=IES  >C
MI1 L E S                                      . .  .  ;                           , I
3D                        3                         40- J



