Report No. PIC4673
Project Name                   Senegal-Sustainable and Participatory
Energy Management Project
Region                         Africa
Sector                         Energy
Project ID                     SNPA46768
Borrower                       Republic of Senegal
Implementation Agency          Ministry of Environment and Protection of
Nature Ministry of Industry and Energy
Date the PID was prepared      February 3, 1997
Proposed Appraisal Date        March 8, 1997
Proposed Board Date            May 20, 1997
1.  Background.  Senegal is a small Sahelian country with a population
of about 8 million of which 40% live in urban areas.    It has a high
population growth rate (2.9% annually) substantially above the recent
real GDP growth rate of 1.7%. GNP per capita was estimated to be about
US$ 610 in 1994. The modern sector includes fishing, phosphates,
chemical products and tourism, all concentrated in the capital city of
Dakar and the coastal belt. Agriculture represents roughly 20% of
Senegal's GDP and employs 60% of the country's labor force.    Groundnuts
are the most important agricultural commodity, providing for 75% of
total monetary income of a typical farm family. Senegal faces many
environmental issues, including soil degradation, salinization of
agricultural land in low-lying coastal areas, and loss of forest cover.
Total final energy consumption in Senegal for 1992 was estimated at some
1.5 million tons of oil equivalent. Of that total, forest-based
traditional fuels (firewood and charcoal) --mostly for household cooking
purposes--represent 57%, petroleum fuels 37%, electricity 5% and
agricultural residues 1%. Total charcoal consumption in 1992 was
estimated at 330,0000 tons (equivalent to 1.8 million tons of fuelwood),
of which 76% is consumed in principal urban areas. The capital city of
Dakar alone is responsible for an annual consumption of more than
100,000 tons of charcoal.
The supply of woodfuels is based on geographically concentrated and non-
sustainable forest resource management practices (clear cutting). In
addition, given the relatively low efficiency of wood-to-charcoal
carbonization, total charcoal consumption is equivalent to 1.2 times the
total consumption of fuelwood. Charcoal is currently produced in the
Kolda and Tambacounda regions, more than 400 km away form the principal
urban areas of Dakar and Thies. Over the years, the operation of the
charcoal industry has resulted in: (a) the gradual loss of forest cover
(approximately 30,000 ha/year) and thus of the ecosystem's carbon
sequestration capacity and biodiversity; (b) the degradation of the
rural environment (particularly of the soils); (c) the impoverishment of
the rural areas and acceleration of the rural exodus; and, (d) a massive
transfer of wealth from the rural to urban areas. In addition to these



negative impacts, it is anticipated that the Niokolo-Koba National Park
("International Biosphere Reserve Park") which is located in the
Tambacounda and Kolda regions will come under pressure, with irreparable
biodiversity and ecological consequences at the national and global
levels.
A comprehensive "Review of Policies in the Traditional Energy
Sector - RPTES" concluded that Senegal will continue to depend on
forest-based traditional fuels to meet the lion's share of the country's
urban and rural energy needs well into the next century. While ongoing
demand management (improved wood stoves) and inter-fuel substitution
(LPG and kerosene) efforts need to continue, they are by themselves not
enough. Senegal's principal challenge will be to manage an organized
transition from the current non-sustainable commercial woodfuels supply
system to one capable of supplying woodfuels--particularly charcoal-- to
the rapidly growing urban population in an environmentally sustainable
manner.
2. Project Objectives. The objective of the project is to meet an
important part of the rapidly growing urban demand for household fuels,
without the loss of forest cover and the ecosystem's carbon
sequestration potential and biodiversity.
3. Project Description. The project would consist of two main
components: a sustainable woodfuels supply system component and a demand
management and inter-fuel substitution options component. The supply
component would implement and monitor 300,000 hectares of
environmentally sustainable community-managed forest resource systems in
the Tambacounda and Kolda regions, creating a protection zone around the
Niokolo-Koba National Park. The demand component would promote private
sector efforts at inter-fuel substitution and private sector and
NGO-based improved stoves initiatives. In addition, the project would
strengthen institutions involved in the management of the sector and the
promotion of participation of the civil society in the operation of the
sector.
4. Project Cost and Financing. The total cost of the project is
estimated to be US$ 18.9 million, with a foreign exchange cost of about
US$ 17.9 (949). The financing plan includes US$ 5.2 million from IDA,
US$ 5.2 million from GEF, US$ 1.0 million from the Government of Senegal
and the remainder (US$ 7.5 million) from other donors.
5. Project Implementation. The Ministry of Environment and Protection of
Nature and the Ministry of Industry and Energy through the appointment
of a National Director would be jointly responsible for the overall
implementation of the project.
6. Beneficiary Participation and Project Sustainabilitv. The strategy
for the project and the project proposals were widely discussed in
several workshops and at all levels of Government and with the civil
society, including academia, the private sector and the NGO community.
The sustainability of the project would be achieved by the following:
(i) the effective transfer of responsibility for the management of the
forest resources from the Government to the rural communities; (ii) the
effective opening of the woodfuels trading system; and, (iii) the
- 2 -



implementation of a woodfuels fiscal and pricing policy that promotes
long-term sustainable management of forest resources, discourages
non-managed resource exploitation and maximizes direct revenues at the
producer level (rural communities).
7. Lessons Learned. The proposed project incorporates lessons learned
over the past two decades in "household" energy and participatory
natural resource management interventions in West Africa, including
projects in Burkina Faso, the Gambia, Mali and Niger.
8. Project Benefits. The project would sustainably produce some
860,000 tons of fuelwood during the implementation period and establish
a permanent system capable of producing more than 300,000 tons of
fuelwood. The project would also reduce woodfuels-related deforestation
and net C02 emissions, generate income to some 0 villages, and increase
access of low income households to more reliable and efficient charcoal
stoves.
9. Environmental Aspects. This is a Category "C" project that seeks to
reduce deforestation, soil degradation, C02 emissions, urban charcoal
pollution and incidence of respiratory diseases and indoor pollution
that would affect the health of women.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending February 7, 1997.
- 3 -



