                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                                    Report No: 32102

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                          (IDA-29630 TF-21581 TF-50269 TF-28365)

                                          ON A

                                         CREDIT

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.2 MILLION

                                  TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                        SENEGAL

                                         FOR A

          SUSTAINABLE AND PARTICIPATORY ENERGY MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                      June 20, 2005




Energy Group
Infrastructure Department
Africa Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (Exchange Rate Effective )

                             Currency Unit = FCFA
                                   US$ 1.00 = FCFA 500

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                    FY97     FY05

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFR            Africa Region
CPR            Country Portfolio Review
CDD            Community Driven Development
DE/MIME        Energy Directorate
QAE            Quality at Entry
ERR            External Rate of Return
ESRAP          Energy Service Rural Access Project
ESSD           Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
FPSI           Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
GEF            Global Environmental Fund
GIS            Geographical Information System
GoS            Government of Senegal
IDA            International Development Association
LPG            Liquefied Petroleum Gas
MEMI           Ministry of Energy, Mines and Industry
MEPT           Ministry of Envrionment and Protection of Nature
NGO            Non-governmental Organization
NPV            Net Present Value
NRM            Natural Resource Management
NWFD           National Water and Forestry Directorate
PAMECAS        Senegalese Micro-Credit Institution
PCU            Project Coordination Unit
PICOGERNA      IDA Forestry Sector Project
PROGEDE        Sustainable and Participatory Energy Management Project
PRSC           Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
RPTES          Regional Program for the Traditional Energy Sector
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SENELEC        Senegal Electricity Company
TTL            Task Team Leader



                             Vice President:    Gobind T. Nankani
                          Country Director      Madani M. Tall
                           Sector Manager       Yusupha B. Crookes
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Boris E. Utria

                                              SENEGAL
                 SUSTAINABLE PARTICIPATORY ENERGY MANAGEMENT


                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                    1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
    6. Sustainability                                                                14
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
    8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
    9. Partner Comments                                                              21
    10. Additional Information                                                       21
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             49
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             51
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                52
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            53
    Annex 8. Comments from the Borrower                                              54
    Annex 9. Illustration of PROGEDE's Outcomes and Achievements                     70
Map: IBRD no. 28722                                                               73

Project ID: P046768                                                  Project Name: SN SUST.PART.ENGY.MGMT.
Global Supplemental ID: P042056 (Fully Blended)                      Supp. Name: SN-Energy Mgmt Sust Prtnshp SIL (FY97)
Team Leader: Boris Enrique Utria                                     TL Unit: AFTEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 17, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: SN SUST.PART.ENGY.MGMT.                                  L/C/TF Number: IDA-29630; TF-21581;
                                                                                                     TF-50269
   Country/Department: SENEGAL                                                            Region: Africa Regional Office

       Sector/subsector: Forestry (87%); Oil and gas (7%); Mining and other extractive (6%)
                  Theme: Participation and civic engagement (P); Biodiversity (P); Other
                            environment and natural resources management (P); Rural non-farm
                            income generation (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
          PCD: 02/16/1996                                      Effective: 12/10/1997                12/10/1997
     Appraisal: 03/14/1997                                         MTR: 06/30/2001                  05/06/2002
     Approval: 06/12/1997                                       Closing: 12/31/2004                 12/31/2004



   Supplemental Name: SN-Energy Mgmt Sust Prtnshp SIL (FY97)                      L/C/TF Number: TF-28365

       Sector/subsector: Forestry (87%); Oil and gas (7%); Mining and other extractive (6%)
                  Theme: Participation and civic engagement (P); Biodiversity (P); Other
                            environment and natural resources management (P); Rural non-farm
                            income generation (P)

  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
  GEF Council:                                                 Effective: 12/10/1997                12/10/1997
     Appraisal: 03/14/1997                                         MTR: 06/30/2001                  05/06/2002
     Approval: 06/12/1997                                       Closing: 12/31/2004                 12/31/2004

   Borrower/Implementing Agency:           GOVERNMENT OF SENEGAL/MINISTRIES OF ENVIRONMENT AND
                                           ENERGY
                      Other Partners:      Dutch Cooperation

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Madani M. Tall                                 Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager:                 Yusupha B. Crookes                             Max Pulgar Vidal
Team Leader at ICR:             Boris Enrique Utria                            Boris Enrique Utria
ICR Primary Author:             Boris Enrique Utria; Awa Seck


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                                           Rating
                           Outcome:        HS

                     Sustainability:     HL
   Institutional Development Impact:     SU
                 Bank Performance:       HS
            Borrower Performance:        HS


                                                  QAG (if available)            ICR
                                 Quality at Entry:                              HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
Project was at risk prior to the MTR due to implementation delays in the Supply Management Component of the
project, which corresponded to 75% of the project's investment envelope and 90% of the expected Developmental
Outcomes. The component was re-organized during the MTR mission. Thereafter, the component recovered the
accrued delays, its implementation became highly succesful, and the project closed having greatly surpassed the
expected DO targets.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

          The developmental objectives of "Sustainable and Participatory Energy Management Project
(PROGEDE)" were to meet an important part of the rapidly growing urban demand for household fuels,
without the further loss of forest cover and the ecosystem's carbon sequestration potential and biodiversity,
and to generate opportunities for employment and income generation in the participating communities.
Those objectives would be met through: (i) supply side management activities in the form of
implementation and monitoring of 300,000 hectares of environmentally sustainable community-managed
forest resource systems in the Tambacounda and Kolda regions of Senegal, creating in the process a
protection zone around the Niokolo-Koba National Park (Biosphere Reserve); (ii) demand side management
activities in the form of promoting private sector inter-fuel substitution and private sector and NGO-based
improved stoves initiatives; and (iii) a capacity development activities for strengthening the institutions
involved in the management of the sector, and the promotion of the participation of the civil society (private
sector, academic institutions, and NGO community) in the operation of the sector.

          Over and above these main objectives, however, PROGEDE had rural poverty alleviation as its
overarching expected development outcome. The reason for that was two-fold: (i) because the project team
believed in the need to focus on poverty alleviation rather than specific output targets; and (ii) because it
would not be possible to redress the problems of the sector unless social equity, income redistribution and
generation, natural resource tenure rights and sustainability of the environment, as well as of the economic
and social structures, were achieved through the project.

          At the time of project preparation, forest-based traditional fuels (firewood and charcoal), mostly
used for household cooking purposes, represented 53% of Senegal's final energy consumption. The
household sector was the principal energy consumption sector of the economy (58%). Total national
charcoal consumption in 1992 was estimated at 330,000 tons (equivalent to 1.8 million tons of fuelwood),
of which 76% was consumed in the principal urban areas. The capital city of Dakar alone was believed to
be responsible for an annual consumption of about 300,000 tons of charcoal. 86% of total fuelwood
consumption in that same year (1.5 million tons) was consumed in the rural areas. While the supply of
rural household energy needs was essentially based on dispersed subsistence gathering of dead wood, the
supply of woodfuels to the urban and peri-urban areas was based on geographically concentrated and
unsustainable forest resource management practices (clear cutting). The bulk of that energy flow was in the
form of charcoal, produced by commercial traders utilizing inefficient "traditional kilns". Over the years,



                                                      - 2 -

the operation of the charcoal industry had resulted in: (i) the gradual loss of forest cover (approx. 30,000
ha/year) and thus of the ecosystem's carbon sequestration capacity and biodiversity; (ii) the degradation of
the rural environment (particularly of the soils); (iii) the impoverishment of the rural areas; (iv) an
acceleration of the rural exodus; and (v) a massive transfer of wealth from the rural communities to a few
urban-based traders. In addition to these negative impacts, it was anticipated that the Niokolo-Koba
National Park (9,130 km2), which is located in the southeastern corner of the Tambacounda and Kolda
regions, and which is a declared national and international biodiversity patrimony and "Biosphere Reserve",
would come under threat of encroachment within the next decade, with irreparable biodiversity and
ecological consequences at the national and global levels.

          The forestry legislation historically gave the Forest Service the exclusive prerogative to assign
commercial exploitation rights over forest resources nationwide. Unfortunately, these rights were always
given only to urban-based traders through the practice of a "charcoal Quota system", which resulted over
time in the creation of a vertically integrated and oligopolistic industry with widespread corruption,
economic and social inefficiency problems, and negative environmental impacts. From the perspective of
poverty alleviation, the unsustainable and inequitable forestry exploitation patterns and systems that existed
prior to PROGEDE were, in effect, the perfect combination of factors to perpetuate "extreme rural
poverty".

          Within the above context, PROGEDE's participatory, community-driven and multi-sectorial
design and approach constituted mayor innovations and departure from the classic forestry operations in
Senegal -- and in the rest of the Africa Region. Additionally, from its early preparation days through a
significant part of its implementation period, PROGEDE had to surmount multiple barriers which ranged
from a reluctance of the Forestry Department to fully embrace institutional and functional reform, and
institutional capacity constraints, all the way to the active opposition of the traditional operators in the
charcoal trade ("exploitants forestiers").     PROGEDE's successful implementation also required the
inception of historical changes in the prevailing forest legislation and natural resource tenure policies and
changing the prevailing antagonistic relation between the Forestry Service and the rural populations. Both,
PROGEDE's innovative features and its difficult implementation conditions need to be fully recognized
within the context of the present ICR.

3.2 Revised Objective:
N.A.

3.3 Original Components:

         PROGEDE consisted of three components: "Preparatory and Support Activities",
"Sustainable Woodfuels Supply Management" and, "Demand Management and Inter-fuel
Substitution Options".

          The Preparatory and Support Activities Component entailed the implementation of: (i) a
comprehensive vegetation cover assessment of the Tambacounda and Kolda regions; (ii) a series of
participatory rural appraisals in the project zone; (iii) the design of monitoring and evaluation systems for
the implementation of the project; (iv) the elaboration of capacity building programs and field extension
guides, with special emphasis on the training and extension needs of the regional Forest Services offices,
community groups and NGOs; (v) institutional development and capacity building support to the different
governmental, community associations and NGOs that were going to participate in the implementation of
the project, with special emphasis in the training and recycling of the Forest Service staff who would be
directly responsible for the implementation of the Sustainable Woodfuels Supply Management component;



                                                     - 3 -

(vi) the preparation of a detailed implementation plan for the annual participatory forest management
modules; (vii)    the preparation of a detailed implementation plan for the Demand Management and
Inter-fuel Substitution Options Component, including, the selection of the private sector and NGO
initiatives to be supported by the project; and (viii) the design of a comprehensive project implementation
communication strategy to promote an increased participation of civil society (community, NGOs and
private sector) in the management and operation of the sector.

          The Sustainable Woodfuels Supply Management Component entailed the implementation of: (i) a
sustainable community-run forest management system over an area of 300,000 ha during a total period of
six years, from which woodfuels would be produced. In doing so, the project would simultaneously seek to
create a buffer zone around the Niokolo-Koba National Park. The implementation of this component was to
be done on the basis of annually increasing "management modules"; (ii) an assessment of the availability
of dead wood at the national level to review the situation and future prospects of the rural subsistence
supply of woodfuels; (iii) technical support and extension services to the participating rural communities
and NGOs for the implementation of the participatory management modules and for the
exploitation/production and marketing of woodfuels and other potential wood and non-wood products; (iv)
support for the establishment of community-based micro-enterprises, such as community-operated
carbonization units, agro-forestry processing units, etc.; and (v) the implementation of a comprehensive
communication strategy in support of the implementation of the Sustainable Woodfuels Supply
Management component.

          It is important to note that the original project's implementation zone (300,000 ha) represented at
the time of Appraisal 50% of the total woodfuels production area of the country. By the end of the project
implementation, however, and because of the end of the conflicts in the Cassamance region and the
consequent opening-up of the region for possible natural resource exploitation, the potential woodfuels
supply area of the country increased. While that implies a larger potential woodfuels supply base in the
country, it also implies the need to include those new potential supply zones in the government's plan and
budget to scale-up and/or replicate the PROGEDE model.

          The Demand Management and Inter-fuel Substitution Options Component entailed the
implementation of: (i) support for the reorganization and modernization of the urban charcoal trade to
establish long-term supply agreements (contracts) between rural communities and urban traders; (ii)
providing technical assistance and limited financial support for the economic diversification of existing
urban charcoal traders ("exploitants forestiers");           (iii) the execution of specific technical and
market-feasibility studies to support the further promotion of LPG and Kerosene as substitute household
fuels; and (iv) providing support for the continuation of inter-fuel substitution options (kerosene and LPG)
and dissemination of improved stoves by the private sector and the NGO community. This component
mainly sought to complement the activities and expected outcomes of the Sustainable Supply
Managemenent Component by contributing to control the growth of the demand and thus reduce pressure
on the woodfuels supply system.

3.4 Revised Components:
N.A.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

         The project does not have a Quality-at-Entry (QAE) rating as it went to the Board in 1997.
Nevertheless, QAE of this project was highly satisfactory. The project was based on a comprehensive



                                                      - 4 -

two-year Economic and Sector Work Activity (ESW) and capacity development exercise undertaken by the
Borrower with support from the Bank's "Regional Program for the Traditional Energy Sector
(RPTES)". The preparation of the project was based on a detailed borrower-led retrospective review of
its policies, programs and projects in the traditional energy sector, and on substantive consultation with all
main stakeholder groups (villagers, charcoal entrepreneurs, government officials and consumers groups),
including the realization of more than 20 "participatory project design workshops" at the village level in the
Tambacounda and Kolda regions. Additionally, AFR introduced in FY07 the need for a "participation
Plan" and PROGEDE was one of the first projects to incorporate such a plan in the preparation process
and to document it in the SAR.

         This entire process resulted in the Borrower having a clear understanding of the project's design
and implementation requirements and a high implementation ownership/commitment.               This, in turn,
facilitated the introduction by the Borrower of unprecedented changes in the sector's institutional and
policy framework ("terms of reference" of the Forestry Service, institutional delegation, tree/land tenure
regulations, charcoal quota administration, and fiscal/taxation regulation) which were essential to the
success of the project.    While these changes might not appear to be very significant in 2005, they
constituted historical landmarks in 1987. It must be recalled that the Bank's PICOGERNA project (the
last operation in the forestry sector in Senegal prior to PROGEDE) had to be cancelled in
mid-implementation because of the Government's authorization of the clear-cutting of nearly 40,000
hectares in the Mbege Forest during the 1992 electionary period.




4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

         PROGEDE was highly satisfactory in terms of the achievement of its expected developmental
objectives,    outcomes    and    targets.       Most    development     objectives   and   outcomes      had
performance/achievement rates which largely surpassed the expected SAR levels. Besides achieving the
anticipated energy outcomes (promote sustainability of woodfuel supply system and increase energy
transformation and end-use efficiency), PROGEDE was able to generate significant and quantifiable
positive outcomes in terms of poverty alleviation (rural community empowerment and social change,
generation of rural employment and incomes, targeted gender development, arresting natural resource
wealth losses to the rural populations, creation of new economic activities, etc.), environmental
sustainability (promotion of sustainable forest and natural resource management principles and practices,
ecosystem conservation, deforestation reduction, CO2 abatement, reduction of forest fires, biodiversity
conservation, etc.) and institutional development (transformation of an important segment of the forestry
sector institutions from being a "para-military" system to technical assistance and service provider,
introduction of sound and scientific forestry planning and management systems and practices, capacity
development, introduction and effective implementation of differential forestry policy for sustainably and
participatorilymanaged forestry areas, laying the foundation for the effective dismantling of the charcoal
quota system, etc.).

          Table 1 and Figure 1 present a summary of the project's main achievements through December
2004 (closing) with respect to its original Developmental Objectives and Outcomes.              The project's
performance indicators are presented in Annex 1.




                                                     - 5 -

                Table 1: Summary of PROGEDE's Main Developmental Outcomes/Outputs
Senegal PROGEDE:                                                       S.A.R.               Closing         Achievement
Main Development Outcomes/Outputs                             Target         Unit        ( Dec. 2004)        Index (*)
Area Under Sustsinable NRM Management                          300,000       Ha.               378,161         126.1
Annual Sustainable Woodfuel Production                         300,000     Tons/yr.            370,596         123.5
Annual Deforestation Reduction Impact                            20,000     Ha/yr.              39,489         197.4
NET CO2 Emission Reduction                                     510,000     Tons/yr.          1,786,214         350.2
Number of Beneficiary Villages                                      250    Villages                317         126.8
Annual Incremental Revenue to Villages                       3,000,000     US $/yr.         12,530,732         417.7
Woodfuel Stoves Promotion                                      225,000       Units             237,236         105.4
Kerosene Stoves Promotion                                         4,000      Units              11,000         275.0


  Note: (*) Amounts achieved with respect to SAR performance indicators.



                                                         Figure 1
                    Senegal PROGEDE: Implementation Achievements Rates (%)
                                               SAR vs. December 2004
                                                  CDD Sustainable Forest/NRM
                                                       Management Area
                                                            450           SAR = 300,000 Ha
                                                                          Dec 04 = 378,161 (163.0%)
                                                            400


                                                            350
              Improved Kerosene Stoves                                                 Sustainanble Woodfuel Production
                                                            300
           SAR = 4,000 St.                                         % Scale                   SAR = US 300,000 t/yr
           Dec 04 = 11,000 St. (275.0 %)                    250                              Dec 04 = 370,600t/yr (124%)

                                                            200


                                                            150


                                                            100


                                                             50

     Improved Woodfuel Stoves                                 0                                  Deforestation Reduction
    SAR = 255,000 St.                                            SAR                              SAR = 20,000 HA/yr
    Dec 04 = 237,236 (105%)                                                                       Dec 04 = 39,489 HA/yr
                                                                      ACTUAL                      (197%)




             Incremental Village Revenue                                               NET CO2 Emission Reduction
            SAR = US $3.0 M/yr                                                           SAR = 510,000 CO2 t
            Dec 04 = US $12.5 M/yr (418%)                                                Dec 04 = 1.78 Million CO2 t (350%)
                                                                                              Additional Outcome:
    Dec-04                                       Number of Beneficiary Villages             229,359 Ha of Sustainable
    SAR                                         SAR = 250 Dec 04 = 317 (127%)             Forest/NRM Pre-Management




         In reviewing PROGEDE's outcomes it is important to note that a key factor in its success was the
close collaboration that existed between the Bank and the Dutch Cooperation (co-financier) along the entire
process (from preparation to supervision). Additionally, both the financial flexibility provide to the project
by the Dutch Cooperation and the GEF funding of the project enable the Borrower to make many necessary
adjustments through the implementation process.



                                                        - 6 -

4.2 Outputs by components:

         The Preparatory and Support Activities Component entailed and satisfactorily achieved: (i) the
preparation of a comprehensive vegetation cover assessment and inventory of the Tambacounda and Kolda
regions; (ii) the execution of a series of participatory rural appraisals in the project zone; (iii) the design of
monitoring and evaluation systems for the implementation of the project; (iv) the elaboration of capacity
building programs and field extension guides for the participating regional Forest Services offices and staff,
community groups and NGOs; (v) the provision of institutional development and capacity building support
to the different governmental agencies, community associations and NGOs that were going to participate in
the implementation of the investment components of the project, with special emphasis in the training and
"recycling" of the Forest Service staff who would participate in the implementation of the Sustainable
Woodfuels Supply Management component; (vi) the preparation of a detailed implementation plan for the
annual participatory forest management modules; (vii) the preparation of a detailed implementation plan for
the Demand Management and Inter-fuel Substitution Options Component, including, the identification of
private sector and NGO initiatives to be supported by the project; and (viii) the design of a comprehensive
project implementation communication strategy to promote an increased participation of civil society
(community, NGOs and private sector) in the management and operation of the sector.

          This component is rated only as satisfactory in spite of having achieved all of its original
objectives and outputs, because it suffered a significant implementation delay (one year) which delayed the
implementation of the investment components of the project. The implementation of the preparatory
component fell behind schedule for two reasons. First, there were procurement delays in the contracting of
the technical assistance services for the vegetation cover inventory and goods (vehicles and field
equipment). Second, after the procurement problems were solved, the actual execution of the required
remote sensing work had to wait nearly six months until after the end of the rainy season due to seasonal
cloud coverage.

          The Sustainable Woodfuels Supply Management Component entailed and highly satisfactorily
achieved: (i) the establishment of sustainable community-based forest management systems over and area
of 378,161 hectares (actual achievement), with a capacity to supplying more than 370,596 tons (actual
achievement) per year of sustainable fuelwood, equivalent to some 67,400 tons of charcoal per year; (ii) the
strengthening the buffer zone around the Niokolo-Koba National Park; (iii) provision of technical support
and extension services to the participating rural communities and NGOs for the implementation of the
participatory management modules and for the exploitation/production and marketing of woodfuels and
other potential wood and multiple non-wood products; (iv) the provision of support for the establishment of
community-based micro-enterprises, including beneficiary-operated improved carbonization units,
apiculture cooperatives, collective (women) and individual agricultural diversification systems/units;
livestock and poultry raising, artcrafts units, etc.; and (v) the implementation of a comprehensive
communication strategy in support of the implementation of the Sustainable Woodfuels Supply
Management component.

          This component is rated as highly satisfactory because in spite of the initial start-up delay and
the need to re-organize the component's field implementation structure and team by mid-term, the
component largely surpassed all its original outcomes, outputs and targets. Two key examples of that are:
(i) the implementation of "pre-management" schemes in an additional area of 229,359 hectares; and, (ii) the
establishment of a new and sustainable productive activities base capable of generating an incremental
revenues of more than US$12.5 million per year among the 317 participating villages (as opposed to the



                                                      - 7 -

US$3 million originally expected).     This component benefited directly some 250,000 people (including
man, women and children) -- equivalent to approximately 21% of the population in the Tambacounda and
Kolda regions -- and an estimated 100,000 urban charcoal consuming families.          The preservation of the
forest resources and the environmental multiple extenalities that resulted from the project benefited, at least
indirectly, the entire country.    Table 1 and Figure 1, above, present the component's specific original
(SAR) and actual (ICR) achievement rates.

          The Demand Management and Inter-fuel Substitution Options Component entailed and
satisfactorily achieved: (i) the delivery of support for the reorganization and modernization of the urban
charcoal trade to establish long-term supply agreements (contracts) between rural communities and urban
traders; (ii) the provision of technical assistance and limited financial support for the economic
diversification of existing urban charcoal traders ("exploitants forestiers"); (iii) the execution of specific
technical and market-feasibility studies to support the further promotion of LPG and Kerosene as substitute
household fuels; and (iv) the provision of support for the continuation of inter-fuel substitution options
(kerosene and LPG) and dissemination of improved stoves by the private sector and the NGO community.
Further to the originally planned activities the Borrower decided to add to this component the following
activities: (i)the establishment of a permanent energy sector digital database and information system; (ii)
concept design and establishment of urban and peri-urban "Energy Boutiques"; (iii) provision of support to
several research and pilot testing initiatives on renewable household cooking fuels (rice husks briquettes,
ethanol production from cashew apples, gelfuel production, jatropha oil production, solar cookers, etc.);
and (iv) rural village biomass-based power generation studies and pilot project design.      This component
benefited directly some 250,000 families (improved woodfuel or kerosene stoves) in the principal urban and
peri-urban areas of the country. That number of families corresponds to approximately 30% of the urban
and peri-urban families of the country. Additionally, the component benefited several hundred urban-based
traders including charcoal wholesaler, charcoal retailers, and stove artisans. The improvements in energy
planning systems and management of the sector -- and the consequent energy service delivery and economic
efficiency gains -- that resulted from the project benefited, at least partially and indirectly, the entire
population of the country.

          While the expected stove dissemination target was met, this component is rated only as
satisfactory because it suffered a substantial delay in the implementation of the improved stoves
sub-component. The delay was due to protracted procurement problems with the selection of the financial
intermediary that was needed to manage the component's "stove producers revolving fund". Both the
Borrower and Bank were partially responsible for the delays. Now, it is extremely important to state that
the essential outcome expected from the stove sub-component -- as clearly indicated in the SAR -- was the
establishment of an operational market-based model for improved stoves financing, production.
PROGEDE's objective was not to fund the production and sale of a given number of stoves. That
approach has systematically failed in most donor funded projects which provide subsidies to promote
improved stove dissemination, thereby not leaving behind and economically viable stove production system.
PROGEDE sought to: (i) fund training to new stove producers to increase in-country stove production
capacity; (ii) fund consumer awareness and marketing support to help stove dissemination; and most
importantly, (iii) set-up a sustainable financial intermediation system which would enable certified new
stove producer to set-up production facilities and operate until they would capitalized themselves and
would qualify for regular commercial banking loans. These three objectives were fully met, with the
additional merit that the participating financial institution (PAMECAS) agreed to provide a 1:1 matching
fund against the IDA resources, which was not originally envisaged at Appraisal.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:



                                                     - 8 -

        The economic analysis of natural resource management activities in developing countries was (at
Appraisal) and still is the subject of discussion.      Different methodologies have been elaborated for
individual cases making use of available data (resource stocks, depletion and regeneration rates, real prices,
economic value, etc.) and relative social values (environmental conservation, resource sustainability, social
preferences, etc.), but a clear methodological consensus among experts is yet to be formed. Within that
context, a simplified economic analysis methodology was developed for the evaluation of PROGEDE at
Appraisal and the same methodology has been used for the present ICR. That detailed economic analysis
methodology was included as Annex 8 in the SAR. Annex 3 of the ICR presents the detailed results of the
ex-post economic evaluation of the project, together with a summary of the original economic analysis
methodology. The evaluation methodology is based on the following main principles:

        Project Components. All three components of the project (Preparatory and support Activities
        Component; Sustainable Supply Management Component; and Demand Management and
        Inter-fuel Substitution Options Component) where included in the economic analysis as they are
        judged to be necessary and integral elements of the proposed investment. Within that context, no
        differential valuation treatment was given to investments for productive (forest management,
        improved kilns, improved stoves, inter-fuel substitution options, etc.) or nonproductive
        sub-components (data generation and gathering, institutional development, capacity building, social
        support services, communication strategy, etc.).

        Time Horizon and Discount Rate. Given the long-term nature of the expected project impacts, a
        minimum 20-year horizon was adopted for the evaluation of the project. A discount rate of 12
        percent was applied to all project components and sub-components.

        Project Costs. All budgeted costs during project implementation (7 years) were included in the
        economic analysis of the project. From years 8 to 20 continued implementation costs were
        assessed at approximately 10 percent of year 7, gradually decreasing at a relative rate of 10
        percent per year until year 20.

        Project Benefits.    While the proposed project was expected to result in a large number of
        quantifiable and non-quantifiable benefits, the economic analysis undertaken limited the valuation
        to the following benefits: (i) value of "sustainable" wood production from the implementation of
        the sustainable and participatory forest/natural resource management systems; (ii) value of
        incremental charcoal production from the promotion of improved kilns; (iii) value of global
        environmental impacts (CO2 abatement and biodiversity conservation) from the implementation of
        the sustainable and participatory forest/natural resource management systems; (iv) value of rural
        income generation and transfer from the direct sales of fuelwood by the participating rural
        communities; (v) value of "other" rural revenues from the development of parallel agro-forestry
        production activities in the participating communities; and (vi) value of charcoal saving due to the
        promotion of improved charcoal stoves.

        ICR Evaluation Adjustments.           The physical achievement targets (area under sustainable
        management, incremental wood production, incremental charcoal production, "Other" rural
        revenues, and stove dissemination) that drive the economic analysis model were replaced with
        "actual" project achievements. In addition to that, all key valuation parameters (economic value,
        market prices, and rates) were adjusted to reflect changes between Appraisal and ICR conditions.
        Table 2 presents a summary of the values used for the economic analysis of the project at
        Appraisal and for the ICR.


                                                     - 9 -

                                     Table 2: Economic Valuation Parameters at Appraisal and ICR
 P R O G E D E :                                                                       A ppraisal                        I C R
 E c o n o m ic A n a l y s i s V a l u a t i o n               U n it                   V a lu e s                   V a lu e s
 S ustainable" w o o d p r o d u c t i o n                   U S $ /ton                      1 5                           1 5
 In c r e m e n t a l c h a r c o a l p r o d u c t i o n    U S $ /ton                     1 9 0                         2 8 5
 G lobal environm ental im p a c t s                        U S $ /C O 2                    1.01                          1.01
 ( C O 2 a b a t e m ent and biodiversity                        ton
 c o n s e r v a t i o n )
 R ural incom e g e n e r a t i o n a n d                    U S $ /ton                      1 5                           1 5
 transfer from direct sale of
 C o m m u n ity -p r o d u c e d w o o d f u e l
 " O t h e r " r u r a l r e v e n u e s                         U S $              2 0 % of R u r a l              A c t u a l U S $
                                                                                I n c o m e & T r a n s f e r         E a r n e d
 C h a r c o a l s a v i n g                                 U S $ /ton                     1 9 0                         2 8 5




           At Appraisal, the 20-year horizon evaluation of the project resulted in an economic rate of return
(ERR) of 37.3% and a net present value (NPV) at 12 percent discount rate of US $34.2 million. As per the
ICR analysis the project resulted in a substantially higher economic rate of return (ERR) of 137.55% and a
net present value (NPV) of US $96.1 million.

  Table 3 presents a summary of the economic analysis results.

   SENEGAL:PROGEDE/ICR                                                  Basis: US $ MILLION
   PROJECT COMPONENTS: I + II + III                   1997     1998    1999     2000    2001    2002   2003    2004
                                    YEARS             1      2         3        4       5       6      7       8      9         10     11

   TOTAL COSTS                                           0    -1,012  -1,606   -2,473 -2,521  -2,491 -2,864   -6,729   -171      -154  -139
   TOTAL BENEFITS                                        0        6     775    2,793   6,660  19,223 23,096   23,966 24,797    25,619 26,441
   NETCOST-BENEFITFLOW                                   0    -1,006   -831      320   4,139  16,732 20,232   17,237 24,626    25,465 26,302

         ACTUALCOST/BENEFITSFLOW:                        0    -1,006   -831      320   4,139  16,732 20,232   17,237 24,626    25,465 26,302


                                    YEARS           12       13       14       15       16     17     18      19      20      TOTAL

   TOTAL COSTS                                         -125    -112    -101       -91    -82     -74     -66     -60     -54   -20,923
   TOTAL BENEFITS                                   27,263   28,085 28,907    29,729 30,551   31,373 32,195   33,017 33,838 428,330
   NETCOST-BENEFITFLOW                              27,138   27,972 28,806    29,638 30,469   31,299 32,128   32,957 33,785 407,407

         ACTUALCOST/BENEFITSFLOW:                   27,138   27,972 28,806    29,638 30,469   31,299 32,128   32,957 33,785

  Actual Internal Rate of Return:                 ERR 137.55%
 Actual Net Present value (12%):                  NPV      96,109



           The ICR evaluation resulted in a substantially higher return than the one anticipated, even under
the high-end variants of the ex-ante sensitivity analysis. The highly successful implementation performance
is responsible for a substantive part of that difference, specially: (i) substantially higher than expected
"other rural revenues" (417.7 % over SAR level); (ii) significantly higher Net CO2 emission reductions
(350 % over SAR level); and, (iii) higher than expected sustainable woodfuel production (123.5 % over
SAR level). However, there are three specific factors which significantly contributed to the final valuation
of the project: (i) the project's actual disbursement profile went from being 70 % front-loaded at Appraisal
to 70 % back-loaded at ICR. At the same time the profile of project benefits remained broadly same. The
effect of the 12 % discount rate over that disbursement shift without a significant change in the stream of



                                                                   - 10 -

benefits resulted in a more than doubling of the ERR and the NPV; (ii) the market price of charcoal
increased from US $190 per ton at Appraisal to US $335 ton at ICR. The ICR evaluation used a value of
US $285 as average, which corresponded to the highest value considered within the ex-ante sensitivity
analysis; (iii) the market price of wood also increased from about US $80 per ton at Appraisal to US $140
ton at ICR, which corresponded to the highest value considered within the ex-ante sensitivity analysis. Both
price increases where due to a delayed adjustment of the "regulated" prices for woodfuels after the
devaluation of the FCFA in FY06, and thereafter due to general inflation through-out project
implementation.

         While it is clear that the ex-ante calculations and economic valuation turned-out to be substantially
lower than those of the ex-post analysis, that difference can not be attributed to an underestimation of
expectation. Rather, after discounting the impact of the shift in the project's disbursement profile, this
project leaves behind a major lesson as to the poverty alleviation value of multi-sectoral community-based
natural resource management interventions in Senegal, and by extension, in the African context.


4.4 Financial rate of return:

         Given the nature of the project a financial analysis was not done either at Appraisal or at ICR.


4.5 Institutional development impact:

         While PROGEDE cannot claim credit for all the institutional changes that have occurred in the
forestry and traditional energy sectors in Senegal in the last years, it was one of the main instruments
through which the Borrower operationalized its administrative decentralization process in the
Tambacounda and Kolda regions, and it had substantive and tangible institutional development impacts on
at least five levels:

         (i) Forest Service (national and regional government), which was transformed from a
         "para-military law enforcer agency" with extremely limited transparency and accountability to a
         technical assistance and capacity development agency with a now recognized participatory
         vocation and significantly improved governance. This transformation is widely recognized by the
         project's beneficiaries and was incrementally evidenced and documented along the implementation
         supervision process.     PROGEDE established a state-of-the-artforestry and vegetation cover
         Geographical Information System (GIS) -- which is an essential tool in the monitoring and
         evaluation of sectoral interventions and forest resource extraction activities -- and provided
         substantive institutional strengthening and capacity development support to the regional bureaus of
         the Forestry Service. The introduction of differential taxation for charcoal production in managed
         zones should also be regarded as a key policy and institutional contribution and outcome of
         PROGEDE.

         (ii) Energy Directorate.      PROGEDE included a series of energy data/information gathering,
         processing and management activities which resulted in the establishment of a "Permanent Energy
         Sector Information System". In spite of there having been several World Bank funded and other
         donor-funded energy projects in the past in Senegal, no efforts was given to establishing a proper
         and interactive energy sector and markets information system (beyond the collection of electricity
         production and distribution information by SENELEC) and macro-level statistics on petroleum
         imports and internal market movements. Through PROGEDE, the Ministry of Energy was able to



                                                      - 11 -

       set-up such a system and, thereto, introduce proper on-line energy analysis and sectoral planning
       and policy making. PROGEDE also promoted establishment of a senior advisor position on
       Renewable Energy in 2003 to provide specific advice to the Minister of Energy on biomass energy
       and other potential renewable energy technologies.

       (iii) Rural Community/Villagers (Main Beneficiaries). By providing a change in resource tenure
       rights within the project zone and providing capacity development and material support to reorient
       economic activities and/or introduce new ones, PROGEDE resulted in the revitalization and
       strengthening of the traditional social institutions and of their natural resource management roles
       and responsibilities. These had been largely abandoned over time as a consequence of the lack of
       enforceable natural resource tenure rights at the rural community level. The materialization of
       tangible development outcomes resulted in the further empowerment of the social institutions at the
       village level, thus setting in motion a "self-reinforcing cycle" of increasing local empowerment and
       mobilization and increased development outcomes/outputs. PROGEDE recognized and promoted
       the role of women within the village structures, and provided substantive capacity development
       and revitalized all women's groups and associations. PROGEDE's gender activities in fact resulted
       in some of the project's most important social development impacts. PROGEDE did not create new
       institutions as such within the villages, rather it revitalized and rendered fully operational and
       performing largely dormant structures such as the "Village Committee for Development
       Management (CVGD) and Inter-village Committee for Development Management (CIVGD).

       (iv) Charcoal Traders, within the PROGEDE management zone (378,000 ha+) there are now legal
       charcoal supply contracts between village producer groups and several charcoal traders. Within
       the PROGEDE zone charcoal trader have gone from being "enemies" of the rural communities to
       becoming actual commercial partners. It is important to note that this improvement relates only to
       the project zone and, thus, further work in the rest of the country is still needed.

       (v) Consumers (Indirect Beneficiaries). The consumer awareness on energy efficiency (at the
       individual household level) and the awareness as to the structure and function of the traditional
       energy sector (at the collective consumers level) have resulted in a positive change in the
       understanding of consumers and in their support for sector reforms. As an example of that, the
       PROGEDE information system was utilized in 2003 and 2004 to sensitize the public as to changes
       in the charcoal quota system to gradually increase the quota allocation to PROGEDE producers.
       Contrary to previous years, were attempts to do that prompted a threat by the traditional charcoal
       supplier to disrupt urban supplies, which in turn prompted wide-spread consumer protests, in 2003
       and 2004 there was widespread consumer support for the measures and the charcoal wholesalers
       were forced to back-down. PROGEDE's communication/information system -- a precursor to the
       communication strategies and systems now being put in place to support power sector reform
       efforts -- has thus significantly contributed to the advancement of the reforms in the biomass
       energy sector.



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:




                                                     - 12 -

        Cloud Cover and Field Conditions. While the Borrower was responsible for a delay in the
procurement of the vegetation cover inventory and the preparation of the forest resources GIS monitoring
system of the Preparatory and Support Activities Component (see details in section 5.3, below), once a
contact was finally awarded it was necessary to wait an additional six months until the cloud cover pattern
and field conditions of the rainy season changed to be able to conduct the remote sensing work (satellite
imagery) and the subsequent "ground truthing" work. Since the satisfactory completion of this component
was a trigger for the disbursement of the funds for the project's two investment components, this delay had
a big impact on the project's overall implementation process.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

         Sector Policy Issues.      The Borrower had assumed the commitment to introduce a differential
"policy regulatory and fiscal framework" for areas under sustainable forest/NRM management in the
project implementation zone and, on the basis of the progress of the implementation of such systems, to
remove the prevailing "Charcoal Quota" system. While the Borrower promptly enacted a differential
policy treatment for the PROGEDE managed zones and judiciously respected it through out
implementation the charcoal quota was modified to accomodate a gradually increasing quota allocation for
sustainable charcoal, but the quota system as such was not removed.

         The status of the Charcoal Quota and of the Market liberalization.         The elimination of the
charcoal quota is neither a necessary nor positive result in and of its own. The real issue to address is the
effective liberalization of the charcoal trade to open-up the access to the urban market to the sustainable
producer in a way that maximizes producer revenues and provides the right incentives to maintain and
expand sustainable forest management practices in the country. While the Government's commitment to
reform the sector has been question because of its delay in eliminating the charcoal quota, in practice the
application of the quota it has been gradually modified, moving the sector towards the desired liberalization
point. Since 2003 a gradually increasing allocation of charcoal quota for PROGEDE producer has been
assigned. For the 2005 charcoal production campaign the Forest Service allocated 180,000 quintals
(96,000 tons, equivalent to 32%) out of the total national quota of 500,000 quintals (300,000 tons) to
PROGEDE's sustainable production zone. That volume represents less than 50 percent of the PROGEDE
zone's current effective sustainable production capacity. The "sustainable" quota will be increased as the
PROGEDE and other sustainable management models are extended. Tripartite discussions held during the
March 2004 supervision mission between the Borrower, the Bank and the Dutch Cooperation resulted in an
agreement for the effective liberalization of the charcoal trade by 2007, moving the original target date
beyond the PROGEDE implementation period. A key underpinning element of that agreement will be the
implementation of the PROGEDE II (transition phase), through which the original forest area brought
under sustainable and participatory management by PROGEDE will move into full "green" and "dead
wood" exploitation (until 2004 all woodfuels produced from the PROGEDE zone came from deadwood
sources) and that an additional 230,000 Ha of natural forests will be added to the sustainable exploitation
area. The combination of those two elements will provide a supply volume of woodfuels from sustainably
managed areas capable of replacing the existing quota-based system without there being a flow disruption
of woodfuels to the urban energy markets.




5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

        Procurement Delays.       Throughout the entire implementation process the project suffered delays



                                                    - 13 -

of varying impact as a result of procurement problems. This is a problem which has long since affected the
Senegal portfolio and is periodically discussed during the annual CPR. The two main examples of
procurement problems/delays which affected the project's performance were: (i) a six-month delay in the
procurement of the vegetation cover inventory, mapping and GIS forest management monitoring system;
and (ii) a one-and-a-half year delay in the procurement of the financial intermediary institutions required
for the management of the stove producers "revolving credit fund". In these two instances, while the
problems were finally resolved and implementation delays were overcome without sacrificing the
achievement of targets, they did cause implementation problems. In the case of the stove producer fund, in
particular, the stove dissemination target expected (achieved) could have provably been doubled if the
procurement problem had not delayed its activation.

5.4 Costs and financing:

         Annex 2 provides the detailed information on project costs and financing. The total project costs
were estimated at US $19.93 million in the SAR. The final cost were US $19.54 million, i.e. 98.8.% of the
SAR estimate. Albeit with some periodic delays, the Borrower satisfactorily fulfilled its counterpart
funding obligations under the project. In spite of the accrued start-up delays, the project managed to
achieve or largely surpassed all its expected outcomes and outputs and closed within budget and required
no closing extensions to complete disbursements.




6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

    The sustainability of the project is rated as highly likely.

         The long-term sustainability of the project's development objectives and outcomes depends on two
main factors: (i) commitment by beneficiaries to maintain the project achievement; and (ii) commitment by
Government to extend sustainable forest resource management to the rest of the country and to liberalize
the charcoal trade.

         Commitment by beneficiaries to maintain the project achievements. The main achievements
comprise the sustainable forest and natural resource management systems that were implemented, and the
diversification of the economic base in the participating villages and the strengthening of their local
institutions and organizations (producer associations, inter-village councils and producer groups, saving
groups, women's committees, etc.). In additional to that, PROGEDE fostered substantial and irreversible
social change within the beneficiary community as well.          The 317 villages involved in the project
experienced fundamental changes in terms of their: knowledge base and capacity; awareness of rights and
responsibilities; empowerment for community-driven action; awakening of "developmental expectations"
and a clear sense of self-reliance to achieve them; and, determination to move towards progress. The
beneficiaries are determined not to lose what they perceive as "their conquests and achievements".       A
return to the previous state of disenfranchisement and lack of ownership and control over their natural
resource base is, as expressly stated in village after village, unacceptable.     The beneficiaries clearly
understand that the key for them to retain legal control over their resource base is the fulfillment of the
sustainable forest and NRM plans and principles adopted under PROGEDE. That level of understanding
and commitment provides the basis for the highly likely rating of the sustainability that relates to the
beneficiaries.



                                                     - 14 -

        Commitment by Government to Complete the Reform of the Traditional Energy Sector.
Completing the reform of the traditional energy sector and extending sustainable forest and NRM practices
to the rest of the woodfuels supply zones of the country is essential in order to protect the country's forest
resource base and the commercial viability of the managed production zones. As discussed in Section 5.2,
above, the GoS understands this issues and is committed to the liberalization of the charcoal trade by
2007 and to extending sustainable management practices.            The Government's delay in moving faster
has been based on its concern of avoiding charcoal market disruption and/or political problems, and from
the need to mobilize sufficient resources -- either internal or donor -- to finance the extension of sustainable
management systems to the rest of the county.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

        The reform of the traditional energy sector -- to render it socially equitable, economically viable
and environmentally sustainable -- is well underway, but is still not completed. Additional investments are
required to expand sustainable forest and natural resource management systems and principles nationwide.
The Borrower is committed to extending the PROGEDE model to the rest of the country, and is counting
on mobilizing additional resources from IDA, GEF and other donors to do so. IDA was not able to
accommodate a stand alone follow-up operation as it decided to consolidate all its CCD operations into a
single PRSC-based instrument starting as of FY06. Since PROGEDE was due to closed in December
2004, IDA agreed to fund and two year "transitional phase" of the program to provide continuity and
maintain the pace of implementation of the reforms until the proposed new CDD PRSC instrument was
ready for implementation.     The funding for the "transitional phase" was included as an investment
component within the new Senegal: Electricity Services for Rural Areas Project. Unfortunately, due to
delays in the effectiveness of the project, the funding under the ESRAP has not yet been made effective.
That has resulted in that all PROGEDE contractual staff  ranging from senior management to field
animateurs -- have gone unpaid and all investments and/or funding for beneficiary-managed activities has
been suspended since December 2004. It is now expected that the funding will begging to flow shortly.

        It is recommended that IDA review its investment program for Senegal and consider allocating an
additional US $10 million to support the GoS to complete the needed sectorial reforms; and, (ii) that the
expansion of the PROGEDE model is fully included in the forthcoming CDD multi-sectoral operation.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

        The Bank performance during preparation was Highly Satisfactory both in terms of sectorial
dialogue and of the quality of the design on the project and of the reform program to be undertaken.

        Innovation. PROGEDE's preparation team, approach and design were, literally, precursors to the
Bank's current "multi-sector operations". Long before the Bank move towards multi-sector operational
work, and even having to surmount significant budget and staffing cross-support rigidities, PROGEDE was
prepared by a multi-sectorial and multi-disciplinary team. The preparation team included AFR's leading
experts on the traditional energy sector, participatory development, decentralization and environmental
managemen. The project -- specially being and energy sector operation -- included many innovative design



                                                     - 15 -

features, such as, supply side management focus, forest policy reform, beneficiary-participatory and
decentralized implementation approach, multi-sectorial interventions, gender focus, climate change funding,
etc.).

        Borrower leadership and beneficiary participation. The project was based on a comprehensive
2-year ESW and capacity development exercise undertaken by the Borrower with support from the Bank's
"Regional Program for the Traditional Energy Sector (RPTES)". The Borrower undertook a detailed
retrospective review of its policies, programs and projects in the traditional energy sector. The Project
preparation team held substantive consultation with all main stakeholder groups (villagers, charcoal
entrepreneurs, government officials, consumers groups, and CSOs/NGOs), including the realization of
more than 20 "participatory project design workshops" with beneficiaries at the village level in the
Tambacounda and Kolda regions.

        The Bank's role as an "honest broker". A key feature of the preparation process of the project
was the need to undertake substantive mediation and consensus building between government official,
charcoal traders and the beneficiary rural communities. The Bank team -- with support from the RPTES
Program -- played the "honest broker" role very effectively being able to engage all parties in the project
preparation process and to steer them into a consensus on its components and implementation mechanism.
The most critical part of that work was being able to bring the charcoal traders into the fold and thereby
avoiding a frontal confrontation and political sabotaging from them during project implementation.


7.2 Supervision:

        The Bank performance during supervision was Highly Satisfactory.

        Decentralized supervision. Given the multi-sectorial nature of the project, and the need to closely
supervise and support its implementation process, the team decided to delegate daily supervision of the
project to a Country Office staff (Demba Balde) who effectively became the project's Field TTL. Overall
supervision responsibility rested with the HQ-based Task Team Leader, who supported the Field TTL as
needed and conducted annual supervision missions. The delegation of daily supervision to the field was 
at the time  a highly innovative, albeit somewhat controversial, approach which enable the team to
increase the supervision coverage/presence while reducing supervision costs, to establish a close
Bank-Borrower team, to improve the timing and therefore quality of the supervision work and ultimately to
increase the delivery of project outcomes and outputs.       That approach also contributed at the time to
advancing the further decentralization of operational responsibilities within AFR. During the first 4 year of
the project the Field TTL responsibility was assured by an ESSD rather than FPSI staff, another precursor
to current multi-sectorial operational practices. During the last three years of the project that role was
taken over by a FPSI (energy) local staff with specific qualifications on biomass energy and participatory
natural resource management systems.

        Knowledge management and capacity building. During the project's annual supervision the
team organized regional knowledge management and capacity building activities. During most annual
supervision missions Officials from other African countries and/or Bank staff from other country teams
(Benin, Burkina Faso, Ethiopia, Gambia, Guinea Bissau, Mali, Zimbabwe, Zambia, etc.) who were
working in the preparation of similar projects were invited (funded by the RPTES Program) to join the
supervision missions.

        Trust funds support. The supervision of PROGEDE benefited from funding support from the



                                                    - 16 -

RPTES Program. RPTES Trust funds were selectively mobilized to cover incremental work when required
to support project implementation and supervision. RPTES benefited from the access to the PROGEDE
experience and documentation for its regional capacity development and information dissemination
activities.

         QAS6. As per the QAS6 final report, between 1999 and mid-2003 PROGEDE had only limited
management attention and support, which at times diminished the operational capability of the team and
resulted in some problem going unresolved during that period. PROGEDE received a QAS6 rating of 2.

         Independent International recognition. In addition to PROGEDE having been used as a "best
practice" case study in numerous Africa regional and international biomass energy workshops and
conferences since 2002, during the "2nd. World Conference and Exhibition on Biomass for Energy,
Industry and Climate Change", Rome, May 2004, a group of World Bank staff received the prestigious
"EUBIA Award 2004" for their "outstanding contributions to the development of the biomass energy sector
and its markets in Africa". The design, implementation and level of developmental achievements of
PROGEDE where among the main criteria for the issuing of the Award.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:

         Overall Bank performance is rated as highly satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

         The Borrower's performance in preparation was highly satisfactory.

         As indicated in section 7.1, above, the Borrower undertook a comprehensive 2-year ESW ("Review
of Policies, Program and Projects in the Traditional Energy Sector") which concluded with the elaboration
of a ten-year sector reform and investment program.             That work was done by a multi-sector,
multi-disciplinary team of national experts (governmental and non-governmental) under the co-leadership
of the Directors of Energy and of Forestry, and was done within the context of the activities of the Bank's
RPTES Program. The preparation of PROGEDE, which sought to finance the first half of the national
investment program, was based on a highly participatory methodology. Activities ranged from wide
consultation with all relevant stake-holder to multiple beneficiary design workshop at the village level.
That process even included an unprecedented five-day joint Borrower-Donors tour through villages in the
Tambacounda and Kolda regions led by His Excellency Abdoulaye Bathily, Minister of Environment and
protection of Nature, to discuss the project concept with target beneficiaries.


7.5 Government implementation performance:

         The Government's performance in implementation was satisfactory.

         The Government's commitment to the implementation of the project is evident from the project's
highly successful outcome.       In particular, the Government proved steadfast in the enactment and
enforcement of the differential taxation policy and exploitation exclusion protection of the PROGEDE
zone.    That notwithstanding, a more pro-active handling of three factors under the control of the
Government would have enhanced PROGEDE outcomes: (i) accelerating the elimination of the charcoal



                                                    - 17 -

quota and the liberalization of the charcoal trade; (ii) correcting persistent procurement shortcomings --
which affect the IDA Senegal portfolio across the board; and (iii) a more consistent timely release of
counterpart funding.


7.6 Implementing Agency:

          The performance of the implementing Agencies was highly satisfactory.

          The Ministry of Environment and Protection of Nature (MEPT) and the Ministry of Energy,
Mines and Industry (MEMI), through the appointment of a National Project Director and the establishment
of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU), were made jointly responsible for the overall implementation of the
project.

          The National Water and Forest Directorate (NWFD/MEPT) was responsible for the
implementation of all the forest and natural resource management activities of the project, which
represented over 75 percent of the activities and investment funds. While some delays were accrued in the
first half of the implementation cycle, implementation pick-up in the second half and was excellent. The
work that was done by the project amounted to a fundamental transformation of the mode of operation and
interaction of the Forest Service with the local population. While that would have not been possible
without the explicit support of the Forest Directorate and of the Ministry of environment and Protection of
Nature, the Project Coordination Unit, with special emphasis on the technical field teams, deserves full
recognition for an outstanding implementation performance.

         The Energy Directorate (DE/MIME) was responsible for the implementation of the energy
demand management and inter-fuel substitution options activities of the project. With the noted exception
of the setting-up of the "stove producer revolving fund", which accused a serious two and a half year
implementation delay due to persistent procurement problems, the implementation performance of the DE
and of the Demand Side Management team of the project's Coordination Unit was highly satisfactory.
The Demand side management team was responsible for adding several valuable outputs to the project,
such as: (i) the establishment of a permanent energy sector digital database and information system; (ii)
concept design and establishment of "Energy Boutiques"; (iii) provision of support to several research and
pilot testing initiatives on renewable household cooking fuels (rice husks briquettes, gelfuel, jatropha oil
production, solar cookers, etc.); and (iv) rural village biomass-based power generation studies and pilot
project design. The delay in the setting-up of the stove revolving fund was due to serious procurement
problems on the part of the Borrower and of IDA. By the date of closing, however, the proposed stove
dissemination support targets had been met, and more importantly, the objective of establishing a
"sustainable financial mechanism to support private sector-based improved stove production had been
achieved (see Section 4.2).

          While not formally considered an "implementation agency" the beneficiary population (317
villages) played a central and outstanding implementation role and is equally responsible for the success of
the project. Special mention is due to the women groups which played a critical intra-village organization
role and were directly responsible for the many human development outcomes and outputs of the project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

         The overall rating of the Borrower performance is highly satisfactory.




                                                    - 18 -

8. Lessons Learned


        PROGEDE and the ongoing sector reform process have serve to ratify and/or distill a series of
important lessons about the traditional energy sector and about energy planning and policy making in
Senegal. These lessons are of direct relevance to other African countries.

        Traditional energy supply systems can be sustainable. Perhaps the most important of those
lessons is that the structure and mode of operation of the traditional energy sector can be transformed from
its typical environmentally and socially unsustainable form to a sustainably managed and socially
progressive economic sector. While there is full consensus on the desirability to substitute all traditional
biomass energy with clean and modern household fuels in Africa, there is clear understanding and
acceptance that the large majority of African households will continue to depend on traditional biomass
fuels for the next two to three decades. In fact, all leading projections suggest that the consumption of
traditional biomass fuels by the household sector in Africa will increase in relative terms over the next 30
years as demographic growth continues to outstrip penetration of other modern fuels (kerosene and LPG)
and incremental access to electricity. PROGEDE has served to demonstrate that the production and
marketing of traditional biomass fuels can not only be stabilized, while arresting deforestation and
contributing to ecological conservation, but that it can become a highly effective social and economic rural
development strategy. This, which today stands as too much of common sense to be touted as an important
outcome of PROGEDE -- and of an emerging body of similar operations  was neither common sense at
PROGEDE's Appraisal time (1997) nor was it being implemented by either African governments or Donor
Agencies. Had that been the case, traditional energy would have been rendered sustainable across Africa
long ago. Rather, the recentness of this is such that today Senegal leads Africa by a significant margin
with more than 30 percent of its total supply of traditional fuels being produced in an environmentally and
socially sustainably manner. Within the next two years that figure will grow to at least 50 percent. Since
biomass energy accounts for 60 percent of Senegal's total national energy consumption, thanks to
PROGEDE some 20 percent of Senegal current energy supplies come effectively from renewable sources.

        Supply side management is essential. The second important lesson is that the stabilization of the
traditional energy sector essentially depends on the implementation of comprehensive changes in the
woodfuels' supply systems and chains. While demand management interventions are important and need to
be pursued  specially dissemination of improved end-use technologies and practices  they alone simply
cannot resolve the existing problems. In spite of the growing number of PROGEDE like operations,
demand management is still today believed by many to be the preferred course of action to correct the
problems in the sector.

        Community-based natural resource management works.                  The third lesson is that the
establishment of environmentally and socially sustainably woodfuel supply systems can only be achieved
through the introduction of integrated community-based forestry and natural resource management
schemes, that is Community Driven Development (CDD) schemes.                Governments lack the financial
resources, the man power and the incentive to effectively manage the forests and other natural resources.
While the mostly unsuccessful Government-run forest management and reforestation programs that were
implemented in the Sahel up until the mid-90s had an averaged cost of US $750 per hectare, PROGEDE's
costs were less than US $65 per hectare. The private sector is not interested in entering the sector because
of the long-term payback period involved in forest plantations and management activities, because of the
inherent high risks, and the low profit margins involved. Community-based natural resource management
systems constitute by far the least cost option and at the same time provide the highest success opportunity



                                                     - 19 -

for this kind of interventions while having significant rural development and poverty alleviation impacts.

         A "minimum policy platform" is required. PROGEDE served to identify and operationally test
the "minimum policy platform" that is required to underpin a well functioning traditional energy supply
system: (i) clear and legally enforceable forest resource and land tenure rights and responsibilities must be
established, in other to provide the necessary incentives for the community (or other economic agents) to
invest in the management and conservation of the resource base; (ii) a fair and transparent decentralized
fiscal and taxation system needs to be in place, in order to adequately fund the oversight and supervision
functions of the respective local levels of government; (iii) a clear and fair pricing system which maximizes
producer prices needs to be in place, in order to provide the necessary incentives for sustainable resource
management and to maximize rural social and economic development impacts; and, (iv) woodfuel
producers need a guaranteed access to final consumer markets, preferably on a completely open access
basis (liberalized trade), in order to avoid the deviation of rents from producers to intermediaries.

         Localized sustainability is not sufficient.            PROGEDE's community-based sustainable
management model has proven to be highly successful. However, for the model to be fully sustainable it
will be necessary to end unmanaged production of woodfuels in the country. Unmanaged zone(s) and
unregulated producers are able to supply cheaper product to the markets and can ultimately undercut the
more expensive "sustainable woodfuels".         If unmanaged production were to be allowed to continue, it
could compromise the sustainable management systems. Thus, completing the reform of the traditional
energy sector and extending sustainable forest and NRM practices to the rest of the woodfuels supply zones
of the country is necessary in order to protect the country's forest resource base and the competitiveness of
the managed production zones. This, which is stated herein as a key lesson from the project, is fully
consistent with the highly likely rating on the sustainability of the project (see section 6.1, above) as the
Borrower is fully expected to complete the reform of the sector.

         Its about poverty alleviation and rural development. The success of the PROGEDE intervention
model is based on the following main features: (i) multi-sectorial CDD/assets-based development
Approach; (ii) the valorization of a broad spectrum of the local natural resources base as opposed to only
woodfuels production; (iii) promotion of economic diversification at the village level; (iv) full recognition,
valuation and mobilization of the gender potential; (v) strong beneficiary capacity development and local
institution strengthening approach to ensure long-term sustainability of actions; (v) functional capacity
development focus; (vi) functional incrementality and sequencing of assistance and investment support; and
(vii) scalable modularity of new activities and systems.

         Gender investments are real poverty alleviation work. Women play a specially critical and
multifaceted role in the African societies. Yet, they are frequently sidelined in terms of investment and
capacity development opportunities. PROGEDE made a explicit and concerted effort to identify specific
gender investments (targeted capacity development in organization and activity management,
establishment of rural vegetable gardens, construction of water wells, micro-credit, etc.). Without a doubt
the gender investment done resulted in the most significant and tangible poverty alleviation impacts,
specially in terms of the health, nutrition and education of the beneficiary population, and particularly of
the children.    Thus, PROGEDE constitutes an operational             demonstration that the full recognition,
valuation and mobilization of the gender potential should be an essential component of any poverty
alleviation strategy.

         Beneficiary-level investments have little or no absorption capacity constraints. Accumulated
experience in development assistance suggests that "absorption capacity" constitutes a major barrier to
effectively moving investment financing in recipient countries.            Having resources available, often


                                                      - 20 -

development outcomes and outputs are not met because of the government's and market's incapacity to
absorb investments and deliver required goods and services. Often lack of counterpart financing delays
and/or prevents proper implementation of investment components. While the PROGEDE experience does
not contradict that notion, it has provided a robust argument to reinforce the value of CDD approaches,
within which there seems to be little or no absorption constraints to the provision of well targeted capacity
development, organizational and institutional development support and investment financing directly to the
rural community (beneficiaries). Furthermore, it is suggested that properly accounted and valuated in-kind
contribution by beneficiaries should be accepted as counterpart project funding in future operational
designs.

         Community-based biomass energy management: a gateway to increasing rural access to
modern energy services. Unless a minimum stable local income base and a productive demand for energy
already exists or can be rapidly created in rural areas, increasing access to modern energy services can only
be done on the basis of large and long-term subsidies. Doing so under present conditions would be
macro-economically untenable.        PROGEDE resulted on the establishment of incremental economic
activities, on the creation of a sustainable income base and on the emergence of a productive demand for
energy in the participating villages. Having an average incremental annual income per village of about US
$40,000 and a well organized diversified emerging production system (woodfuels, wood and non-wood
forest products, 10 to 15 agricultural crops, animal husbandry, poultry, apiculture, etc.), PROGEDE
villages are today prime candidates for decentralized rural electrification an increased access to other
modern energy services. Increasing access to modern energy services in these villages, at this time, should
enable them to rapidly advance to higher levels of economic diversification and development without the
need for untenable subsidies, and would maximize the developmental outcome of the investment support
mobilized (functional incrementality and sequencing of assistance).

         Continuity in Bank Teams works. A key feature of PROGEDE is that from project preparation
to project closing (8 years) the core Bank team suffered only minor changes. That, resulted in an
uncommon level of knowledge about the sector, the project, the Borrower's institutions, the actors, the
issues and the opportunities. While it is highly unlikely that the continuity of PROGEDE could be
replicated in many other operations, the level and quality of outcomes of the project does provide sufficient
grounds to suggest that increasing continuity of operational teams could improved the quality and poverty
alleviation impact of operations in the Bank.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Project supervision was done in close cooperation with the Dutch Cooperation. Annual Supervision
Mission Reports and final project comments are available in the project files.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Comments from several PROGEDE partners are available in the project files.

10. Additional Information


    None.




                                                     - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Reduce woodfuel-related deforestation and 1. Reduce deforestation by:                      1. Participatory sustainable forest
loss of biodiversity.                                                                         management systems implemented in 317
                                                   Date         Ha./yr.                       villages covering 378,161 ha and resulting in
                                                   B-line:      1,000                         reduction of deforestation in the project zones
                                                   M-term:      5,200                         by approx. 39,830 ha/yr.
                                                   Full imp.:  20,000
2. Reduce net CO2 emissions                   2. Reduce net CO2 emissions by:                 2. Net CO2 emission reductions from
                                                   Date        Tons/yr.                       project's sustainable forest management
                                                   B-line:     25,000                         and charcoal production systems estimated
                                                   M-term:     130,000                        at about 1,786214 ton/yr of CO2 at full
                                                   Full imp.:  510,000                        implementation.
3. Increase income of participating villages, 3. Generate revenues in participating villages: 3. Total incremental income to rural
with special attention to women.                                                              communities from sale of woodfuels and new
                                                   Date         US $/yr.                      agricultural, and animal husbandry products
                                                   B-line:     150,000                        (improved cow genes and poultry raising,
                                                   M-term:     780,000                        cattle fattening, vegetables, cereals, beans,
                                                   Full imp.: 3,000,000                       milk products, honey, etc.) was calculated at
                                                                                              US $12,530,732 at full implementation.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
1.a Implement sustainable community-based 1.a Area under management:                          1.a Participatory sustainable forest
forest management systems                        Date          Hectares                       management systems implemented in 317
                                                 B-line:        15,000                        villages covering 378,161 ha. An additional
                                                 M-term:        80,000                        229,359 ha were also placed under a
                                                 Full imp.:    300,000                        "Sustainable Pre-Management" system and
                                                                                              will be further developed during project 2nd.
                                                                                              Phase.
1.b Sustainably produce fuelwood              1.b Annual sustainable fuelwood production: 1.b Sustainable production of fuelwood
                                                  Date          Tons/yr.                      systems and producing 264,712 m3
                                                  B-line:        15,000                       equivalent to 370,596 tons/yr are in place
                                                  M-term:        80,000                       since 2004.
                                                  Full imp.:   300,000
2. Increase urban use of improved charcoal    2. Marketing of improved charcoal stoves        2. Project has provided support and TA for
stoves.                                       (cumulative):                                   stove development & preparation of PS/NGO
                                                  Date         Stoves                         production. While promotion of 237,236 new
                                                  B-line:    20,000                           improved stoves has been achieved, the
                                                  M-term:    100,000                          delay in setting-up the revolving fund
                                                  Full imp.: 255,000                          seriously reduced the dissemination process.
                                                                                              In spite of that, the intended financial support
                                                                                              mechanism is now fully in place and is
                                                                                              proving to make a significant difference.
3. Increase Inter-fuel substitution /support  3. Incremental penetration of kerosene          3. Active promotion and support has been
promotion of kerosene and LPG (private        (Indictaive 4000 Kesorene units target).        provided to (private sector and NGO which
sector) and improved stoves (NGO)                                                             responded by increasing commercialization
                                                                                              of kerosene stoves. From an original
                                                                                              indicative target of 4,000 units 11,560
                                                                                              improved kerosene stoves were sold by
                                                                                              December 2004.

1End of project




                                                                 - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        Appraisal       Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                                        Estimate           Estimate          Appraisal
                          Component                                    US$ million        US$ million
Preparatory and Support Activities                                         3.51                 3.81              108.7
Sustainable Woodfuels Supply Management                                   11.76               11.53                  98
Demand Management and Inter-Fuel Substitution Options                      2.31                 2.86              123.8

Total Baseline Cost                                                       17.58               18.20
  Physical Contingencies                                                   1.65                 1.04
  Price Contingencies                                                      0.70                 0.30
                             Total Project Costs                          19.93               19.54
                      Total Financing Required                            19.93               19.54




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                 ICB                NCB                      2         N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                               Other
1. Works                                 0.00                1.04               0.00             0.00             1.04
                                        (0.00)               (0.11)            (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.11)
2. Goods                                 2.56                0.00               0.00             0.00             2.56
                                        (0.33)               (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.33)
3. Services                              0.56                0.00               4.91             0.00             5.47
                                        (0.31)               (0.00)            (1.13)            (0.00)          (1.44)
4. Consultant Services                   0.00                0.00               3.57             0.00             3.57
                                        (0.00)               (0.00)            (0.55)            (0.00)          (0.55)
5. Recurrent Costs                       0.00                0.00               6.07             1.20             7.27
                                        (0.00)               (0.00)            (2.76)            (0.00)          (2.76)
   Total                                 3.12                1.04               14.55            1.20            19.91
                                        (0.64)               (0.11)            (4.44)            (0.00)          (5.19)
1/ Figure in parenthesis are to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                          - 23 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.00               1.02              0.00             0.00              1.02
                                          (0.00)             (0.11)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.11)
   2. Goods                                2.51               0.00              0.00             0.00              2.51
                                          (0.33)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.33)
   3. Services                             0.55               0.00              2.82             0.00              3.37
                                          (0.30)             (0.00)            (1.11)            (0.00)           (1.41)
   4. Consultant Services                  0.00               0.00              3.38             0.00              3.38
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.54)            (0.00)           (0.54)
   5. Recurrent Costs                      0.00               0.00              8.06             1.20              9.26
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.73)            (0.00)           (2.73)
       Total                               3.06               1.02             14.26             1.20             19.54
                                          (0.63)             (0.11)            (4.38)            (0.00)           (5.12)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
Preparatory and Support        1.04         0.24         2.67        1.02         0.24       2.64       98.1     100.0     98.9
Activities
Sustainable Woodfuels          3.47         0.80         8.96        3.43         0.80       8.84       98.8     100.0     98.7
Supply Management
Demand Management and          0.68         0.16         1.76        0.67         0.16       1.74       98.5     100.0     98.9
Inter-Fuel Substitution
Options
TOTAL                          5.19         1.20        13.39        5.12         1.20      13.22       98.7     100.0     98.7




                                                          - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

                                ICR Ex-Post Economic Analysis Note

Introduction

1.      The economic evaluation of natural resource management activities and investments in developing
countries has been the subject of continued discussion during the last three decades. The lack of consensus
among economists on the subject stems primarily from the difficulties in arriving at a proper valuation of
the natural resources in question, delimiting the frontiers of the systems and activities under analysis, and
defining the objective function of the problem under analysis. At the time of PROGEDE's Appraisal and
Board presentation there was much controversy in the Bank on this subject because the "Household Energy
Project" in Chad had just been recently derailed from Board presentation due to unsurmountable internal
disagreements regarding its economic evaluation methodology and results. Within that context, the
project team prepared a comprehensive yet simplified economic analysis methodology for the
project, which was readily accepted by AFR's Regional Operations Committee and subsequently
cleared the Board without any issues being raised. While OED has since introduced a template
for economic evaluations, the project team felt the need to undertake the ex-post evaluation of the
project utilizing the same methodological framework and model that was used at Appraisal. This
note contains a summarized version of the principal elements of the methodological framework
developed for the original evaluation of the project. The complete methodology is contained in
Annex 8 of the project's SAR.

The Project Rationale

2.         At the time of Appraisal the supply of woodfuels to the urban and peri-urban energy market in
Senegal was entirely based on geographically concentrated and non-sustainable forest resource
management practices (clear cutting). Given the relatively low efficiency of wood-to-charcoal conversion
(18%) due to inefficient carbonization, total charcoal consumption was and still is equivalent to about 1.2
times the total consumption of fuelwood. Charcoal was and is still currently produced in the Kolda and
Tambacounda regions, some 400 km away from the principal urban (Dakar and Thies) and peri-urban
markets.

3.        Until PROGEDE forestry legislation gave the Forest Service the exclusive prerogative to assign
commercial exploitation rights over forest resources nationwide. These rights were historically given only
to urban-based traders which resulted in the establishment of a vertically integrated and oligopolistic
industry with widespread corruption problems. Among other issues, original annual charcoal exploitation
quotas were often surpassed with the Forestry Service lacking the manpower or monitoring mechanisms to
adequately supervise and enforce them. It is estimated that out of the some 1800 legally registered "
Exploitant Forestiers" only some 20 traders actually produced charcoal. The remainder registered traders
bought charcoal production licenses ("quota charbon") and resold them afterwards to the traders that
actually produce charcoal.     As even the temporary expatriate laborers (Guinean Fulbes, "sourghas")
employed in the cutting of the wood and the production of the charcoal were brought in to the rural areas
by the urban traders, it is estimated that much less than 5% of the annual turnover of the charcoal trade
(US $60 million) remained in the rural areas. The transport of the charcoal, which represented close to
20% of the final cost structure of the charcoal, was provided by independent trucking companies on a cash
payment basis. Over the years, the operation of the charcoal industry resulted in: (i) the gradual loss of
forest cover (approx. 30,000 ha/year) and thus of the ecosystem's carbon sequestration capacity and



                                                    - 25 -

biodiversity; (ii) the degradation of the rural environment (particularly of the soils); (iii) the
impoverishment of the rural areas; (iv) an acceleration of the rural exodus; and (v) a massive transfer of
wealth from the rural areas to the urban areas. In addition to these negative impacts, it was anticipated that
the Niokolo-Koba National Park ("International Biosphere Reserve Patrimony", 9,130 km ), which is2


located in the south-eastern corner of the Tambacounda and Kolda regions and which is a declared national
and international biodiversity patrimony and "Biosphere Reserve", would come under threat of
encroachment within the next decade, with irreparable biodiversity and ecological consequences at the
national and global levels.

4.      The organization of the urban and peri-urban fuelwood trade (520,000 tons/year) resembled that of
the charcoal trade but posed considerable smaller environmental and social conflicts. The consumption of
fuelwood in the rural areas (1.5 million tons/year) was largely satisfied through sustainable subsistence
practices (cutting of branches, selective felling of small trees and collection of dead branches). Women
and children played a significant role in the collection of fuelwood. Rural consumption of charcoal was
mostly limited to the areas where it is produced and is normally traded by the producers for food and
lodging at the local communities.

5.         While PROGEDE radically transformed the charcoal production system at the "producer level"
within the project implementation zone (300,000+ ha) -- which represents about 50 percent of the
traditional charcoal producing zones of the country -- and introduced a series of policy, regulatory and
operational improvements in the industry as a whole (see Section 4 Achievement of Objectives and
Outputs) the rest of the charcoal production zones in the country continue to be managed in an
environmentally unsustainable and socially inequitable manner.

6.      Project Objectives. The objective of the project was to meet an important part of the rapidly
growing urban demand for household fuels, without the loss of forest cover and the ecosystem's carbon
sequestration potential and biodiversity. This objective was to be met through: (i) the implementation and
monitoring of 300,000 hectares of environmentally sustainable community-managed forest resource
systems in the Tambacounda and Kolda regions of Senegal, creating a protection zone around the
Niokolo-Koba National Park; (ii) the promotion of private sector inter-fuel substitution and private sector
and NGO-based improved stoves initiatives; and (iii) the strengthening of the institutions involved in the
management of the sector, and the promotion of the participation of the civil society (private sector,
academic institutions, and NGOs community) in the operation of the sector.

7.       Project Description.    The project consisted of three components: Preparatory and Support
Activities, Sustainable Woodfuels Supply Management and Demand Management and Inter-fuel
Substitution Options.         The project design included a series of activities to ensure an effective
participation of the rural population ("measures incitatives") and thus guarantee the full achievement of
the environmental sustainability objectives of the project. The project also included specific monitoring and
evaluation activities (forest exploitation and wildlife) designed to evaluate the achievement of its global
environmental objectives (maintenance of carbon sequestration capacity, CO emission abatement and
                                                                                  2
biodiversity conservation.

8.      Project Benefits. The project was expected to: (i) sustainably produce some 860,000 tons of
fuelwood (equivalent to 258,000 tons of efficiently produced charcoal) over a six year period and to
establish a permanent system capable of producing more than 300,000 tons of fuelwood (equivalent to
90,000 tons of efficiently produced charcoal or 27 percent of total annual national consumption) per year
on a sustainable basis; (ii) reduce woodfuels-related deforestation in the Tambacounda and Kolda regions



                                                    - 26 -

by some 16,000 to 20,000 ha/year, and as a consequence of that reduce net CO emissions by about
                                                                                       2
510,000 tons in 7 years and reduce the loss of biodiversity by the establishment of sustainable forest
systems and of a protective buffer zone around the Niokolo-Koba National Park; (iii) generate
employment and economic development opportunities in 250 rural villages in the Tambacounda and Kolda
regions, and include women in the management and marketing of woodfuels and other related income
generating activities; (iv) generate during the implementation period more than US $10 million in direct
revenues to 250 villages from the trade of woodfuels, and generate additional revenues to the communities
from related natural resource management and exploitation activities (agro-forestry, livestock keeping,
non-fuelwood forest products, etc.); (v) on a sustainable annual basis after the end of the project, generate
direct revenues in excess of US $3 million to the participating villages from the trade of woodfuels, and
generate additional revenues from related natural resource management and exploitation activities; (vi)
reduce CO emissions by 420,000 tons/yr. by the distribution of 225,000 improved charcoal stoves in
            2
urban areas; (vii) increase the availability and access of low income households to more reliable and
efficient charcoal stoves and to modern fuels; and (viii) strengthen the planning, policy making and
implementation supervision capacity of the traditional energy sector institutions, while increasing the
participation of the civil society (private sector, academic institutions, and NGO's community) in the
management and operation of the sector.


Other Project Options

9.       With assistance of the Bank's Africa Regional Program "Review of Policies in the Traditional
Energy Sector - RPTES", a national inter-ministerial team conducted a 2-year comprehensive review of
the traditional energy sector in Senegal (fuelwood and charcoal), including the evaluation of the principal
inter-fuel substitution issues and options (kerosene and LPG). Within that review, the regulatory, legal,
pricing and fiscal frameworks of the sector and the evolution of its structure and functioning were studied
in detail. The RPTES review concluded that given the country's present and foreseeable macroeconomic
and socio-economic conditions, Senegal would continue to depend on forest-based traditional fuels to meet
the lion's share of the country's urban and rural energy needs for at least the next 3 decades While
ongoing demand management (improved stoves programs and consumer education campaigns) and
inter-fuel substitution (LPG and kerosene) efforts needed to be continued and improved to incorporate the
lessons learned, large increases of petroleum products imports could not be sustained because of budgetary
constraints and because current and expected low household income levels severely limited the potential for
widespread inter-fuel substitution at non-subsidized market prices. Within that context, and until economic
growth allowed for such substitution to take place, the principal challenge of the household energy sector in
Senegal would be to transform the existing non-sustainable commercial woodfuels supply system into one
capable of supplying woodfuels -- particularly charcoal -- to the rapidly growing urban population in a
sustainable manner.

10.        Previous Government run efforts at demand management (improved stoves programs and
consumer education campaigns) and inter-fuel substitution (LPG and kerosene) had mixed results. Without
a significant shift in policy to promote an active involvement of the private sector in the expansion of
interfuel substitution and demand management efforts at the massive level required would be neither
fiscally sustainable nor sufficient. At close to US $ 750 per ha[1] forest plantation schemes had already
proven to be economically unfeasible though-out West Africa. The possibility to open additional forest
areas for commercial exploitation of woodfuels was evaluated and determined unfeasible due to the fragility
of the forest stocks and the economic cost of extraction. The project was therefore supposed to introduce
sustainable forest/natural resource management systems in the Kolda and Tambacounda regions for the


                                                    - 27 -

supply of charcoal and to support a shift towards private sector-based production and marketing of
improved charcoal stoves and other least-cost interfuel substitution options.

11.      Within that context, there was clear consensus between the Borrower and the participating donors
that there were no other economically or technically feasible project alternatives capable of delivering the
same level of outputs, benefits and developmental impacts that PROGEDE could deliver.

The Evaluation Methodology

12.      Within the general and country-specific framework defined above, a deliberate effort was made to
construct an economic evaluation methodology that, while remaining simple, would be capable of
capturing: (i) the inter-temporal social valuation of the forest resources; (ii) the distributional effects of
their exploitation; (iii) the value of the benefits "saved" thought the introduction of sustainable resource
management practices and improved end-use energy technology; (iv) the value of income transfers to rural
communities; (v) the value of "incremental income to rural communities; and (vi) the principal measurable
global environmental benefits.

13.      Methodological disclaimer. As the only feasible alternative to the project was to do nothing, i.e., to
continue to exploit forest resources in an environmentally unsustainable and socially inequitable manner in
the exact same areas where the project would be implemented (Tambacounda and Kolda regions),
considerations of transportation or other marketing costs were purposely excluded from the analysis.
While the actual production area under a sustainable management system would be necessarily larger and
thus it could be assume that there would be a higher transportation cost associated with it, the Forest
Service normally spreads out cutting permits across the regions to avoid -- to the extent possible -- over
concentration of clear cutting, and thus the difference in transportation costs between the two systems was
considered to be sufficiently small to be excluded from the analysis. If production could dislocate to other
regions of the country that would change the calculus, but Tambacounda and Kolda were and still are the
only two significant charcoal producing regions of the country. Fiscal impacts were also excluded from
the analysis because they were estimated to have a negligible net impact. Under the existing woodfuels
taxation system, effective collection of "stumpage fees" was less than 40%.      On the one hand the project
included the strengthening of the control of woodfuel flows and was thus fully expected to increase the
actual tax collection rates.   furthermore, the very possibility to account and tax 100% of the sustainable
production and sales of charcoal at the village level was expected to result in and of itself in a higher
collection of taxes than the prevailing system. On the other hand, the project would also introduce a
differential taxation (50 percent reduction) favoring the community-based sustainable forest management
systems. Hence, it was estimated that the project would be either neutral or would have only a modest
positive impact on overall fiscal revenues. The option of maintaining flat taxation rates to increase fiscal
revenues was ruled out from the start because: (i) differential taxation was required to provide a price
protection from non-managed woodfuel exploitation[2]; and (ii) government collected "stumpage fees" could
be justified only under the assumption that the tax collected would be reinvested in the regeneration of the
forest stocks. Since this is not the case in Senegal, and through the implementation of the project the rural
communities would be responsible for assuring the sustainability of the resource, there was no justification
to maintain the same level of taxation for community managed and non-managed areas.


Project Components

14.        All three components of the project (Preparatory and support Activities Component; Sustainable



                                                     - 28 -

Supply Management Component; and Demand Management and Inter-fuel Substitution Options
Component) were included in the economic analysis as they were judged to be necessary and integral
elements of the proposed investment. No differential valuation treatment was given to investments for
productive (forest management, improved kilns, improved stoves, inter-fuel substitution options, etc.) or
nonproductive sub-components (data generation and gathering, institutional development, capacity
building, social support services, communication strategy, etc.).[3] While this would tend to penalize the
evaluation of the project, the long-term stream of benefits expected to result from those up-front
nonproductive investment sub-components was included in the analysis.

Evaluation Horizon and Project costs

15.      Because of the long-term nature of the proposed project objectives and expected impacts, a project
evaluation horizon of 20 years was adopted. All budgeted costs during project implementation (7 years)
where included in the economic analysis of the project.           From years 8 to 20 continued minimum
implementation costs where assumed at approximately 10 percent of the originally planned year 7 costs,
gradually decreasing at a relative rate of 10 percent per year until year 20. That continued but phasing-out
cost structure between years 8 and 20 was discussed and agreed upon with the borrower. Table 1 presents
the originally budgeted project costs by component and main sub-components per year for the 20-year
project evaluation horizon and the actual total project costs (effective disbursements). Because of the
change over on accounting systems from FACT to SAP no detailed breakdown of costs by component was
available at the time of preparing the ICR. Therefore the accumulated project cost (disbursement stream)
was used to compute the actual project cost and profile. That information was added to the original Table
1 at the bottom of the table.     Figure 1 presents the comparison between the original (SAR) and actual
(ICR) disbursement profile of project.        As illustrated in Table 1 and Figure 1 the project's actual
disbursement profile went from being 70 % front-loaded at Appraisal to 70 % back-loaded at ICR. The
impact on the ex-post evaluation of the project of that disbursement shift -- at a discount rate of 12% -- was
that both the ERR and the NPV more than doubled. This happened because while the disbursement lag
shifted the stream of costs towards the second half of the project, the stream of benefits remained
reasonably on schedule and was much higher than originally anticipated. It is important to note that
beyond the obvious "technical distortion" on the ex-post ERR and NPV, the disbursement lag underscores
the point that a portion of the originally planned investments where not directly related to the
materialization in the field of the project's development objectives, as their shift in time did not significantly
affect the benefits stream. This does not mean that those investments where not required within the project,
but that their sequencing proved to be more flexible than anticipated with respect to the field
implementation of the productive sub-components. As discussed in section Project Component, above, all
three project components were included in the analysis and no differential weights were given to them in
spite of their different nature.    Had the original economic analysis only taken into consideration the
outcome related investments, the disbursement lag would have had a smaller impact on the ERR and NPV.




                                                     - 29 -

Table 1:                S P E M P : P R O J E C T C O S T S B Y C O M P O N E N T (000' US DOLLARS)
                                                          YEARS  1    2       3    4       5     6     7       8      9     10     11
   PROJECT COMPONENTS/SUBCOMPONENTS                             1997 1998   1999  2000   2001  2002   2003   2,004  2,005  2,006  2,007


A. Component I: Preparatory & Support Activities

   1. Vegetation Cover Inventory (part 1)                       1,003     0     0     0      0      0     0      0      0       0     0
   2. Participatory Rural Appraisals                               70     0     0     0      0      0     0      0      0       0     0
   3. Elaboration of Integrated Nat. Res. Managt. Systems        550      0     0     0      0      0     0      0      0       0     0
   4. Elaboration of Legislative Framework                       160      0     0     0      0      0     0      0      0       0     0
   5. Elaboration of Monitoring Systems                            90     0     0     0      0      0     0      0      0       0     0
   6. Institutional development + Equipment (DE + DEF)          1,985     0     0     0      0      0     0      0      0       0     0
   Sub-total Component I:                                       3,858     0     0     0      0      0     0      0      0       0     0


B. Component II: Sust. & Part. Supply Management

   1. Institutional Development + Equipment DEF                    0  1,014  1,280 1,289   821   864    669    100     90      81    73
  2. Field Implementation                                          0  1,011    707   631   535   531    477     50     45      41    36
  3. Micro-enterprise Development Promotion                        0    108    165   168   171   232    201      0      0       0     0
  4. Communication Strategy                                        0     32     33    34   34      35     0      0      0       0     0
  5. Dead Wood Assess./veget. Cover Inventories (Part 2)           0    376    380   384   297   300    256      0      0       0     0
  Sub-total Component II:                                          0  2,542  2,566 2,506 1,859 1,962  1,603    150    135    122    109


C. Component III: Demand Management & Subsitution Options

   1. Institutional Development + Equipment DE                     0    310    380   315   140   130    130     40     36      32    29
  2. Modernization of Charcoal Industry                            0     50     10    10   10       0     0      0      0       0     0
  3. Economic Diversification of Charcoal Traders                  0    100    100    10   10      10    10      0      0       0     0
  4. Kerosene Inter-fuel Substitution                              0     38     45    0      0      0     0      0      0       0     0
  5. LPG Inter-fuel Substitution                                   0     85    115    10   10       0     0      0      0       0     0
  6. Charcoal Improved Stoves                                      0    330     10    10   10      10    10      0      0       0     0
  7. Communication Strategy                                             140    140   160   100     50    40      0      0       0     0
  Sub-total Component III:                                         0  1,053    800   515   280   200    190     40     36      32    29

   ORIGINAL PROJECT COSTS                                       3,858 3,594  3,366 3,021 2,139 2,162  1,793    190    171    154    139


   ACTUAL PROJECT COSTS                                            0  1,012  1,606 2,473 2,521 2,491  2,864  6,729    171    154    139


   ACTUAL CUMMULATIVE PROJECT COSTS                                0  1,012  2,618 5,091 7,612 10,103 12,967 19,696 19,867 20,021 20,159




                                                                        - 30 -

Table 1:        S P E M P : P R O J E C T C O S T S B Y C O M P O N E N T (000' US DOLLARS)                     (Continuation)
                                                           YEARS  12      13      14      15      16      17      18      19      20    TOTAL
    PROJECT COMPONENTS/SUBCOMPONENTS                              2008    2009    2010    2011    2012    2013    2014    2015    2016   Total


 A. Component I: Preparatory & Support Activities

    1. Vegetation Cover Inventory (part 1)                             0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0   1,003

   2. Participatory Rural Appraisals                                   0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      70

   3. Elaboration of Integrated Nat. Res. Managt. Systems              0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0     550

   4. Elaboration of Legislative Framework                             0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0     160

   5. Elaboration of Monitoring Systems                                0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      90

   6. Institutional development + Equipment (DE + DEF)                 0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0   1,985

   Sub-total Component I:                                              0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0   3,858


 B. Component II: Sust. & Part. Supply Management

    1. Institutional Development + Equipment DEF                      66      59      53      48      43      39      35      31      28   6,684

    2. Field Implementation                                           33      30      27      24      22      19      17      16      14   4,266

    3. Micro-enterprise Development Promotion                          0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0   1,045

    4. Communication Strategy                                          0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0     168

    5. Dead Wood Assess./veget. Cover Inventories (Part 2)             0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0   1,994

    Sub-total Component II:                                           98      89      80      72      65      58      52      47      42  14,156


 C. Component III: Demand Management & Subsitution Options

    1. Institutional Development + Equipment DE                       26      24      21      19      17      15      14      13      11   1,703

    2. Modernization of Charcoal Industry                              0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      80

    3. Economic Diversification of Charcoal Traders                    0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0     240

    4. Kerosene Inter-fuel Substitution                                0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      83

    5. LPG Inter-fuel Substitution                                     0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0     220

    6. Charcoal Improved Stoves                                        0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0     380

    7. Communication Strategy                                          0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0     630

    Sub-total Component III:                                          26      24      21      19      17      15      14      13      11   3,336


    ORIGINAL PROJECT COSTS                                           125     112     101      91      82      74      66      60      54  21,350


    ACTUAL PROJECT COSTS                                             125     112     101      91      82      74      66      60      54 21,350


    ACTUAL CUMMULATIVE PROJECT COSTS                            20,284 20,396 20,497 20,588 20,670 20,744 20,810 20,869 20,923



                                     Figure 1: PROGEDE Disbursement Profile (SAR & ICR)




                                                                             - 31 -

16.      On the other hand, the implication of the original cost structure was that the borrower recognized
that the follow-up cost of expanding the PROGEDE model to other regions of the country would be much
smaller than that of its original introduction. Once the large up-front costs of institutional development and
capacity building (both of governmental and civil society) are met, subsequent investment (follow-up
projects) to further expand the total area under community management should be much lower on a unit
basis (per hectare cost) than what they were for the first project. The unit cost of the project was of the
order of US $66.6 per hectare (including all project costs).[4] Unless significant model design changes are
introduced, subsequent investments for expanding the PROGEDE model should not amount to more than
US $35 per hectare at 1997 price equivalence.


Project Benefits and Valuation

17.         While the project was expected to result in a large number of quantifiable and non-quantifiable
impacts the methodology adopted limited the valuation to the following main expected benefits:

         (i) "sustainable" wood production: the benefit of the "sustainable" wood production expected to
         result from the implementation of the sustainable and participatory forest/natural resource
         management systems was defined as the net reduction in deforestation (loss of forest standing
         stocks) in a comparison between an area under sustainable management and an equivalent area
         under non-sustainable exploitation. A concept of area equivalence was introduced to avoid an
         overvaluation of benefits as the amount of wood output that would be extracted from a sustainably
         managed area (1 ton/ha) would not be the same as from an area that is clear-cut (15 ton/ha). The
         equivalence was thus calculated on the basis of the total expected wood output of the area that was
         to be placed under sustainable management at every year of the project and that wood volume was
         converted to hectare under clear-cut rates. As the areas under management increased over time, the
         equivalent non-sustainable areas were increased. For the areas under non-sustainable management
         a realistic 20 % natural regeneration rate was assumed. The calculation of the net deforestation
         impact was computed as being the total deforestation minus the natural regeneration in an area
         non-sustainably exploited equivalent in wood output to the total area under sustainable
         management within the project.        The effect of that model was that as the total area under
         management within the project scenario achieved, for instance, the 300,000 ha (sustainably
         producing an approximate output of 300,000 tons of wood per year) a net deforestation of 16,000
         hectares per year would be accrued to the non-project scenario. That 16,000 ha was the result of a
         total of 20,000 ha deforested minus a natural regrowth allowance of 4,000 ha. In the ex-ante
         evaluation, over the 20-year project cycle the non-project scenario resulted in a net total
         deforestation of 248,800 ha. By making that area equivalent to output it meant that during the
         period of analysis both scenarios (managed and non-sustainable) resulted in the same amount of
         wood production but whereas 248,800 ha of forest were lost in the non-sustainable scenario, the
         sustainably managed scenario conserved intact the original 300,000 hectares of forests. In the
         ex-post evaluation, over the 20-year project cycle the non-project scenario resulted in a net total
         deforestation of 295,449 ha. It is important to note that the approach selected for the valuation of
         this benefits was extremely conservative as it did not take into account the valuable stream of
         environmental benefits (soil conservation, water retention, ecosystem protection, land productivity,
         etc.) or social and economic benefits (quality of life, capacity to cultivate the land, income
         generation from agricultural activities which would have been gradually lost after deforestation,
         etc.). Avoiding deforestation was considered a benefit in the sense that the productive capacity of
         the ecosystem was maintained and, in the very least, a clearly quantifiable sustainable stock of



                                                     - 32 -

forest was left intact for other economic and social uses at any point in time.

Table 2.1, 2.2 and 2.3 presents the detailed calculation of the benefit of the "sustainable" wood
production including parametric variations ranging from sustainable forest yields of 1.00 tons/ha
to 2.00 tons/ha and producer price ranging from US $15/ton to US $40/ton.

Since at the end of the 20-year horizon the total area under management would still have a full
stock of 15 tons/ha (300,000 ha at 15 ton/ha = 4.5 million tons of wood) which could be
maintained for continued sustainable exploitation or could be clear cut (or otherwise). In the
ex-ante and ex-post evaluations the benefit of the sustainable wood production was valued at the
producer price of wood of US $15/ton (base scenario). While the actual price in local currency has
changed over time, due mostly to the devaluation of the local currency and inflation, the US dollar
equivalent price of wood has remained relatively constant. The producer price as opposed to the
market price of wood was used because the final market price incorporates the value added of
transportation and marketing. Also, while the producer prices have remained rather constant over
time, the market prices of woodfuels has shown a significant increase. The use of wood prices as
opposed to charcoal prices rendered the analysis very conservative by design. Nevertheless, the
use of wood more adequately reflected the output of the project's intervention, i.e., "sustainable
wood production", and the project's benefits related to charcoal are rather accounted elsewhere as
incremental production of charcoal from a give stock of wood as a result of the introduction of
improved conversion technologies (Kilns).




                                            - 33 -

Table 2.1:         NET DEFORESTATION REDUCTION IMPACT FROM SUSTAINABLE & PARTICIPATORY FOREST MANAGEMENT

      TOTAL HECTARES UNDER MANAGEMENT                   0  0 20,000 60,000 100,000 377,071 378,161 378,161 378,161 378,161 378,161

SUSTAINABLE FOREST YIELDS:                             1  2   3       4      5       6       7       8       9       10      11
 1.00 ton/hectare/year                                     0 20,000 60,000 100,000 377,071 378,161 378,161 378,161 378,161 378,161
 1.50 ton/hectare/year                                     0 30,000 90,000 150,000 565,607 567,242 567,242 567,242 567,242 567,242
 2.00 ton/hectare/year                                     0 40,000 120,000 200,000 754,142 756,322 756,322 756,322 756,322 756,322

NON-SUSTAINABLE EQUIVALENCE CALCULATION:

      HA CLEAR-CUT TO MATCH SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTION         0 1,333   4,000   6,667  25,138  25,211  25,211  25,211  25,211  25,211
                                                           0 2,000   6,000  10,000  37,707  37,816  37,816  37,816  37,816  37,816
                                                           0 2,667   8,000  13,333  50,276  50,421  50,421  50,421  50,421  50,421

      REGROWTH PERCENTAGE PER LEVEL OF CLEAR-CUT           0   267     800   1,333   5,028   5,042   5,042   5,042   5,042   5,042
                                                           0   400   1,200   2,000   7,541   7,563   7,563   7,563   7,563   7,563
                                                           0   533   1,600   2,667  10,055  10,084  10,084  10,084  10,084  10,084
NET DEFORESTATION REDUCTION (-CLEAR-CUT + REGROWTH)
 1.00 ton/hectare/year                                     0 1,067   3,200   5,333  20,110  20,169  20,169  20,169  20,169  20,169
 1.50 ton/hectare/year                                     0 1,600   4,800   8,000  30,166  30,253  30,253  30,253  30,253  30,253
 2.00 ton/hectare/year                                     0 2,133   6,400  10,667  40,221  40,337  40,337  40,337  40,337  40,337

DELTA ACTUAL ANNUAL INCREMENT AREA UNDER MANAGEMENT:       0 20,000 40,000  40,000 277,071   1,090 229,359       0       0       0

      ACCUMULATED AREAS (HA) UNDER EXPLOITATION:           0 20,000 60,000 100,000 377,071 378,161 607,520 607,520 607,520 607,520

Table 2.2: SENSITIVITYOFEXPECTEDDEFORESTATIONWITHOUTSUSTAINABLEFORESTMANAGEMENT
                                                       1  2   3       4      5       6       7       8       9       10      11
 1.00 ton/hectare/year
      PREVIOUS AREA UNDER EXPLOITATION (T-1)               0     0  18,933  55,733  90,400 347,361 328,282 537,472 517,304 497,135
      ANNUAL INCREMENT OF AREA ON YEAR T                   0 20,000 40,000  40,000 277,071   1,090 229,359       0       0       0
      TOTAL AREA UNDER EXPLOITATION:                       0 20,000 58,933  95,733 367,471 348,451 557,641 537,472 517,304 497,135
      NET ANNUAL DEFORESTATION:                            0 1,067   3,200   5,333  20,110  20,169  20,169  20,169  20,169  20,169
      NET CARRY FORWARD:                                   0 18,933 55,733  90,400 347,361 328,282 537,472 517,304 497,135 476,967

 1.50 ton/hectare/year
      PREVIOUS AREA UNDER EXPLOITATION (T-1)               0     0  18,400  53,600  85,600 332,505 303,342 502,449 472,196 441,943
      ANNUAL INCREMENT OF AREA ON YEAR T                   0 20,000 40,000  40,000 277,071   1,090 229,359       0       0       0
      TOTAL AREA UNDER EXPLOITATION:                       0 20,000 58,400  93,600 362,671 333,595 532,701 502,449 472,196 441,943
      NET ANNUAL DEFORESTATION:                            0 1,600   4,800   8,000  30,166  30,253  30,253  30,253  30,253  30,253
      NET CARRY FORWARD:                                   0 18,400 53,600  85,600 332,505 303,342 502,449 472,196 441,943 411,690

 2.00 ton/hectare/year
      PREVIOUS AREA UNDER EXPLOITATION (T-1)               0     0  17,867  51,467  80,800 317,650 278,403 467,425 427,088 386,750
      ANNUAL INCREMENT OF AREA ON YEAR T                   0 20,000 40,000  40,000 277,071   1,090 229,359       0       0       0
      TOTAL AREA UNDER EXPLOITATION:                       0 20,000 57,867  91,467 357,871 318,740 507,762 467,425 427,088 386,750
      NET ANNUAL DEFORESTATION:                            0 2,133   6,400  10,667  40,221  40,337  40,337  40,337  40,337  40,337
      NET CARRY FORWARD:                                   0 17,867 51,467  80,800 317,650 278,403 467,425 427,088 386,750 346,413




                                                            - 34 -

Table 2.1:         NET DEFORESTATION REDUCTION IMPACT FROM SUST.& PART.FOREST MGMNT. (Continuation)

      TOTAL HECTARES UNDER MANAGEMENT                  378,161 378,161 378,161 378,161 378,161 378,161 378,161 378,161 378,161

SUSTAINABLE FOREST YIELDS:                              12      13      14      15      16      17      18      19      20      TOTAL
1.00 ton/hectare/year                                  378,161 378,161 378,161 378,161 378,161 378,161 378,161 378,161 378,161 5,851,326
1.50 ton/hectare/year                                  567,242 567,242 567,242 567,242 567,242 567,242 567,242 567,242 567,242 8,776,989
2.00 ton/hectare/year                                  756,322 756,322 756,322 756,322 756,322 756,322 756,322 756,322 756,322 11,702,652

NON-SUSTAINABLE EQUIVALENCE CALCULATION:

      HA CLEAR-CUT TO MATCH SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTION     25,211  25,211  25,211  25,211  25,211  25,211  25,211  25,211  25,211    390,088
                                                       37,816  37,816  37,816  37,816  37,816  37,816  37,816  37,816  37,816    585,133
                                                       50,421  50,421  50,421  50,421  50,421  50,421  50,421  50,421  50,421    780,177

      REGROWTH PERCENTAGE PER LEVEL OF CLEAR-CUT        5,042   5,042   5,042   5,042   5,042   5,042   5,042   5,042   5,042     78,018
                                                        7,563   7,563   7,563   7,563   7,563   7,563   7,563   7,563   7,563    117,027
                                                       10,084  10,084  10,084  10,084  10,084  10,084  10,084  10,084  10,084    156,035
NET DEFORESTATION REDUCTION (-CLEAR-CUT + REGROWTH)
1.00 ton/hectare/year                                  20,169  20,169  20,169  20,169  20,169  20,169  20,169  20,169  20,169    312,072
1.50 ton/hectare/year                                  30,253  30,253  30,253  30,253  30,253  30,253  30,253  30,253  30,253    468,108
2.00 ton/hectare/year                                  40,337  40,337  40,337  40,337  40,337  40,337  40,337  40,337  40,337    624,143

      ANNUAL INCREMENT TO AREA UNDER MANAGEMENT:            0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0

      ACCUMULATED AREAS (HA) UNDER EXPLOITATION:       607,520 607,520 607,520 607,520 607,520 607,520 607,520 607,520 607,520

Table 2.2:         SENSITIVITY OF EXPECTED DEFORESTATION WITHOUT SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT (Continuation)

                                                        12      13      14      15      16      17      18      19      20      TOTAL
1.00 ton/hectare/year
      PREVIOUS AREA UNDER EXPLOITATION (T-1)           476,967 456,798 436,629 416,461 396,292 376,124 355,955 335,787 315,618      N.A.
      ANNUAL INCREMENT OF AREA ON YEAR T                    0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0    607,520
      TOTAL AREA UNDER EXPLOITATION:                   476,967 456,798 436,629 416,461 396,292 376,124 355,955 335,787 315,618      N.A.
      NET ANNUAL DEFORESTATION:                        20,169  20,169  20,169  20,169  20,169  20,169  20,169  20,169  20,169    312,071
      NET CARRY FORWARD:                               456,798 436,629 416,461 396,292 376,124 355,955 335,787 315,618 295,449   295,449

1.50 ton/hectare/year
      PREVIOUS AREA UNDER EXPLOITATION (T-1)           411,690 381,437 351,184 320,931 290,678 260,426 230,173 199,920 169,667      N.A.
      ANNUAL INCREMENT OF AREA ON YEAR T                    0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0    607,520
      TOTAL AREA UNDER EXPLOITATION:                   411,690 381,437 351,184 320,931 290,678 260,426 230,173 199,920 169,667      N.A.
      NET ANNUAL DEFORESTATION:                        30,253  30,253  30,253  30,253  30,253  30,253  30,253  30,253  30,253    468,106
      NET CARRY FORWARD:                               381,437 351,184 320,931 290,678 260,426 230,173 199,920 169,667 139,414   139,414

2.00 ton/hectare/year
      PREVIOUS AREA UNDER EXPLOITATION (T-1)           346,413 306,076 265,739 225,402 185,065 144,727 104,390 64,053  23,716       N.A.
      ANNUAL INCREMENT OF AREA ON YEAR T                    0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0    607,520
      TOTAL AREA UNDER EXPLOITATION:                   346,413 306,076 265,739 225,402 185,065 144,727 104,390 64,053  23,716       N.A.
      NET ANNUAL DEFORESTATION:                        40,337  40,337  40,337  40,337  40,337  40,337  40,337  40,337  40,337    624,141
      NET CARRY FORWARD:                               306,076 265,739 225,402 185,065 144,727 104,390 64,053  23,716 -16,621     -16,621




                                                                - 35 -

Table 2.3: ECONOMIC VALUE OF AVOIDED NET DEFORESTATION DUE TO SUSTAINABLE FOREST MANAGEMENT

ACCUMULATED NET DEFORESTATION (HA)                          1     2        3         4          5          6        7        8          9         10          11
1.00 ton/hectare/year                                               0     1,067     4,267       9,600   29,710    49,879    70,048     90,216    110,385    130,553
1.50 ton/hectare/year                                               0     1,600     6,400      14,400   44,566    74,819   105,071    135,324    165,577    195,830
2.00 ton/hectare/year                                               0     2,133     8,533      19,200   59,421    99,758   140,095    180,432    220,770    261,107

LOSS OF SUSTAINABLE OUTPUT (TONS/YR)
1.00 ton/hectare/year                                               0     1,067     4,267       9,600   29,710    49,879    70,048     90,216    110,385    130,553
1.50 ton/hectare/year                                               0     2,400     9,600      21,600   66,849   112,228   157,607    202,986    248,366    293,745
2.00 ton/hectare/year                                               0     4,267    17,067      38,400  118,842   199,516   280,191    360,865    441,539    522,214



VALUE OF AVIODED FUELWOOD OUTPUT LOSSES (*) 1                     2        3         4          5          6        7        8          9         10          11

1.00 ton/hectare/year     @ US$ 20/ton                              0    16,000    64,000     144,000  445,657   748,186  1,050,714 1,353,243  1,655,772 1,958,301
1.50 ton/hectare/year     @ US$ 20/ton                              0    36,000 144,000       324,000 1,002,728 1,683,418 2,364,107 3,044,797  3,725,487 4,406,177
2.00 ton/hectare/year     @ US$ 20/ton                              0    64,000 256,000       576,000 1,782,627 2,992,742 4,202,858 5,412,973  6,623,088 7,833,203

1.00 ton/hectare/year     @ US$ 30/ton                              0    32,000 128,000       288,000  891,314 1,496,371  2,101,429 2,706,486  3,311,544 3,916,602
1.50 ton/hectare/year     @ US$ 30/ton                              0    72,000 288,000       648,000 2,005,456 3,366,835 4,728,215 6,089,594  7,450,974 8,812,354
2.00 ton/hectare/year     @ US$ 30/ton                              0 128,000 512,000 1,152,000 3,565,254 5,985,485       8,405,715 10,825,946 13,246,176 15,666,406

1.00 ton/hectare/year     @ US$ 40/ton                              0    42,667 170,667       384,000 1,188,418 1,995,162 2,801,905 3,608,649  4,415,392 5,222,135
1.50 ton/hectare/year     @ US$ 40/ton                              0    96,000 384,000       864,000 2,673,941 4,489,114 6,304,286 8,119,459  9,934,632 11,749,805
2.00 ton/hectare/year     @ US$ 40/ton                              0 170,667 682,667 1,536,000 4,753,673 7,980,646 11,207,620 14,434,594 17,661,568 20,888,542

     (*) INCORPORATES ALLOWANCE FOR 20% NATURAL REGROWTH AND COUNTS ONLY ACTUAL LOSSES (-CLEARCUT+REGROWTH).




Table 2.3: ECONOMICVALUEOF AVOIDEDNETDEFORESTATIONDUETOSUST.FORESTMGMNT. (Continuation)

ACCUMULATED NET DEFORESTATION (HA)                      12          13          14           15         16         17       18         19        20       TOTAL
1.00 ton/hectare/year                                 150,722      170,891     191,059      211,228    231,396    251,565  271,733    291,902   312,071     312,071
1.50 ton/hectare/year                                 226,083      256,336     286,589      316,842    347,094    377,347  407,600    437,853   468,106     468,106
2.00 ton/hectare/year                                 301,444      341,781     382,118      422,455    462,793    503,130  543,467    583,804   624,141     624,141

LOSS OF SUSTAINABLE OUTPUT (TONS/YR)
1.00 ton/hectare/year                                 150,722      170,891     191,059      211,228    231,396    251,565  271,733    291,902   312,071
1.50 ton/hectare/year                                 339,124      384,504     429,883      475,262    520,642    566,021  611,400    656,780   702,159
2.00 ton/hectare/year                                 602,888      683,562     764,237      844,911    925,585 1,006,260 1,086,934 1,167,608 1,248,283



VALUE OF AVIODED FUELWOOD OUTPUT LOSSES (*) 12                      13          14           15         16         17       18         19        20       TOTAL

1.00 ton/hectare/year    @ US$ 20/ton                2,260,830 2,563,358 2,865,887 3,168,416 3,470,945 3,773,474 4,076,002 4,378,531 4,681,060            38,674,377
1.50 ton/hectare/year    @ US$ 20/ton                5,086,867 5,767,556 6,448,246 7,128,936 7,809,626 8,490,316 9,171,005 9,851,695 10,532,385           87,017,348
2.00 ton/hectare/year    @ US$ 20/ton                9,043,318 10,253,434 11,463,549 12,673,664 13,883,779 15,093,894 16,304,010 17,514,125 18,724,240 154,697,506

1.00 ton/hectare/year    @ US$ 30/ton                4,521,659 5,126,717 5,731,774 6,336,832 6,941,890 7,546,947 8,152,005 8,757,062 9,362,120            77,348,753
1.50 ton/hectare/year    @ US$ 30/ton               10,173,733 11,535,113 12,896,492 14,257,872 15,619,252 16,980,631 18,342,011 19,703,390 21,064,770 174,034,694
2.00 ton/hectare/year    @ US$ 30/ton               18,086,637 20,506,867 22,927,098 25,347,328 27,767,558 30,187,789 32,608,019 35,028,250 37,448,480 309,395,010

1.00 ton/hectare/year    @ US$ 40/ton                6,028,879 6,835,622 7,642,366 8,449,109 9,255,853 10,062,596 10,869,340 11,676,083 12,482,827 103,131,670
1.50 ton/hectare/year    @ US$ 40/ton               13,564,978 15,380,150 17,195,323 19,010,496 20,825,669 22,640,842 24,456,014 26,271,187 28,086,360 232,046,258
2.00 ton/hectare/year    @ US$ 40/ton               24,115,516 27,342,490 30,569,463 33,796,437 37,023,411 40,250,385 43,477,359 46,704,333 49,931,307 412,526,679

    (*) INCORPORATES ALLOWANCE FOR 20% NATURAL REGROWTH AND COUNTS ONLY ACTUAL LOSSES (-CLEARCUT+REGROWTH).




                                                                                - 36 -

It is important to note that the main driving parameter of the calculation of the sustainable wood
benefits -- and thereto of most other project benefits -- is expected sustainable forest yield. Based
on the most recent studies[5] it was expected that the average sustainable forest yield in the
Tambacounda and Kolda regions of Senegal would be between 1 and 2.5 tons per hectare with a
high provability of it being closer to 2.00 tons hectare than to the lower limit. In order to avoid any
risk of overestimation of project benefits all base calculation of the evaluation models were done
using the lower limit (1.00 ton/ha) as the valid parameter. The implication of this was that if the
sustainable yields proved to be higher, all project benefits which are directly related to or pegged to
the sustainable wood output will be automatically increased. The actual sustainable yield was
indeed confirmed on the field at more than 2.00 tons/hectare, whereby nearly all project benefits
should have doubled in the ex-post analysis (see Tables 2.1, 2.2. and 2.3). However, the ex-post
analysis was run maintaining the same 1.00 ton/ha, as the Forest Service only authorized the
harvesting of 50% of the sustainable yield. It is anticipated that 100% sustainable yield will be
authorized within the next two years, but for now, the "effective" sustainable yield being extracted
is 1.00 ton/ha.

(ii) Incremental charcoal production: the benefit of the incremental charcoal production expected
to result from the promotion of improved kilns was defined as the additional charcoal that was
expected to result from a given amount of wood if that was produced with the existing traditional
carbonization technology (18%). The improved charcoal kilns that have already been developed
and tested in Senegal -- but which were unsuccessfully disseminated in the past for accounted
reasons -- was estimated to have a carbonization efficiency of 30 percent. In order to avoid
overvaluation of the expected benefits the base calculations were made utilizing only a 25 percent
efficiency rate. The economic value of the incremental production in the ex-ante analysis was
calculated at the market price of charcoal of US $190/ton. It was expected that charcoal prices
would rise through time, thus resulting in a higher level of economic benefits for the same level of
incremental charcoal production.          As of 2004 the market price of charcoal was US
$335/ton. However, in the ex-post analysis the incremental production of charcoal was valued, for
simplicity, at an averaged market price of US $285/ton. The increases in the regulated price was
mostly due to a delayed adjustment to account for the devaluation of the FCFA and to account for
inflation overtime. Prices used include all relevant taxes. The valuation of this benefits was kept
at the market price of charcoal for only the incremental volumes of charcoal produced. No
additional "consumer externalities" where added under the understanding that the market price of
the charcoal fully reflects consumer valuation for the services imbedded in the product. Also, no
environmental externalities were taken into consideration as it would have amounted to double
counting of benefits since the environmental benefits of the sustainable wood were already
accounted for.

Table 3 presents the detailed ex-post calculation of the benefit of incremental charcoal production
for sustainable forest yields of 1.00 tons/ha to 2.00 tons/ha and charcoal market prices at US
$285/ton. The figures presented in Table 3 are the result of model estimates not of actual field
data.   Actual volumes of charcoal produced by villagers within the project are however fully
consistent with the model estimates.




                                             - 37 -

Table3: VALUEOF INCREMENTAL CHARCOALPRODUCTION

INCREMENTALCHARCOALPRODUCTION(IMPROVEDKILNS)                 1         2         3         4        5        6         7         8         9         10
     TotalWoodOutput                                             0         0    20,000    60,000 100,000 377,071 378,161       378,161   378,161     378,161
     CharcoalProduction @TraditionalConvertionEfficiency                   0     3,600    10,800   18,000   67,873    68,069    68,069    68,069      68,069
     CharcoalProduction @Improved ConvertionEfficiency                     0     5,000    15,000   25,000   94,268    94,540    94,540    94,540      94,540
     IncrementalCharcoalProductionduetoImprovedKilns                       0     1,400     4,200    7,000   26,395    26,471    26,471    26,471      26,471

VALUEOFINCREMENTALCHARCOALPRODUCTION
$285 US$/ton [DELTA]                                                       0   399,000 1,197,0001,995,0007,522,566 7,544,312 7,544,312 7,544,312   7,544,312
$237 US$/ton                                                               0   331,800   995,4001,659,0006,255,608 6,273,691 6,273,691 6,273,691   6,273,691
$285 US$/ton                                                               0   399,000 1,197,0001,995,0007,522,566 7,544,312 7,544,312 7,544,312   7,544,312



Table3: VALUEOF INCREMENTAL CHARCOALPRODUCTION (Continuation)

INCREMENTALCHARCOALPRODUCTION(IMPROVEDKILNS)                 12        13        14       15        16       17        18       19        20       TOTAL
     TotalWoodOutput                                       378,161   378,161   378,161   378,161 378,161 378,161 378,161       378,161   378,161   5,851,326
     CharcoalProduction @TraditionalConvertionEfficiency    68,069    68,069    68,069    68,069   68,069   68,069    68,069    68,069    68,069   8,776,989
     CharcoalProduction @Improved ConvertionEfficiency      94,540    94,540    94,540    94,540   94,540   94,540    94,540    94,540    94,540 11,702,652
      IncrementalCharcoalProductionduetoImprovedKilns       26,471    26,471    26,471    26,471   26,471   26,471    26,471    26,471    26,471     409,593

VALUEOFINCREMENTALCHARCOALPRODUCTION

 $285US$/ton [DELTA]                                      7,544,312 7,544,312 7,544,312 7,544,3127,544,3127,544,312 7,544,312 7,544,312 7,544,312 116,733,934

 $237 US$/ton                                             6,273,691 6,273,691 6,273,691 6,273,6916,273,6916,273,691 6,273,691 6,273,691 6,273,691 97,073,482

 $285 US$/ton                                             7,544,312 7,544,312 7,544,312 7,544,3127,544,3127,544,312 7,544,312 7,544,312 7,544,312 116,733,934




           (iii) global environmental impacts: the benefit of the global environmental impacts expected to
           result from the implementation of the sustainable and participatory forest/natural resource
           management systems was defined as the expected net abatement of CO (in tons) and the
                                                                                                                   2
           conservation of bio-diversity in and around the project areas (particularly in the Niokolo-Koba
           National Park) and was valued at the US $ 1.01/ton per ton of net CO abated. The rationale for
                                                                                                          2
           that was the value estimated for the CO abatement utilizing the GEF Incremental Cost and Global
                                                                2
           Environmental Benefits methodology, and it corresponds to the grant funding provided by GEF for
           the PROGEDE. The complete Incremental Cost and Global Environmental Benefits assessment of
           the project at Appraisal is contained in Annex 3 of the SAR. That price is estimated to reflect the
           global social value of CO abatement. No specific valuation was given to the bio-diversity benefits
                                              2
           but their value was assumed to be included in the CO calculations. It is important to note that this
                                                                                  2
           was also a very conservative evaluation approach, since it restricted valuation of the benefits to the
           GEF assessed value at Appraisal. If the ex-post analysis had used rather the current market value
           of a ton of Co the ex-post value would have been substantially higher. Table 4 presents the
                                 2
           detailed ex-post calculation of the project's achieved global environmental benefits.

           (iv) Rural income generation and transfer: the benefit of rural income generation and transfer
           expected to result from the direct sales of fuelwood by the participating rural communities was
           valued in the ex-ante evaluation at US $15/ton, which was the current estimated "road side"
           laborer price of woodfuel in the project zone. While that price does not include any valuation for
           the resource, the economic value of the wood was already accounted within model by the
           "sustainable wood production" benefit (item i above). Also, while it was expected that when the



                                                                   - 38 -

                 rural communities took over the "production" of the wood the new producer prices would be
                 higher, the current price at the time was purposely maintained as the base figure to avoid any
                 possible over estimation of the expected benefits. Several higher producer price scenarios were
                 evaluated under the sensitivity analysis. A small 5% income transfer "multiplier" was added to
                 the calculations. Bank projects that compute income transfers benefits to poor income groups
                 estimate that multiplier value at between 30 to 50 percent. For the ex-post analysis the same US
                 $15/ton and 5% valuation parameters were used.




Table 4: GLOBALENVIRONMENTALBENEFITS

      GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS                                                                            2004
                                YEARS       1         2         3         4        5          6         7         8         9         10
      WOOD SAVED (TONS)                                   0    16,000    64,000   144,000   445,657   748,186  1,050,714 1,353,243 1,655,772
      CO2 EQUIVALENT                                      0    27,200   108,800   244,800   757,617  1,271,916 1,786,214 2,300,513 2,814,812

DELTA ECONOMICVALUEOFCO2ABATEMENT                         0    27,472  109,888   247,248   765,193 1,284,635 1,804,077 2,323,519   2,842,961




Table 4: GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS (Continuation)

      GLOBALENVIRONMENTALBENEFITS
                                YEARS       12       13        14        15        16        17        18        19        20      TOTAL
      WOOD SAVED (TONS)                  2,260,830 2,563,358 2,865,887 3,168,416 3,470,945 3,773,474 4,076,002 4,378,531 4,681,060 38,674,376
      CO2 EQUIVALENT                     3,843,410 4,357,709 4,872,008 5,386,307 5,900,606 6,414,905 6,929,204 7,443,503 7,957,802 65,746,439
DELTAECONOMICVALUEOFCO2ABATEMENT 3,881,844 4,401,286 4,920,728 5,440,170 5,959,612 6,479,054 6,998,496 7,517,938 8,037,380 66,403,904




                 Table 5 presents the detailed calculation of the rural income generation and transfer benefits for
                 sustainable forest yields of 1.00 tons/ha to 2.00 tons/ha, producer prices ranging from US $15/ton
                 to US $40/ton, and 5% income transfer "multiplier".




                                                               - 39 -

Table5: VALUEOFINCOMETRANSFERTORURALCOMMUNITIES

       ECONOMICVALUEOFINCOMETRANSFER 1             2        3           4           5            6           7          8           9          10        11
  1.00 ton/hectare/year
       WOODSALESCOMMUNITYPRODUCERS(TONS)              0     20,000      60,000     100,000      377,071    378,161     378,161     378,161    378,161    378,161

       VALUEOFWOODSALESATMARKETPRICE                  0   2,800,000   8,400,000 14,000,000   52,789,940 52,942,540 52,942,540   52,942,540 52,942,540  52,942,540
       INCOMETRANSFERTORURALCOMMUNITIES               0    300,000     900,000    1,500,000   5,656,065   5,672,415  5,672,415   5,672,415  5,672,415   5,672,415
DELTAECONOMICVALUEOFINCOMETRANSFER                    0    315,000     945,000    1,575,000   5,938,868   5,956,036  5,956,036   5,956,036  5,956,036   5,956,036
DELTAVALUEOF"OTHER"EXPECTEDREVENUES                   0          0           0           0           0           0            0          0          0           0



  1.50 ton/hectare/year
       WOODSALES COMMUNITYPRODUCERS(TONS)             0     30,000      90,000     150,000      565,607    567,242     567,242     567,242    567,242    567,242
       VALUEOFWOODSALESATMARKETPRICE                  0   4,200,000 12,600,000 21,000,000    79,184,910 79,413,810 79,413,810   79,413,810 79,413,810  79,413,810
       INCOMETRANSFERTORURALCOMMUNITIES               0    450,000    1,350,000   2,250,000   8,484,098   8,508,623  8,508,623   8,508,623  8,508,623   8,508,623

       ECONOMICVALUEOFINCOMETRANSFER                  0    472,500    1,417,500   2,362,500   8,908,302   8,934,054  8,934,054   8,934,054  8,934,054   8,934,054
       VALUEOF"OTHER"EXPECTEDREVENUES                 0          0           0           0           0           0            0          0          0           0



  2.00 ton/hectare/year
       WOODSALES COMMUNITYPRODUCERS(TONS)             0     40,000     120,000     200,000      754,142    756,322     756,322     756,322    756,322    756,322

       VALUEOFWOODSALESATMARKETPRICE                  0   5,600,000 16,800,000 28,000,000 105,579,880 105,885,080 105,885,080 105,885,080 105,885,080 105,885,080
       INCOMETRANSFERTORURALCOMMUNITIES               0    600,000    1,800,000   3,000,000  11,312,130 11,344,830 11,344,830   11,344,830 11,344,830  11,344,830

       ECONOMICVALUEOFINCOMETRANSFER                  0    630,000    1,890,000   3,150,000  11,877,737 11,912,072 11,912,072   11,912,072 11,912,072  11,912,072
       VALUEOF"OTHER"EXPECTEDREVENUES                 0          0           0           0           0           0            0          0          0           0




Table 5: VALUEOFINCOMETRANSFERTORURALCOMMUNITIES (Continuation)

       ECONOMIC VALUE OF INCOME TRANSFER          12           13            14            15          16            17           18          19          20
  1.00 ton/hectare/year
       WOODSALESCOMMUNITYPRODUCERS(TONS)         378,161      378,161       378,161       378,161      378,161      378,161     378,161     378,161     378,161

       VALUEOFWOODSALESATMARKETPRICE           52,942,540 52,942,540 52,942,540 52,942,540 52,942,540 52,942,540 52,942,540 52,942,540 52,942,540
       INCOME TRANSFER TO RURAL COMMUNITIES    5,672,415    5,672,415     5,672,415     5,672,415    5,672,415     5,672,415 5,672,415     5,672,415   5,672,415
DELTAECONOMICVALUEOFINCOMETRANSFER             5,956,036    5,956,036     5,956,036     5,956,036    5,956,036     5,956,036 5,956,036     5,956,036   5,956,036
DELTAVALUE     OF "OTHER" EXPECTED REVENUES             0            0             0             0            0             0           0           0           0



  1.50 ton/hectare/year
       WOODSALESCOMMUNITYPRODUCERS(TONS)         567,242      567,242       567,242       567,242      567,242      567,242     567,242     567,242     567,242
       VALUEOFWOODSALESATMARKETPRICE           79,413,810 79,413,810 79,413,810 79,413,810 79,413,810 79,413,810 79,413,810 79,413,810 79,413,810
       INCOME TRANSFER TO RURAL COMMUNITIES    8,508,623    8,508,623     8,508,623     8,508,623    8,508,623     8,508,623 8,508,623     8,508,623   8,508,623
       ECONOMICVALUEOFINCOMETRANSFER           8,934,054    8,934,054     8,934,054     8,934,054    8,934,054     8,934,054 8,934,054     8,934,054   8,934,054
       VALUE OF "OTHER" EXPECTED REVENUES               0            0             0             0            0             0           0           0           0



  2.00 ton/hectare/year
       WOODSALESCOMMUNITYPRODUCERS(TONS)         756,322      756,322       756,322       756,322      756,322      756,322     756,322     756,322     756,322
       VALUEOFWOODSALESATMARKETPRICE           105,885,080  105,885,080   105,885,080   105,885,080  105,885,080   105,885,080 105,885,080 105,885,080 105,885,080

       INCOME TRANSFER TO RURAL COMMUNITIES    11,344,830 11,344,830 11,344,830 11,344,830 11,344,830 11,344,830 11,344,830 11,344,830 11,344,830
       ECONOMICVALUEOFINCOMETRANSFER           11,912,072 11,912,072 11,912,072 11,912,072 11,912,072 11,912,072 11,912,072 11,912,072 11,912,072
DELTA  VALUE OF "OTHER" EXPECTED REVENUES               0            0             0             0            0             0           0           0           0




                                                                      - 40 -

(v) "Other" rural revenues:       In the ex-ante analysis, the benefit of "other" rural revenues
expected to result from the development of parallel agro-forestry production activities in the
participating communities was valued as a linear function (20 percent) of the total revenues
expected from the sale of woodfuels by the communities. The rationale for that was that as the
rural communities perceive an income from the sale of woodfuels they would have income to invest
in other productive activities. The project included support mechanisms and resources to assist
communities which were prepare to invest their own resources and labor in other economic
activities. As revenues from woodfuels increase through time (or under the different parametric
scenarios tested) the availability of community investment funds for other activities would also
increase resulting in increased revenues from those activities. In the ex-post evaluation the linear
function approach was replaced by actual incremental incomes received by the rural communities.
Total incremental income to participating villages was calculated at full implementation at US
$12,530,732. That figure is composed of the sale of woodfuels and of the sale of a broad range of
new village products, as such the figures included under "other rural revenues" are not the total
annual incremental sales but just that of non-woodfuel products. The income from the sale of
woodfuels was already taken into account by the model in the computation of the sustainable wood
production and incremental charcoal production. Counting total incremental revenues here would
have constituted double counting. The detailed calculation of the benefit from "other" expected
rural revenues is included in Table 5.

(vi) charcoal saving: the benefit of charcoal saving expected to result from the promotion of
225,000 improved charcoal stoves in the principal urban areas was defined as the net saving
expected to result from the use of improved charcoal stoves and was calculated on the basis of the
improved stoves disseminated with support from the project and expected to be in actual use at
each year during the project. The incremental energy efficiency differential between the traditional
and the improve stoves was estimated at 40 percent. Based on the use of improved charcoal stove
a family that today consumes 5 kilograms of charcoal per day would need to consume only 3
kilograms for the same final useful energy service. That calculation took into account actual stove
production and a 3-year stove life cycle. In the ex-ante evaluation the actual economic value of the
charcoal saved was computed at the market price of charcoal of US $190/ton. In the ex-post
analysis a price of US $285/ton was used. As in the case of the valuation of the improved
charcoal kilns it was expected that as charcoal prices rose so would the level of economic benefits
from the use of improved charcoal stoves. While charcoal saving might be considered a "cost
saving" rather than a benefit, for the purpose of the project charcoal savings were counted as a
benefit because the introduction of improved stoves actually resulted in a reduction of household
expenditure without a loss in energy end-use service.

Table 6 presents the detailed ex-post calculation of the expected charcoal saving taking into
account the actual annual stove promotion achievement of the project, and stove life cycles and
charcoal market prices at US $285/ton.




                                           - 41 -

Table 6: VALUE OF CHARCOAL SAVING DUE TO IMPROVED STOVES USE
                                                                          1998  1999     2000     2001    2002   2003    2004
      Charcoal savings due to Improved Stove Use                          1     2       3        4      5      6       7       8        9       10       11

DELTA Stoves Life cycle (@ 3 years per Stove)                                     0        0        0                        100,000  100,000 100,000
                                                                                           0        0       0                         90,000    90,000  90,000
                                                                                                    0       0      0                            80,000  80,000
                                                                                                       20,000 20,000  20,000                            70,000
                                                                                                              63,000  63,000  63,000
                                                                                                                     154,296 154,296  154,296

DELTA ACTUAL TOTAL NEW STOVES DISSEMINATED                                        0        0        0  20,000 63,000 154,296 100,000  90,000    80,000  70,000


      TOTAL OF STOVES IN OPERATION PER YEAR                                       0        0        0  20,000 83,000 237,296 317,296  344,296 270,000 240,000


      TONS of Charcoal consumption with Traditional Stove (20% efficiency)       50      150      300     450   625     825      975   1,050     1,050   1,050
      TONS of Charcoal consumption with Improved Stove (40% efficiency)          30       90      180     270   375     495      585      630      630     630
      Estimated Charcoal savings (TONS) due to Improved Stoves use:              20       60      120     180   250     330      390      420      420     420

      Economic Value of Charcoal Savings at:
DELTA                          US $335/ton                                    5,700   17,100   34,200  51,300 71,250  94,050 111,150  119,700 119,700 119,700
                               US $237/ton                                    4,740   14,220   28,440  42,660 59,250  78,210  92,430  99,540    99,540  99,540
                               US $285/ton                                    5,700   17,100   34,200  51,300 71,250  94,050 111,150  119,700 119,700 119,700



Table 6: VALUE OF CHARCOAL SAVING DUE TO IMPROVED STOVES USE (Continuation)

      Charcoal savings due to Improved Stove Use                          12        13        14       15      16       17     18      19       20    TOTAL

DELTAStoves Life cycle (@ 3 years per Stove)                                                 40,000   40,000   40,000                              0
                                                                                                      30,000   30,000 30,000
                                                                          80,000                               20,000 20,000  20,000
                                                                          70,000    70,000                            10,000  10,000  10,000
                                                                          60,000    60,000   60,000                                0       0       0
                                                                                    50,000   50,000   50,000                               0       0

      ACTUAL TOTAL NEW STOVES DISSEMINATED                                60,000    50,000   40,000   30,000   20,000 10,000       0       0       0   787,296


      TOTAL OF STOVES IN OPERATION PER YEAR                             210,000   180,000    150,000  120,000  90,000 60,000  30,000  10,000       0 2,361,888


      TONS of Charcoal consumption with Traditional Stove (20% efficiency) 1,050    1,050     1,050    1,050   1,050   1,050   1,050   1,050   1,050    15,975
      TONS of Charcoal consumption with Improved Stove (40% efficiency)      630      630        630      630     630     630    630     630      630    9,585
      Estimated Charcoal savings (TONS) due to Improved Stoves use:          420      420        420      420     420     420    420     420      420    6,390

      Economic Value of Charcoal Savings at:
DELTA                         US $335/ton                               119,700   119,700    119,700  119,700 119,700 119,700 119,700 119,700 119,700 1,821,150
                              US $237/ton                                 99,540    99,540   99,540   99,540   99,540 99,540  99,540  99,540 99,540 1,514,430
                              US $285/ton                               119,700   119,700    119,700  119,700 119,700 119,700 119,700 119,700 119,700 1,821,150




       Discount Rate

       18.          A flat discount rate of12 percent was applied to all project components and sub-components for
       both the ex-ante and ex-post evaluation of the project.


       Ex-Post Evaluation Results

       19.         While the ex-ante 20-year horizon evaluation of the project resulted in an Economic Rate of Return
       (ERR) of 37.35% and a net present value (NPV) at 12 percent discount rate of US $ 34,235 million, the



                                                                                 - 42 -

ex-post analysis obtained an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 137.55% and a net present value (NPV)
at 12 percent discount rate of US $ 96.1 million. Tables 7 and Figure 2 present the summary of project
costs and benefits flows, and Table 8 presents the economic evaluation of the project. Figure 3 and 4
present the project's costs and benefits streams and the net cost-benefit flow, respectively. According to
these economic evaluation results, PROGEDE was an extremely successful investment project.

20.        The ex-post evaluation resulted in substantially higher return than the one anticipated, even
                                                   a
under the high-end variants of the ex-ante sensitivity analysis. The highly successful implementation
performance is responsible for a substantive part of that difference, specially: (i) substantially higher than
expected "other rural revenues" (417.7 % over SAR level); (ii) significantly higher Net CO2 emission
reductions (312.3 % over SAR level); and, (iii) higher than expected sustainable woodfuel production
(123.5 % over SAR level). However, there are three non-output factors which contributed to the high
ex-post valuation of the project: (i) the project's actual disbursement profile went from being 70 %
front-loaded at Appraisal to 70 % back-loaded at ICR.          The effect of the 12 % discount rate over that
disbursement shift more than doubled the ERR and the NPV; (ii) the market price of charcoal increased
from US $190 per ton at Appraisal to US $335 ton at ICR. The ex-post evaluation used a value of US
$285 as average, which corresponded to the highest value considered within the ex-ante sensitivity analysis;
(iii) the market price of wood also increased from about US $80 per ton at Appraisal to US $140 ton at
ICR, which corresponded to the highest value considered within the ex-ante sensitivity analysis.

21.      While it is clear that the original calculations and economic valuation were substantially lower than
the actual figures, which should not be attributed to an underestimation of expectation. Rather -- after
discounting the "distortionary" impact of the shift in the project's disbursement profile -- this project left
behind an extremely robust economic return and a valuable lesson as to the poverty alleviation value of
multi-sectorial community-based natural resource management interventions in Senegal, and by
extension, in other African countries with similar contexts.



Sensitivity Analysis

22.      While a comprehensive sensitivity analysis was done as part of the ex-ante evaluation there was no
need for repeating that part of the methodology in the ex-post evaluation.




                                                       - 43 -

Table 7: SUMMARYOFPROJECTCOSTSANDBENEFITSFLOWS

      PROJECT COSTS & BENEFITS FLOWS
                                                 YEARS  1      2        3           4          5           6           7         8     9       10     11
A. PROJECT COSTS

      COMPONENT I (PREPARATION)                         3,858
      COMPONENT II (SUPPLY)                                    2,542   2,566       2,506      1,859      1,962       1,603        150    135     122     109
      COMPONENT III (DEMAND)                                   1,053     800         515         280        200         190        40     36      32     29
      ORIGINAL TOTAL COSTS                              3,858  3,594   3,366       3,021      2,139      2,162       1,793        190    171     154     139


DELTA ACTUAL TOTAL COSTS                                   0   1,012  1,606       2,473       2,521 2,491            2,864      6,729    171     154    139

B. PROJECT BENEFITS

      VALUE OF SUSTAINABLE WOOD                                    0      16          64         144        446         748     1,051  1,353   1,656  1,958

      VALUE OF INCREMENTAL CHARCOAL PRODUCTION                     0     399       1,197      1,995      7,523       7,544      7,544  7,544   7,544  7,544

      VALUE OF GLOBAL ENV. IMPACTS (CO2 + BIO)                     0      27         110         247        765      1,285      1,804  2,324   2,843  3,362


      VALUE OF INCOME GENERATION /TRANSFER                         0     315         945      1,575      5,939       5,956      5,956  5,956   5,956  5,956

DELTA ACTUAL VALUE OF "OTHER" EXPECTED REVENUES                   0         0        443      2,647 4,479            7,469      7,500  7,500   7,500  7,500

      VALUE OF CHARCOAL SAVINGS (STOVES)                           6      17          34          51         71          94       111    120     120     120

      ACTUAL TOTAL QUANTIFIABLE BENEFITS                   0       6     775       2,793      6,660 19,223 23,096               23,966 24,797 25,619  26,441

                                                                    REF: VO RMPCREF: BTO MTRREF:BTO 2003REF:BTO2004REF: BTO 2005

Table 7: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS AND BENEFITS FLOWS             (Continuation)

      PROJECT COSTS & BENEFITS FLOWS
                                                 YEARS 12     13      14          15          16          17         18         19     20    TOTAL
A. PROJECT COSTS

      COMPONENT I (PREPARATION)                                                                                                                3,858
      COMPONENT II (SUPPLY)                               98      89      80          72          65         58          52        47     42  14,156
      COMPONENT III (DEMAND)                              26      24      21          19          17         15          14        13     11   3,336
      ORIGINAL TOTAL COSTS


DELTA ACTUAL TOTAL COSTS                                 125    112      101          91          82         74          66        60     54  20,923

B. PROJECT BENEFITS

      VALUE OF SUSTAINABLE WOOD                         2,261  2,563   2,866       3,168      3,471      3,773       4,076      4,379  4,681  38,674

      VALUE OF INCREMENTAL CHARCOAL PRODUCTION          7,544  7,544   7,544       7,544      7,544      7,544       7,544      7,544  7,544 116,734

      VALUE OF GLOBAL ENV. IMPACTS (CO2 + BIO)          3,882  4,401   4,921       5,440      5,960      6,479       6,998      7,518  8,037  66,404

      VALUE OF INCOME GENERATION /TRANSFER              5,956  5,956   5,956       5,956      5,956      5,956       5,956      5,956  5,956  92,158

DELTA ACTUAL VALUE OF "OTHER" EXPECTED REVENUES        7,500   7,500  7,500       7,500       7,500 7,500            7,500      7,500  7,500 112,538

      VALUE OF CHARCOAL SAVINGS (STOVES)                 120     120     120         120         120        120         120       120    120   1,821

      ACTUAL TOTAL QUANTIFIABLE BENEFITS               27,263 28,085 28,907      29,729    30,551 31,373 32,195                 33,017 33,838 428,330




                                                                  - 44 -

                                     FIGURE 2
             PROGEDE / ICR: Quantifiable Project Benefits (20 -Year Horizon)
                                                                                Charcoal savings
                                                                                (Stoves)
          40.0


          35.0                                                                  "Other" Revenues

          30.0


          25.0                                                                  Income
                                                                                Generation/Transfer

Million$  20.0

                                                                                Global Environ.Benefits
        US15.0                                                                  (CO2 + Biodiv.)


          10.0
                                                                                Incremental Charcoal

          5.0                                                                   Production


          0.0                                                                   Sustainable Wood
               1 2 3   4 5   6 7    8  9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20

                                         Years




                                                              - 45 -

Table 8: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF PROJECT (20-YEAR HORIZON)

                                 PRIMARY PARAMETIRC VARIABLES       Actual Value Alt - 1 Alt - 2
                                        Forest Yield (ton/ha/year):        1.00    1.50    2.00
                   Fuelwood Sustainable Producer Price (US$/ton):         15.00   30.00  40.00
                               Improved charcoal kilns efficiency:         0.25
                 Ratio of "Other" Income (% of Woodfuel revenue):          0.00
                               Market Price of Charcoal (US$/ton):      285.00 237.00 285.00

                              SECONDARY PARAMETIRC VARIABLES        Actual Value Alt - 1 Alt - 2
                                          Clear-cut Yield (ton/ha):       15.00
                           Natural Regrowth function (annual %):           0.20
                 Value of CO2 Abatement+Bio Conserv. (US$/ton):            1.01
                              Market Price of Fuelwood (US$/ton):       140.00 120.00 140.00
                             Economic Value of Income Transfer:            1.05
                       Incremental Efficiency of Charcoal Stoves:          0.40



 SENEGAL: PROGEDE / ICR                                                    Basis: US $ MILLION
 PROJECT COMPONENTS: I + II + III                1997         1998         1999   2000    2001   2002   2003   2004
                                     YEARS       1          2           3          4       5      6     7      8      9       10     11

 TOTAL COSTS                                        0        -1,012      -1,606  -2,473  -2,521 -2,491 -2,864 -6,729  -171    -154   -139
 TOTAL BENEFITS                                     0             6         775   2,793  6,660 19,223 23,096  23,966 24,797  25,619 26,441
 NET COST-BENEFIT FLOW                              0        -1,006        -831     320  4,139 16,732 20,232  17,237 24,626  25,465 26,302

           ACTUAL COST/BENEFITS FLOW:               0        -1,006        -831     320  4,139 16,732 20,232  17,237 24,626  25,465 26,302


                                     YEARS      12          13          14        15      16     17     18     19    20     TOTAL

 TOTAL COSTS                                     -125          -112        -101      -91     -82   -74    -66    -60    -54 -20,923
 TOTAL BENEFITS                                27,263       28,085      28,907 29,729 30,551 31,373 32,195    33,017 33,838 428,330
 NET COST-BENEFIT FLOW                         27,138       27,972      28,806 29,638 30,469 31,299 32,128    32,957 33,785 407,407

           ACTUAL COST/BENEFITS FLOW:          27,138       27,972      28,806 29,638 30,469 31,299 32,128    32,957 33,785

   Actual Internal Rate of Return:             ERR 137.55%
   Actual Net Present value (12%):             NPV      96,109




                                                                     - 46 -

                                                 FIGURE 3
                         PROGEDE / ICR: PROJECT COSTS & BENEFITS (20-Years Horizon)




                    27.5


                    22.5


                    17.5


                    12.5
Million$
                      7.5
        US

                      2.5


                     -2.5 1 2  3   4   5   6  7  8  9  10 11  12  13 14  15  16   17  18  19 20
                                                          ACTUAL TOTAL COSTS
                                                          ACTUAL TOTAL QUANTIFIABLE BENEFITS
                     -7.5

                                                        Years



                                                 FIGURE 4
                          PROGEDE / ICR: NET COSTS-BENEFITS FLOW (20-Year Horizon)

                     36.0
                     34.0
                     32.0
                     30.0
                     28.0
                     26.0
                     24.0
                     22.0
                     20.0

          Million$   18.0
                     16.0
                     14.0
                  US 12.0
                     10.0
                      8.0
                      6.0
                      4.0
                      2.0
                      0.0
                     -2.0 1  2 3    4  5   6  7  8  9  10 11  12  13 14  15  16   17  18  19 20

                                                       Years




                                                           - 47 -

[1]
       Data from plantation projects through-out Africa indicate a total cost range of US $ 450 to US $750
per hectare, where the higher end corresponds to projects within Sahelian edafoclimatic conditions and the
lower end to projects in East and Southern Africa.
[2]
       This has been widely agreed upon and implemented in several forestry/natural resource/energy related
Bank projects such as "Niger Energie II" and " Mali Energie Domestique".
[3]
       Although it is normal practice to exclude non-productive components from economic analyses -- as it is
difficult to calculate specific economic returns on things such as institutional development, capacity building,
etc. -- in the case of the proposed project it was judged that those investments could not be dissociated from
the expected project outcomes. If such investments are made and the project does not achieve its proposed
objectives, they would amount to an unequivocal misallocation of scarce investment resources. In practical
terms, the impact of including all project cost represent an added burden of proof for the overall merits of the
project.

[4]
          If only the costs of the supply side management sub-components are taken into account cost of the
implementation of community-based sustainable forest management systems would be of the order of US $
53/hectare. If only the direct field investment costs are taken into account the cost per hectare would come
down to US $ 35/hectare.
[5]
       Jensen, Axel M., Elements d'economie spatiale des energies traditionnelles, RPTES Discussion Paper
Series, World Bank, October 1994.




                                                   - 48 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                    Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              Multiple RPTES        4 - 6    RPTES PROGRAM
              Program missions               MULTI-SECTORIAL /
              between 1995 and               MULTI-DISCIPLINARY TEAM
              1997                           (BANK STAFF +
                                             CONSULTANTS)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/17/1997                     TEAM LEADER/SR.
                                             ECONOMIST (1); SR.
                                             LAWYER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (2);
                                             PARTICIPATION SP. (1);
                                             FINANCIAL SP. (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SP. (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT SP. (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1); DUTCH
                                             COOPERATION (2); ACS
                                             (1).


 Supervision

              03/03/1998                4    TTL / SR. ECONOMIST (1);          S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             PARTICIPAT. SP. (1); ACS (1).
              11/21/1998                4    TTL / SR. ECONOMIST (1);          S               S
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             ACS (1).
              01/24/2000                9    TTL / SR. ECONOMIST (1);          S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             SP. (1);PARTICIPATION SP.
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT SP. (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT SP. (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             FORESTRY SP. / DUTCH
                                             EMBASSY (1); ACS (1).
              04/04 /2001               4    ECONOMIST (1);                    S               S
                                             PARTICIPATION SP. (1); SR.
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             ACS (1).
              05/06/2002                8    TTL / SR. ECONOMIST (1);          S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1); ENERGY
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             PARTICIPATION SP. (1);



                                              - 49 -

                                                       FORESTRY/NRM SPEC (1);
                                                       FINANCIAL MNGT. (1);
                                                       PROCUREMENT SP.(1); ACS
                                                       (1).
                06/02/2003                       10    TTL / SR. ECONOMIST (1);               S                HS
                                                       COUNTRY DIRECTOR (1);
                                                       LEAD ENVIRONMENTAL SP.
                                                       (1); ENERGY ECONOMIST (1);
                                                       SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT SP.
                                                       (1); 1ST.SECRET.DUTCH
                                                       EMB. (1);
                                                       DECENTRALIZATION
                                                       SP./DGIS CONSULTANT) (1);
                                                       PROCUREMENT SP. (1);
                                                       FINANCIAL SP. (1); ACS (1).
                03/18/2004                        8    TTL / SR. ECONOMIST (1);               HS               HS
                                                       ENERGY ECONOMIST (1);
                                                       SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT SP.
                                                       (1); RURAL DEVELOPMENT
                                                       SP. (1); RURAL TRANSPORT
                                                       SP. (1) PROCUREMENT SP.
                                                       (1); ACS (1); FINANCIAL SP.
                                                       (1)

 ICR
                04/21/05                          6    TTL / SR. ECONOMIST                    HS               HS
                                                       (1); ENERGY
                                                       ECONOMIST (1); SOCIAL
                                                       DEVELOPMENT SP. (1);
                                                       PROCUREMENT SP. (1);
                                                       FINANC. SP. (1); ACS (1).



(b) Staff:

        Stage of Project Cycle                          Actual/Latest Estimate
                                            No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                        200                             200
  Appraisal/Negotiation                               30                             60
  Supervision                                       250                             600
  ICR                                                 20                             40
  Total                                             500                             900
Note: More than 50 percent of the project's preparation and supervision costs were funded from trust funds from
the RPTES Program as the majority of the project team was externally funded staff until 2004. Fifty percent of the
staff time allocated to supervision came from field-based local staff.




                                                       - 50 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 51 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 52 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


 1.    Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), May 23, 1997.

 2.    Development Credit Agreement No. 2963-SE.

 3.    Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement No. TF 28365-SE.

 4.    Lettre de Politique de Developpement du Secteur de l'Energie, 30 Janvier 1997.

 5.    PROGEDE: Independent Social Impact Assessment, March 2004.

 6.    Special PROGEDE Supervision Report, May 2004, (including Annex 4 in the PAD for the
 "Senegal Rural Electrification Project").

 7.    Special Supervision Report: Notes on the transport situation in the PROGEDE Zone, March 2004.

 8.    IDA Mission Aide Memoires.

 9.    IDA Staff Supervision Reports (BTOs).

 10.   Project/Internal Order Cost Detail Reports.

 11.   PROGEDE: Progress Reports PCU.

 12.   AFTEG/RPTES: Special Knowledge Management Report and Presentations.

 13.   "Programme Pour la Gestion Durable et Participative des Energies Traditionnelles et de
       Substitution" (SPEMP DRAFT Project Implementation Document), Government of Senegal,
       Ministry of Environment and Protection of Nature and Ministry of Energy, Mines and Industry.
       November 1996.

 14.   Manuel de Procedures pour le Programme Pour la Gestion Durable et Participative des Energies
       Traditionnelles et de Substitution. (Draft), Gouvernement du Senegal, Mars 1997.

 15.   Senegal Sustainable and Participatory Energy Management Project: Environmental Discussion
 Note, Boris E. Utria (AF5IE), 1996.

 16.   Le Secteur des Energies Traditionnelles: Analyse, Strategie et Programme d'Actions et
 Fiches-Projects, Republique du Senegal/RPTES Program, Mars 1995.

 17.   PROGEDE: Amelioration du Systeme de Suivi et Controle des Flux des Combustibles Ligneux
 Domestiques, Republique du Senegal, decembre 1998.

 18.   PROGEDE: Repertoire des Equipments et des Actuers du Sous-Secteur des Combustibles
       Domestiques, Pape-Alassane-DEME, Republique du Senegal, Octobre 2001.

 19.   PROGEDE: Programme d'Education Environnementale Formelle: Ecole Elementaire, Avril 1999.

 20.   PROGEDE: Rapport d'Audit Organisationnel, Juillet 1999.




                                                    - 53 -

Additional Annex 8. Comments from the Borrower



                           REPUBLIQUE DU SENEGAL


  MINISTERE DE L'ENVIRONNEMENT                          MINISTERE DE L'ENERGIE

                ET DE LA PROTECTION DENATURE LA                          ET DES MINES




        PROGRAMME DE GESTION DURABLE ET PARTICIPATIVE DES ENERGIES
                         TRADITIONNELLES ET DE SUBSTITUTION




            UNITE DE COORDINATION DU PROGRAMME

 B.P. 1831 DAKAR SENEGAL  Tel : (221) 859 20 51 Fax : (221) 832.47.39 E.Mail: cro@sentoo.sn




Le Gouvernement du Sngal a donn un avis favorable au financement du

Programme de Gestion Durable et Participative des Energies Traditionnelles et de

Substitution PROGEDE pour la priode allant de 01/12/1998 au 31/12/2004


                                                                        Dakar, Avril 2005




                                         - 54 -

I. INTRODUCTION

1.       Le Programme de Gestion Durable et Participative des Energies Traditionnelles et de Substitution
(PROGEDE) a bnfici du soutien financier de la Banque Mondiale, du Fond pour l'Environnement
Mondial (FEM), du Royaume des Pays-Bas et de l'Etat du Sngal pour un montant total de 19.90
millions de dollars US, dont 1.20 millions de dollars de contribution de l'Etat du Sngal sous forme de
contrepartie.

2.       La mise en vigueur du Programme est le rsultat d'un long processus de rflexions initi en 1993
dans le cadre du Programme Rgional pour le Secteur des Energies Traditionnelles (RPTES) sous l'gide
de la Banque Mondiale.

3.       Le   Programme est plac sous la double tutelle administrative des Ministres en charge de
l'Environnement et de l'Energie. Il a comme objectif stratgique de contribuer  l'approvisionnement
durable des mnages en combustibles domestiques en leur offrant des choix largis de confort tout en
prservant l'environnement.

4.       Cette option procde d'une analyse qui a mis en vidence, dans le sous-secteur des combustibles
domestiques, un ensemble de facteurs dterminants et de contraintes tels que :

                la prpondrance structurelle des combustibles ligneux (90% des besoins en nergie
         domestique des mnages) dans le bilan nergtique du pays occasionnant une dgradation profonde
         et continue des ressources forestires ;

                le dsquilibre de la filire bois-nergie marqu par de faibles retombes dans les terroirs
         qui supportent l'exploitation forestire, la valeur ajoute de la filire tant surtout distribue entre
         exploitants, transporteurs et coxeurs ;

                une faible valorisation du bois par des redevances et des prix au consommateur en de de
         la valeur de la ressource ligneuse et adoption de techniques de carbonisation peu efficientes comme
         la meule traditionnelle ;

                une volont d'implication des populations dans la gestion des ressources forestires.

5.       L'option d'implication et de responsabilisation des populations dans la gestion des ressources
forestires s'est approfondie par les lois sur la dcentralisation et la rgionalisation qui ont consacr le
transfert de comptences aux collectivits locales en matire de gestion des ressources naturelles et
d'environnement en 1996.

6.       Il faut aussi noter que le programme a t approuv dans un contexte particulier de rformes du
secteur de l'nergie et l'adoption d'un code forestier favorisant une meilleure responsabilisation des
populations riveraines des forts dans la gestion de celles-ci afin de mieux matrialiser la politique de
dcentralisation initi par l'Etat.

7.       La particularit du PROGEDE, est d'avoir pu voluer dans cet environnement de rformes et de
convaincre qu'avec l'approche participative et la collaboration de deux Ministres et de plusieurs services
dconcentrs de l'Etat, il tait possible de travailler en synergie pour un objectif commun et atteindre des


                                                      - 55 -

rsultats tangibles.

8.        La mise en oeuvre du programme a permis de transformer les visions et orientations audacieuses et
mme juges parfois prilleuses que portaient ces rformes,  des ralits perceptibles aussi bien du point de
vue institutionnel, organisationnel, technique et socio-conomique.

II. CADRE INSTITUTIONNEL
9.        Le cadre institutionnel du projet est marqu par trois entits distinctes mais complmentaires, sur
lesquelles il s'est beaucoup appuy dans sa mise en oeuvre :

                  La Composante Rgulation de l'Offre combustibles ligneux place sous la tutelle
          technique de la Direction des Eaux et Forts, intervient dans la mise en oeuvre de schmas
          d'amnagement forestier, participatif et intgr dans les rgions de Tamba et Kolda..

                  La Composante Gestion de la Demande et Promotion des Energies de Substitution base 
          DAKAR, sous la tutelle technique de la Direction de l'Energie, intervient sur l'ensemble du
          territoire national dans le cadre de la promotion des nergies de substitution.

                  L'Unit de Coordination du Projet loge au sein de la Direction des Eaux et Forts sert de
          relais aux deux premires entits et s'occupe des affaires administratives et financires du projet.

10.       Le PROGEDE est aussi dot d'un Comit Technique regroupant les                 Directions de tutelles
techniques et financires (DEFFCS, DE, DDI, DCEF), les Bailleurs (IDA, Pays Bas) et la Coordination
du projet. d'un Comit de Suivi et d'Orientation (CSO), organe consultatif,              charg de dfinir les
orientations politiques et stratgiques et de deux Comits Rgionaux de Suivi et d'Orientation (CRSO),
crs par arrt des Gouverneurs de Tamba et de Kolda.

III. EVOLUTION DU PROGEDE

11.       La mise en vigueur du Programme a dmarr le 24 dcembre 1997, en rfrence  la date de
l'arrt interministriel n 10291 portant cration, organisation et fonctionnement du Programme.

12.       Les trois premires annes du projet (1998  2000) qui correspondent  la phase prparatoire ont
t mises  profit pour conduire un certain nombre d'oprations telles que la mise en place des quipes, des
moyens logistiques, la ralisation des appels d'offre pour l'acquisition de vhicules, de mobilier et de
l'quipement, les travaux de gnie civil, les tudes et recherche, et enfin, la mise en place de systmes
comptables.

13.       La phase prparatoire du projet a dur jusqu'en fvrier 2000, moment de son valuation par une
mission de la Banque Mondiale qui a donn un satisfecit sur les rsultats atteints et a donn un avis
favorable pour la poursuite des activits dans le cadre d'une phase oprationnelle pour la priode 2001 
2004.

14.       L'anne 2000 a t un moment important de restructuration du PROGEDE avec comme dcisions
majeures, l'intgration des quipes techniques de terrain au sein des Inspections Rgionales des Eaux et
Forts de Tamba et de Kolda, la responsabilisation de ces dernires dans l'excution des activits de terrain
et la nomination d'un conseiller en amnagement auprs de chaque Inspecteur.




                                                      - 56 -

15.      La priode 2001  2004 a consacr la mise en oeuvre intensive des activits de dveloppement, la
finalisation et le dbut d'excution de quatre plans d'amnagement forestiers, participatifs et intgrs
(Ntboulou, Missirah/Kothiary, Thiwal et Sar Gardi).

16.      A partir de la fin de 2004, le Projet connat une phase de transition surtout marque par
l'engagement du financement du Royaume des Pays Bas dans une rforme des dpenses publiques dans
laquelle sera exprimente une nouvelle politique d'appui budgtaire dans le cadre de la dcentralisation.

17.      Cette phase de transition est importante tant pour le projet, que pour les populations qui sont  la
fois les acteurs et les bnficiaires. Elle ouvre des perspectives pour la consolidation des acquis en matire
de responsabilisation des collectivits dans la gestion des ressources naturelles.

IV. OBJECTIFS SPECIFIQUES DU PROJET

18.      Pour atteindre son objectif global, deux objectifs spcifiques ont t retenus : (i) Mettre en oeuvre
un systme de gestion durable des formations forestires des rgions de Tamba et de Kolda pour la
production de bois-nergie destin  l'approvisionnement des principaux centres urbains du Sngal ; (ii)
Matriser la demande en combustibles domestiques en favorisant les conomies de bois-nergie et la
promotion d'nergies de substitution ;

19.      Les principales activits prvues pour atteindre ces objectifs refltent par ailleurs l'application des
engagements du Gouvernement dfinis dans la Lettre de Politique de Dveloppement du Secteur de
l'Energie (LPDE) et plus particulirement dans le domaine des combustibles domestiques :

20.      En amont de la filire, en particulier au niveau de la Composante Gestion Durable et Participative
des Ressources Forestires (Composante Offre), le plan d'actions prvoyait les activits phares de
photographie et cartographie de 1 000 000 ha de formations forestires, l'inventaire de 600 000 ha,
l'amnagement de 300 000 ha de forts communautaires sur une base participative et intgre et la mise en
oeuvre d'un programme de conservation de la diversit dans la priphrie du Parc National du Niokolo
Koba.

21.      En aval de la filire, au niveau de la Composante Gestion de la Demande et Promotion des
Energies de Substitution, les principales activits prvues sont la modernisation de la filire charbon, la
promotion et la diffusion de rchauds  ptrole et la valorisation de rsidus industriels comme combustibles
alternatifs au charbon.

V. RESULTATS DU PROJET

Rappel des Rsultats de la Phase Prparatoire

22.      Malgr le retard de 6 mois concd dans le dmarrage du projet, l'excution de la phase
prparatoire a t acheve d'une manire satisfaisante en dcembre 2000 avec un large dpassement des
objectifs assigns.

23.      Ce retard tait d  des erreurs de procdures qui s'taient rpercutes sur la passation des
marchs des gros contrats (photographie et inventaire forestier) et d'acquisition des quipements essentiels
(vhicules, camions citernes et matriels de luttes contre les feux de brousse).




                                                      - 57 -

24.      Une photographie arienne a t effectue sur une superficie de 1 280 000 ha, 100 cartes des
peuplements (1 :30 000) de base, 100 cartes thmatiques ont t labores. La prise de vue additionnelle
ralise en 2001 a permis de couvrir une superficie globale de 1.305.000 ha.

  25.    Un inventaire forestier a t conduit sur 840 000 ha de formations ligneuses des zones
d'inter-vention du PROGEDE, dans le but d'acqurir des informations fiables sur les valeurs moyennes et la
varia-bilit des caractristiques stationnelles, cologiques et dendro-mtriques de chacune des strates
dlimites dans le cadre de la photo-inter-prtation et de la cartographie.

 26.     Un inventaire pastoral statistique par chantil-lon-nage stratifi a priori a t ralis au sein des
890.000 ha de formations ligneuses, dans le but d'acqurir des informations fiables sur les caractristiques
qualitatives et quantitatives moyennes des pturages.

27.      Un volet formation et renforcement des capacits a t mis en place tout au long du processus pour
130 agents du projet et de la Direction des Eaux et Forts qui leur a permis de matriser parfaitement les
techniques d'inventaires, de cartographie, de traitement, d'analyse et d'interprtation des donnes.

28.      Renforcement de capacits des populations et des collectivits pour mieux les outiller dans la prise
en charge des amnagements et de la gestion des ressources de leurs terroirs. La formation a cibl un total
de 1075 personnes et touche plus de 10 thmes.

29.      Elaboration d'un manuel et d'un systme de suivi valuation               dfinissant le systme de
planification, de rapportage et de circulation de l'information. Le projet a ainsi mis en place une dynamique
de planification oprationnelle et participative pour mieux prendre en compte les proccupations de
l'ensemble des partenaires.

30.      Durant la phase prparatoire, la Composante Demande a eu  conduire un certain nombre d'tudes
dont les plus pertinentes sont : (i) Etude de la stratgie et des actions de modernisation et d'ouverture de la
commercialisation du bois  nergie aux groupements de jeunes et de femmes ; (ii) Etude sur l'valuation
des expriences et des cots d'approvisionnement, de conditionnement et de distribution des foyers
amliors ; (iii) Etude sur les cots d'approvisionnement, de conditionnement, de transport et de distribution
du gaz butane.

VI. RESULTATS TECHNIQUES DU PROJET

Rsultats de la Composante Offre

31.      Dans le souci de mettre en oeuvre un systme de gestion durable et participatif des formations
forestires naturelles un certain nombre d'tudes ont t ralises par le projet tout au dbut de son
dmarrage touchant des domaines varis (feux de brousse, MARP, tude socio-conomique, tude flux et
modernisation de la filire bois nergie.

32.      La mise en place d'un Systme d'Information Ecologique Forestier et Pastoral (SIEF) a fortement
contribu  pallier l'absence de donnes fiables sur la ressource forestire, permettant aux techniciens de
disposer des donnes techniques ncessaires  l'laboration de plans d'amnagement et de gestion des
formations forestires. Au total 20 agents du projet et de la DEFCCS ont t forms, tandis que l'inventaire
a directement impliqu 56 agents des brigades forestires de terrain, 26 agents directement recruts par le
bureau d'tude pour la supervision et la conduite des oprations de terrain. Le traitement des donnes a t



                                                      - 58 -

fait par 3 femmes ITEF, recrutes et formes localement par le projet et les experts du bureau d'tudes.

33.      La phase II du SIEF s'est consacre essentiellement  la conduite d'un inventaire national pour
caractriser les diffrents bassins d'approvisionnement sur la base de 1 300 units d'chantillonnage
rparties  travers le pays. Les rsultats obtenus ont servi  l'laboration d'une carte du potentiel en bois 
nergie et de plans directeurs d'approvisionnement des principaux centres urbains du pays.

34.      L'laboration des plans d'amnagement des massifs de Ntboulou, Missirah/Kothiary, Thiwal et
Sar Gardi s'est acheve en fin 2004 couvrant          une superficie totale de 381.074 ha de formations
forestires, dont 233 064 ha  Kolda et 148 010 ha  Tamba. Conformment  l'approche participative du
projet, l'ensemble des plans d'amnagement a fait l'objet de restitution, d'approbation et d'appropriation
par les populations et les collectivits.

35.      Le dcoupage en blocs des massifs de Thiwal, Koar, Missira/Kothiary a t fait sur carte et leur
matrialisation effectue sur le terrain. Le parcellaire est ralis dans l'ensemble des massifs avec une
subdivision correspondant  la dure de la rotation fixe  8 ans.

36.      La mise en oeuvre des plans d'amnagement finaliss a dmarr en fin 2004. Les oprations de
martelage des parcelles  exploiter ont t acheves. Les coupes de bois vert
sont en cours. Une production escompte de 160 000 qx de charbon intgr dans le quota national est
attendue des premires oprations d'exploitation.

37.      Durant la premire phase du projet, 317 villages ont t organiss en Comits Villageois de
Gestion et de Dveloppement (CVGD). Ces organes qui constituent le rceptacle du projet en matire de
conduite d'activits et de vulgarisation sont tous dots d'un statut juridique. Des actions de renforcement
de capacits techniques, institutionnelles et organisationnelles ont t menes au profit des populations par
l'entremise de ces CVGD, plus de 1000 reprsentants villageois ont t touchs par la formation formelle.

38.      Le projet a procd  l'ouverture de 381,7 km de pare feux autour des massifs en amnagement. Il
met aussi un accent particulier sur la lutte passive par la communication, la sensibilisation et l'appui en
petits matriels aux comits.

39.      Le projet a dvelopp la stratgie qui consiste  planter ces pare-feux (pare-feu verts) et  les
emblaver en cultures nettoyantes comme l'arachide, nib et sorgho fourrager. Au total, 128,5 km de pare
feu ont t emblavs sur les 381,7 km ouverts. Aujourd'hui, ce paquet technique a fortement contribu 
rduire les feux de brousse et leurs impacts ngatifs sur les formations forestires et l'environnement
(rduction des missions des gaz  effet de serre).

40.      Pour la restauration des zones dgrades et l'largissement des puits  carbone, le projet a entrepris
avec les populations des actions de production de 1 200 000 plants dans plus de 800 ppinires
individuelles et communautaires.       Cette production a t utilise pour raliser, 384 ha de plantation
massive, 276 ha de verger, 173 km de pare feu vert, 132 km de brise vent et la pose de 28 500 greffons
dans les vergers de plus de 10 ans en vue d'amlioration de la production fruitire par le surgreffage. Par
ailleurs, dans le cadre du programme de production de biodiesel une plantation de 25 ha en Jatropha curcas
a t ralise. A ces ralisations physiques, s'ajoutent les oprations de mise en dfens dans les massifs en
amnagement et les rserves communautaires o il est not une bonne rgnration naturelle des espces
endmiques.




                                                     - 59 -

41.      Le projet a fait le pari de mettre en place un systme de gestion durable de production de bois
nergie qui suppose des prlvements bass sur une connaissance du potentiel forestier. C'est pourquoi,
l'exploitation du bois vert sur les parcelles n'a dmarr qu'en fin 2004, lorsque le SIEF finalis a permis de
prendre des dcisions d'amnagement rationnelles.

42.      Dans la conduite des activits de pr-amnagement, une production participative de bois-nergie a
t ralise par les CVGD dans des oprations sanitaires telles que le ramassage et de valorisation du bois
mort et sa vente soit en l'tat, mais surtout aprs carbonisation. Ces oprations ont permis de produire de
1999  fin 2004 un total de 90 495 qx de charbon et 21 900 stres de bois avec des recettes gnres de
228 591 000 FCFA, dont 162 891 000 FCFA provenant du charbon et 65 700 000 FCFA de la vente
directe du bois.

43.      Ces oprations constituent un moyen de nettoyage qui soustrait la fort d'une grande quantit de
combustibles qui alimentait les feux de brousse. De mme, les produits issus de l'ouverture des pare-feux
sont aussi valoriss en bois-nergie (charbon de bois, bois de chauffe) ou en bois d'oeuvre au profit des
populations. Les oprations de pramnagement ont servi de tests importants pour cerner toutes les
contraintes lies  une entre russie des populations dans la filire du bois-nergie.

44.      Aujourd'hui, des populations, jusqu'ici rticentes pour s'engager dans la production de charbon,
sont motives par les revenus qu'elles peuvent tirer de cette activit sans compromettre la ressource
forestire qui constitue la base de l'conomie des terroirs villageois.

45.      L'amnagement des ressources forestires vis par le projet s'intgre harmonieusement dans les
systmes de production agricole et pastorale. La mise en oeuvre d'un programme de dveloppement
agricole et pastoral consquent a permis de          dvelopper des itinraires techniques conservateurs des
ressources forestires et capables de renforcer les interactions cologiques et conomiques positives entre la
production agricole et pastorale et la prservation des ressources naturelles.

46.      Les actions menes par le projet s'articulent autour d'une panoplie d'activits ayant un impact rel
sur l'amlioration du niveau de vie des populations et de la conservation des ressources :

                 l'intensification cralire et fourragre de 2015,75 ha pour des prvisions de 600 ha. On
         estime  plus de 2741 tonnes de crales produites annuellement qui permet d'assurer les besoins
         alimentaires pour toute l'anne de 14 816 personnes. Les gains de rendements obtenus ont stabilis
         le front de dfrichement dans les zones d'interventions du projet.

                 le dveloppement d'activits marachres dans les zones d'intervention a gnr au total
         128 820 350 FCFA et intresse au total 9511 femmes.

                 Le programme hydraulique a ralis : (i) le curage de 16 puits traditionnels ; (ii) le forage
         de 15 puits hydrauliques ; (iii) la construction de 60 bassins de stockage d'eau dans les parcelles
         de marachage ; (iv) la construction de 4 ouvrages de franchissement pour dsenclaver les villages
         du massif de Thiwal et de la zone de biodiversit.

47.      Le programme de productions pastorales a permis une intensification fourragre sur 82, 9 ha
(61,65 ha de nib et 11,25 ha de sorgho) avec un rendement de 05T/ha de matire sche, pour une
production de 415 tonnes de ms capables de nourrir au total 880 UBT.




                                                       - 60 -

48.      Une intensification de la production animale par l'embouche a accompagn ce programme, 1303
bovins et 40 bliers ont t embouchs pour la viande, 954 vaches pour la production de lait. Un
accroissement de plus de 10.000 litres/an de lait a t obtenu  partir de l'anne 2003, ainsi que des recettes
de 325 750 000 FCFA provenant de la seule vente des bovins embouchs. Des campagnes de vaccination
ont t conduites avec 70 650 petits ruminants vaccins dont 55%  Tamba et 45%  Kolda.

49.      L'aviculture traditionnelle a t amliore par l'introduction de 4 000 coqs raceurs qui ont permis
d'amliorer le format de la race locale, d'augmenter la capacit de ponte dont le rendement moyen annuel
par poule est de 180 oeufs, compar  la productivit de la race locale qui donne une moyenne annuelle de
60 oeufs. Des campagnes de lutte contre la peste aviaire ont t conduites par le projet de 1999  2004 sur
une population totale value  41 092 sujets. Dans le cadre de l'excution du programme de conservation
de la biodiversit, un levage de pintades a t effectu par l'introduction entre 2001 et 2004 de 2000 sujets
qui ont engendr une population entre 2002 et 2004 de 21 000 sujets. Ces oprations ont permis, outre les
protines qu'elles procurent, d'accrotre les revenus des femmes et des jeunes au fil du temps.

50.      L'apiculture a t dveloppe par la pose de 4.202 ruches traditionnelles amliores et 2.224
ruches kenyanes. Une production annuelle moyenne de 10 000 kg a t atteinte avec l'adoption de
techniques de rcoltes qui ont permis de diminuer les feux de brousse, de prserver le peuplement d'abeilles
et la diversit biologique et en mme temps d'augmenter les revenus des populations. L'apiculture moderne
introduite par le projet, qui avait au dpart une motivation cologique en tant qu'alternative  l'utilisation
du feu pour la rcolte de miel, s'est transforme en vritable moteur de dveloppement conomique, du fait
des revenus importants que les populations en tirent par la vente du miel et la valorisation de la cire.

51.      La dgradation des ressources forestires, en dehors de l'amenuisement du potentiel ligneux,
s'accompagne de la disparition de certaines espces animales et vgtales. Compte tenu de la proximit des
chantiers d'exploitation forestire avec le Parc National du Niokolo Koba, un important programme de
conservation de la diversit biologique a t initi dans la zone priphrique. Ce programme couvre une
superficie totale de 173 000 ha ainsi rpartis, 53 700 ha  Tamba et de 119 300 ha  Kolda. Il concerne
particulirement les communauts rurales de Dialakoto et Linkring. Une rserve communautaire de
biodiversit a t rige dans chaque communaut rurale, la rserve de Wadiatoulaye (12 686 ha), situe
dans la CR de Linkring et celle de Dialamahan (12 863 ha) situe dans la CR de Dialakoto. Les chartes de
gestion de ces entits ont t approuves par les autorits et les dlibrations faites par les communauts
rurales concernes.

52.      Une extension du programme sur une aire de 54 000 ha a t ralise tout au dbut de l'anne 2004
dans le dpartement de Kdougou. Les oprations prliminaires de diagnostic participatif et d'organisations
des populations ont t dj menes dans les 11 villages bnficiaires du programme dans la communaut
rurale de Tomboronkoto.

53.      La pauvret des populations riveraines ayant t identifie comme une cause importante du
braconnage, des activits gnratrices de revenus ont t dveloppes dans ces trois communauts rurales
pour desserrer la pression sur les ressources. C'est ainsi que ces zones ont aussi bnfici des programmes
d'intensification cralire, de marachage, d'arboriculture, d'amlioration de la volaille locale,
d'apiculture, d'embouche et d'levage de pintades.

54.      En outre, un programme d'Education Environnementale est mis en oeuvre pour dvelopper la
sensibilit et la conscience environnementale des plus jeunes. Plus de 185 enseignants rpartis dans 220
tablissements scolaires ont t touchs pour une population de 8.000 lves.



                                                     - 61 -

Les Rsultats de la Composante Demande :

55.      La mise en oeuvre de cette Composante a fortement souffert des carences constates dans le choix
d'une structure d'intermdiation financire devant administrer les fonds d'appui. Nanmoins, au mois de
juillet 2004, un contrat d'un montant de 200 millions a t finalement sign avec PAMECAS pour la
gestion des fonds. Un lot d'une trentaine de projets proposs par des promoteurs est en cours d'valuation
et de financement.

56.      La modernisation de la commercialisation du charbon de bois en zone urbaine est un des rsultats
de la Composante intimement li  la mobilisation des fonds d'appui pour surtout appuyer l'implantation de
petites d'units de conditionnement, de boutique nergie et la valorisation du poussier de charbon. Suite aux
tudes ralises par le projet, deux oprateurs conomiques ont manifest l'intrt pour l'implantation
d'units de conditionnement du charbon  Dakar.

57.      Le concept de boutique-nergie a t dvelopp par le projet pour promouvoir la distribution des
combustibles domestiques et des quipements de cuisson. Les prototypes installs  Kaolack, Kolda et
Gudiawaye ont impuls l'intrt de 18 promoteurs privs qui ont t financs par le projet. Le
remboursement des prts consentis s'effectue d'une manire satisfaisante.

58.      Les actions pour la diversification des activits des exploitants ont aussi t limites par les
difficults de mobilisation des fonds d'appui. Nanmoins, un sminaire a t tenu avec les exploitants
forestiers pour les informer des opportunits offertes par le projet pour diversifier leurs activits. En
prlude du dmarrage des coupes dans les zones en amnagement, des contrats ont t signs avec les
organismes d'exploitants forestiers sous l'gide du service forestier pour l'achat et la commercialisation des
produits issus des amnagements.

59.      Pour la promotion du krosne comme combustible de cuisson,  la lumire des rsultats des tests
d'acceptabilit technique et social, une promotion portant sur 700 rchauds de type Amul a t faite par
des oprateurs de Kaolack et Fatick.

60.      Pour la promotion du gaz butane, une tude de base a t ralise. Des recommandations ont t
fournies aux autorits pour amliorer la distribution du gaz  l'intrieur du pays. Mais depuis l'extinction
progressive de la subvention sur le gaz butane, celui-ci est de plus en plus inaccessible suite au
renchrissement du produit et les actions devront s'inscrire dans une logique de pallier ces difficults.

61.      L'opration pilote de valorisation des sous  produits agro-industriels a t impulse avec la
Coopration tripartite, Rgion Wallonne de Belgique, la SAED et le PROGEDE par le dmarrage du projet
Bio-terre. Un agglomrateur a t install  Ross Bthio afin de permettre la production de boulets de
combustible  partir de la biomasse agglomre. Des tests d'acceptabilit technique et sociale ont t
mens et le projet transfr  des privs sngalais. La commercialisation des produits est en cours.

62.      La promotion des foyers amliors pour la rduction de la demande de bois-nergie constitue la
principale composante du programme de rationalisation de la consommation du bois nergie. L'intense
activit de sensibilisation mene avec l'appui en communication des artisans auprs des populations et du
secteur priv a permis de vendre dans le march 125 900 foyers dont 900 dans des oprations pilotes
(FIARA, FIDAK). Par ailleurs le projet a eu  former 20 artisans en Ergonomie et Gestion  Dakar, Tamba
et Kolda.



                                                     - 62 -

63.      La mise en place du SIEP par la Composante procde du souci d'appuyer la Direction de l'Energie
et des structures partenaires en matire de planification du sous secteur des combustibles domestiques. Le
systme constitu de sept modules a t finalis, restitu et valid par les autorits et les utilisateurs
potentiels. Une base de donnes est dj ralise sur l'exploitation forestire, les combustibles de
substitution et sur les prix des combustibles.

64.      Dans le but d'alimenter le module, flux de combustibles ligneux, une enqute nationale a t
ralise dans les dix rgions du pays dans la priode du 10 au 20 Dcembre 1998. Une seconde enqute flux
de bois-nergie a t ralise durant la mme anne.

65.      L'enqute nationale sur la consommation des combustibles domestiques a t ralise auprs de
plus de 6.000 mnages. Plus de trois variables ont t enregistres et traites pour fournir des informations
sur les dterminants de la consommation des combustibles domestiques.

66.      L'intgration de l'ensemble de ces donnes du sous secteur permet de fournir aux dcideurs les
tableaux de bord requis pour la planification et la gestion du sous secteur des combustibles domestiques.

VII. PERSPECTIVES POUR LA CONSOLIDATION DES ACQUIS

67.      La dernire mission de supervision du projet, ayant apprci le travail accompli a propos la
prolongation du projet de deux (2) ans sous forme de phase transitoire. Cette dcision importante pour
l'avenir du projet est soutenue par plusieurs raisons :

                 La mise en place du SIEF et du SIEP constitue une avance significative pour une
         meilleure connaissance, une matrise des ressources forestires et une bonne planification
         nergtique. Ces outils de planification doivent tre institutionnaliss afin que le Service Forestier,
         la Direction et les autres utilisateurs potentiels puissent en tirer meilleur profit et les soutenir.

                 En matire d'amnagement des ressources forestires, le projet a mis en place un modle
         de conception bas sur le potentiel en bois d'nergie. Il importe que le service forestier et les
         populations s'en approprient pour gnraliser les amnagements  l'chelle nationale. En plus, les
         acquis en matire d'amnagement intgr participatif doivent tre soutenus et consolids, voire
         mme tendus  l'chelle nationale.

                 Le soutien  la dcentralisation et la lutte contre la pauvret mritent la mise en place
         d'une formule assortie de moyens financiers, matriels et humains permettant aux collectivits
         locales de jouer leurs vritables rles dans la gestion des ressources forestires de leurs terroirs.
         Pour se faire, l'option de l'Etat de mettre en place un vaste Programme National de
         Biomasse-Energie reste pertinente eu gard  sa proccupation d'accompagner les collectivits
         locales dans la gestion des ressources de leurs terroirs.

VIII. ANALYSE CRITIQUE DE LA COLLABORATION ENTRE LA BANQUE , LE
GOUVERNEMENT ET LE PROGRAMME .

68.      L'Etat du Sngal a beaucoup apprci le concours financier et technique de l'ensemble des
bailleurs, en particulier de l'IDA, tte de file, pour la contribution substantielle qu'ils ont apport pour le
succs et la bonne excution du Programme de Gestion Durable et Participative des Energies



                                                       - 63 -

Traditionnelles et de Substitution (PROGEDE). Le renforcement des capacits des agents et structures
impliqus ainsi que les bnfices normes que les populations bnficiaires ont directement tirs de cette
exprience sont des rsultats tangibles que l'Etat apprcie  leur juste valeur.

69.      La collaboration avec la Banque s'est en particulier distingue dans : (i) la familiarit des agents du
projet avec les procdures administratives et financires de l'IDA ; (ii) la diligence dans le traitement des
dossiers (demande de non objection, paiement des DRF, etc); (iii) la formation permanente des agents sur
les nouvelles directives ; (iv) la mise  disposition d'une expertise approprie pour toutes les tudes et les
questions techniques, administratives et financires souleves durant la mise en oeuvre du projet ; (v) la
disponibilit, la confiance et le souci d'aider les populations  vaincre le spectre de la pauvret manifests
par le Task Manager et l'quipe de la mission rsidente charge du suivi du projet, qui constituent par
ailleurs la cl du succs du projet, sont des qualits hautement apprcies par l'ensemble du personnel et les
populations bnficiaires du projet.

70.      La mise en oeuvre du projet a t aussi un moment d'changes d'expriences dans le cadre du
Programme RPTES et des diffrentes rencontres internationaux sur les combustibles domestiques sous
l'gide de la Banque.

71.      Les principales dcisions ayant influences la naissance du projet sont :

                 La confrence de Rio sur le Dveloppement Durable, o les organismes internationaux, les
         bailleurs et les Etats se sont accords  reconnatre la ncessaire implication des citoyens concerns
         dans la gestion de leur environnement.

                 Le processus de rflexions initi entre 1993 et 1995 dans le cadre du Programme Rgional
         pour le Secteur des Energies Traditionnelles (RPTES) sous l'gide de la Banque Mondiale.

                 La loi sur la dcentralisation promulgue par le Sngal en 1996 et la ratification des
         diffrentes conventions invitant le service forestier  adapter sa mission aux problmatiques de la
         lutte contre la dsertification, la dcentralisation, la participation des citoyens  la gestion de
         l'environnement et la lutte contre la pauvret.

                 Les accords de crdits et de dons signs

                 L'arrt interministriel n 10291 en date du 24 dcembre 1997 portant cration,
         organisation et fonctionnement du projet.

72.      La vie du projet a t aussi marque par plusieurs missions de supervision qui ont dmontr
l'intrt de la Banque  la bonne excution du projet. Les conclusions et recommandations les plus
pertinentes sont rsumes ci-aprs :

                 Du 30 juin 1998 au 3 juillet 1998, mission de la Banque, Aide  Mmoire en date du 4
         juillet 1998 avec comme principale recommandation la tenue de sances d'information  l'endroit
         du personnel du projet pour leur donner une ide prcise de leurs rles et responsabilits afin de
         parvenir  une harmonisation de niveau par rapport aux objectifs principaux du projet. ;

                 Du 27 janvier au 11 Fvrier 2000, Aide  Mmoire n056/DB/sn du 14 /03/2000 avec
         comme principales recommandations (i) un besoin de rorganiser la structure institutionnelle du



                                                       - 64 -

        projet ; (ii) la ncessit de mieux intgrer les activits des antennes dans celles des inspections
        rgionales de Tamba et de Kolda ;

                Du 06/05 au 25/05/2002, Aide  Mmoire n 167.02/DB du 11/07/2002 qui a jug
        satisfaisante les performances accomplies dans le processus de mise en oeuvre des activits et
        rsultats atteints en terme de rduction de la pauvret et de l'impact sur l'environnement et a
        suggr, au vue des rsultats les nouvelles opportunits  saisir en terme de dveloppement
        socio-conomique et de rduction de la pauvret (vergers, apiculture et levage de pintades). ;

                Du 02/06 au 11/06/2003, Aide  Mmoire du 12/08/2003 avec comme principales
        recommandation (i) la libralisation du charbon pour enrayer les problmes de mvente de charbon
        relevs dans les zones de production de charbon du PROGEDE et (ii) la reconnaissance juridique
        des CVGD pour leur permettre d'couler leurs productions dans les grands centres de
        consommations ;

                Du 18/03 au 26/03/2004, Aide  Mmoire du 21 juillet 2004 avec comme principale
        recommandation la continuation des activits en cours dans le cadre d'une deuxime phase du
        Programme.

VIII. PRINCIPAUX ENSEIGNEMENTS TIRES DE LA COLLABORATION ET
      PERSPECTIVES REQUISES

73.     Les annes de collaboration avec la Banque dans le cadre de la mise en oeuvre du PROGEDE ont
permis  l'quipe de tirer les enseignements suivants :

                La parfaite appropriation par les populations et les collectivits des enjeux de la gestion
        des ressources naturelles dans les zones couvertes par le projet.

                L'intrt manifeste du gouvernement du Sngal sur les systmes communautaires de
        production combustibles  partir de la biomasse eu gard aux rsultats accomplis.

                La flexibilit de la Banque sur les diffrentes propositions de l'Etat pour une optimisation
        de l'utilisation des ressources (rallocation budgtaire et ramnagements techniques).

                La disponibilit des experts de la Banque dans la recherche de solutions aux problmes
        rencontrs durant la vie du projet.

                L'excellente expertise fournie par la Banque durant les diffrentes missions de supervision
        et la pertinence des dcisions prises pour la russite de la mission.

                L'engagement pris par la Banque  poursuivre cette exprience dans le cadre d'une phase
        transitoire de deux ans pour consolider les acquis, trouver une solution heureuse  l'enclavement
        des zones de production, promouvoir l'accs aux services nergtiques modernes et faciliter le
        transport des personnes et des biens.

                Ces options sont certes en parfaite phase avec le souhait actuel des populations
        bnficiaires. Mais, il reste vident que pour l'Etat, la poursuite de cette exprience  l'chelle
        nationale, dans le cadre d'un vaste programme de Biomasse-Energie, demeure une option majeure,



                                                      - 65 -

         suite aux rsultats forts encourageants obtenus par le PROGEDE sur le terrain.. Ce programme,
         qui prendrait en charge l'ensemble de la problmatique nergie domestique du Sngal, est le seul
         gage pour contenir les nombreuses questions souleves par les changements apports dans la
         gestion des ressources forestires par la responsabilisation directe des populations.

IX. EVALUATION ECONOMIQUE ET FINANCIERE DU PROJET (cf. annexes)

74.      En ce qui concerne les dcaissements des fonds IDA et GEF, aucune difficult majeure n'a t
note. Par contre pour les fonds lis aux accords financs par le Royaume des Pays Bas, le financement
prvu ( 8,8 Millions USD) a t mis  la disposition du programme en deux tapes. L'accord (21581-SE )
sign au dbut du projet, d'un montant de 3.058.762,53 USD a pratiquement t puis  la fin du premier
semestre 2001. L'accord (50269-SE) d'un montant de USD 5.734.755 est entr en vigueur en Janvier
2002 et a permis la poursuite des travaux d'inventaire suspendus suite  la rupture de financement. Les
montants dcaisss s'lvent  :

         (i)   Pays Bas :    8 637 398, 15 US Dollar ;
         (ii) GEF      4 684 618, 60 US Dollar;
         (iii) IDA       : 5 135 725, 90 US Dollar.

         Les taux de dcaissements pour les diffrentes sources de financement s'lvent au 31 Dcembre
2004  : (i) Pays Bas : 98, 64 % ; (ii) GEF :        99, 67 % ; (iii) IDA : 98,76 %. Ce qui donne un
taux de dcaissement global de 98 %  la mme date .

75.      L' Etat du SENEGAL a mis  la disposition du Programme un montant de : F Cfa 751 000 000
soit ( 1,2 million de dollar US ) correspondant  l' quivalent de son engagement vis  vis des bailleurs.



76.      Concernant la situation comptable, Les tats financiers ont t audits pour les premiers exercices
(1998, 1999 et 2000) par le Cabinet Mariama Ba et depuis l'exercice 2001 par le Cabinet Auditex Ces
tats financiers ont t certifis sincres et rguliers par les diffrents cabinets d'expertise Comptable
chargs de l'audit. Ils comprennent :
                le bilan

                le compte de rsultat

                le tableau financier des ressources et emplois ( TAFIRE )

                les tableaux des ressources et emplois du projet suivant les diffrentes catgories de
         dpenses ont t tablies et audits.

                Les rapports d'audit des comptes ont toujours t transmis  la Mission Rsidente de la
         Banque mondiale      dans les dlais en vue de respecter le dlai de transmission fix au 30 Juin .




                                                     - 66 -

ANNEXES

Annexe 1 A
Project Costs by Components (in US$ milliers equivalent)

      A Composante Phase             Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest Percentage of Appraisal
           Preparatoire                   (S.A.R.)           Estimate
1 Inventaire des format.forestires                 948, 2     974, 77                   102,8
2 Evaluation rurale Participative                   66 , 0 51, 917 22                     78,7
3   Systme integr de gestion                       85,8    116, 085                    136,2
des R.N.
4 Dveloppement Institutionnel                    1 878,8  2 058, 746                    109,6
5 Etudes Prparatoires                              530,7     612,171                    115,4


Total                                           3 509,5 3814,221                        108,7




Annexe 1 B

Project Costs by Components (in US$ milliers equivalent)


      B Composante Offre            Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest Percentage of Appraisal
                                        (S.A.R.)           Estimate
1 Dvelopement Institutionnel                  5 235 ,2      6 275,013                    120
2 Micro  Entreprises rurales                  3 573, 8      2227,715                    62, 3
3  Fonds d' Appui                                920, 0        705,438                   76,7
4 Stratgie de Communication                     168, 0          170,00                101, 2
5  Amnagement/ Inventaire                     1 863, 2     2 148,800                     115


Total                                      11 760, 2      11 526, 96                    98, 0




                                                  - 67 -

Annexe 1 C

Project Costs by Components (in US$ milliers equivalent)


    C Composante Demande             Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest  Percentage of Appraisal
                                         (S.A.R).            Estimate
1 Dveloppement Institutionnel                 1 475, 9         1759,00                  119, 3
2 Modernisation filire bois                        64, 0         161,33                 252, 1
3 Reconversion des exploitants                     236, 0       285,434                  120, 9
4 Promotion du krosene                             72, 0       125,494                  174 ,3
5 Promotion du Gaz butane &                        174, 0      142, 717                    80, 0
6 Foyers amliors                                 164, 0         180, 8                 110, 2
7 Autres initiatives prives                       120, 0         200, 5                 167, 1
Total                                          2 305, 9     2 855, 275                   123, 8



Annexe 2

Tableau des Cots par mthodes de passation (en US $)

Catgories            Appel d `        Appel d'         Cotations       Autres *        Total
de dpenses           offres           O ffres
                      International national

                      A .O. I.         A.O.N.
1 Gnie Civil                440 763       540 837           79 675           0         1 061 275

                                                           (73 493)
2 Matriels                 2 469 007                    1 019 375                       3 488 382

& Vhicules                 (604 260)                     (169 662)
3 Services                                    0               0          2 214 833       2 214 833
de
Consultants
                                                                        (228 018)

4 Biens                                                    779 600                         779 600

                                                         (375 628)
5 Fonds d'                    0               0             500 000       970 900        1 470 900
appui

                                                                        (970 900)
6 Formation                   0               0           1 283 176           0           1283 176

                                                          (675 789)
Total                 2 909 770            540 837        2 882 226      3 965 333      10 298 166

                                                                                        (3 097750)




                                                  - 68 -

Annexe 2

Tableau des Cots par mthodes de passation (en US $)

Catgories de        Appel d ` offres      Appel d'         Cotations          Autres *       Total
dpenses             International         Offres

                     A .O. I.              national

                                           A.O.N.

1 Gnie Civil                 440 763         540 837              79 675             0         1 061 275

                                                                 (73 493)

2 Matriels                  2 469 007                          1 019 375                      3 488 382

& Vhicules                  (604 260)                           (169 662)

3 Services de                                    0                  0             2 214 833    2 214 833
Consultants                                                                        (228 018)

4 Biens                                                           779 600                        779 600

                                                                (375 628)

5 Fonds d'                     0                 0                500 000          970 900      1 470 900
appui                                                                               (970 900)


6 Formation                    0                 0               1 283 176                0       1283 176

                                                                 (675 789)

Total                     2 909 770             540 837          2 882 226       3 965 333    10 298 166

                                                                                              (3 097750)

N.B. Les montants entre parenthses constituent les paiements effectus par l'IDA.
* Il s'agit des services de consultants ( SBQC, SBQ,...) et les Fonds d' appui de la composante Demande
(entente directe avec le PAMECAS suite  la non objection de la Banque).




                                                     - 69 -

Additional Annex 9. Illustration of PROGEDE's Outcomes and Achievements


Figures 1 to 10 provide illustrations of the Sustainable Woodfuels Supply Management Component
implementation work and of its developmental and poverty alleviation outcomes.




                                                      Figure 2: Sustainable Woodfuel Production

Figure   1:  Community-based      Sustainable  Forest
Management Systems




Figure 3: Community-based Improved Charbonization Methods




                                                                         Figure 4: Sustainable Charcoal: Energy, Environm
                                                                         Social Outcomes (Bank Staff Demba Balde and
                                                                         PROGEDE's Sustainable Origin, Quality and
                                                                         Charcoal).




                                                 - 70 -

                                                       Figure 6: Apiculture: Forest Fire Reduction
Figure 5: Women Vegetable Gardens: Economic            Strategy, Plus Economic Diversification and
Diversification,Nutrition and Gender Outcomes          Nutrition Outcomes




Figure 7: Village Access to Moder Energy Services
(Crop Grinding)                                        Figure 8: Village Access to Potable and Process Water




                                                       Figure 10: Village Access to Improved Health
Figure 9: Environmental and Energy Education           Services
Modules




                                                 - 71 -

Figures 11 to 14 provide illustrations of the Demand Management and Inter-fuel Substitution Options
Component implementation work and of its developmental and poverty alleviation outcomes.




Figure 11: Support to Private Sector-based Improve
Stove Production                                   Figure 12: Village Access to Inter-fuel Substitution Option




Figure 13: Urban and Peri-urban Energy Boutiques
                                                   Figure 14: Energy Boutiques / Certified Household Energy
                                                   Equipment and Supplies




                                                  - 72 -

- 73 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD 28722

     18                         17                                16                                   15                                      14                                     13                            12

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SENEGAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SUSTAINABLE AND PARTICIPATORY
                                                               To Nouakchott                                  Podor                                                                                                                                       ENERGY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                                                                                                                                              Senegal                        M A U R I T A N I A                                                                                                  (SPEMP)
                                                                                           Dagana                                                                                                                                                                      PROJECT LOCATION AND CURRENT
                                                                                   Richard                                                           R.
                                                                                                                           Har
                                                                                     Toll                                   Lao                                                                                                                                            CHARCOAL PRODUCTION AREA
      A t l a n t i c                                                         Lac de Guier
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SPEMP PROJECT AREAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (WOODFUELS SUPPLY MANAGEMENT)
16                                          Saint-                                                                       S A I N T -             Galoya                                                                                          16

                                             Louis        Mpal                                                                                               Thilogne                                                                                                                  CURRENT COMMERCIAL CHARCOAL
      O c e a n                           Ndibne                             Valle                               Lagbar                                                                                                                                                                EXPLOITATION ZONES
                                          Gandiol                                                                                                     L O U I S
                                                                                          d u                                                                              Matam                                                                                                       PRIMARY ROADS
                                                       Louga      Niomr                       Mbeuleukh                                                          Ouro Sogui
                                                                                                Ferlo                                                                                                                                                                                  SECONDARY ROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                         Kbmr                          Dara        Lingure
                                                                                                                                                     Ranrou
                                                                Sagata  L    O     U      G    A                                                                                                                                                                                       DEPARTMENT CAPITALS

                                                  Mkh             Darou                                                                                                                                                                                                              REGION CAPITALS
15                                                                 Mousti                                                                                           Valle
                                                Pir Goury                                                   Vlingara                                                                                                                            15
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bakel                                                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                           Tivaouane                                                     Til                                                 Ft Bow       du
          CAP-VERT                                             Ndindi                                                                                                             Ferlo
             Pikine                   This           D I O U R B E L      Touba                Gassane                                 Valle                                                                                                                                         DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES

                             Sbikhoutane              Bambey            Mbak                                                                 d u
                   Rufisque
         DAKAR                   T H I  S                    Diourbel                                                                              M b o u n                                                                                                              KOLDA       REGION BOUNDARIES AND NAMES
                                                                                Kolobane                                                                                                                                               Senegal

                                                                               Mbar                                                                                                                                      To Kayes
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Kidira                          R.                                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                      F A T I C K  Gossas                                                   Payar
                                    Mbour                                                                                     S a l o u m                     Toubr

                                                Fatick                   Guinguino                  Ndiobne                                                   Bafal

                                                                   Kaolack         K A O L A C K         Lour-Escale                                                                                  Goudiri
                           Joal-Fadiout
14                                           Saloum
                                                  Foundiougne                 Kaffrine                                                                                                                                                            14
                                                                                                       Koungheul           Koumpentoum
                                                                        Ndofane
                                                  Sokone                                                                                        Koussanar                  Kotiari Naoud                                              M A L I                                   0                     50                    100

                                                                             Nioro du Rip                                                                                   T A M B A C O U N D A
                                                                                                                                        Maka   Tambacounda                                                     Dalafi                                                                            KILOMETERS



                                                                             R.                                                                    R.
                                    BANJUL                   T H E Gambia                                                                                                                                                                                              This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                          Gambia
                                                                                                                                                                                               Gamon                                                                   The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
                                                         G A M B I A                                                                                                                                                                                                   on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                                                                                                 Vlingara                                                                                    Khossanto
                                                                                                                                                     Mdina
13                                                                                                                                                  Gounas                     Simnti                                                Missira
                                                Diouloulou                                              K O L D A                                                                                                                                 13
                                                                                                                                                                                 N I O K O L O K O B A                                                                          Former
                                             ZIGUINCHOR                                                      Kolda
                                                                                                                                                                                 N AT I O N A L PA R K                                                                         Spanish                                         ALGERIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Mako                Saraya
                                                                      Marsassoum                                                                                                                                                                                                Sahara
                                                     Bignona
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ocean
                                                                            Sdhiou
                                                        Casamance                                                                                                                                                                 Nafadji
                                               Ziguinchor                                                                                                                                                             Kdougou                                                    MAURITANIA
                                                  Oussouye

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Atlantic
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M A L I
                                                                         To Bissau G U I N E A - B I S S A U                                                                                                                                           Dakar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SENEGAL                                                        NIGER
12                                                                                                                                                                                                G U I N E A                                    12   THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GAMBIA                                                              BURKINA               NIGERIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GUINEA-                                                           FASO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BISSAU                    GUINEA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOGO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BENIN
                                 17                                16                                   15                                      14                                     13                            12                                                                                              GHANA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CTE D'IVOIRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        APRIL 1997

