Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7219-MK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 21.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
JUNE 12, 1998
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May, 1993)
Currency Unit = Denars
US$1  = 55.65   Denars
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Denars per US$1
(Period Average)
1995          1996          1997          1998
38.1          39.9          49.4            56.2
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           -      Country Assistance Strategy
CMEA          -      Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
ESAF          -      Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP           -      Gross Domestic Product
HIF           -      Health Insurance Fund
IDA           -      International Development Association
IMF           -      International Monetary Fund
PHC           -      Primary Health Care
UN            -      United Nations
USAID         -      United States Agency for International Development
SSAC          -      Social Sectors Adjustment Credit
Vice President: Johannes Linn
Country Director: Ajay Chhibber
Sector Director:  Christopher Lovelace
Sector Leader:  Michal Rutkowski
Program Team Leader: Mansoora Rashid



FOR OFmCIAL USE ONLY
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Amount:                     SDR 21.6 million equivalent (US$29 million equivalent)
Terms:                     IDA terms with a thirty-five year maturity
Summary:                    The proposed Social Sector Adjustment Credit would support
measures to help improve the long term financial solvency of
social sector programs; reduce labor market distortions, and
reduce poverty by improving the quality and targeting efficiency
of social sector programs. Specifically, the proposed credit
supports systemic reforms of (i) the pension system; (ii) the
health insurance system; (iii) the unemployment insurance
system; (iv) a revision of the labor code, and (v) the
strengthening of the social assistance system. These reforms are
consistent with the country's strategy to promote economic
growth by rnaintain.ng macro-economic stability and reducing
barriers to nr;vate sector development, while protecting the
poorest groups in the population.
Schedule of Disbursement:   To be released in two equal tranches: the first SDR 10.8 million
equivalent upon effectiveness, the second SDR 10.8 million
equivalent upon fulfillment of second tranche conditions.
Implementing Agencies:      The Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
The Ministry of Finance
Poverty:                    Poverty focused operation
Project ID Number:          MK-PA-38392
Map:                        IBRD 2550IR
This document has a restdcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1I. INTRODUCTION ..................................................
II. THE ECONOMY .................................................                                              I
III. THE SOCIAL SECTOR REFORM STRATEGY .................................................2
A. BACKGROUND AND KEY ISSUES .....2............................................2
The Pension System .................................................3
The Health Insurance System ..................................................3
The Unemployment Insurance System .................................................3
The Labor Code ..........................................4
The Social Assistance System ....4.............................................4
B. THE SOCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM ..................................................4
The Pension System .................................................5
The Health Insurance System ....6.............................................6
The Unemployment Insurance System .....7............................................7
The Labor Code ...................................................
The Social Assistance System .................................................                               9
IV. THE PROPOSED SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT ..................................................9
A. CREDIT OBJECTIVES AND RATIONALE ..................................................9
B. FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS .................................................                                    10
C. MONITORING ARRANGEMENTS .................................................                                   10
D. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT ..................................................11
E. BENEFITS AND RISKS ..................................................11
V       M. RECOMMENDATION .................................................11
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1: LETTER OF SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY
ANNEX 2: THE POLICY MATRIX
ANNEX 3A: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
ANNEX 3B: KEY EXPOSURE INDICATORS
ANNEX 4: STATISTICAL ANNEX
ANNEX 5: TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING STEPS
ANNEX 6: STATUS OF BANK OPERATIONS IN FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
ANNEX 7: FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA AT-A-GLANCE
MAP IBRD No. 25501R



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
I. INTRODUCTION
1.     I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed Social Sector
Adjustment Credit (SSAC) to the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia for SDR 21.6 million equivalent
(the equivalent of US$29 million). The Credit will be on standard IDA terms with a thirty five year maturity,
including a ten year grace period. The proposed Credit would provide financial support for the Government's
Social Sector Reform Program. The program comprises measures that include systemic reforms of the pension,
health and unemployment insurance system, a revision of the labor code, and the strengthening of the social
assistance system. These measures are consistent with the country's strategy to promote economic growth by
maintaining macro-economic stability and reducing barriers to private sector development, while protecting
the poorest groups in the population.
II. THE ECONOMY
2.     The country has made significant economic progress since the period immediately following its
independence. The macro-stabilization program, initiated in 1994, has successfully contained large fiscal
deficits and brought high rates of inflation under control. In 1996, the country realized a small positive growth
rate (1 %) after several years of decline. Relations with Paris and London Club creditors, disrupted earlier, have
been normalized. The external debt-GDP ratio remains reasonable at 40% of GDP in 1997. The Government
has also initiated structural reforms. Nearly 90% (by number) of state enterprises have been privatized.
Progress has also been made in reforming the banking sector. Stopanska Banka, the largest bank (in terms of
assets) is being privatized and directed credits by the National Bank have been eliminated. Trade policy
reforms have reduced quantitative trade restrictions and simplified the tariff regime. Internal distribution and
price controls have been reduced substantially, notably in agriculture. A new law on rural land use has been
adopted which provides secure property rights and promotes investment. The Government has also initiated
social sector reforms. Preliminary steps have been taken to downsize the pension system, several restrictive
provisions in the labor code (including severance and layoff notices to workers) have been modified, and two
new social sector programs (a means tested social assistance system and an unemployment insurance scheme)
have been established to protect groups most vulnerable to income declines during the transition process.
3.     Despite these achievements, a considerable reform agenda still confronts the Government. Economic
activity remains sluggish, with a less than 2% growth rate estimated for 1997. Registered unemployment
continues to inch upwards and has now exceeded 30%. Despite privatization, trading on the stock market has
been low, and has contributed to a diversified ownership structures of enterprises that does not promote major
restructuring. Restrictive labor laws, weak financial discipline, and close links between Blanks and enterprises,
further constrain an aggressive restructuring of privatized firms. A Bankruptcy Law has recently been passed
and should facilitate the process of restructuring, if it is effectively enforced.
4.     Measures to promote a private sector led growth will require, inter alia, a reduction in credit and land
market constraints faced by small and medium scale enterprises. Financial sector reforms that would improve
prudential regulation and supervision of banks, remove credit ceilings, and impose hard budget constraints on



-2-
non-viable enterprises, are essential for reducing the cost of credit to the emerging private sector. Equally
critical is a revision of the labor code to reduce market rigidities and high labor costs faced by small and
medium enterprises.
5.     Sustaining the macro-stability will critically depend on further structural reforms, particularly in the
social sectors. Social sector programs' consume nearly 70% of public outlays, impose a high tax burden, and
place considerable pressure on the budget, crowding out much needed investment spending. Reforms of the
public pension, health and unemployment insurance programs should help reduce fiscal costs and the tax
burden, directly (over time, in the case of pensions) and indirectly, by tightening the link between
contributions and benefits.
6.     Economic restructuring may well impose a short term social cost. The imposition of a hard budget
constraint, and easing of labor mobility restrictions, may result in more layoffs from insolvent enterprises and
pose hardships on affected families. Poverty among these households may increase, and while removing
constraints to private sector development will undoubtedly help promote output and employment in the next
few years, it may not be able to help the poor immediately. A strong safety net of last resort, provisioned with
adequate incentives to work, will therefore be critical for assuring protection to the most vulnerable groups of
poor.
7.     The Government is committed to moving forward to promote output and employment growth. It is
also determined to maintain macro-economic stability and facilitate the development of the private sector. For
these reasons, the Government considers it imperative to move aggressively on outstanding structural reforms
in the social sectors and the labor market that would help decrease the large fiscal burden; reduce rigidities in
labor markets and labor costs; and create a strong safety net for the most vulnerable groups of poor. The
proposed Social Sector Adjustment Credit (SSAC), consistent with this medium term reform agenda, will
provide financial support for the reforms of (a) the pension system; (b) the health insurance system; (c) the
unemployment insurance program; (d) labor legislation; and (e) the social assistance system.
III. THE SOCIAL SECTOR REFORM STRATEGY
A. BACKGROUND AND KEY ISSUES
8.     The decline in economic activity and increasing unemployment has contributed to a growing
incidence of poverty in the country. The Government has been active in developing initiatives to alleviate
poverty. Two new social sector programs, an unemployment insurance and social assistance program system,
have been developed to protect the poor. These programs, along with a public pension system and a health
insurance program inherited from Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, provide protection against the loss
of income due to sickness, the loss of a job, the loss of the main earner in the family, old age, disability and
poverty. However, these social sector programs are costly. Total expenditures on these programs consume
nearly a third of GDP and comprise over two thirds of public spending. Sharp declines in the contribution base
realized over the transition have necessitated large budgetary transfers and the accumulation of payment
arrears to maintain current social sector programs. Despite high costs, the quality of social sector programs,
and their ability to target the poor remains in question. The programs also impose a significant tax burden
(30.1% payroll tax on gross wages) on workers, driving a large wedge between what employers pay and
employees receive. The large tax burden, coupled with rigidities in the labor code, a legacy of the worker
I This includes spending on health, education, pensions, unemployment benefits, child allowances and social assistance.



-3-
management practiced in ex-Yugoslavia, makes labor costly and constrains labor hiring. It also contributes to a
growing informal economy that likely employs a significant share of the officially registered unemployed.
9.     The specific issues related to each component of the social sector reform program are detailed below.
10.    The Pension System The pay-as-you go public pension system protects workers and their families
from a loss of income from retirement, disability, or loss of an earning member in the family. An increased
number of beneficiaries and faltering contributions, have created on-going financial difficulties for the Pension
Fund. The pension system dependency ratio, the ratio of workers to pensioners, now roughly 2, has declined
sharply from about 4 in 1991. Early retirement policies for laid off workers combined with a declining
contribution base have contributed to this trend. The government has taken several measures to contain
pension costs. In 1994, the payroll tax rate to finance pension benefits was increased from 18% to 20% of
gross wages, the retirement age was placed on an increasing path, and the maximum replacement rate was
reduced. However, despite these changes, the pension fund is still in deficit (.9% GDP in 1996).2 At the root
of these financial difficulties of the pension fund is a very costly pension system with an eligibility and benefit
structure that remains very generous by regional standards. In 1997, total pension expenditures were 12% of
GDP3 (and 30% of Government expenditures), amongst the highest in the region, primarily the result of
excessively high replacement rates. The pension system is not fiscally sustainable. The aging of the
population, given the current structure of the system, will sharply increase program deficits over the long term.
11.     The Health Insurance System The health care system is publicly-funded and provides universal
health coverage, including maternity and sick pay benefits, to the eligible population. The system has come
unc4er considerable financial stress in recent years. Public revenues for health fell by nearly 40 percent in real
terms between 1991 and 1993 and have not recovered since.4 The Health Insurance Fund has attempted to
exercise expenditure control to keep spending in line with real resources but with only a limited impact. The
cuts in health spending have been largely ad-hoc, contributing to the breakdown of primary health care and
reduced availability of essential drugs, vaccines, and basic supplies. The financing gap has been met largely
from budgetary transfers (2.44% of GDP in 1996) and through the accumulation of arrears. The financial
difficulties of the Health Insurance Fund stem from the generous eligibility and benefit provisions of the
Health Insurance program. The benefit package covered by the HIF is very generous, covering virtually all
types and all levels of care. Large categories of individuals are exempt from payment, and co-payment and co-
insurance rates are not set at levels sufficient to reduce over-consumption of higher-cost care and to increase
consumption of more cost-effective primary care.
12.    The Unemployment Insurance System The unemployment insurance program, administered by the
Employment Bureau, provides a measure of support to laid off workers. Since transition, the number of
beneficiaries and unemployment benefit costs have increased. The Employment Fund has realized a deficit since
1991 and has received transfers from the budget to meet its obligations. In 1996, the deficit was 2% GDP. The
financial problems have often led to late payment of benefits, compromising program objectives. The financial
difficulties of the program in meeting its commitments are mainly the result of generous benefit provisions under
the .aw on Employment and Unemployment Insurance. Unemployment Insurance Program also constrains
labor market efficiency. The Employment Bureau is the principle agency for benefit payments, but has also
traditionally been charged with centralized hiring functions best performed by the labor market. Unlike market
economies, where the private market does most of the matching of unemployed persons with employers, all
legal hiring has been channeled through the Employment Bureau. The Employment Bureau has also been
2 Pension costs have also been met through the accumulation of one or two month arrears on pension payments, although late payments have recently been
rectified,
30f these, expenditures on pension benefits were 10.3 % of GDP.
4 This section is based on documentation and statistics provided as part of the Health Sector Transition Project (SAR, 1996)



-4-
charged with matching the unemployed with training opportunities by employers or private training centers.
This has constrained the Bureau from performing its basic function in a market economy: helping the most
difficult cases of unemployed find a job.
13.    The Labor Code The increasing rate of unemployment is a direct consequence of the decline in
economic activity and high payroll tax rates noted above. However, the high rate of unemployment can also be
attributed to the high costs of labor prevailing in the country. Rigidities in the labor code (hiring/firing
restrictions, national collective bargaining, rigidities in wage setting, and high minimum mandatory labor
benefits), rooted in part in the considerable upward pressure on wages placed by the worker self-management
system practiced in ex-Yugoslavia, make labor costly. This system gave workers considerable power to restrict
employment and push up earnings. As a result, registered unemployment rates were high (21%) even before
the transition. And, despite the sharp declines in real wages realized over the past several years, a recent study
suggests that the share of gross wages to GDP in the country--an indicator of labor costs--is the highest in the
region.5
14.    The Social Assistance System  The means tested social assistance program, the main poverty
alleviation program in the country, was instituted in 1992. The program provides all households that realize an
income (subject to an asset test) below a guaranteed minimum. Since the inception of the program in 1992, the
number of households eligible for benefits has increased dramatically, from 8,000 in May 1992, to an average
of 54,000 in 1996. Social assistance expenditures have increased as well, from .5% of GDP in 1991 to 1.3% of
GDP in 1996. The means tested program is fairly well targeted to the poorest houscholds.6 The Government
must now start to tackle some of the second generation problems confronting the program. First, despite being
well targeted overall, the difficulty of monitoring claims in urban areas means that many urban households not
eligible for benefit receive social assistance. Second, the benefit scales are complicated and inequitable. The
benefit administration and delivery of the social assistance program also require some improvement.7 Third,
there are limited incentives to work and leave the system, contributing to a growing benefit dependency.
Fourth, the program budget is inadequate. Social assistance payments, like unemployment benefits, have
remained one to two months in arrears since 1993, limiting the poverty alleviation role of this benefit. In
addition to social assistance, payments of child allowances and payments to disabled children, a highly
vulnerable group, have also often been delayed during the past year.
15.    In sum, existing social sector programs are not fiscally sustainable. Despite high costs, they have not
been able to meet their objectives of providing services and benefits in a timely fashion. The quality of
services provided is also an issue, particularly in the case of health care. The programs impose high tax rates
on current contributors and contribute to labor market rigidities, including work disincentives, that are
exacerbated by a restrictive labor code and high wages. These factors have contributed, inter alia, to high rates
of formal sector unemployment, a culture of dependency on public benefits, and a growing informalization of
the economy.
B. THE SOCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
16.    The social sector reform strategy has three major objectives. The.first objective is to place key social
sector programs on a long run fiscally sustainable path. This will be accomplished through measures to reduce
the level and duration of program benefits, increase cost recovery, and facilitate the private provision of
5 IMF, Mid termn Review: Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility, October, 1997
6 The development of the new program and its implementation are being supported through the World Bank's Social Reform and Technical Assistance
Project.
7 Institutional Review of the Social Assistance Program, PLS Consult, 1997 (SRTAC Technical paper)



-5-
services. The second objective is to increase labor market efficiency by reducing labor market distortions
inherent in social sector programs, as well as the labor code. This goal will be achieved through labor
legislation reforms that will decrease state intervention in matching workers to jobs and reduce other labor
market rigidities, such as hiring and firing practices and high minimum mandatory benefits. Health, pension
and unemployment benefit reforms will also help reduce labor market distortions by allowing a reduction in
payroll taxes over time (directly and. by tightening the link between contributions and benefits).8 The third
objective is to reduce poverty by improving the quality of social sector programs and their targeting.
Improvements in the quality of the programs will be realized through stronger benefit administration, increased
competition and better service delivery. Better targeting of cash benefits to the poor will be accomplished
through improved identification, screening and monitoring of program beneficiaries, the provision of a floor
of protection for the very poor, and greater incentives to work.
17.    The social sector reform strategy involves action in five main areas.
a. A major reform of the public pension system and the development of the
framework of a mandatory, funded, privately-managed scheme.
b. A restructuring of the health insurance system to allow for greater cost containment of the Health
Insurance Fund and improved quality of health care services.
c. A reform of the unemployment insurance system to improve the financial solvency of
Unemployment Insurance Fund and reduce constraints to labor hiring.
d. A fundamental change in labor legislation that eases hiring and termination conditions and
allows greater flexibility for enterprises to deviate from collective agreements; and,
e. A reform of the social assistance system to improve equity in the level of benefits and
strengthen the efficiency and work incentives in the social assistance system.
The following sections describe each component of the social sector strategy in greater detail.
18.    The Pension System As part of the Social Sector Reform Program, the Government has decided to
undertake a fundamental reform of the pension system consistent with a move towards a funded privately
managed system. The Government has already taken several steps towards achieving this objective. In early
1997, as part of the Social Sector Reform Program, the Govemment amended the pension law and reduced
maximum pensions. In addition, minimum pensions, amongst the highest in the region were also reduced and
maintained above the social assistance level. To spur the creation of a private pension pillar, the Government
appointed and initiated the work of a Committee on Pension Reform, comprising members from the Ministry
of Finance, the National Bank, the National Securities and Exchange Commission, and the Pension Fund to
develop a funded pension scheme and guide the reform process. The Committee, located in the Ministry of
Labor and Social Policy, is charged with designing the overall system and developing laws and regulations to
underpin the private funded system. As one of its first tasks of the Committee has prepared an action plan to
reduce the financing requirements of the public pension system and to introduce the private pension pillar. The
technical assistance requirements to implement the pension reform program are included in the plan. The
proposed Pension Reform Technical Assistance Project (PERTAP), being submitted in parallel with the SSAC,
will support the initial phase of the Government's pension reform program.
8 The measures mentioned here vary by program. For example, cost recovery is a feature of the health insurance program while private provision of
services reflects aspects of pensions and health insurance systems.



-6-
19.    To inform the reform process, the Government has completed the scheduled training of Actuarial Unit
in public pension fund modeling. The Actuarial Unit has produced the first report on the unreformed system.
Additional simulations, to be carried out by the Actuarial Unit with external assistance and additional training,
will assess the impact of different combinations of public and private systems on Pension Fund revenues,
expenditures, contribution rates, and the pension debt. These simulations will be based on alternate economic
and demographic scenarios. Based on this work, the Government will submit to the Bank a detailed financing
plan for the introduction of a mandatory private pension pillar. The Government will also institute a public
information campaign to educate population on pension policy issues and to garner public support for the
reform process.
20.    The Government will adopt an amendment to the Pension Law which reduces the medium and long
term financing requirements of the public pension fund and establishes the framework for privately managed
mandatory funded pension schemes that: (i) continues the increase in the retirement age for men and women
beyond the limits in the Law on Pension and Invalidity Insurance Nr. 80/93; (ii) Places retirement on an age-
exclusive basis subject to a minimum number of contribution years; (iii) indexes benefits below wage growth
by limiting the rate at which they can grow beyond inflation; (iv) reduces the rate for accumulating the pension
base used to specify the public pension, consistent with improving the financial viability of the public pension
scheme and the benefits to be provided by the privately managed funded pension scheme; and (v) does not
increase the contribution rate. Moreover, to prevent poverty among pensioners, the Government will make
pension payments on time. The Government has committed that there will be no increase in arrears in pension
benefit payments, from the level of such arrears as at April 15, 1998.
21.    The Government will also develop the regulatory framework for implementing the law including the
establishment of new regulatory bodies and the creation of specific regulations for pension fund managers.
During the work on pension reform, efforts on reforms complementary to the pension reform will also be
strengthened. Ongoing work on audit standards, securities legislation, and banking supervision that needs to go
together with other capital and financial market reforms, particularly the insurance industry, will have to be
completed. This way, the instruments and institutions required by the new pension system will be in place
when it is ready to be effective.
22.    The Health Insurance System   The Government has recently developed a long term health sector
reform strategy to improve health status and contain health care costs. Key objectives include: i) maintaining
universal access to basic preventive and curative health services and essential drugs; ii) improving the financial
viability of the public health insurance system to contain health costs; iii) establishing a more appropriate
public/private sector mix of health services; iv) improving the quality of health care through a re-direction of
scarce resources towards primary health care. The health sector reform program is being supported, in part, by
the World Bank's Health Sector Transition Project.
23.    As a first step towards meeting the objectives of the program, the Government will present to
parliament legislation for a New Health Insurance Law to Parliament that establishes a framework for a
capitated primary health care system, basic benefits package, co-payment/user charges policy for health
services, and referral system by primary care providers for outpatient specialists and hospital care by June 12,
1998. The Government will subsequently pass the new Health Insurance Law.
24.    The quality of health care and health finance would also be improved through ensuring adequate
supplies of essential drugs. The Government has passed a new Drug Law satisfactory to IDA which allows for
(i) streamlined registration of drugs, implementation of reference pricing based on generic products, (ii)
adoption of essential drugs lists for public sector reimbursement, and (iii) competitive bidding procedures for
public sector drug procurement.



-7-
25.    The Unemployment Insurance System In 1997, as a first step to improve the solvency of the
Employment Fund and increase labor market flexibility, the Government passed a new Law on Employment
and Unemployment Insurance. The new Law on Employment and Unemployment Insurance improves labor
market flexibility, introduces work incentives, and improves fund solvency by (i) allowing hiring to be done
without the assistance or approval of the Employment Bureau; (ii) requiring unemployed persons actively to
search for work to remain eligible for benefits; and (iii) tightening benefit duration and replacement rates.
26.    The new law, to a far greater extent than the old, allows private labor markets to operate with the
minimum necessary regulation by law. Specifically, the new Employment Law removes restrictions that
permit hiring to be done without the assistance, processes, or approval of the Employment Bureau. The law
also allows the establishment of private training programs. In addition, the new proposed law promotes work
incentives by requiring that unemployed persons actively search for work to remain eligible for benefit, rather
than passively rely on the Employment Bureau to find work for them. Any unemployed person receiving
unemployment benefits or the right to health care must report in person to the Bureau every 30 days and prove
that he has actively searched for work in the last two months. An unemployed person who does not report or
submit this proof loses the right to cash compensation, and can only reapply with the Bureau after 2 years.
Other unemployed persons must report to the Bureau every 6 months, or have their records deleted. The
unemployed person who refuses adequate work, refuses training, or refuses to contact an employer is struck
off registered unemployment rolls.
27.    The new law reduces the financial costs of the Employment Fund by reducing the amount and
duration of benefits for some unemployed persons. The new law has reduced the replacement rate from 50 to
40 percent for those who receive benefits for more than 12 months. The period of time over which wages were
assessed has also been increased, from average wages for the last three months to the average wage for the
preceding twelve months. As earlier, the duration of cash benefits is linked to years of contributions but the
maximum duration of benefit has been reduced to 18 months from 24 months. The new law also eliminates
the special one-time payment to unemployed persons, when claiming a right to pension, of 40 percent of the
average monthly net wages. Also eliminated is the requirement, rarely done in practice, that the Bureau pay
transport and resettlement cost to an unemployed person who changes his place of residence.
28.    However, for some unemployed persons, the law actually increases the duration of benefit. Most
importantly, individuals with over 25 years of service (with no age limit) can now receive unemployment benefits
until retirement.9 These individuals constitute approximately 30% of total unemployed receiving benefits and
account for nearly 33% of total benefit costs. The Government will amend the Law on Employment and
Insurance in Case of Unemployment, to restrict the eligibility to special benefits to unemployed with at least
55 years of age and a minimum of 15 years of insurance contributions; and (ii) disallow employers from
receiving unused benefits of new hires. The Government has committed that there will be no increase in
arrears in unemployment benefit payments, from the level of such arrears as at April 15, 1998.
29.    The Government has also adopted a revised delivery system  of Health Insurance coupons to
Unemployed Persons, by issuing Health Insurance Cards for unemployed persons every 3 months and
delivering them through the Post Office. Earlier, claimants received unemployment benefits and health
coupons at the Employment Bureau causing considerable mobbing of centers and delays of benefit payments.
Recently, a new procedure has been adopted whereby a list of registered unemployed is sent to the Ministry of
Health from the Employment Bureau. The Ministry of Health then mails health coupons (valid for three
9 Unless reformed, and under particular assumptions, the unemployment benefit program costs (excluding health contributions) would increase from 1.8%
of GDP in 1997 to nearly 3% of GDP by 2003. The benefit reform program proposed above would, assuming a continuous flow of beneficiaries and no
grandfathering, reduce benefits to 1.3% of GDP by the same year. Assuming the flows of unemployed were reduced by half, benefits expenditures would be
reduced accordingly, allowing a rough balance in the Fund. The decline in unemployed would be even greater if Employment Bureau were given incentives to
report less unemployed.



-8-
months), to eligible unemployed based on this list. Moreover, unemployment benefits are now mailed directly
to registered unemployed.10
30.    The Labor Code The current low demand for workers in the formal sector may be attributable in part
to the high payroll taxes required to finance social sector programs. However, in addition to high taxes, small
and medium-sized enterprises face other large costs when hiring a worker. These costs are attributable, in part,
to the excessive regulation of the hiring and termination process embodied in the Law on Labor Relations. In
October 1997, as part of the Social Sector Reform Program, the Government amended the Labor Relations
Law to ease labor market restrictions by (i) allowing employers to hire workers without a medical
examination, (ii) allowing private employers to hire workers without public announcement through the
Employment Bureau and without a medical examination; (iii) allowing employers to take as long as they wish
to choose among applicants; (iv) eliminating special procedures for applicants rejected by private employers to
complain; and (v) calculating severance pay based on years of service only with the terminating employer.
Earlier, in 1995, the Parliament had amended the Labor Relations Law to reduce severance from a lump sum
24 month grant to 1 month wages for every two years of employment with a maximum of 12 month wages. At
that time, the required notice for termination for economic or technical change, was also decreased from 6
months to I month for termination of up to 150 workers and 3 months for termination of more than 150
workers.
31.    However, despite these reforms, the Labor Relations Law still contains many rigidities that increase
labor costs, impeding private sector development and enterprise re-structuring. In particular, the Labor
Relations Law does not give employers sufficient flexibility in terminating workers. Before employers can
terminate workers, an employer must limit new hires, use attrition, relocate employees within the firm, and
reduce overtime. The law also mandates special termination protections for high-level managers, who can
easily become entrenched in an enterprise. These restrictions are particularly onerous for small and medium
enterprises and for companies that want to make small adjustments in the labor force. Moreover, workers who
are nevertheless terminated can complain in court that the employer has paid insufficient attention to these
other options. While courts are not 'supposed' to "second-guess" the business judgment of employers in the
need for terminations for economic surplus, the court's limited role in reviewing termination decisions is not
articulated in the law and can therefore lead to broad misinterpretation. These and other termination
restrictions in the Law are further linked to criteria in the collective contract. The Labor Relations Law
endorses a centralized collective bargaining system binding on all workers and employers. The national
collective bargaining agreement can impose restrictive wage setting practices and can establish benefits, or
other (termination) conditions, higher than those established in the Labor Relations Law. The Branch
collective agreement can increase 'worker rights' above national agreements. The result of these and other
similar termination restrictions make it extremely difficult to fire workers and therefore also raise the cost of
new hires.
32.    In addition to termination restrictions, the law also mandates high minimum  mandatory benefits.
These benefits include nine months of paid maternity leave. This duration of paid leave is very generous by
international standards. The European Community Directive of 19 October 1992 (No. 92/85), designed to
protect the health and safety of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or who are breast
feeding, calls for a continuous period of maternity leave of at least 14 weeks. The current maternity benefit
structure also provides no incentives for women who wish to return to work during maternity leave to do so
without losing all their benefit.] 
10 This system will, however, have to be monitored carefully to ensure that benefits are reaching the unemployed.
II Matemity benefits costs the Health Insurance Fund almost .25% of GDP. Reducing matemity benefits to six months pay would reduce expenditures to
.17% of GDP. If all .vomen take up the proposed work incentive, matemity benefits would be reduced further to 4.5 months and would cost .12% of GDP.



-9-
33.    To address these issues, the Government has amended the Labor Relations Law to: (i)Grant women
who choose to return to work early from maternity leave 50% of the remaining unused cash benefit; (ii)
Simplify process in terminating workers by (a) allowing enterprises flexibility in identifying person that makes
termination decisions for managerial positions and long-tenured workers; (b) eliminating mandatory refusal
period for managers who are not re-elected; (c) limiting mandatory amount of job search time during term of
refusal to 4 hours per week; (d) in the-termination of workers in small-scale terminations for economic surplus
(less than 20% of work force or 20 workers, giving employers discretion to identify workers to be terminated;
(e) limiting court review of economic-surplus terminations to determining whether the termination was for
economic-surplus reasons, but not determining whether these reasons justify the terminations; and (iii)
Improve flexibility in collective bargaining by allowing the enterprise collective agreement to determine
greater or lesser rights than the branch collective agreement, but no less than rights set by law.
34.    The Social Assistance System  To protect the poor, the Government will ensure that social assistance
benefits are adequately budgeted and delivered in a timely fashion. The Government has committed that there
will be no increase in arrears in social assistance, child allowance and child disability allowance payments
from the level of such arrears as at April 15, 1998. The Government has adopted a revised social assisiance
decree to:(i) Equalize rural and urban social assistance levels, based on the newly established single national
poverty line and fiscal considerations.(ii) simplify scale rates to differ only by family size, taking due care that
all of the very poor are protected; (iii) introduce work incentives by limiting the duration of social assistance
benefits to four years. Households will receive full benefits for two years. These benefits will then be reduced
over the two remaining years, to 70% and 50% each year respectively. Households would not be eligible for
further benefits for the next two years. Individual claims separated by nine months or less will count as a
single claim with a benefit period specified as above. Claims separated by more than nine months will count as
separate claims. Eligible unemployed invalids and individuals within 5 years of retirement would be exempt
from benefit term limitations. (iv) increase penalties for fraudulent claims to two years consistent with the
Employment Promotion Law. Benefit administration would be improved to: (i) even the flow of beneficiaries
to social assistance offices, based on identification numbers, regions, and names (already made on pilot basis)
nationwide; and (ii)institute random audits on the verification and monitoring of claims. The Poverty
Monitoring Group and the Government will continue to monitor poverty allowing Government to further fine
tune and adjust the targeting and administration of the social assistance program.
35.    The reforms of the social assistance program are concentrated on the most important non-social
assistance cash benefit program (in terms of expenditures) in the country. The next generation of reforms of
the social assistance system would be based, inter alia, on the full findings of the Poverty Assessment Report
to be completed jointly by the Government and the World Bank inYY99.
IV. THE PROPOSED SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
A. CREDIT OBJECTIVES AND RATIONALE
36.    The proposed Social Sector Adjustment Credit will provide financial resources that will support the
Government's Social Sector Adjustment Program. A reform of social sector programs is an integral part of the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) agreed between the World Bank and the Macedonian Government. The
broad goals of this strategy are to stimulate economic activity through a consolidation of fiscal gains and the
promotion of private sector development. A reform of social sector programs is identified in the CAS as
critical for achieving these objectives. The objectives of the SSAC are therefore exactly those of the
Government's social sector reform program: (a) Thefirst objective is to initiate measures to place social sector
programs on a long run fiscally sustainable path; (b) The second objective is to increase labor market
efficiency and reduce labor costs; (c) The third objective is to reduce poverty by improving the quality of



-10-
social sector programs and their targeting. The precise measures to be supported by the SSAC are summarized
in the policy matrix attached as Annex 2 of this report.
37.    The proposed SSAC is fully consistent with the framework of Bank involvement in the country. Early
Bank operations including the Economic Recovery Loan and Economic Recovery Credit and the Financial and
Enterprise Structural Adjustment Credit, and more recently, the Bank supported Social Reform and Technical
Assistance Project, have facilitated a substantive social policy dialogue critical for the ownership and adoption
of the social protection and labor market reforms supported by the SSAC. The Bank supported Health Sector
Transition Project that is assisting the Government develop and implement the Health Sector Reform Program,
has provided the policy framework for the health sector reforms that are an integral part of the Social Sectors
Reform Program. The structural benchmarks on social sector policy included in the IMF's ESAF program are
also consistent with the SSAC. The Government is also receiving pension reform advice from USAID
financed agencies and the pension reform program supported by the Bank is being coordinated and supported
by USAID.
B. FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
38.    The proposed Social Sector Adjustment Credit of SDR 21.6 million equivalent (US$29million
equivalent) will be released in two tranches, the first of SDR 10.8 million equivalent would be released upon
effectiveness (expected July 15, 1998); the second of SDR 10.8 million equivalent would be released on
fulfillment of second tranche conditions as outlined in Annex 2.
39.   In accordance with the Operational Directive on the Simplification of Disbursement Rules under
Structural Adjustment and Sectoral Adjustment Loans (February 8, 1996), disbursements will not be linked to
specific purchases and, hence there will be no procurement requirements. Disbursements of the Credit will be
subject to a standard negative list of ineligible goods and countries of origin. Ulpon notification by the Bank of
each tranche release for each tranche, proceeds of the credit will be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit
Account of the Central Bank at the Government's request. If after deposit in this account, the Credit proceeds
are used for ineligible purposes, the Bank will require the borrower to either (a) return that amount to the
account for use for eligible purposes; or (b) return that amount to directly to the Bank, in which case the Bank
will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the credit. Although the Bank will not routinely require an
audit of the Deposit Account, it reserves the right to require an audit by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank. In addition, audit reports would be submitted to the Bank no more than six months after the date of the
Bank's request. The expected closing date of the proposed credit is June 30, 1999.
C. MONITORING ARRANGEMENTS
40.    The monitoring of the Social Sector Adjustment Credit beyond supervising the implementation of
SSAC conditions would be principally based on poverty monitoring, expenditure reviews and institutional
assessments. Household surveys would be used to assess the impact of changes in social assistance program in
targeting the poorest households. The Poverty Monitoring Group and the Steering Committee on Qualitative
Assessment of Poverty would combine both quantitative and qualitative analysis to continue to fine tune the
social assistance and poverty alleviation program. The reforms of health insurance legislation would be
supervised as part of the regular supervision of the Health Sector Transition Project. The timeliness of benefits
would be monitored as part of the budget review carried out by the World Bank and the IMF.



-11-
D. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
41.   In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01, Annex
E), the proposed operation has been placed in category "C" and does not require an environmental assessment.
E. BENEFITS AND RISKS
42.    The credit will support a social sectors reform program that targets improvements in labor market
efficiency, fiscal sustainability and a strengthening of the safety net. The reform measures embodied in the
social sectors reform program: improved financial and allocative efficiency of the pension, health and
unemployment insurance programs, that together represent a large share of total public outlays would generate
long term fiscal savings. Reforms of social sector programs that would tighten the link between individual
contribution and benefits, and a reforms of the labor code should help reduce high labor costs and improve
labor market efficiency, strengthen tax compliance, promote a formalization of the economy, and help reduce
impediments to private sector development.
43.    There are risks that the program will not be effectively implemented. Slow implementation of the
Health Sector Transition Project may delay the reforms of the Health Insurance Law that form an integral part
of the Social Sector Reform Program. The administration of the new social assistance program may also prove
complex administratively as the new work incentive system will likely require increased record-keeping. The
on-going Social Reform Technical Assistance Credit is in place to provide basic support for the administration
of the new social assistance program. The Poverty Monitoring Group and the Government will continue to
monitor poverty and the targeting efficiency of the social assistance program in order that its targeting and
administration can be refined, simplified and improved as needed. Implementation capacity is a serious
constraint for pension reform. For this reason, the Government has requested Bank support for technical
assistance towards implementing its proposed pension reform program. A Pension Reform Technical
Assistance Project (PERTAP) that will provide US$1 million equivalent on IDA terms to support the activities
of the pension reform program is being presented to the Board in parallel with the SSAC. There is an
additional risk that the implementation of the overall economic reform program may not be sustainable
because of faltering social and political consensus about the need for social sector and labor market reforms,
especially against the background of elections scheduled for later this year. In mitigation of these risks, is the
strong track record of the Macedonian Government in pursuit of economic and social reforms, and its firm
belief that the proposed social sectors reform program is a critical requirement for accelerated income and
growth, and poverty reduction in the country at this juncture in its development.
V. RECOMMENDATION
44.    1 am satisfied that the proposed Social Sector Adjustment Credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio K. Koch-Weser
Attachment
June 12, 1998



Anx t
Page l of 6
LETTER OF SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY
May 4, 1998
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
Washington, DC
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
1.     Our Govemment is comniitted to promoting economic gowth by consolidating recent gains in
macro-economic stabilization and reducing constraints to private sector development, while protecting
the most vulnerable groups in the population. In support of these objectives, our Government is
determined to complete the remaining strucmmal reforms of our economy. The social sector reform
program, consisting of reforms of the pension, health and unemployment insurance syster, the labor
code, and the social assistance system, is an essential component of our outstanding structural reform
agenda. Social sector programs comprise a large share of total budgetary outlays and are not fiscally
sustainable. Despite these high costs, the quality of these programs and their efficiency in targeting the
poor remains in question. The programs also impose a coasiderable tax burden on our population and, in
conjunction with a restrictive labor code, raise labor costs and contribute to a growing informalization of
the economy, impeding private sector development.
2.     Our social sector reform strategy, desigaed to address these issues, has three main objectives.
Thefirst objective is to place key social sector programs on a long run fiscally sustainable path. This will
be accomplished through measures to reduce the level and duration of program benefits, increase cost
recovery, and facilitate the private provision of services. The second objective is to increase labor market
efficiency by reducing labor market distortions inherent in social sector programs, as well as the labor
code. This goal will be achieved through labor legislation reforms that will decrease state intervention in
matching workers to jobs and reduce other labor market rigidities, such as hiring and firing practices and
high minimum mandatory benefits. Health, pension and unemployment benefit reforms will also help
reduce labor market distortions by allowing a reduction in payroll taxes over time (directly and by
tightening the link between contributions and benefits).' The rhird objective is to reduce poverty by
improving the quality of social sector programs and their targeting. Improvements in the quality of the
programs will be realized through stronger benefit administration, increased competitioa and better
service delivery. Better targeting of cash benefits to the poor will be accomplished through improved
identification, screening and monitoring of program beneficiaries, the provision of a floor of protection
for the very poor, and greater incentives to work.
3.     The social sector reform strategy involves action in five main areas.
The mesures mentioned hem Yry by progam. Por example, cost rccovewy is a featue of the healtt insur nce proamm while privue povision
of sexvmcas reflects aspects of pensions and health insurance sysesnL



Annex I
Page 2 of 6
a. A major reform of the public pension system and the development of the
frarnework of a mandatory, funded, privately-managed scheme.
b. A restructuring of the health insurance system to allow for greater cost containment of the
Health Insurance Fund and improved quality of health care services.
c. A reform of the unemployment insurance system to improve the financial solvency of
Unemployment Insurance Fund and reduce constraints to labor hiring.
d. A fundamental change in labor legislation that eases hiring and termination conditions and
allows greater flexibility for enterprises to deviate from collective agreements; and,
e. - A reform of the social assistance system to improve equity in the level of benefits and
strengthen the efficiency and work incentives in the social assistance system.
4.     The Macedonian Government is hereby requesting di World Bank' s assistance, in the form of a
Social Sector Adjustment Credit and the Pension Reform Technical Assistance Credit to help in the
implementation and financing of this important reform program. The Social Sector Adjustment Credit
will support the Government in the following areas of social sector reform:
The specific components of our reform agenda are described in detail below.
5.     Pensions. Since 1994, we have made considerable efforts to reform the pension system and
contain pension costs. Nevertheless, the pension system remains one of the most costly in the region and
will require significant budgetary transfers over the long run. Faced with these difficulties, and as part of
the Social Sector Reform Program, we have decided to undertake a fundamental reform of the pension
system consistent with a move towards a funded privately managed pension system. As a first step
towards this objective, in early 1997, as part of the Social Sector Reform Program, we amended the
pension law and reduced maximum pensions. In addition, minimum pensions, amongst the Iiighest in the
region were also reduced and rnaintained above the social assistance level. To spur the c;reation of a
private pension pillar, we appointed and initiated the work of a Committee on Pension Reform,
comprising members from the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank the National Se.curities and
Exchange Commission, and the Pension Fund to develop a funded pension scheme and guiue the reform
process. The Committee, located in the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy, is charged with designing
the overall system and developing laws and regulations to underpin the private funded systenL As one of
it's first tasks the Committee has prepared an action plan to reduce the financing requirements of the
public pension system and to introduce the private pension pillar. The technical assistance requirenents to
implement the pension reform program are included in the plan.
6.     To inform the reform process, we have completed the scheduled training of the Actuarial Unit in
public pension fund modeling. The Actuarial Unit has produced the first report on the unreformed
system. Additional simulations, to be carried out by the Actuarial Unit with external assistance and
additional training, will assess the impact of different combinations of public and private systems on
Pension Fund revenues, expenditures, contribution rates, and the pension debt. These simulations will be
based on alternate economic and demographic scenarios. Based on this work, we will submiit to the Bank
a detailed financing plan for the introduction of a mandatory private pension pillar. We will also institute
a public information campaign to educate population on pension policy issues and to gamer public
support for the reform process.



Annex 1
Page 3 of 6
7.     To formalize the reform progran, we will adopt an amendment to the Pension Law which
reduces the medium and long term financing requirements of the public pension fund and establishes the
famework for privately managed mandatory funded pension schemes that (i) continues to increase in
the retirement age for men and women beyond the limits in the Law on Pension and Invalidity Insurance
Nr. 80/93; (ii) Places retirement on an age-exclusive basis subject to a minimum number of contribution
years; (iii) indexes benefits below wage growth by limiting the rate at which they can grow beyond
inflation; (iv) reduces the rate for accumnlating the pension base used to specify the public pension,
consistent with isnproving the financial viability of the public pension scheme and the benefits to be
provided by the privately managed funded pension scheme; and (v) does not increase the contribution
rate. Moreover, to prevent poverty among pensioners, we will make pension payments OD time. There
will be no increase in arrears in pension payments from the level of such arrears as at April 15, 1998.
8.     We will also develop the regulatory famework for implementing the law including the
establishment of new regulatory bodies and specific regulations for pension fund managers. During the
work on pension reform, efforts on reforms complementary to the pension, reform will also be
strengthened. Ongoing work on audit standards, securities legislation, and bankdng supervision that needs
to go together with other capital and financial market reforms, particularly the insurance industry, will
have to be completed. This way, the instruments and institutions required by the new pension system will
be in place when it is ready to be effective.
9.     The Health Insurance System The health insurance system is costly and imposes a large fiscal
burden. Sharp declines in health revenues have meant that expenditures for the Health Insurance Fund
have largely been sustained by large budgetary transfers and through the accumulation of arrears. The
quality of health care provided by the system has also deteriorated because the declines in spending on
health care were not matched by a re-allocation of resources towards the most cost-effective types of
care. To address these problerm, we have developed a long term health sector reform strategy to improve
health status and contain health care costs. Key objective of this strategy include: i) maintaining
universal access to basic preventive and curative health services and essential drugs; ii) improving the
financial viability of the public health insurance system to contain health costs; iii) establishing a more
appropriate public/private sector mix of health services; iv) improving the quality of health care through
a re-direction of scarce resources towards primary health care.
10.   We will present to parliament by May 7, 1998, a new Health Insurance Law, satisfactory to IDA,
that establishes a framework for a capitated primary health care system, basic benefits package, co-
payment/user charges policy for health services, and referral system by primary care providers for
outpatient specialists and hospital care. The quality of health care and health finance would also be
improved through ensuring adequate supplies of essential drugs. We have adopted a reviseil Drug Law
that allows for streamrlined registration of drugs, implementation of reference pricing based on generic
products, adoption of essential drugs lists for public sector reimbursement, and competitive bidding
procedures for public sector drug procurement
11. The Unemployment Insurance Program provides a measure of support to laid off workers. Since-the
transition, the number of beneficiaries and unemployment benefit costs have increased. The Employment
Fund has realized a deficit since 1991 and has received transfers from the budget to meet its obligations.
The financial problems have often led to late payment of benefits since the inception of the program,
compromising program objectives. In 1997, as part of the Social Sector Reform Program, and as a first
step to improve the solvency of the Employment Fund and increase labor market flexibilty we passed a



Annex I
Page 4 of 6
new Law on Employment and Unemployment Insurance. The new law reduces the financial costs of the
employment fund by reducing the amount and duration of benefits for some unemployed persons. The
new law has reduced the replacement rate from 50 to 40 percent for those who receive benefits for more
than 12 months. The period of time over which wages were assessed has also been increased, from
average wages for the last three months to the average wage for the preceding twelve months. We will
amend the Law on Employment and Unemployment Insurance to (i) restrict the eligibility to special
benefits to unemployed with at least 55 years of age and a minimum of 15 years of insurance
contributions; and (ii) disallow employers from receiving unused benefits of new hires. We wil phase
out these benefits, or further restrict the eligibility, over the next two years.
12.   The new law, to a far greater extent than the old, allows private labor markets to operate with the
minimum necessary regulation by law. Specifically, the new Employment Law removes restrictions that
permit hiring to be done without the assistance, processes, or approval of the Employment Bureau. The
law also allows the establishment of private training programs. In addition, the new law promotes work
incentives by requiring that unemployed persons actively search for work, rather than passively rely on
the Employment Bureau to find work for them. Any unemployed person receiving unemployment
benefits or the right to health care must report in person to the Bureau every 30 days and prove that he
bas actively searched for work in the last two months. An unemployed person who does not report or
submit this proof loses the right to cash compensation, and can only reapply with the Bureau after 2
years. Other unemployed persons must report to the Bureau every 6 months, or have their records
deleted. The unemployed person who refuses adequate work, refuses training, or refuses to contact an
employer is struck off unemployment rolls. In addition, we have streamlined the distribution of health
insurance coupons and unemployment benefits to ease the administrative burden on the Employment
Bureau. Moreover, to prevent poverty among unemployed, we will make unemployment benefit
payments on time. There will be no increase in arrears in unemployment benefit payments from the level
of such arrears as at April 15, 1998.
13.   The Labor Code. The current low demand for workers in the for-mal sector may be attributable
in part to the high payroll taxes required to finance the social sector programs. However, in addition to
high taxes, the small and medium-sized enterprises face other large costs when hiring a worker. These
costs are attributable, in part to the excessive regulation of the hiring and termination process, embodied
in the Law on Labor Relations. In October 1997, as part of the Social Sector Reform Program, we
amended the Labor Relations Law to ease labor market restrictions. The revised Law allows employers to
hire workers without a medical examination, allows private employers to hire workers without public
announcement through the Employment Bureau and without a medical exarrination; allows employers to
tak)e as long as they wish to choose among applicants; eliminates special procedures for applicants
rejected by private employers to complain; and establishes severance pay based on years oa service only
with the terminating employer.
14.   However, despite these reforms, the Labor Relations Law still contains many rigidities that
increase labor costs, impeding private sector development and enterprise re-structuring. For example, the
Labor Law does not give employers sufficient flexibility in terminating workers. Before employers can
terminate workers, an employer must limit new hires, use attrition, relocate employees within the firm,
and reduce overtime. Workers who are nevertheless terninated can complain in court that the employer
has paid insufficient attention to these other options. These restrictions are further linked to criteria in the
collective contract. In addition to these restrictions, the law also mandates high minimum mandatory
benefits. These benefits include nine months of paid maternity leave. The current maternity beenefit
structure also provides no incentives for women who- wish to return to work during maternity leave to do
so without losing all their benefits. Moreover, the Labor Relations Law endorses a centralized collective
bargaining system binding on all workers and employers.



Annex I
Page 5 of 6
15.    We have adopted amendments to the Labor Relations Law to (1) grant women who choose to
return to work early form maternity leave 50% of their remaining unused cash benefit; (2). simplify the
process in terminating workers by (i) allowing enterprises flexibility in identifying person that makes
termination decisions for managerial positions and long-tenured workers; (ii) eliminating mandatory
refusal period for managers who are not re-elected; (iii) limiuting mandatory amount of job search time
during term of refusal to 4 hours per week; (iv) in small-scale terminations for economic surplus (less
than 20% of work force or 20 workers), giving employer discretion to identify workers to be termninated;
(v) limiting court review of economic-surplus terminations to determining whether the termination was
for economirc-surplus reasons, but not determining whether these reasons justify the terminations. The
revised law will also improve flexibility in collective bargaining by allowing the enterprise collective
agreement to determrine greater or lesser rights than the branch collective agreement, but no less than
rights set by law.
16.    The Social Assistance System. The means tested social assistance program  is fairly well
targeted to the poorest households, and is a considerable achievement for our country. We must now
start to tackle some of the second generation problems confronting the program. Despite being well
targeted overall, many households not eligible for benefits receive social assistance. This problem is
more acute in urban areas. The program also supports a rural-urban benefit differential that is far greater
(22%) than the cost of living differential that recent work on the poverty line has shown to exist (2%).
There are also lirmited incentives to leave the system. Targeting, benefit administration and delivery of
the social assistance program also require some improvement.
17.    To address these issues, and as part of the Social Sector Reform Program, we will ensure that
social assistance benefits and child allowances and child disability benefits are adequately budgeted and
delivered in a timely fashion. There will be no increase in arrears in Social assistance, child allowance and
child disability allowance payments, from the level of such arrears as at April 15, 1998. We have adopted
a revised social assistance decree. The decree has (i) equalised rural and urban social assistance levels,
based on the newly established single national poverty line and fiscal considerations; (ii) sinvilified scale
rates to differ only by family size, taking due care that all of the very poor are protected; (ii:) introduced
work incentives by limiting the duration of social assistance benefits to four years. Households will
receive full benefits for two years. These benefits are then reduced over the two remaining years, to 70%
and 50% each year respectively. Households are not eligible for further benefits for the next two years.
Claims separated by nine months or less would count as a single claim with a benefit period specified as
above. Clms separated by more than nine months would count as separate claims. Eligible unemployed
invalids and individuals within 5 years of retirement would be exempt from benefit term limitations; (iv)
increased penalties for fraudulent claims to two years consistent with the Employment Promotion Law;
Benefit administration would be improved  to (v) even the flow of beneficiaries to social assistance
offices, based on identification numbers, regions, and names (already made on pilot basis) nationwide;
and (vi) instituted random audits on the verification and monitoring of claims.
18.    The reforms of the social assistance program are concentrated on the most imn crtant social
assistance benefit program (in terms of expenditures) in the country. The third generation o., reforms of
the social assistance system will be based, inter alia, on the full findings of the Povert'i Assessment
Report to be completed jointly by the Government and the World Bank in FY98. The reforms to the
system will be monitored by the Poverty Monitoring Group and the Government, in order that the system
can be refined in termns of work incentives, targeting and administration as needed.
19.    The Social Sector Reform Program described above constitutes an essential part of the structural
reforms required to promote economic growth in our country. Based on these policies and the actions



Annex I
Page 6 of 6
described in this Letter and in the accompanying matrix, we would like to request World Bank support for
our reform program through a Social Sectors Adjustment Credit in the amount of US$29 million equivalenL
Yours sincerely
Naser Ziberi
Minster                 Policy
Taki Fiti 
Mein         ce
1{        t'



SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Policy Matrix
Policy Areas: L. Macroeconomic Framework; II. Social Protection: A. The Pension System, B. Social Assistance; III. Labor Market; IV. Thte Health System
Objectives                                   Measures Adopted                                               Second Tranche Conditions
1. MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
A. Sustainable Macroeconomic                                                                        Continued maintenance of a macroeconomic framework consistent with the
Framework                                                                                          objectives of the Program as determined on the basis of performance criteria
acceptable to the Borrower and the Association
11. SOCIAL PROTECTION
A. Pensions                            No increase in arrears in pension payments from the level of    No increase in arrears in pension payments from the level of such arrears as at
such arrears as at April 15, 1998.                          April 15, 1998.
Improve the long term financial viability
of the public pension scheme and       Passage of Pension legislation that:                        Adoption by parliament of the Borrower of an amendment to the Pension Law
introduce privately managed funded     *   Reduce minimum benefits                                 which reduces the medium and long term financing requirements of the public
pension pillar, while providing basic  *   Reduce maximum pension                                   pension fund and establishes the framework for privately managed mandatory
protection for the aged and disabled.                                                               funded pension schemes, each in a manner satisfactory to the Association, that:
Appoint and initiate work of a committee to develop funded  .   Continues to increase the retirement age for men and women beyond the limits
pension schemes (including overall system design, development   in the Law on Pension and Invalidity Insurance Nr. 80/93;
of laws and regulations; and responsibility for regulation and  .   Places retirement on an age-exclusive basis subject to a minimum number of
supervision) located in the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy.  contribution years;
.   Indexes benefits below wage growth by limiting the rate at which they can
Submission of plan to reduce financing requirements of the       grow beyond inflation;
public pension fund and to introduce private pensions,      *   Reduces the rate for accumulating the pension base used to specify the public
satisfactory to IDA. The technical assistance requirements to    pension. This reduction will be consistent with improving the financial
implement the pension reform program should be included in the   viability of the public pension scheme and the benefits to be provided by the
plan.                                                            privately managed funded pension scheme;
*   Does not increase the contribution rate.
Complete scheduled training of Actuarial Unit in public
pension fund modeling and projection; produce first report on  Submission to the Bank of a detailed financing plan, satisfactory to IDA for the
unreformed system.                                          introduction of a mandatory private pension pillar by completing simulations on
the impact of different combinations of public and private systems on Pension Fund
revenues, expenditures, contribution rates, and pension debt based on alternate  >U >
economic, financial and demographic scenarios.                                ( J
Institute a public information campaign to educate population on pension policy  (D (D
issues.                                                                           X
0
,,-



SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Policy Matrix
Objectives                                       Measures Adopted                                                Second Tranche Conditions
II. SOCIAL PROTECTION
B. Social Assistance                    No increase in arrears in Social assistance, child allowance and child  No increase in arrears in Social assistance, child allowance and child
disability allowance payments from the level of such arrears as at  disability allowance payments from the level of such arrears as at April
lmprove  the  Equity,  Targeting  and  April 15,1998.                                                       15, 1998.
Administration of the Social Assistance
Program                                 Adopt revised Social Assistance Decree, satisfactory to IDA, to:
*   Equalize rural and urban social assistance levels, based on the
newly established single national poverty line and fiscal
considerations.
.   Simplify scale rates to differ only by family size, taking due care
that all of the very poor are protected;
.   Introduce work incentives by limiting the duration of social
assistance benefits to four years. Households will receive full
benefits for two years. These benefits will then be reduced over the
two remaining years, to 70% and 50% each year respectively.
Households would not be eligible for further benefits for the next
two years, Eligible unemployed invalids and individuals within 5
years of retirement  would be exempt from    benefit term
limitations.
*   Individual claims separated by nine months or less would count as a
single claim with a benefit period specified as above. Individual
claims separated by more than nine months would count as separate
claims.
*   Increase penalties for fraudulent claims to two years consistent with
the Employment Promotion Law.
and to improve benefit Administration to:
.   Even the flow of beneficiaries to social assistance offices, based on
identification numbers, regions, and names (already made on pilot
basis) nationwide;
.   Institute random  audits on the verification and monitoring of
claims;                                                                                                                                aq 2
Complete preparatory work onl crcating a national poverty line and                                                                          (D (D
establishin a               tance scale including an analysis of                                                                            M
.   Rural and urban cost of living differences; and                                                                                             M
.   A national poverty line.                                                                                                                O
v2



SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Policy Matrix
Objectives                                           Measures Adopted                                             Second Tranche Conditions
III. LABOR MARKETS
Improve the flexibility of Labor Markets    No incrcase in arrears of unemployment benefit payments, from the level of such    No  increase  in  arrears  in  unemployment benefit
by (i) reducing constraints on hiring and    arrears as at April 15, 1998                                          payments, from the level of such arrears as at April 15,
termination of workers; (ii) reducing                                                                              1998
mandatory minimum benefits; and (iii)  Passage of Employment Law, satisfactory to IDA, which improves labor market
allowing competitive wage setting.    flexibility, work incentives, and fund solvency by                           Adoption by the Parliament of the Borrower of an
*   Allowing hiring to be done without the assistance or approval of the Employment   amendment to the Employment Law which: (i) restricts
Bureau;                                                                 the eligibility for special unemployment benefits  to
*   Requiring unemployed persons actively to search for work to remain eligible for    unemployed persons of at least fifty five (55) years of age
benefits; and                                                           with at least fifteen (15) years of paid  insurance
*   Tightening benefit duration and replacement rates.                       contributions; and (ii) disallows employers from receiving
unused unemployment benefits for newly hired employees,
Adoption of Amendments to the Labor Relations Law, satisfactory to IDA, to   each in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
improve labor market flexibility by:
*   Allowing employers to hire workers without a medical examination;
*   Allowing private employers to hire workers without public announcement;
*   Allowing employers to take as long as they wish to choose among applicants;
*   Eliminating special procedures for applicants rejected by private employers to
complain; and
*   Calculating severance pay based on years of service only with the terminating
employer.
Adoption of Amendments to the Labor Relations Law, satisfactory to IDA, to:
*   Grant women who choose to return to work early from maternity leave 50%  of
the remaining unused cash benefit;
*   Simplify process in terminating workers by (1) allowing enterprises flexibility in
identifying person that makes termination decisions for managerial positions and
long-tenured workers; (2) eliminating mandatory refusal period for managers who
are not re-elected; (3) limiting mandatory amount ofjob search time during term of
refusal to 4 hours per week; (4) in small-scale terminations for economic surplus
(less than 20% of workforce or 20 workers), giving employer discretion to identify                                                Pi
workers to be terminated; (5) limiting court review  of economic-surplus                                                          m  D
terminations to determining whether the termination was for economic-surplus                                                      (D(D
reasons, but not determining whether these reasons justify the terminations.                                                      ou
*   Improve flexibility in collective bargaining by allowing the enterprise collective
agreement to determine greater or lesser rights than the branch collective                                                        O
agreement, but no less than rights set by law.
Adopt revised delivery system of Health Insurance coupons to Unemployed Persons, by                                                    v
issuing Health Insurance Cards for unemployed persons every 3 months and delivering
them through the Post Office.



SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Policy Matrix
Objectives                                   Measures Adopted                                               Second Tranche Conditions
III. HEALTH
Improve the financial solvency of the  Passage of New Drug Law satisfactory to IDA which allows for  Adoption by the Parliament of the Borrower of a new Health Insurance Law
Health Insurance Fund; and reduce costs   streamlined registration of drugs, implementation of reference  establishing cost containment mechanisms for the health insurance system and
of health benefits on employers.       pricing based on generic products, adoption of essential drugs lists  a framework for improving the quality of primary health care, each in a
for public sector reimbursement, and competitive  bidding  manner satisfactory to the Association: that establishes a framework for a
procedures for public sector drug procurement.              capitated primary health care system, basic benefits package, co-payment/user
charges policy for health services, and referral system by primary care providers for
Legislation for new  Health Insurance Law  presented to  outpatient specialists and hospital care.
Parliament and satisfactory to IDA that establishes a framework
for a capitated primary health care system, basic benefits package,
co-payment/user charges policy for health services, and referral
system by primary care providers for outpatient specialists and
hospital care.
Fd>
Oq DJ
(D (D
0
-P



Annex 3A
Page 1 of 3
Macedonia, FYR - Key Economic Indicators
Actual              Estimate            Projected
Indicator               1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   2000   2001
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product                  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Agriculturea                             ..   10.6    12.8   13.1    13.7    13.4   13.0   12.7   12.4
a
Industry                                 ..   25.4   30.2    30.8   30.4    30.4   30.6   30.8   31.0
Servicesa                                ..   64.0    56.9    56.2   55.9    56.2   56.4   56.5   56.6
Total Consumption                        87.7   96.6   90.2   92.7    96.6    95.0   94.6   93.6   91.8
Grossdomesticfixed                       16.7    14.4   16.1    16.8    17.1    17.2   17.3   17.4   17.7
investment
Government investment                     0.9     3.5    3.2      2.8     1.5      1.6    2.0    2.4    2.8
Private investment                       15.8    10.9   17.1    16.5    17.9    17.9   17.6   17.3   17.2
(includes increase in
stocks)
Exports (GNFS)b                          44.7   40.0    33.8    33.0   39.8    44.9   45.6   47.0   48.1
Imports (GNFS)                           49.1    50.9   44.3    45.0    55.7    59.3   59.9   60.2   59.9
Gross domestic savings                   12.3    3.4      9.8    7.3      3.4      5.0    5.4    6.4    8.2
Gross national savings                   20.7    10.8    15.5    12.1    11.1    15.1   16.4   16.9   18.4
Memorandum items
Grossdomesticproduct                    2550    3142   4019   3942    3333        3218   3451   3711   3995
(US$ million at current
prices)
Gross national product per               820    820    840       920   1090c        ..
capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1996
prices)
Gross domestic product at             -9.4%   -1.7%   -1.2%    0.8%    1.5%    3.5%    4.0%   4.5%    4.7%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income                     ..     ..      ..      ..      ..       ..    ..
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%, calculated
from 1996 prices)
Gross domestic product at             -9.9%   -2.4%   -2.2%    0.1%    0.6%    3.2%    3.7%   4.2%    4.4%
market prices
Total consumption                      6.7%   11.2%  -10.5%    2.3%    4.5%     1.3%   4.7%    4.6%    3.2%
Private consumption                    7.3%   18.1%   -4.0%    1.3%    6.0%     1.5%   4.8%   4.6%    3.0%
(continued)



Annex 3A
Page 2 of 3
Macedonia, FYR - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual              Estimate            Projected
Indicator               1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   2000   2001
Balance of Payments
(US$m)
Exports (GNFS)b                       1140.0  1258.0  1359.0  1301.0  1329.3  1445.0  1575.0  1744.8  1920.0
Merchandise FOB                     1055.0  1086.3  1204.0  1147.0  1201.0  1315.0  1410.0  1547.0  1677.0
Imports (GNFS)b                      1251.0  1600.0  1780.0  1773.0  1861.9  1910.4 2066.4 2234.9 2394.1
Merchandise FOB                     1013.0  1272.0  1439.0  1464.0  1589.0  1661.7  1794.0  1965.0 2135.1
Resource balance                      -111.0  -342.0  -421.0  -472.0  -532.6  -465.4  -491.4  -490.1  -474.1
Net current transfers                  183.0  223.0  228.0  213.0  290.4   274.3  327.1  334.1  341.1
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance                 15.0  -180.0  -230.0  -288.0  -275.0  -241.9  -217.8  -208.9  -202.8
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct               0.0   24.0      9.5    11.2    15.8    50.0   80.0   70.0   75.0
investment
Long-term loans (net)                 -108.0    30.0   43.0   101.0   78.0   115.0  130.0  102.0  115.0
Official                              -91.0   100.0   20.0   40.0    89.0    93.0  102.0   72.0   80.0
Privated                              -17.0   -70.0   23.0   61.0  -11.0    22.0   28.0   30.0   35.0
Other capital (net, including           16.0   167.0   164.5   124.8  213.2   142.9  115.8  127.9   67.8
errors and omissions)
Change in reserves'                     77.0  -41.0    13.0   51.0  -32.0   -66.0  -108.0  -91.0  -55.0
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of                 -4.4%  -10.9%  -10.5%  -12.0%  -16.0%   -14.5%  -14.2%  -13.2%  -11.9%
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(1996 prices)
Merchandise exports                   -2.1%   -3.6%   -4.1%   -1.5%    8.4%     7.1%    3.8%   6.8%    5.6%
(FOB)
Primary
Manufactures                             ..      ..      ..      ..      ..       ..    ..
Merchandise imports                   18.0%  -16.2%   15.7%   17.2%   14.0%     3.5%    6.9%    8.7%    6.0%
(CIF)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)f
Current revenues                        40.2    46.4   41.9    40.6    38.6    37.2   36.2   36.0   35.0
Current expenditures                    52.7   45.8   40.0   38.6   37.6    36.2   35.5   35.0   33.4
(Continued)



Annex 3A
Page 3 of 3
Macedonia, FYR - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual              Estimate            Projected
Indicator               1993    1994   1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   2000   2001
Current account surplus(+)             -12.4     0.6     1.9    2.0      1.0      1.0    0.7    1.0    1.6
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure                      0.9     3.5    3.2    2.8       1.5      1.8    2.0    2.4   2.8
Foreign financing                        2.3     1.6    1.1    0.3       0.3      1.7    2.8    1.7   2.4
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP(atcurrentmarket                    ..   14.2    12.2    11.8    14.1    14.5   14.7   15.2  15.9
prices)
GrowthofM2(%)                             ..      ..   -3.1    -1.1    19.8       6.7    8.6   11.2   18.0
Private sector credit growth I            ..      ..      ..      ..      ..    20.0   30.0   35.0   45.0
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( 1996 =100)
Merchandise export price                86.7   85.4   91.6   100.0   96.7    98.8  102.0  105.0  108.0
index
Merchandise import price                89.4   95.4   103.6   100.0   94.5    95.4   96.4   97.1   99.5
index
Merchandise terms of trade              97.0   89.5    88.4   100.0   102.4   103.6  105.9  108.1  108.5
index
Real exchange rate                     122.3   99.3   96.1   100.0   113.4   124.6  124.6  124.6  124.6
(US$/LCU)g
Real interest ratesh                  15.6%  -14.2%    5.9%   10.0%    6.0%     5.7%    5.0%   4.7%   4.5%
Consumer price index                 338.6%  126.4%   16.2%    2.5%    1.5%     3.0%    3.0%   3.0%   3.0%
(% growth rate)
GDP deflator                         452.0%  134.1%   13.9%    1.9%    4.0%     3.0%    3.0%    3.0%   3.0%
(% growth rate)
a. GDP components are estimated at factor cost.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. The value for 1997 reflects the authorities revision of GDP estimates.
d. The years 1993-96 include net other private capital in addition to net long-term loans.
e. Includes use of IMF resources.
f. Data refer to general government.
g. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.
h. Real discount rate (end of period).



Annex 3B
Macedonia, FYR - Key Economic Exposures Page  1  Of  1
Actual             Estimate           Projected
Indicator              1993  1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001
Totaldebtoutstandingand             1080   1107   1450   1376   1331   1348   1426   1516   1601
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a
Net disbursements (US$m)a             ..   -22    304    -75    144         17      78     90      85
Total debt service (TDS)              ..    82       86    105    132    156    161    173    200
(US$m)a
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGSb                           93.4   87.1  103.6  102.2   96.1   89.5   86.9   83.4   80.0
TDO/GDP                            42.4   35.2   36.1   34.9   39.9   41.9   41.3   40.9   40.1
TDS/XGS                              ..   6.5    6.1    7.8    7.0    7.7    7.3    7.2    7.7
Concessional/TDO                    0.0    3.6    2.8    6.2   11.3   14.6   18.3   19.6   18.6
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS                    ..  30.9   28.1   20.1   13.6    7.9    5.9    6.3    7.9
Preferred creditor DS/public         ..  38.9   56.6   45.0   36.4   34.5   41.9   41.1   41.7
DS (%)c
IBRD DS/XGS                         0.0    2.0    1.7    1.6    1.1    0.7    0.5    0.5    0.5
IBRDTDO(US$m)d                     151     93      97     76      86    112    123    131    148
Of which present value of
guarantees (US$m)
Share of IBRD portfolio (%)         0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.2        ..
IDA TDO (US$m)d                      0      42      84    125    147    197    261    297    297
IFC (US$m)
Loans                                                            4.30    23.1    5.6
Equity and quasi-equity                                                  17.7
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m)
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the IMF, and the
Bank for International Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.
e. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.



Annex4
Page  1  of  9
Pension Fund: Financing, Recipients and Benefits
1991        1992         1993         1994         1995       1996
Expenditure (millions denar)                 103.31     1,336.75     9,411.56    18,445.00    18,296.00    19,695.00
Benefits                                 86.11      1,115.86    7,860.58    15,405.00    15,683.00    16,223.00
Administration & Other                    17.20      220.89      1,550.98    3,040.00     2,613.00    3,472.00
Revenue (millions denar)                     103.31     1,336.75     9,411.56    18,445.00    18,296.00    19,695.00
Contributions                             85.07     1,027.27     5,949.64    13,576.00    14,287.00   14,959.00
Central Govemment Transfers                8.60        62.63       801.37     2,945.00     2,830.00    3,289.00
Deficit (contributions less benefits)         (1.04)      (88.59)   (1,910.94)   (1,829.00)   (1,396.00)  (1,264.00)
Deficit (contributions less expenditures)    (18.24)     (309A8)   (3,461.92)   (4,869.00)   (4,009.00)  (4.736.00)
% of GDP
Expenditure (millions denar)                  11.42        11.66        16.43       13.90        12.92       13.53
Benefits                                  9.52         9.74        13.72        11.61        11.07       11.15
Administration & Other                     1.90         1.93        2.71         2.29         1.84        2.39
Revenue (millions denar)                      11.42        11.66        16.43        13.90       12.92       13.53
Contributions                              9.40         8.96        10.38        10.23        10.09      10.28
Central Govemment Transfers                0.95         0.55         1.40        2.22         2.00        2.26
Deficit (contributions less benefits)         (0.11)       (0.77)       (3.34)       (1.38)       (0.99)     (0.87)
Deficit (contributions less expenditures)     (2.02)       (2.70)       (6.04)       (3.67)       (2.83)     (3.25)
% of Govemment Expenditures                   23.75        22.39        29.70       27.50        27.89       29.94
Real Expenditure (1996=1)                      1.10         0.99         1.26         1.03        0.95        1.00
Recipients and Benefits:
Total Number of Pensioners                180,749.00   193,294.00   210,537.00   216,060.00   219,307.00   222,726.00
Average Pension Benefit                       63.24      1,014.44    4,570.98     5,358.16     5,609.00    5,691.00
Real Avg. Pension Benefit(I996-=1)             2.33         2.59         2.11         1.04        1.00        1.00
Average Benefit/Average Net Wage               1.07         1.60         1.21        0.69         0.65        0.65
Contributor/ Pensioner Ratio                   4.16         3.91         3.62        2.46         1.92        1.80
Source: Pension Fund



Annex  4"
Page 2 of 9
Employment Fund: Financing, Recipients and Benefits
1991     1992      1993         1994         1995        1996
Employment Fund:'
Expenditure (millions denar)              4.50    64.10    429.20      1,120.00    2,509.17     3,801.00
Benefits                                                         1,003.00    2,392.75    3,660.00
Administration                                                     117.00      116.42       141.00
Revenue                                   4.50    64.10    429.20      1,120.00    2,509.17     3,801.00
Contributions                                                     943.00       958.00      921.00
Central budget transfers                                           132.00      964.00     2,871.00
Deficit (contributions less benefits)                                   (177.00)   (1,551.17)   (2,880.00)
Deficit (contributions less expenditures)                               (60.00)   (1,434.75)   (2,739.00)
Employment Fund, % GDP:
Expenditure (millions denar)              0.50     0.56      0.75          0.84        1.77        2.61
Benefits                                                            0.76         1.69        2.52
Administration                                                       0.09        0.08         0.10
Revenue                                   0.50     0.56      0.75          0.84        1.77        2.61
Contributions                                                        0.71        0.68         0.63
Central budget transfers                                             0.10        0.68         1.97
Deficit (contributions less benefits)                                     (0.13)      (1.10)       (1.98)
Deficit (contributions less expenditures)                                 (0.05)      (1.01)       (1.88)
Expenditure as % of govemment spending    1.03     1.07       1.35         1.67        3.83         5.78
Real Expenditure (1996=1)                 0.25     0.24      0.30          0.33        0.67         1.00
Recipients and Benefits:
Annual Average Beneficiaries                                          16,686.00   46,391.00    48,187.00
Average Unemployment Benefit*                                          5,593.51    4,507.29     6,573.35
Real Average Unemp. Benefit (1996=1)                                       0.94        0.70         1.00
Average Benefit/Average Net Wage                                           0.72         0.53        0.75
1 1991-3 data from CEM; 1994 from MOF; 1995-6 data from IMF
(total exp.(annualYl2/annual average beneficiaries)



Annex 4
Page 3 of 9
Social Assistance: Expenditure, Recipients and Benefits
1991      1992         1993      1994          1995         1996
Expenditure (millions denar)'            4.89     20.09        395.03   1,620.50     2,088.10      1,937.90
% GDP                                  0.54      0.18         0.69       1.22          1.47         1.33
% Gov. Expenditure                     1.12      0.34          1.25      2.42         3.18          2.95
Real Expenditure (1996=1)                0.53      0.15          0.54      0.92          1.10         1.00
Recipients and Benefits:
Average Recipient Households                                29,277.58               52,645.83     53,742.00
Average Social Assistance Benefit                 118.34      1,124.37   3,290.86    3,305.26      3,004.94
Real Average Benefit (1996=1)                      0.57          0.98      1.21          1.12         1.00
Average Benefit/Average Net Wage                   0.19          0.30      0.42          0.39         0.34
Monthly social assistance expenditures, data from MOLSW



Annex 4
Page  4 of  9
Health
1991      1992     1993         1994         1995       1996
Health Fund (millions denar)
Expenditures                             79.50    704.70  3,576.30     7,992.00    9,719.40    9,785.80
Revenues                                55.96    683.15  3,683.50      8,064.11    8,412.30    9,568.90
Contributions                        55.96    683.15  3,683.50     8,064.11     8,412.30    6,204.00
Central budget transfers              0.35      2.00     15.96       197.57       131.80     181.80
Deficit (contributions less expenditures)  (23.54)   (21.55)   107.20    72.11    (1,307.10)  (3,581.80)
Health Fund, % GDP:
Expenditures'                             8.79     6.15      6.24         6.02         6.86       6.73
Revenues                                 6.18       5.96     6.43         6.08         5.94       6.58
Contributions                         6.18      5.96      6.43         6.08         5.94       4.26
Central budget transfers              0.04      0.02      0.03         0.15         0.09       0.12
Deficit (contributions less expenditures)  (2.60)    (0.19)  0.19         0.05        (0.92)     (2.46)
Real Expenditure (1996=1)                 1.71      1.05     0.96         0.90         1.01       1.00
% Gov. Expenditure                       18.28     11.80     11.29        11.92       14.82      14.87
Total Health Expenditures:a
Expenditure (millions denar)            103.40    986.50  4,835.40    10,420.70    11,391.10   9,785.80
Real Expenditure (1996=1)                 2.22      1.46      1.30         1.18        1.19       1.00
% GDP                                    11.43      8.61      8.44        7.85         8.04       6.73
% Gov. Expenditure                       23.77     16.52     15.26        15.54       17.37      14.87
1 1991-93 data from IMF; 1994-6 from HIF
2 1996 is HIF only



Annex 4
Page 5 of 9
Simulations Of Macedonia's Pension System
A. Assumptions
* Unemployment declining gradually from over 30% to about 14%
* GDP growth rates of 5% over the medium term, declining to 2% in the long term
* Labor Force rates of women rising linearly over 50 years, from their current level, equal to
about 65% of the level of men, to an ultimate level equal to 90% of the level of men.
B. Simulations
I. No Reform
Non-economic wage indexation until 2004, total-economy wage indexation thereafter
Effective average retirement age of 61 For men, 58 For women
Benefit formula generates entry pensions of about 75% for average worker (2% average accrual)
Contribution rate set to 35% of net wages
2. Reformed PAYG
Swiss indexatfon (50'1/o prices, 50% wages) beginning in 2005
Gradual increase to an effective average retirement age of 63 men & 62 women
Gradual change in benefit formula using 1.6% accrual rate for years after 2000
Contribution rate set to 35% of net wage
3. Transition To Private System
Three different types of transitions were simulated: 1) a slow-paced transition to a mostly
private system, 2) a slow-paced transition to a mixed system (with a private component and a PAYG
component) and 3) a medium-paced transition to a mixed system. Each of these simulations assumes that
the PAYG reforms outlined in section 2 above are implemented for the existing PAYG system. Each of
the two slow-paced transitions assumes that only new entrants to the labor force enter the new system.
Since only very young people are assumed to enter the new system, the transition is very gradual. For the
first few years, nearly all of the labor force remains in the old system. By 2040, all of the labor force is
fnally in the new system, but most of the pensioners are still in the old system. By 2080, the reform is
complete, since by this time all of the pensioners will be in the new system (and all of the labor force).
Unlike the slow-paced transitions, the medium-paced transition assumes that a portion of the labor force
switches to the new system during the first year that it is implemented. The simulation assumes that the
following workers switch: 100% of the labor force under the age of 25, 90% at age 26, 80% at age 27.
25% at age 31. Nobody age 32 or above is assumed to switch.
Transition #1. Slow-Paced Transition To A Mostly Private System
Beginning in 1999, new entrants are channeled into a private system with a contribution rate equat
to 20% of net wages. Note that this contribution rate is equivalent to a rate of 11.4% applied to gross
wages. This rate is necessary in order to generate entry pensions equal to about 55% to 60%f. of net wages,
assuming an interest rate of wage growth plus 2% during the accumulation period and a rate of wage
growth plus 1/e during the retirement period, and also assuming that the annuities are Swiss indexed-When
the transition begins, entrants are also required to pay a solidarity tax equal to 10% of net wages, which is
used to fnance the expenditures of the pensioners in the old system. As the old system dies out, the
solidarity tax can gradually be reduced to 0%. However, the simulations assume that this tax is maintained
for the full duration of the projection period. .Note that the private contribution rate plus the solidarity tax
in only 30%, which is 5% less than the current PAYG contribution rate of 35%/e.



Annex 4
Page 6 of 9
Transition #2. Slow-Paced Transition To A "Mixed" System
Beginning in 1999, new entr: ts are channeled into a mixed system with a PAYG component and
a private component. Members of the new system pay 15% of net wages (8.55% of gross wages) to a
private account, and 15% of nit wages (8.55% of gross wages) to the PAYG system. The payment to the
PAYG system can be viewed as both a tax, used to finance the expenditures of pensioners in the old
system, and a contribution, entitling the contributor to a first pillar PAYG benefit equal to 15 % of net wage
given 35 years of service. Given the same interest rate assumptions described for transition #1, the private
component should generate a replacement rate of about 40 to 45%. Together, the private and the PAYG
pillars will generate a replacement rate of about 60% (15% + 45%).
Transition #3. Medium-Paced Transition To A "Mlixed" System
Transition #3 differs from transition #2 in only one respect - a fraction of the labor force is
assumed to switch to the new system during the first year of implementation.
C. Results
1. No Reform
The no reforn scenario indicates that the PAYG system may run surpluses for a brief period if
unemployment rates drop. In the long-run, however, these surpluses vanish and the system reaches a
steady-state deficit of about 6.5% of GDP.
2. Reformed PAYG
The story told by this picture is that reforns are needed to balance the system in the long-term, but
these reforns could lead to surpluses in the short-term. These surpluses could be used either to lower tax
rates, or to finance a transition. However, if tax-rates are lowered in the short-term and no transition is
financed, eventually the tax rates will return to a high-level, but the benefits will be permanently reduced_
3. Transition
In each of the transitional simulations, the PAYG system will run deficits from 2017 until just
after 2050, at which point the system will rapidly move back towards balance as the pool of PAYG
beneficiaries in the old system dies off. At the most difficult point of the transition to the mostly private
system, PAYG debt is less than 40% of the assets of the private system (graph 3). At the most difficult
point of the slow transition to the mixed system, PAYG debt is less than 20% of the assets of the private
system (graph 4). Finally, at the most difficult point of the medium-paced transition to the mixed system,
PAYG debt is less than 30% of the assets of the private system (graph 5). These debt / asset ratios indicate
that the assets of the system will always be able to finance the transition without endangering it's financial
soundness.ln the long-run steady-state, each transitional scenario generates a surplus in the PAYG system.
In the mostly-private system, the surplus occurs because the solidarity tax of 10% of net wages is no longer
needed after the transition is complete. In 2080, the tax could be eliminated endrely. In the mixed system,
the surplus occurs for the same reason. However, the PAYG contnbution rate can not be eliminated in
2080, since the PAYG system continues to provide a small first pillar benefit. The PAYG contribution
rate can be reduced from 15% to about 7%, but it can not be eliminated.The transitional simulations
indicate that there is a trade-off between transitional deficits and the long-run efficiency of the pension
system. Although a move to a mostly private system results in larger transitional deficits than a move to a
mixed system, in the long-run the mostly private system is able to deliver the same benefits at a lower-cost
than the mixed system.



Flows_j Chart I
Graphl. Flows Of PAYG System (% GDP)
3% --
2%---
-4No Reformj
0% _  .  _ . ._
*-UReformed 
-1 %--                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAYG
-4%      ------ --1-  -                                  --
-5%                                                                                                                         P   -- . -*--.--***-***-*   N *-* -N>N-  -N.N   N
(D D
0
to



Flows 2 Chart 2
Graph 2. Transition To New System: Flows Of PAYG System (% GDP)
1%~~I
%; 1-  ~-  -- -1                                              ;     ;  
eoo-l~~~-
0%-
-2% ..-.- .-.-. -- ~.. --         .         -   -...                                    ,.          Transition To MostlyaPrisate System
-U- Slow-Paced Transition To Mixed
.   Medium-Paced Transition To Mixed I
x
(0
.4%1-                                                                                                                           co .  r  ILIx
X   Ej  E        g   j   f   Ej  0   j  0   0   f   0   E   0 0   N   %   i  ifto



Assets_TransitionI Chart 2
Graph 3. Slow-Paced Transition To Mostly Private System: Private Assets As % GDP, And PAYG Debt As %
Private Assets
200%-
160%    *.-._ -.  -.-.-_ _  _ _ ..-. -_._-_ :_-/.
140%.......  .                              -.         ..__.- ________-. ......
120%                               ....
1___________________________________________________________   .____________ _  |  Private   A ssets
100%                 _                                                                                                                     PAYG Debt I Private Assets1
80% ..-- -.--..-..----- -.
60%
40%                                                                                                                                                          1- > 
oq ~:
20%                                                                                                                                                                   co___________  -
0
0    W)~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(
0./s                                      y                                                                                                                       o
O'h I 1__< _ _ I to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



Annex 5
Page I of 1
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING STEPS
Time taken to prepare:          14 months, Decemberl996-February 1998
Prepared by:                    Government with the assistance of World Bank
Staff, USAID, and consultants
First Mission:                  December, 1996
Appraisal:                      February, 1998
Negotiations:                   April, 1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness:  July, 1998
Expected Program Completion:    June, 1999



Status of Bank Group Operations in Macedonia, Former Yugoslav Republic of
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual                Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                      disbursements a/    Supervision Rating b/
Project ID     Credit      Year                Borrower                      Purpose
No.                                                                            IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd    Dev Obj             Imp Prog
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 4
Active Loans
MK-PE-8407    IBRD 38680  1995  FYRMACEDONIA                         TRANSIT FACILITATION          24.00        0.00             0.00          1.27      -1.88       0.00       HS            HS
MK-PE-38092   IDA 27220   1995  GOVERNMENT OF FYR MACEDON            SOCIAL REFORM                  0.00       14.00            0.00           3.05       4.49       0.00       HS             S
MK-PE-43447   IBRD 40150  1996  FYR MACEDONIA                        PRIVATE SECTOR DVPMT          12.00        0.00             0.00          2.08      -2.92       0.00       HS             HS
MK-PE-36089   IDA 28890   1996  GOVT. OF FYRM                        HEALTH SECTOR TRANSI           0.00       16.90             0.00         14.84      12.58       0.00        U             U
MK-PE-10001   IDA 28630    1996  FYR MACEDONIA                       PRIV. FARMER SUPPORT           0.00        7.90             0.00          6.20       4.76       0.00        S             S
MK-PE-38393   IBRD 41530  1997  FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC             SAL I                         30.00        0.00             0.00         12.40      10.27       0.00        S             S
MK-PE-38393   IDA 29490   1997  FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC             SAL I                          0.00       30.00             0.00          5.53      10.27       0.00        S             S
MK-PE-42399   IBRD 42840  1998  ESM                                   POWER                        35.00        0.00             0.00         34.36       0.00       0.00
MK-PE-38399   IBRD 42410  1998  GOVERNMENT OF FYRM                    IRRIGATION REHAB.             7.50        0.00             0.00          7.54         .19        .06       S             S
MK-PE-34609   IBRD 42400  1998  GOVT. OF MACEDONIA                    PSD II                       25.00        0.00             0.00         23.74      -1.20       0.00       HS             HS
MK-PE-38399   IDA 30010   1998  GOVERNMENT OF FYRM                    IRRIGATION REHAB.             0.00        5.00             0.00          4.99         .19        .06       S             S
MK-PE-38391   IDA 29820   1998  FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC             EDUCATION REHAB.               0.00        5.00             0.00          3.87         .24      0.00       HS             S
Total                                                                                             133.50       78.80             0.00        119.87      36.99         .12
Active Loans          Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   80.51               165.01              245.52
of which has been repaid:                    0.00                3.52                3.52
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  212.30               165.11              377.41
Amount sold                      :                 0.00                 0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :                 0.00                0.00                 0.00
Total Undisbursed                :               119.87                 0.00              119.87
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory,
HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:                                                                                                                                                                                        P  D
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.                                                                                                                  0tq 
M (D
0



Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
Macedonia, Former Yugoslav Republic of
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Apr-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1997                  Nikol-Fert              3.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.28    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  SEF Masinomont           .59    0.00    0.00    0.00      .59    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  SEF Teteks              1.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.48    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                    5.87    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.35    0.00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1997                  MAKEDONIJA              5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  MT                     25.00    0.00    0.00   25.00
1997                  SEF MASINOMONT           .20    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  STOPANSKA BANKA    11.09    5.24    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:         41.29    5.24    0.00   25.00



Annex 7
FYR of Macedonia at a glance                                                                   g 1 of 2
Europe &   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                     Macedonla,   Central  middle-
FYR       Asia  Income
Populatlon mid-1996 (illons)                                 2.0       479    1,125
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                                     920      2,180    1,750
GNP 1996 (billions U  9S                                       1.9     1,043    1,967
Avera" annual growth, 19900461
Populailon I56)09                                                        03       14
Labor force I56)13                                                        .         8
Moat recent estimate (atestyearavailable since 1989)
Poverty: headcount Index (56 of population)
Urban population (X oftotalpopulation)                         60        65        56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                               73        68        67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 ive brths)                         23        26        41
Child malnutrlidon (%6of children under 5)
Access to safe water (% of,populataon)                                             78
llilteracy (56 of population age 15+)
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age populatfon)          87         97      104
Maie                                                         86         97      105
Female                                                       87         97      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
197s     195       19S6      1SST7
GDP (bIlflons US$)                                                       3.9      3.3
Gross domestic inveshnent/GDP                          .        .       19.2     19.9
Exports of goods &Non-factor services/GDP                               t92      399
Gros dom-estic savings/GDP73                                                      40
Gross nabonal savings/GDP /a                                            1179     11.9
Current account balance/GDP                                              -7.3    -82
Interest payments/GDP                                  ..       ..       1.9      1.8
Total debt/GOP                                                           97      3
Total debt servicetexports  ser.ce11.4                                            7.3
Present value of debt/G OPOM
Present value of debt/exports                                          109       9.
197548  198646       1996      1997  1997-05
(average anua growth)
GDP                                               ..   ..                1.5      5.0
GNP percapita                                 .      -8.7      0.6       1.4      3.8
ExportsofgoodsandNon-factorservices                    ..   -12.3         .0      5.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1996      1997
(56 of GDFM
Agriculture                             h 3                             13.1     13.7
Industry                                               .        ..      30.8     30.4
Manufacturing                                         .
Servces                                                                 -256.1   55.9
Pdvate consumption                                     ..       .       791.4     3.1
General govemment consumption                          ..       ..      13.4     12.9
Imports of goods end non-factor services                                45.0     55.8
197545  1966-96       1996     1997
(average annual growth)
Agriculture 1 bto  3e  ec                                                          .
Industry                                               .        ..       4.3      OA
Manufactring                                          .
Services     *how-2.0                                                             1.7
Private consumption                                                      1.3      4.7
General govemenwt consumption                          .        ..      -5.9     -3.2
Gross domestic investment                              .        ..      -4.       2.9
Importsaofgoods and non-factor services                .        ..       3.2     11.2
Gross national product                                ..      -7.9       0.9      1.4
Note: 1997 data are preliminary easimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
*The diamonds show four key Indficatoms in the country On bold) compared wiith its Income-grop average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete.



Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
FYR of Macedonia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      19"       1997
Domestuc prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                                          2.5      1 5
Implicit GDP deflator1.                                                           40
Government finance
(% of GDP)
Current revenue406                                                                86
Current budget balance                                 .        ..       2.0      1.0
Overall surplusldeflcit                                .        ..      -0.4     -0.5
TRADE
1975     1985      1996      1997
(.rvieons US$d
Total exports (fob)                                   ..               139         0.
Commodity I                                                           199       197
Commodity 241                                                                   48
Manufactures                                          .        ..      540      542
Total imports (cifb                                                    1,464    1,189
Food 1d5                                                                        154
Fuel and energy                                                        131      178
Capital goods                                        ..       ..       218      183
Export price index (1996=100)                         ..                           97
Import price index (1996=100)                         *.100                        95
Terms of trade (1996=100)                                                10        0
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1996     1997
omenilions US$)
Exports of goods and non-factor services               .             5h1o301    1,329
Imports of goods and non-factor serAices               .        ..     1.773    1,861
Resouroe balance                                       .        ..      -472     -532          9                         6 9
Net income                                                               3        -3
Net current transfers                                  .        *.      213       290
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers                                      28       27
Financing Items (net)                                  .        ..       237      305
Changes in nat reserves                                .        ..        51      -31
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US1$)                   .        ..      267       280
Conversion rate (locaL4JS$)                                             39.9     49.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1996     1997
(mnillions US$)
Total MLT debt outstanding and disbursed /c            .        ..     1,172    1,118                     ,  . 
IBRD78                                                                            4
IDA                                                  .         .       125      145
Total debt service                                                        5       10
IBRD                                                 .         .        21       15
IDA                                                  .         .         1        1
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                      .        ..        52        8
Official creditors                                   .        ..        58       76
Private creditors                                    .
Foreign direct investment                            .        ..        12       18
Portfolio equity                                                                  2
Woild Bank program
Commitmnents                                         .         .        37       so
Disbursements                                        .        ..       67        67
Principal repayments                                 .        .         17       10
Net flows                                            .         .        49       58
Interest payments                                   a.        .                   6
Net transfers                                        .                  42       51
Development Economics                                                                                                        471796
la Excludes officil grants; lb Estimated real growth rate at factor cost; Ic Excludes short-term debt.



IBRD 25501 R
FED. RER OF YUGOSLAVIA                                   :                        0                       4l I                                                  F         ORMER Y      UGOS LAV REPUBLIC
(SERBIA/MONTENEGRO)   -;-                                    *       r \ .  .r-      ,    ' -M                                                                                  OF
6%               Procovo                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~MACEDONIA
-.o v    .'Vromooicci\Bl (      1        1"-                  0s og'o-v'sk~~  i  *>   N.                                                         .'        Major cities
6              <|/       R-g(odueso<                        '      -. g                                                                                            *        Selected cities
\ 10 t   vsRxsc  .                                                                          -K OPelco-e E  -                                        *        National Capitol
O-                              **                                                         Primary roads
I                                           Polo       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Koconi
/        '/'     !19         e                           \5                    Volley    v       -'                                                                         Secondary roast
Oo t *ow"  Gcsrivo                              z. K i-w---o--w--------    ,tX                          0          5-;        0                       i     1           Electrified railroads
..a                                    a~~~~~~~~~IiIo C't                                                                                                           Other railroads
;- , -.9oPiW  .+  S  ~  V  la ..................... :, Titl v f.                                   *Stip                                       /                                 4         Airports
 j   (       9   \\/                                 2s0c   -t \                                                                                                     o;  <   Rodov  ,  ,  Spot elevations in meters
a-  V    7                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
,  / .            i          Jttc qI /                            )                                    \ - \ -    International oundaries
-</"-                ""  ~  49<'                 -\  $          'I/        '-N-. '     '/.3                                   ,~          -   
usevo, Xi      N ,,                                                               a                                                  5        30 ^  Jv    _   .  ,Nin  Str.mi  S  KEOMETERS
(I  . /          5q Ohi                                                                                                                                                           I \  /   MILE i
Prilop                                                     0
'-5,                                                    a\'Ths,,prospRep ynoaTr r-                                                                                               by  A M .D, U,id[STRAh.  O,^ _-Ak
o    5~                                     c, ank  a< -                                              Son   (                                      MOrUCAOW&o,aordov,recvodvyRhOMANA ho
A LBroAh  NSro,.' I                                                                          .A   .-.. \egeq D, ,5-   < X   ;   ,                                        onjrgronenhegesereleyerlr oTAendo' " 'r'eme n 
'K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOI P( t                                                                                            K,o -- .
A    SU rARRET<R.dAN
~~              o-0c.~ml  0sid    a              'HUA  ARY
\E>i        S -                                                                    'c Kronnonreo   rher                                                           ,i GREECE    ROMAIGA
t   '>.Vvrr           /                                                                                                            ----'alK CROAROMANA
! -         h-                   /                                 Edhoeso                                                                       n.0 A0
FED.ovino~   -  ->"     1 A REP96
~~~r  '.  t.. . .,  roe       I                                                                            .0-.  / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SERB/MONTI  2
''                  [                          ---t                                                --x.l           r   R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ULSAR~A  To-
N                                      N .-   -4~~~~~~~~~~~~           ~~~Thessoloniki  TSr, 1-
~~~~~~~~Korc, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ITALYr--                                                                                       1
AL BANA N I ASFANIA
PGREECE
AUGUST 1996



