Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21066
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-31130; TF-23306)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF OF SDR 21.6 MILLION (US$29 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
FOR A SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
OCTOBER 17, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 2000)
Currency Unit = Denar
65.39 = US$ 1
US$ I = 65.39
FISCAL YEAR
January I December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          -     Countiy Assistance Strategy
ECA          -     Europe and Central Asia
ERL          -     Economic Recovery Loan
ESAF         -     Enhanced Stnictural Adjustment Facility
GDP          -     Gross Domestic Product
FYR          -     Former Yugoslav Republic
HDAL         -     Human Development Adjustment Loan
HIF          -     Health Insurance Fund
HIL          -     Health Insurance Law
HSTP         -     Health Sector Transition Project
ICR          -     Implementation Completion Report
IDA          -     International Development Association
IMF          -     International Monetary Fund
MOH          -     Ministry of Health
MOLSP        -     Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
PERTAP       -     Pension Reform Technical Assistance Project
PHC          -     Primary Health Care
PHRD         -     Japanese Grant Facility
PRSP         -     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSMAL        -     Public Sector Management Adjustment Loan
USAID        -     United States Agency for International Development
SC          -      Steering Committee
SDR          -     Special Drawing Rights
SRTAP        -     Social Reform Technical Assistance Project
SSAC         -     Social Sectors Adjustment Credit
SSP         -      Social Support Project
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:   Christiaan J. Poortman, ECCO4
Sector Manager/Director: Annette Dixon, ECSHD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Mansoora Rashid, ECSHD



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  8
6. Sustainability                                                                     10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    13
9. Partner Comments                                                                   14
10. Additional Information                                                           20
Annex 1. Key Perforiance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P038392                                       Project Name: Social Sectors Adjustment Loan
Team Leader: Mansoora Rashid                              TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: October 17, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: Social Sectors Adjustment Loan                 L/C/TF Number: IDA-31130; TF-23306
Country/Department: MACEDONIA, FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC                  Region: Europe and Central
OF                                                            Asia Region
Sector/subsector: SS - Social Protection Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  11/20/96                                Effective.  08/21/98
Appraisal:  02/27/98                                  MTR:
Approval:  07/09/98                                Closing: 06/30/99             04/14/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA/MINISTRY OF LABOR
AND SOCIAL POLICY
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:     Christiaan J. Poortman                     Ajay Chhibber
Sector Manager:      Annette Dixon                              James Christopher Lovelace
Team Leader at ICR:   Xiaoqing Yu                               Mansoora Rashid
ICR Primary Author.   Maria Gracheva
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project was to support the Government of FYR Macedonia Social Sector Reform Program by:
(i) helping to improve the long-term financial solvency of social sector programs;
(ii) increasing labor market efficiency and reduce labor market distortions and costs; and,
(iii) reducing poverty by improving the quality and targeting efficiency of social assistance benefits.



3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The social sector reform strategy supported by the project was consistent with the goals of the IMF's
ESAF program and with Borrower's strategy to promote economic growth by maintaining macroeconomic
stability while protecting the poorest groups in the population. The reform strategy required action in the
following three main areas:
A.    SOCIAL PROTECTION
(i)     A major reforn of the public pension system and the development of the framework for a
mandatory, funded, privately-managed scheme.
(ii)    A reform of the social assistance system to improve equity in the level of benefits, better
targeting of benefits and strengthen the efficiency and work incentives in the social assistance
system.
B.    LABOR MARKET
(i)     A reform of the unemployment insurance system to improve the financial solvency of
Unemployment Insurance Fund and reduce constraints to labor hiring.
(ii)    A fundamental change in labor legislation that eases hiring and termination conditions and
allows for greater flexibility for enterprises to deviate from collective agreements.
C.    HEALTH
(i)     A restructuring of the health insurance system to allow for greater cost containment of the
Health Insurance Fund and improved quality of health care services.
3.4 Revised Components:
Project components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
QAG review was not available at the time of project preparation. However, this ICR rates the quality of
project design and preparation as satisfactory. The project was consistent with the CAS objectives and
provided essential support to the FYR Macedonia Social Sector Reform Program. The project's design,
including its objectives and components, was appropriate and was based on extensive research, studies and
policy discussions between the Bank and the Government during several years preceding the SSAC
approval. Project objectives were also consistent with the Govemrnment's macro-stabilization program
which began in 1994 and were critical to sustaining the macro-economic stability given the high rate of
expenditures on social sector programs (70%) from the budget. Although overall objectives were clear and
realistic, the pace of achieving these objectives may have been overestimated given the extensive nature of
reformns and the potential for political instability in the region.
-2 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
All project objectives were achieved and all major social sector reforms envisaged by this project
materialized despite high political instability during the project implementation period, including
Parliamentary and Presidential elections (Fall of 1998 and 1999) and particularly the Kosovo crisis in the
Spring of 1999 which affected the pace of preparation and passage of reform legislation. Nonetheless,
Government commitment to reforms remained strong throughout the project and great efforts were made to
support all phases of project implementation by the lead coordinating agency for the project, the Ministry
of Labor and Social Policy. Specifically, the three SSAC objectives were achieved in the following way.
(i)   In accordance with the first objective, reforms of the public pension and of health and
unemployment insurance programs will improve the long-term financial solvency of these programs thereby
reducing the overall fiscal burden and allowing more investment spending from the budget. Amendments to
the Pensions Law allow for a tighter link between contributions and benefits which will enable the public
pension system to save considerably over the long term. In addition, the reduction of the replacement rate
and the gradual increase of retirement age will lead to further savings. The creation of the framework for
the introduction of the private pension plan in 2001 will also reduce overall participation in the public
system which should lessen the burden on the public pension system. In addition, the reduction of
mandatory minimum unemployment benefits and restrictions of eligibility requirements as part of reforms
in the labor market area also reduce budgetary financing requirements. Lastly, the passage of provisions
under the Health Insurance Law introduce tighter eligibility requirements and benefit provision and will
result in greater cost containment by the Health Insurance Fund.
(ii)   Provisions of the Employment Law and amendments to the Labor Relations Law which were
passed as conditions of SSAC provide greater efficiency and flexibility in the labor market by allowing
firms greater freedom of action in hiring and termination of workers, freedom to set competitive wages, and
by tightening unemployment benefits, their duration, and eligibility requirements. All these steps will
reduce unnecessary labor market distortions and costs.
(iii)   A means-tested social assistance system was introduced by the Government prior to the SSAC
becoming effective which enabled additional reforms of the social assistance programs under the SSAC.
As a first tranche condition, a revised Social Assistance Decree was adopted which improved equity and
targeting efficiency of social assistance benefits as well as the quality of administration of the social
assistance program. With measures adopted under the SSAC to lift labor mobility restrictions by reducing
constraints on hiring and termination of workers, improvements in social assistance program ensure a
stronger protection of vulnerable households given an expected increase in layoffs with the planned closures
of loss-making enterprises and the downsizing of public administration. Lastly, in the health sector, a
framework to improve the quality of primary care services was established in the newly adopted Health
Insurance Law, which is also consistent with the third objective of the SSAC.
Given the importance and depth of reforms undertaken by the Government of FYR Macedonia within a
politically unstable and difficult environment, this ICR assesses the outcome of SSAC as highly
satisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Reform measures undertaken were supported by two tranches of the S SAC. One overall condition of the
SSAC that had to be satisfied for both tranches was the Government's commitment to maintain the
macro-economic framework consistent with the reform program. This meant continued efforts to promote
- 3 -



economic growth, reduce unemployment, facilitate the development of the private sector, reduce rigidities in
labor market, reduce poverty and provide a strong safety net for the most vulnerable groups of society.
Overall, the Government succeeded to maintain its resolve to stay on course of the reform program, to
launch structural reforms in the social sectors and continue its commitment to fight poverty through its
work on the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). The IMF program remains on track and the Bank
is satisfied with the Government's reform efforts.
To ensure financial discipline, the SSAC included a condition that there would be no increase in arrears of
(i) pensions; (b) social assistance payments; (c) child allowances; (d) child disability allowances; and (e)
unemployment benefits, from the level of such arrears as of April 15, 1998. This condition was part of the
first and second tranche release and the Government fulfilled it satisfactorily to IDA.
Specific outputs by project components against each tranche release are as follows.
A.    SOCIAL PROTECTION
Pension System Reforms.    (rating HS)
The main objective of this component was to reform a very costly public pay-as-you-go pension system
thereby reducing the heavy financial burden on the Pension Fund. Pension expenditures were among the
highest in the region, and represented roughly 12% (or 30% of Government expenditures) in 1997,
primarily due to high replacement rates (average pension to average wage) and generous eligibility and
benefit structure. As part of 1st tranche SSAC conditions met prior to Bank Board approval, the
Government took several steps to amend the pension law, including the reduction of maximum and
minimum pensions and increasing the retirement age. The Governnent also appointed a Committee on
Pension Reform which developed an action plan to reduce the fmancial requirements of the public system
and to introduce the funded pension scheme. Simultaneous with SSAC approval, the Government signed
the Pension Reform Technical Assistance Project (PERTAP) which continues to provide support for the
reform program through technical assistance and by financing a public information campaign (second
tranche condition). Under the Social Reform Technical Assistance Project (SRTAP), PERTAP and with
support of the Japanese grant, the Actuarial Unit also received training on public pension fund modeling
which enabled it to carry out simulations on the impact of different combinations of public and private
systems on the Pension Fund revenues and expenditures. Based on this work, the Actuarial Unit was able
to produce a detailed financing plan for the introduction of a mandatory private pension pillar, which was a
condition of the second tranche.
The remaining condition of the second tranche was the adoption of amendments to the Law on Pension and
Disability Insurance which changes the benefits and eligibility criteria to improve the solvency of the public
system and defines the basic criteria for a mandatory funded pension system to be introduced in 2001 to
improve the sustainability of the pension system. All amendments were passed on March 22, 2000 and
included, among others:
(i) increase of the retirement age by half a year every year to 63 for women and to 65 for men;
(ii) age-exclusive retirement (eliminating other early retirement options) subject to a minimum
number of contribution years;
(iii) indexation of the pension base for all future contributions to less than growth in wages (80%
price and 20% wage);
(iv) reduction of the rate for accumulating the pension base used to specify the public pension. The
accrual rate of all future pension rights by men will be a flat rate of 1.8%/year and 2.1%/year for
women which reduces the replacement rate to about 70% from 80% for men and women after 40/35
- 4 -



years of service. To reach the 80% replacement rate, both women and men will need to work longer,
and therefore, this change reduces incentives to retire early. For participants in the new funded
system, the accrual rate of benefits in the public system will be 0.75%/year for men and 0.86% for
women, or a maximum 30%/34% replacement rate.
(v) no increase in the contribution rate.
The pension reforms introduced through the SSAC were substantial and will lead to improved financial
status of the Pension Fund. The depth of these reforms suggest a highly satisfactory rating for this
component; a critical element in its success was support provided through PERTAP (still ongoing).
Social Assistance Reforms.    (rating HS)
All conditions for this component were met as part of the 1st tranche release of the SSAC. The main
objective of measures implemented was to ensure that social assistance benefits were adequately targeted,
budgeted and delivered in a timely way in order to be meaningful to recipients. In terms of targeting
benefits to the most needy, the Government made considerable efforts in this area since 1992 through the
introduction of a means-tested social assistance program. Overall, the program was fairly well targeted
(and remains so today) but had problems in areas of benefits administration and delivery, the monitoring of
eligibility for benefits, and led to general benefit dependency due to limited incentives to leave the system.
The development of an improved program and its implementation was supported by the SRTAP project
which also set up the Poverty Monitoring Unit to carry out household surveys as part of poverty
assessments and to compute poverty lines. The SRTAP also set up an Automation Unit within the MOLSP
to be able to deliver aggregate data based on information from local Social Assistance offices. All this
work provided a natural link to carry out further improvements in the social assistance system through the
SSAC.
In the Spring of 1998, the Government passed a Social Assistance Decree which was subsequently revised
in accordance with the I st tranche SSAC conditions. The revised decree includes provisions which: (i)
equalize rural and urban social assistance levels, based on the newly established single national poverty
line; (ii) simplify scale rates to differ only by family size; (iii) introduce work incentives by limiting the
duration of social assistance benefits to four years, after which households would not be eligible for the
next two years. After the initial two years, benefits would be reduced over the two remaining years, to 70%
and 50% each year respectively. Eligible unemployed invalids and individuals within 5 years of retirement
would be exempt from benefit term limitations. Individual claims separated by nine months or less would
count as a single claim whereas claims separated by more than nine months would count as separate
claims; (iv) increase penalties for fraudulent claims to two years. The reforms also improve benefit
administration by: (i) providing an even flow of beneficiaries to social assistance offices, based on
identification numbers, regions, and names (already made on pilot basis) nationwide; and (ii) through
random audits on the verification and monitoring of claims.
Another SSAC condition was the completion of work on creating a national poverty line and establishing a
single social assistance scale including an analysis of rural and urban cost of living differences. The
Poverty Monitoring Group has continued to monitor poverty and to work with the Government to further
improve the targeting of the social assistance program.
As a consequence of the Social Assistance Decree, the cost of the program has been reduced, although the
number of recipients have increased over the last two years, partly due to the Kosovo crisis but also
because of continued problems of monitoring the eligibility of claimants. The Decree has also had a
desired effect in terms of regional targeting, with more recipients in rural households. Additional savings
- 5 -



are coming from the end to the two-year limitation of full social assistance benefits in accordance with the
Decree. In March 2000, the Cabinet made a decision to proceed with the implementation of the Social
Assistance Decree and reduce the full social assistance benefit by 30% for the households who have been
receiving benefit for two years. The reduction became effective in April, 2000.
In sum, efforts made in this component were highly satisfactory and will continue to be supported through
the social assistance and the poverty monitoring sub-components of the ongoing Social Support Project
(SSP).
B.    LABOR MARKET
Reform of Unemplovment Insurance.  (rating S)
The basic objective of reforms in the unemployment insurance system was to improve the financial
solvency of Unemployment Insurance Fund and reduce constraints to labor hiring. The extremely high
unemployment rate and the generous benefit provisions under the old Unemployment Insurance Law drove
the Employment Fund into a large deficit, estimated at 2% of GDP in 1996. Meanwhile, the Employment
Bureau was in charge of paying benefits, but also of processing hiring and matching the unemployed with
training opportunities, tasks much better left to the labor market. With increasing unemployment, both the
Insurance Fund and the Employment Bureau were placed in increasingly difficult position of having to
administer an unaffordable program.
In meeting the SSAC first tranche conditions, the Government passed a new Law on Employment and
Unemployment Insurance which (i) allowed hiring to be done without the Employment Bureau's approval;
(ii) required unemployed to actively search for work to remain eligible for benefits; and (iii) tightened
benefit duration and replacement rates. The tasks of the Employment Bureau were further reduced through
a newly adopted revised delivery system of Health Insurance coupons to unemployed persons, by having
the Ministry of Health issue coupons every 3 months (based on a list of unemployed) and delivering them
through the mail system rather than by the Employment Bureau.
Additional amendments to the Law on Employment and Unemployment Insurance were adopted on March
23, 2000 to meet the second tranche conditions of the SSAC. The basic aim of the amendments was to
improve the efficiency of the unemployment benefit system by restricting the eligibility for open-ended
special unemployment benefits after 25 years of service to unemployed persons of at least 55 years of age
and with at least 15 years of paid insurance contributions. Previously, unemployed persons with 25 years
of service could receive unemployment benefits until their retirement. The amendments also disallow
employers to receive unused unemployment benefits for newly hired workers.
Although the basic aims under this component were achieved and all conditions of the SSAC met with
satisfaction, the risks for additional unemployment remains high, given expected lay-offs in connection with
planned closures of large loss-making enterprises and the downsizing of the public administration.
Therefore, the Government needs to monitor the situation carefully and seek additional reforms in labor
market development, and ensure that overall reform objectives achieved in the labor market and the
unemployment benefits program remain on track.
Reform of the Labor Code.    (rating S)
One of the major contributing factors to the high unemployment rate in FYR Macedonia is the highly rigid
labor market and the resulting high cost of labor which traditionally restricted employment, put upward
- 6 -



pressure on wages, hindered private sector development and enterprise restructuring. The SSAC aimed at a
fundamental change in labor legislation that would ease hiring and termination conditions and allow for
greater flexibility for enterprises to deviate from collective agreements, thereby increasing overall flexibility
of the labor market.
As a condition of the first tranche release, the Government adopted improved amendments to the Labor
Relations Law over those originally adopted in October 1997. Overall, the following new amendments
were introduced to ease labor market restrictions:
(i) allowing employers to hire workers without a medical examination;
(ii) allowing private employers to hire workers without public announcement;
(iii) allowing employers to take as long as they wish to choose among applicants;
(iv) eliminating special procedures for applicants rejected by private employers to complain;
(v) calculating severance pay based on years of service only with the terminating employer.
(vi) granting 50% of the remaining unused cash benefit to women choosing to return to work early from
matemity leave;
(vii) simplify process of termination by:
(a) allowing enterprises flexibility to identify a person to make termination decisions for managerial
positions and long-tenured workers;
(b) eliminating mandatory refusal period for managers who are not re-elected;
(c) limiting mandatory job search time during term of refusal to 4 hours per week;
(d) giving employers discretion to identify workers to be terminated in small-scale terminations for
economic surplus (less than 20% of work force or 20 workers);
(e) limiting court review to determining whether ternination was for economic-surplus reasons, not
determining whether these reasons justify the terminations; and
(viii) improving flexibility in collective bargaining by allowing the enterprise collective agreement to
determine greater or lesser rights than the branch collective agreement, but no less than rights set by law.
Although these amendments were adopted prior to SSAC Board approval, six months later, in January
1999, the Constitutional Court repealed several of the amendments which was detrimental to improving the
flexibility of the labor market. This happened during a period following the Government elections of late
1998. It took some time to appoint a new Minister of MOLSP while the old Minister of MOLSP was
already out of office; trade unions took this opportunity to voice their opposition and press for the repeal of
some amendments. Specifically, repealed amendments aimed to (i) allow employer discretion on
procedures in small-scale terminations, (ii) limit court review of economic-surplus terninations, and (iii)
improve flexibility in collective bargaining. However, the Government decided to redraft the amendments
to the Labor Relations Law to bring them in line with the SSAC reform program. By the end of 1999, the
MOLSP prepared draft amendments which were discussed with the Bank and which proved to be
satisfactory in meeting SSAC conditions.
In the end, all SSAC conditions relating to improvements of the Labor Relations Law were met, however
despite this considerable progress, additional reforms of the legislation are necessary in order move towards
a more efficient labor market.
C.    HEALTH REFORM                (rating S)
Similar to the Unemployment Insurance Fund, the Health Insurance Fund experienced great financial
difficulties in the 1990s as a result of declining public revenues and continued generous eligibility and
benefits provided by the health insurance program, including universal health coverage of all types and
levels of health care. The result was a breakdown of primary health care and reduced availability of basic
- 7 -



supplies, essential drugs, vaccines, etc. In addition, the Health Insurance Fund was in deficit, estimated at
roughly 2.6% of GDP in 1996.
In support of the Government program to reform the health sector, contain costs and improve the health
status of the population, the aim of the SSAC was to restructure the health insurance system to allow for
greater cost containment of the Health Insurance Fund. To meet this SSAC condition, the Government had
to draft and pass a new Health Insurance Law (HIL) which established a framework for a capitated
primary health care system, basic benefits package, co-payment/user charges policy for health services and
a referral system by primary care providers for outpatient specialists and hospital care. The SSAC also
aimed to improve the quality of health care through ensuring an adequate provision of essential drugs. As
part of first tranche conditions, the Govermment passed a new Drug Law to allow for (i) streamlined
registration of drugs, (ii) reference pricing based on generic products, (iii) adoption of essential drugs lists
for public sector reimbursement, and (iv) competitive bidding procedures for public sector drug
procurement.
Both Laws were drafted and passed, satisfactory to the Bank and owe much of their success to the support
provided by the ongoing Health Sector Transition Project (HSTP). The HIL which passed on March 29,
2000 required much drafting, review and continued dialogue with the Government over a two year period.
After the election period of 1998, the new Government indicated that a new draft of the Law needed to be
written together with a new Health Care Law without which it could not be passed. This was a low point
in the dialogue given that the first reading of the Law was part of first tranche conditions and meant that
the health component conditions would potentially delay the release of the second tranche until late 1999.
In the end, however, the Bank and the Government reached considerable agreement on most provisions of
the HIL and the revised draft, including stronger provisions on financial accountability and patient
co-payments was presented to the Bank for review and passed by Parliament with personal support of the
Minister of Health.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
NA
4.4 Financial rate of return:
NA
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Being an adjustment operation, the SSAC was not focused per se on developing institutional capacity of
government bodies. However, the staff of MOLSP, the MOH and of other Government agencies working
in the social sectors considerably enhanced their understanding and knowledge of the issues surrounding the
reforms being undertaken as a result of SSAC preparation and implementation. This was largely due to the
very substantial technical assistance provided through other projects in the social sector, including the
FESAC (enterprise restructuring issues), SRTAP (labor, social assistance, pensions), PERTAP (pensions),
the HSTP (health) and the Bank Poverty Assessment. During the course of SSAC preparation and
supervision, Bank mission members and consultants also provided considerable support in reviewing and
advising on reform measures, legislation and generally played an active role in working with the MOLSP,
the MOH and other involved staff. In addition, many staff attended international and local seminars on the
various aspects of reform measures and also studied lessons of reforms in other countries.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The implementation of the SSAC conditions for the second tranche was already delayed, partly as a result
- 8 -



of the Parliamentary elections in the fall of 1998. In January 1999, the Bank mission re-launched the
policy dialogue with the new Government and estimated that conditions for release of the second tranche
would likely be met only by the fall of 1999. However, the Kosovo crisis which began in early Spring of
1999 and continued through early summer had a deleterious impact on the pace of the project.
Unfortunately for the SSAC, the crisis effected most directly the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy which
had the responsibility of coordinating FYR Macedonia's efforts in dealing with the refugee crisis. At the
same time, the MOLSP was the lead coordinating agency for the SSAC and directly responsible for most of
SSAC components (except for the health component). Therefore, the Kosovo crisis placed the Ministry in
the most difficult circumstances of coordinating a huge effort to assist the massive numbers of refugees and
at the same time to develop major reforms of the social sector. Although the decision to extend the project
to December 1999 was taken prior to the Kosovo crisis, the three months implementation delay during the
crisis most likely contributed to the need to extend the project again until March 31, 2000.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The project was at risk of being delayed in early 1999 as a consequence of the 1998 Parliamentary
elections. New Ministers were appointed, including a new Minister of Labor and Social Policy and a new
Minister of Health, and policy dialogue on SSAC reforms had to re-launched and policy measures proposed
had to be re-introduced. Nonetheless, at that stage, the new Government indicated its ongoing commitment
to the social policy dialogue. However, it became clear at that point that the second tranche release was
going to be delayed to allow for additional work to be completed in three areas:
(i) there was a real slow-down in the work on pensions as a result of elections and more effort was needed
to develop and agree on pension reform options before the draft framework law could be presented for
review by Government and Parliament (early fall);
(ii) the repealed amendments to the Labor Relations Law had to be re-introduced and made consistent with
constitutional law and amendments to the Law on Employment and Insurance had to be sent to the Bank for
review. It was estimated that this legislation could be passed by the original closing date; and,
(iii) the new Minister of Health indicated that he could not accept the existing draft of the Health Insurance
Law (HIL) and that a new draft had to be written as well as a new Health Care Law without which the HIL
could not be passed. This decision was of particular concern to the Bank and meant that the adoption of
the HIL would not happen prior to the end of 1999.
By the time of Presidential elections at the end of 1999, SSAC legislation was essentially prepared and
agreed on with the Bank and inside the Government, although there continued to be issues of individual
provisions in each legislation which required review and revision until and during its review and passage by
Parliament to make it comply with SSAC conditions. Due to additional delays during the election period,
the project had to be extended for a second time, until March 31, 2000. Pension, labor legislation and the
draft HIL were presented to Parliament in early 2000 (HIL for second reading). All laws were passed prior
to the closing date, however, a third 2-week extension was necessary to allow the Bank to carefully review
that all conditions were met satisfactorily and to process the release of the second tranche.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Ministry of Labor and Social Policy was the lead coordinating agency for the SSAC, and provided
continuous support for reform measures, worked closely and collaboratively with the Bank staff and
consultants and ensured that all necessary steps were taken during the various review stages of legislation,
both in Government institutions and Parliament. A critical element of success was a deliberate decision by
the Minister after the 1998 elections to retain Ministry staff involved in social sector reforms from early
stages of SSAC preparation, including those involved in pension reform, reform of the labor code, and
social assistance reforms. This provided for continuity of dialogue with the Bank and ensured that the
Ministry maintained a capable team of experts who were familiar with reform issues. Once the legislation
-9-



was prepared and presented to Parliament, the Ministry played a crucial role in supporting and guiding the
final passage of all legislation; personal support by the Minister was another critical element in meeting all
SSAC conditions.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Total project cost was SDR 21.6 million (US$29 million equivalent). The credit was disbursed in two
tranches, each equal to US$14.5 million equivalent. The first tranche was released on September 9, 1998
against conditions met by the credit approval date. All conditions for the disbursement of the second
tranche of the SSAC were met and full documentation was provided to the Bank together with a letter of
the Minister of Finance to IDA, dated April 11, 2000. The second tranche was released on April 13, 2000.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating.
In its assessment of potential risks of the operation at the appraisal stage, the Bank team acknowledged the
risk that the overall economic program may not be sustainable because of faltering consensus about the
need for social sector reforms. However, the strong record of the Government of FYR Macedonia in
pursuit of economic and social reforms and conviction that reforms are essential for income growth and
reduction of poverty was a key mitigating element which convinced the Bank to support the reform
program. Likewise, sustainability of the reforms initiated under the SSAC largely depends on continued
general support by the Government of FYR Macedonia and specifically by the Ministry of Labor and
Social Policy and the Ministry of Health for the implementation of reforms and measures in accordance
with the agreed and passed legislation.
In addition to Government commitment to maintain the momentum of the reform agenda, one major
contributing factor to project sustainability is the Bank's continued involvement and commitment to ensure
that the Government stabilization program remains on track through policy dialogue and ongoing
operations in the social sectors. This includes (i) work on pension reform implementation, including the
drafting of the Law on Private Pensions, under PERTAP, (ii) drafting of by-laws to the HIL, supported by
HSTP and PSMAL, (iii) poverty monitoring and social assistance work implemented through the SSP, (iv)
ongoing poverty work through the PRSP effort by the Government, (v) additional financing for
implementation of pension reform (administrative reform of the PDF, setting up the supervisory agency)
and reforming unemployment benefit program administration through the PSMAL (currently under
preparation), and (vi) the preparation of the future HDAL (possible follow-on operation to the SSAC),
scheduled for Board in FY03. All these operations ensure that the dialogue on social sector issues between
the Bank and the Government will continue in the short to medium term. Additional parallel reforms, such
as in the financial market and tax administration system, would also be critical for the success of social
sector reforms.
Sustainability may be an issue for the labor market component and some of the provisions introduced under
SSAC reforrn legislation. In general, the labor market remains depressed in Macedonia and unemployment
rate exceeds 30% of the labor force, with additional unemployment likely due to expected closings of
loss-making enterprises and the downsizing of the public administration. One of the major causes of high
unemployment is the rigidity of the labor market and the main goal of the SSAC was to improve its
flexibility. Consequently, the Bank needs to ensure that labor policy dialogue continues given the utmost
importance of labor market issues in Macedonia and that additional labor market reforms are carried out.
Another issue of concern is the potential for additional short-term Government measures which may
endanger the longer-term pension reform agenda. The Bank and the Government need towork together to
ensure that no steps are taken which may be contradictory to the new pension law and to the reform
- 10-



program in general.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
NA
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank team working to identify, appraise and negotiate the project worked very effectively with the
Government of FYR Macedonia throughout the preparation period. The preparation was supported by a
PHRD grant in the amount of US$628,000 and 81 staff-weeks and additional 70 staff weeks financed by
Trust Funds were spent to prepare and present the project to the Board. The design of the project benefited
from ongoing projects and sector work, including the ERL, SRTAP, the HSTP, the FESAC, and the
Poverty Assessment which provided additional preparation resources and facilitated substantive social
policy dialogue and enabled the team to better identify areas where reform was critical.
Project objectives and content remained intact, with only one exception, the education component, - which
was dropped at the pre-appraisal stage to reduce project complexity. The intention was to drop the health
component as well, but it was included in the final design due to lack of progress on policy reforms in the
health project (HSTP). The SSAC phasing, the amount and Board date were changed during the
preparation period. Originally, the SSAC was to be a US$20 million single tranche operation with Board
presentation in December 1997. However, early in the project preparation stage, the SSAC was
re-configured as a 2-tranche operation to enable the Government more time to prepare and pass sensitive
reforms in the pension area (reduction of the replacement rate) and to develop the framework for a private
pension scheme. At the pre-appraisal stage, US$10 million was added to the original US$20 million as a
condition to undertake proposed reforms in the health sector and to reduce the paid maternity benefit.
At appraisal stage, the Government was keen to expedite the release of the second tranche (by July 1998),
but this would have required passage of major pension and health legislation not ready at that time. The
Bank proposed to assist the Government to speed the preparation of pension reform through a technical
assistance loan of US$1 million and reduce SSAC to US$29 million. The Government accepted this
proposal as sensible. Prior to negotiations, there was still lack of agreement on several issues between the
Bank and Government, including the reduction of the paid maternity benefit as well as the need to eliminate
special benefits to workers with more than 25 years of insurance. In addition, more time was needed to
resolve other issues related to the SSAC matrix and the need for the Government to revise the Social
Assistance Decree which was passed without receiving the Bank's comments. Given a clear need for
additional time to enable reforms to be prepared and passed, the second tranche was scheduled for release
on June 30, 1999. In sum, the Bank team remained committed to move reforms forward, and despite
pressures to release the second tranche earlier, the Bank remained cautious that more time would be
required to achieve all project objectives. However, the one-year period allotted for the simultaneous
passage of major reform legislation in several sectors was still ambitious and possibly contributed to the
eventual need to extend the project closing date.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance during project implementation was very professional; the team provided
continuous support on all policy measures and worked very collegially with Government counterparts
throughout the process. A total of 41 staff weeks was spent on supervision efforts in Bank FY99 and
FY00. Unfortunately, the timing of implementation was delayed, mostly due to the Parliamentary elections
in the fall of 1998, then the Kosovo crisis in the spring of 1999 and Presidential elections in the fall of
- 11 -



1999. These events directly affected the preparation and passage of reform legislation by the original
closing date. During this uncertain period, the Bank continually stressed the importance of moving the
process forward and provided considerable assistance in reviewing and advising on key measures of the
reform agenda. At the same time, the Bank demonstrated flexibility and understanding of the sensitive
nature of reforms being undertaken, particularly during such a highly unstable period. In the end, the Bank
needed to extend the project twice in order to achieve all objectives in the agreed policy matrix. The overall
delay in implementation from the original closing date was 9 months. Throughout this process, the
Government openly praised the Bank team for its close collaboration, technical expertise, and flexibility.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance in preparing and supervising the project was satisfactory. The Bank team
worked closely with Government counterparts in support of the Government's Social Sector Adjustment
Program and provided considerable technical assistance on the design and implementation of the reform
program on a continuous basis. The project reflected all the goals as agreed in the Country Assistance
Strategy between the Bank and the Government; all project objectives were successfully met and major
reform legislation passed, albeit with some delay.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower demonstrated a high level of commitment and proactivity from the very beginning and
expressed interest to complete project preparation as fast as possible in light of urgent needs for balance of
payments support. This enthusiasm and dedication was evidenced by significant policy actions taken and
the preparation and passage of legislation by Government and legislative bodies prior to Board
presentation. Some of the key measures were part of first tranche conditions of the SSAC and include: (i)
the preparation and passage of a Social Assistance Decree based on analysis of household survey; (ii)
agreement to a major pension reform effort that would reduce the scope of public pensions and include
introduction of a private pension plan (Steering Committee on Pension Reform was established to support
this effort); (iii) the passage of Law on Employment and Unemployment Insurance; (iv) amendments to the
Labor Law; (v) preparation of the Drug Law; and (vi) preparation of Health Insurance legislation.
At project appraisal and during negotiations, the Government could not agree on one major issue with the
Bank, i.e. that special unemployment benefits should be eliminated. Instead, the Government proposed that
such benefits should be restricted to individuals with at least 30 years of contributions. The Bank agreed
that this requirement be raised to 35 contribution years but that these benefits would be phased out after
two years.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
For the most part, Government performance during implementation was satisfactory and commitments
made during project preparation were honored. Despite political uncertainties, changes among Government
officials, and the highly unstable period of the Kosovo crisis, the Government remained enthusiastic about
implementing the reform measures as agreed with the Bank. However, there were areas where progress
was delayed due to political pressures, the difficulty and sensitivity of proposed reforms, and disagreement
among the various political players (Labor Unions, Pensioner Associations, etc). For example, the
amendments to the Law on Labor Relations which were part of first tranche conditions, were shortly
thereafter repealed by the decision of the Constitutional Court which was a setback to policy reforms aimed
to improve the flexibility of the labor market. Health sector reforms were another area where lack of
consistent commitment to reform led to delays in the preparation of the HIL. In the end, the Ministry of
Health did agree on all major legislation provisions and the Bank accepted that all health conditions of the
- 12 -



second tranche were met satisfactorily.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Ministry of Labor and Social Policy, the lead coordinating agency for the SSAC, was exemplary in its
continuous support for reforms and ensured the necessary linkages between other Ministries, other
Governmental institutions and Parliament in order for all reforms to be accepted and passed. This is
particularly noteworthy given the MOLSP's exceptionally difficult position during the Kosovo crisis when
it was responsible for resolving the massive refugee influx in Macedonia. Although this contributed to
delays in project implementation, the Ministry remained very involved in the preparation of key elements of
reform.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's performance is assessed as satisfactory. Although the country was undergoing major
political instability and was at the center of an international crisis over Kosovo, all objectives of the project
were achieved and all key policy reforms were agreed on and reflected in the passed legislation.
8. Lessons Learned
This project has significance for other adjustment operations which are equally complex, which require
substantial policy dialogue and technical assistance in moving reforms forward, and where the political and
civil environment is at times highly unstable.
*      Potential for political and civil instability should be carefully considered. This was one of the
major causes for the delays in preparing and passing the necessary reform legislation as part of the SSAC.
The Kosovo crisis in the Spring of 1999 placed the project's lead coordinating agency, the MOLSP, in the
center of responsibility for dealing with the refugee crisis, thereby substantially reducing its ability to focus
on policy reforms. In the end, all proposed reforms were achieved, but it is necessary to acknowledge the
unpredictability of the environment in which these reforms took place.
Borrower commitment and ownership is essential for the success of the reform program. Key
government officials, particularly the commitment of the Minister of MOLSP and the Minister of Health
made all the difference at critical stages of passage of legislation in order for the proposed changes to be
accepted by Parliament and the public in general.
*      Adiustment operation is a good vehicle for multi-sector reform. The project involved simultaneous
reforns in social protection, labor and health sectors and while legislation in each individual sector may
have passed with greater speed, the need to pass all legislation as part of the second tranche release had a
double effect of moving reforms in all sectors forward, albeit with some delays.
Parallel operations are essential for supporting policy reforms under adjustment projects. The
success of adjustment operations such as the SSAC largely depended on parallel investment operations
which supported the reforrn efforts in several sectors through the provision of technical assistance and
continuous policy dialogue and involvement by the Bank during all stages of project implementation.
Expectations need to be realistic. The original timetable of less than I year for passing such
comprehensive multi-sector reform legislation may have been overly arnbitious particularly given the very
politically sensitive nature of these reforms and pressures placed on government and legislative bodies to
enact such legislation. In addition, several pieces of legislation required substantial technical assistance
and public inforrnation campaign efforts before they could be placed before Parliament for review and
- 13-



passage. Lastly, the project underestimated the length of review and discussions in Parliament before
legislation could be passed. Therefore, a more realistic timetable would have allowed more time for
government bodies to accept proposed reforms and to rally behind them. On the other hand, SSAC closing
date pressures probably forced the government to move forward with reforms faster.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
7
The project
The Social Sector Adjustment Credit (SSAC) was approved by the World Bank on July 9, 1998
in the amount of SDR 21.6 million (US$ 29 million equivalent), was signed on July 13, 1998 and
became effective on August 21,1998. The first tranche of SDR 10.8 million (US$14.5 million
equivalent) was released on September 9, 1998. All conditions for the second tranche of the SSAC
have been meet on April 9, 2000.
The project and the Government Strategy
The Social Sector Adjustment Credit is providing financial resources that support the Social
Sector Adjustment program of the Government of the Republic of Macedonia. The Reform of this
program is an integral part of the Country Assistance Strategy agreed between World Bank and the
Government of the Republic of Macedonia. The measures from the program are promotion of
economic growth by maintaining macroeconomic stability, reducing barriers to private sector
development and protecting the poorest groups in the population. The objectives of the SSAC are: (1)
to initiate measures to place social sector programs on a long run fiscally sustainable path; (2) to
increase labor market efficiency and reduce labor costs by reducing labor market distortions; (3) to
reduce poverty by improving the quality of social sector programs and their targeting.
Positive results
The project has enabled for a framework for accelerating the processes in the field of health,
pensions, labour market and social protection to be created. The project initiated institutional
framework for passing important legal decisions and their successful implementation in practice. The
expected results are soon to be seen, their efficiency and application are of long-term character and
they are embedded in the overall macroeconomic policy that is implemented in the Republic of
Macedonia.
Weaknesses in the SSAC implementation and lessons learned
The factors having influence over the realization of the project have been seen in the political
instability of the region and the external effects. Kosovo crisis had direct influence over the increment
of the budget expenditures caused by the increased inflow of refugees in the country, distortion in the
trade balance and the balance of payments, decreased export, increased travel expenses and the
general political instability. Such situation has caused for the undertaken activities, programs and
processes in the field of labor market, unemployment, health system and pension system to be slowed
down as well as insufficient efficiency in the reform attempts and the measures and the objectives of
the macroeconomic policy. Due to these reasons the provision of equal approach to services and
- 14-



economic and social possibilities for all citizens in the country has been seen as an important
challenge for the Government. It has undertaken all the necessary structural reforms in all fields of
the economic, political, social and public development in order to fulfill the macroeconomic
assumptions and to provide efficient allocation of the public expenditures and appropriate investment
policies. The priority policies that have been undertake and will be maintained in the coming period
are in the light of stimulating the development, creating new working posts, respecting the human
rights and optimal system of social protection.
Quality of the World Bank' s contribution in the project
We can estimate the operation of the World Bank during the course of the project realization
as efficient, useful and very supportive for all institutions that participated in the realization of
separate components of the project. It refers to all phases in the designing, carrying out, monitoring,
supporting and the overall implementation of the project. All institutions involved in the project have
realized the set objectives and activities in a satisfactory way with respect to the performance of
particular segments of the realization of the project.
Macroeconomic Framework
Economic growth and an increase in private sector employment require not only strong
commitment to macro-economic stabilization, but also addressing some critical structural reforms in
the fields of health insurance system, pension system, social assistance system and unemployment.
Reforns of the pensions, health and unemployment insurance programs led reducing the fiscal costs
and tax burden. The Government was committed to promote output, employment growth, facilitate
the development of the private sector and small and medium enterprises, reduce rigidities in labor
markets and labor costs, decrease the rate of poverty and create a strong safety net for the most
vulnerable groups of poor. So, project objectives were consistent with country's strategy, which
emphasizes private sector development, reduction of inflation, improvement in the living condition of
the population. The Government has been active in developing initiatives to alleviate poverty. The
results of these initiatives is the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper that has to be prepared by the
Government of the Republic of Macedonia for the mid term period and giving the certain importance
to the social protection, unemployment, health sector and pensions in continued maintenance of the
macroeconomic framework.
Pension System
The objective of this component is to improve the long-term financial viability of the public
pension scheme and to introduce privately managed funded pension system, while providing basic
protection for the aged and disabled. During the implementation of the project there was a need for
the credit to be extended twice (the reasons were more objective ones), thus when accepting the
deadlines by which the demanded conditions have to be met it will be more useful for greater
flexibility to be achieved when arranging these deadlines. During the implementation, the project was
regularly monitored by previously assigned team by the World Bank, registering all current problems
together with the Macedonian team and they were continuously agreeing, harmonizing and finding
solutions for the occurred unplanned circumstances. The World Bank, through its team, made regular
missions to the project and as a result of it it prepared Aide Memoire, summarizing the status of the
- 15 -



project components together with all themes and agreements achieved within each of them. This
document also included the recommendations as for the opened questions as well as deternination of
the next steps. This way of working by the bank had a great contribution with respect to the
successful completion of the project as a whole.
The payment of the credit was divided in two tranches and each tranche was released after the
following conditions were met:
I tranche
* No increase in arrears in pension payments from the level of such arrears as at April 15, 1998.
* Law on modifications and amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Law has been
passed so that minimum pensions and maximum pensions have been reduced.
* A Committee to develop funded pension schemes has been appointed and initiated (including
overall system design, development of laws and regulations; and responsibility for regulation and
supervision) located in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy.
A plan for reducing the fmancial requirements of the public pension fund has been submitted
and private pensions, satisfactory to IDA, have to be introduced. The technical assistance
requirements to implement the pension refonn program are included in the plan.
Scheduled training of the Actuarial Unit in public pension fund modeling and projections has
been completed; first report on unreformed system has to be produced.
II tranche
An amendment to the Pension Law which reduces the medium and long term financing
requirements of the public pension fund has been adopted by the Parliament and a framework for
privately managed mandatory funded pension schemes, each in manner satisfactory to IDA, has been
established, that:
Continues to increase the retirement age for both men and women beyond the limits in the
Pension and Disability Insurance Law Nr. 80/93;
Places retirement on an age-exclusive basis subject to a minimum number of contribution years;
Indexes pensions below wage growth by limiting the rate at which they can grow beyond
inflation;
Reduces the rate for accumulating the pension base used to specify the public pension. This
reduction will be consistent with improving the long-term financial viability of the public pension
scheme and the pensions which will be provided by the privately managed funded pension scheme;
*   Does not increase the contribution rate;
A detailed financial plan, satisfactory to IDA, has been submitted to the Bank for the
introduction of a mandatory private pension pillar by completing simulations on the impact of
different combinations of public and private systems on Pension Fund revenues, expenditures,
contribution rates and pension debt based on altemate economic, financial and demographic
scenarios;
* A public information campaign for educating population on pension policy issues has been
instituted.
Social Protection
The objective of the Social Sector Adjustment Loan in the field of the social assistance was to
improve the equity, targeting and administration of the social assistance. These objectives were
- 16-



achieved by passing the new Decision on the conditions, criteria, amount, manner and procedure for
determining and realization of the right on social financial assistance which implementation
commenced in April 1998, as a permanent and systematic solution. All solutions are incorporated in
the decision, which has been prepared in cooperation with World Bank experts. This Decision has
determined an equal social assistance level (both for the urban and for the rural regions) based on the
calculated single national poverty line. The amount of the social assistance is determined in
dependence of the household members, which enables equality in the protection of the poor
households.
In order to introduce work incentives for the social assistance users, a decision was incorporated
according to which the right on social assistance can be used continually for 2 years, in the third year
it is reduced for 30 %, and in the fourth year for additional 20%, so that after four years have passed
the right on social assistance cannot be used. The Decision for temporary limitation of the social
assistance does not refer to the households that include unemployed labor invalids who do not use an
allowance from the Employment Bureau or the Pension and Disability Insurance Fund, the
households in which the bearer of the right is unemployed and needs up to 5 years for obtaining the
right for retirement and the households in which the bearer of the right is a user of a permanent
financial assistance. The Decision includes stricter sanctions, so that for submitting incorrect and
incomplete information on the basis of which incorrect material situation of the household was
determined, the right on social assistance is immediately cancelled and such household cannot be
entitled to social assistance for the next 24 months. The projected time limit for using the right on
social assistance has an objective to incite all users capable to work to search for a job, to abandon
the social protection system as a permanent source for their existence and to reduce the budget funds
anticipated for this purpose.
With respect to the improvement of the administration operations, the social assistance claims are
submitted to the Social Work Center on precisely determined days by the Center, for separate regions
and similar. Thus, the big inflow of users is avoided.
The social assistance payment is done with the same dynamics as in the past period - with one month
delay. The second tranche condition has also been fulfilled, that is no increase in arrears in social
assistance, child allowance and child disability allowance payments as at April 15, 1998.
The practical appliance of such set criteria in the Decision has give positive effects from a point of
view of correct direction of the assistance, reduction of the administrative operations. However, there
are still problems with respect to the argumentation of the material situation of the households and
their identification. Due to this, additional criteria need to be set, which criteria will influence the
artificial division of the households and its purpose will be to reduce the number of household users
of the social assistance. This would mean setting criteria in the decision towards more correct
allocation of the social assistance to the social endangered households.
Labor Markets
Within the policy matrix, in the part that refers to the labor market, the objectives, activities and the
measures supposed to be undertaken for the reforms in this field have been determined.
The objective of the reforms is improvement of the flexibility of the labor market by reducing the
constrains on hiring and termination of workers, reducing mandatory minimum benefits and allowing
competitive wage setting. In the light of this context, appropriate modifications and amendments to
- 17 -



the Labor Relation Law and Employment and Insurance Law in case of unemployment had to be
performed. The amendments in the Employment and Insurance Law in case of unemployment should
contribute for there to be no increase in arrears of unemployment benefit payment, from the level of
such arrears as at April 15, 1998, to improve flexibility of the labor market, work incentives and
solvency of the Employment Bureau, to require unemployed persons actively to search for work to
remain eligible for benefits, to tighten benefit duration and replacement rates and to adopt revised
delivery system of Health Insurance coupons to unemployed persons, by issuing health insurance
cards for unemployed persons every 3 months and delivering them through the Post Office. All these
amendments have been done, adopted by the Parliament and announced in the Official Gazette of
RM. Amendments to the Labor Relation Law have been carried out for the same objectives by:
allowing employers to hire workers without a medical examination; allowing private employers to
hire workers without public announcement; allowing employers to take to take as long as they wish to
choose among applicants; eliminating special procedures for applicants rejected by private employers
to complain; calculating severance pay based on years of service only with the terminating employer
granting women who choose to return to work early from maternity leave 50 % of the remaining
unused cash benefit; simplifying process in terminating workers by: (1) allowing enterprises
flexibility in identifying person that makes termination decisions for managerial positions and
long-tenured workers; (2) eliminating mandatory refusal period for managers who are not re-elected;
(3) limiting mandatory amount ofjob search time during term of refusal to 4 hours per week; (4) in
small-scale terminations for economic surplus (less than 20% of workforce or 20 workers), giving
employer discretion to identify workers to be termninated; (5) limiting court review of
economic-surplus terminations to determining whether the termination was for economic-surplus
reasons, but not determining whether these reasons justify the terminations; and improve flexibility in
collective bargaining by allowing the enterprise collective agreement to determine greater or lesser
rights than the branch collective agreement, but no less than rights set by law.
Certain amendments to these laws were subject to estimation, while part of them were also revoked
by the Constitutional Court, but later on, other amendments were proposed and accepted, which, in
an appropriate manner, have reflected and realized the objectives projected to be realized with these
revoked amendments. It means that the adopted amendments to these laws are implemented, they give
the preliminary results and effects of their implementation, and it is also expected that they will give
positive results in the realization of the long-term objectives.
Positive trends in the implementation of the project were realized regarding the regularity in the
unemployment benefit payments and reduction of the number of users of unemployment benefits
right. The other measures will also have a positive influence on the implementation of more relaxed
relations between the supply and the demand of working force and on the high unemployment rate.
The negative influence on the realization of the aims and the measures of the project is the following:
the unsolved problem with the manner of providing the right on health insurance for the unemployed,
which stimulates application of new unemployed persons and increases the amount of funds which
are given by the Employment Bureau for this purpose; increase of the health insurance contribution
for the unemployed with the new Health Insurance Law and the regulation which requires certificate
from the Register for unemployed in the Employment Bureau for every person who wants to submit
claim for social assistance; as well as the new Law on Employing Invalids which anticipates 15 %
from the total realized funds from the employment contribution to be put aside for this law.
The development of a Budget model for identification of the information gaps for improvement of the
Budget processes in the program for unemployed, analysis of the social and fiscal influences on the
social assistance policy, and promotion, implementation and financial support for active employment
- 18-



policies will contribute to enlarging and increasing the effects and objectives of the labour market
reform project.
Health
In accordance with the Law on Medicines, Auxiliary Medicines and Medical Devices, which was a
condition for withdrawing the funds from the first tranche of the credit, two types of procedures for
registration of the medicines were determined (complete and short). The short procedure provides a
possibility to reduce the time for registration and not to repeat the already implemented examinations.
For implementation of this procedure, a manual for the manner of leading the procedure was
prepared. A list of essential medicines was prepared and adopted. The procedure for supply of
medicines in the public sector by public procurement through an international tender is in progress,
as well as a procedure for implementation of reference prices of generic products.
A new Law on Health Insurance was also enacted and it entered into force on 7 April 2000. It created
a legal frame for introduction of a compulsory health insurance, with some small exceptions, almost
for the whole population. This law, in a new manner, determines:
The legal frame of the health services package separately for all levels of health insurance
(finally defined with a by-law).
* A choice of a doctor in a primary health insurance and using a referral for the higher levels of
health protection (specialist-consultative and hospital). With the introduction of a compulsory choice
of a doctor according to a personal choice, the primary health insurance of the citizens is
strengthened, the services are of a greater quality, the costs are reduced and the care and solidarity of
the doctors is greater.
Health Insurance Fund is established as an independent institution and the legal frame of its
authorities is determined.
T he way of alimony of the health insurance funds is determined.
The possible ways of financing health services (capitation, prices of services and programs) is
determined.
New policy of participation is determined (compulsory for everybody, except in the primary
health protection, while the exemptions are determined only for separate social categories of citizens).
A legal frame for introduction of a voluntary insurance for health services not included in the
compulsory health insurance is determined.
In order to enable the enforcement of this Law, a procedure for preparation of by-laws that should be
enacted by the end of October (legal deadline) is in progress. With the implementation of the new law
and the by-laws it is expected that a financial sustainability of the Health Insurance Fund will be
achieved. Regarding the realization of the reform processes of the health system, the Government of
Republic of Macedonia meets the basic principles of a broad availability of the health services and a
quality, comprehensive policy in the health sector, putting an accent on the poor part of the
population. The developed net of health institutions provides a successful implementation of
continual health programs, preventive protection in the underdeveloped and rural areas, improving
the spending efficiency of the services.
- 19 -



(b) Cofinanciers:
NA
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NA
10. Additional Information
NA
- 20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Im  act Indicators:
lndiatorMatrix                      Projected In last PSR                 ActualtLatest Estmate
Part I. Sustainable Macroeconomic                                            Achieved: The Govemment maintained
framework                                                                    macroeconomic framework consistent with
program objectives.
Part II. Social Protection
A. Pension Reform                                                            Achieved:
1. Law on Amending the Law on Pension and
Improve the long term financial viability of                                 Disability Insurance was adopted by March
the public pension scheme and introduce                                      22, 2000 which reduces the medium and
privately managed funded pension pillar,                                     long-term financing requirements of the
while providing basic protection for the aged                                 public pension fund and establishes the
and disabled.                                                                framework for privately managed mandatory
funded pension scheme.
2. A detailed financing plan for the
introduction of a mandatory private pension
pillar submitted and approved by IDA.
3. Public Information Campaign to educate
the public on pension policy launched.
4. Maintained commitment not to increase
arrears in pension payments from the level of
such arrears as in April 15,1998.
B. Social Assistance                                                         Achieved:
1. Revised Social Assistance Decree,
Improve equity, targeting and administration                                 satisfactory to IDA was adopted as condition
of the Social Assistance Program.                                            for the 1 st tranche release of SSAC. The
Decree improved equity in the level of
benefits, targeting of benefits and
stregthened the efficiency and work
incentives in the social assistance system.
2. Maintained commitment not to increase
arrears in social assistance, child allowance
and child disability allowance payments from
the level of such arrears as in April 15, 1998.
- 21 -



Part II. Labor Market                                                       Achieved:
1. Amendments to the Law on Labor
Improve the flexibility of the labor market by                              Relations adopted as condition for the 1st
(i) reducing constraints on hiring and                                      tranche release of the SSAC. These
termination of workers; (ii) reducing                                       amendments ease hiring and termination
mandatory minimum benefits; and (iii)                                       conditions and allow for greater flexibility for
allowing competitive wage setting.                                          enterprises to deviate from collective
agreements.
2. Law on Employment and Insurance in
Case of Unemployment passed as condition
for the 1st tranche of the SSAC. The Law
improves labor market flexibility, work
incentives and Unemployment Fund
solvency.
3. Amendments to the Law on Employment
and Insurance in Case of Unemployment
adopted on March 23, 2000 which restrict
eligibility for special unemployment benefits
to unemployed persons of at least 55 years
of age with at least 15 years of paid
insurance contributions, and disallows
employers to receive unused unemployment
benefits for newly hired employees.
4. Maintained commitment not to increase
arrears in unemployment benefits from the
level of such arrears as in April 15, 1998.
Part Ill. Health
Achieved:
Improve the financial solvency of the Health                                1. New Drug Law, satisfactory to IDA,
Insurance Fund and improve quality of health                                passed as condition for the 1st tranche
care services.                                                              release of the SSAC. The law allows for
streamlined registration of drugs,
implementation of reference pricing based on
generic products, adoption of essential drug
list, and competitive bidding procedures for
public sector drug procurement.
2. New Health Insurance Law passed on
March 29, 2000 which established cost
containment mechanisms for the health
insurance system and a framework for
improving the quality of primary health care.
Output Indicators:
i   IndlclatorlMetrlx; ;           Procted Inlast PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate
End of project
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              US$ million    US$ million
Adjustment operation (policy reform)                  29.00          29.00            100
Total Baseline Cost                                   29.00          29.00
Total Project Costs             29.00           29.00
Total Financing Required              29.00           29.00
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
~Percentage of Appraisal
Component            Appraisal Estimate         ActuaULatest Estimate   P
IDA     Govt.    CoF.       IDA      Govt.    CoF.   IDA   Govt.  CoF.
Adjustment operation   29.00                       29.00                      100.0  0.0   0.0
(policy reform)
0.0   0.0   0.0
0.0   0.0   0.0
- 23 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
NA
- 24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implcmcntation       Development
Month/Ycar    Count         Specialty                          Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
Identification mission
December 2-20, 1996             7   Task Team Leader (1)
Human Resource Economist (1)
Operations Officer (1)
Labor Law Specialist (1)
Social Assistance Specialist (1)
Health Finance Specialist (1)
Education Finance Specialist (1)
Pre-appraisal mission
October 20-31, 1997             5    Task Team Leader (1)
Senior Economist (1)
Labor Law Specialist (1)
Tax Specialist (1)
Actuary (I)
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appraisal mission               4    Task Team Leader (1)
February 23-27, 1998                 Senior Economist (1)
Labor Law Specialist (1)
Social Sectors Prog. Off. (1)
Negotiation                     6    Task Team Leader (1)
April 15-17, 1998                    Senior Economist (I)
Counsel (1)
Social Sectors Prog. Off. (1)
Dibursement Officer (I)
Team Assistant (1)
Supervision
Sept. 29-Oct. 2, 1998           6   Task Team Leader (I)                    S                  S
Senior Economist (1)
Procurement Officer (I)
Social Sectors Prog. Off. (1)
Operations Analyst (1)
Health Specialist (1)
January 25-29, 1999             6   Task Team Leader (1)                    S                  S
Senior Economist (1)
Social Sectors Prog. Off. (1)
Operations Analyst (1)
Labor Economist (1)
Health Specialist (1)
- 25-



October 3-8, 1999                  6   Task Team Leader (1)                       S                    S
Senior Economist (1)
Social Sectors Prog. Off. (1)
Operations Analyst (1)
Labor Economist (1)
Health Specialist (1)
March 22-26, 2000                  7   Task Team Leader (I)                       S                   S
Senior Economist (1)
Social Sectors Prog. Off. (I)
Operations Analyst (1)
Labor Economist (1)
Public Information Officer (1)
Health Specialist
ICR
June-October, 2000                2    1 Task Team Leader, I                      S                   HS
Operations Analyst
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                          Actual/Latest Estimate
l _______________________ _   0          No. Staff weeks                  US$  (,000)
Identification/Preparation                     70.2                           189.3
Appraisal/Negotiation                          11.5                            39.7
Supervision                                    41.3                           112.0
ICR                                               4                             12.0
Total                                           127                           353.0
- 26 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=NModest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                            *H OSUOM ON ONA
Sector Policies                           * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
L Physical                                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Financial                                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
1 Institutional Development                0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
LiEnvironmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
OI Gender                           OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Other (Please specify)            O H  * SU OM   O N  O NA
L Private sector development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
LI Public sector management                0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
L Other (Please specify)                   O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Ratings for achievement of outputs by components are as follows:
1. Rension System reforms            - rating H
2. Social Assistance reforms         - rating H
3. Reforrn of Unemployment Insurance  - rating SU
4. Reform of the Labor Code          - rating SU
5. Health Reforn                     - rating SU
- 27 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
F Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
 Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
0 Overall                                            OHS OS O u O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
 Preparation                                        OHS OS  O  U  O HU
 Government implementation performance              O HS O S  O  U  0 HU
 Implementation agencyperformance                   OHS OS   0 U   O HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS 0 U O HU
- 28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.  President's report to IDA, No. P7219-MK, dated June 12, 1998
2. World Bank Identification, Pre-appraisal, Appraisal missions Aide-Memoires, as well as Minutes of
Negotiations: December 1996, October 1997, February 1998, April 1998.
3.   World Bank Supervision missions Aide-memoires: October 1998, February 1999, October 1999,
March 2000.
- 29 -



I



IBRD 25501 R
D. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA                       ,-,,+                                      r                    (    /                                     FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC
BIA/MONTENEGRO)                                 Prew    rs. '                                                                                             MACEDONIA
ln  G r%,Pesalevi                     B U L G A R I A
S                       ~~~~~~~~Kumtanovo
e   /<   Jw'>    gBlcs    focS    (, (umOnovo   g<t<iDS  l                     a                                   *        Major cities
0        Selected cities
'T                           SKOPJ 4 ~   =   ~       d                                 7       i'  61   _                                                Notional Capital
1P, 11 c,    Kocani                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Primary roads
2   '   )@  ItS     X               X<3                   !;   Voiley               <                   0            a\                                      Secondary roads
Gosincr                                                                                                                                       -t-i.---------i+\--  Electrified railroads
Volkovija                                                                         ;                                                                               X  $ 0 g / n> Other r ailroads
k~~~~~~~~~~ Vol  Ti                            p ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                                         Ai rports
2A    Spot elevations in meters
Rivers
- \   - - - -    International boundaries
K*swo                                                                                                                  I0       105      30 KILOMETERS
ALBAN                                                    La                                         o              1 0  15        SOMLES
This aop wsprp-rd by the Mad Design tIn' of The World kook.
Lib  kld  \hThe b-oiir,coe, -1oor, de-or-tolon  ood -oy odho  in!  -nilio
N%St rugc  +                                                                                 La                  A- - thi, ..p d. -t ip~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y, ., A. p~~~~~~~shwnondit opdonoh.ispy.ondi pntofTh Wrl RnkGrpp
oroc1toc SOVA s REP hooadonies.NE
ROMANIA            /
-~'~~CROATIA   ' 
FloHn.                       hes.             ~~~~,01,N~~dbesD
Lake         "      nO'~~~~~- YUGOSLAVIA
pewpo ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hsclonikt                                                                 oeR uoo
AUGUST 1996



