Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFIClAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13871-BR
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SANTA CATARINA SMALL TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2623-BR)
December 30, 1994
Environment and Urban Development Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(November 1, 1994)
Currency Unit = Real (R)
US$1.00 = R$1.18
R$1.00 = US$0.85
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BADESC   -   Santa Catarina State Development Bank
BNH        -   National Housing Bank
DEA        -   Santa Catarina State Department of Public Works
DER-SC    -   Santa Catarina State Highway Department
GAPLAN   -   Planning Secretariat of the State of Santa Catarina
GOB        -   Government of Brazil
ICMS       -   Imposto sobre Circulacdo de Mercadorias e Servicos - Value-Added Tax
IPTU       -   Imposto sobre Propriedade Territorial e Urbana - Real Property Tax
LA         -   Loan Agreement
MA         -   Municipal Association
MDF        -   Municipal Development Fund
PRAM       -   Parana Market Towns Improvement Project
PROURB   -   State Program for Support to Small Towns Development
SEDUMA  -   Secretariat of Urban Development and Environment
SEPLAN   -   Secretariat of Planning
SPF        -   Secretariat of Planning and Financing



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SANTA CATARINA SMALL TOWNS
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
[Loan 2623-BR]
Table of Contents
Preface                                                                  ii
Evaluation Summarv                                                       iii
Part I.       A.    Project Objectives                                   1
B.     Achievement of Objectives                          2
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project                 4
D.    Sustainability                                      5
E.     Bank Performance                                   6
F.     Borrower Performance                               6
G.    Assessment of Outcome                               7
H.    Future Operation                                    8
1.     Lessons Learned                                    8
Part II.      Statistical Annexes'
Annex 1   -   Summary of Assessments
Annex 2   -   Related Bank Loans
Annex 3   -   Project Timetable
Annex 4   -   Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Annex 5   -   Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
Annex 6   -   Table 6A: Project Costs
-   Table 6B: Project Financing
Annex 7   -   Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 8   -   Status of Legal Covenants
Annex 9   -   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Annex 10  -   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Annex 11  -   Bank Resources: Missions
Appendixes        A. Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR (Summary; full report available in project
files)
C. Map of the State of Santa Catarina
One of the tables in BP 13.55 ("Implementation Completion Reporting"), Studies Included in the Project, was not
prepared, since no studies were called for under the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  l






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SANTA CATARINA SMALL TOWNS
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
[Loan 2623-BR]
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Santa Catarina Small Towns
Improvement Project in Brazil, for which Loan 2623-BR in the amount of US$24.5 million equivalent
was approved on September 19, 1985 and became effective on September 24, 1986.
Loan 2623-BR was closed on December 31, 1993. The final disbursement took place on May
10, 1994, at which time a balance of US$293,950.07 was canceled. Co-financing for the project was
provided by the State of Santa Catarina and the participating municipalities in the State.
ii






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SANTA CATARINA SMALL TOWNS
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
[Loan 2623-BR]
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
The project was the second state-based municipal development operation supported by the Bank
in Brazil, following the successful Parana Market Towns Development Project (Ln. 2343-BR; PRAM).
It was also a precursor to the newer style municipal development projects in the States of Parana (Ln.
3100-BR), Rio Grande do Sul (Ln. 3129-BR) and Minas Gerais (Ln. 3639-BR). The original project cost
was estimated to be US$70.0 million, with a Bank Loan of US$24.5 million equivalent. Final project
costs were US$48.7 million, with US$24.2 million disbursed from the Bank Loan.
Project Objectives
According to the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and Loan Agreement (LA), project objectives
were to:
*  strengthen the managerial and financial capabilities of municipalities;
*  improve local government resource allocation; and
*  provide basic economic and social infrastructure which would contribute to stimulating production
and exports.
The SAR expected the operation to support: (i) increasing revenue-generating capacity at the local
level; (ii) devolution of administrative and financial management responsibilities from Federal and State
levels to municipalities; and (iii) provision of basic physical infrastructure. The project was conceived
as an instrument to devolve financial and executive responsibilities to the municipal level of government
in one of Brazil's most developed states, anticipating Brazil's 1988 fiscal and administrative
decentralization.
To support project objectives, Loan proceeds were to be on-lent to municipalities on the condition
that they improve their financial management.  The project itself provided technical assistance to
municipalities to help them make the necessary improvements. Project design was simple, modeled on
the earlier PRAM project successfully underway at the time of project appraisal. While infrastructure
investments had originally been conceived by the State as a means of reconstructing roadways and bridges
damaged by severe 1983 floods, eligibility was broadened during preparation to include productive
activities, community facilities, and equipment and vehicles.
iii



Implementation Experience and Results
The project had wide coverage, reaching 217 of the State's 260 municipalities. It was successful
in providing basic physical infrastructure (urban infrastructure, facilities, equipment and vehicles), with
about US$44.2 million spent by project completion for these components. This represented about 90%
of project costs, consistent with appraisal estimates. There is also a high correlation between participation
in the project and investment expenditures, indicating that the project improved municipal resource
allocation. It is not clear, however, that the strengthening of managerial and financial capabilities of
municipalities was fully achieved as envisioned at appraisal.
Final project costs were US$48.7 million, against US$70.0 million planned at appraisal. The
reduced size of the project resulted from agreement at mid-term to modify the project scope and
institutional arrangements by: (i) reducing the "menu" of eligible sub-projects; (ii) increasing the Bank's
share of financing to 50% of total costs (versus 35% at appraisal); (iii) allowing municipal participation
in provision of counterpart funding (none had been foreseen at appraisal); and (iv) reducing the
percentage of grant funding for sub-projects. By project completion, municipalities had financed US$13.7
million of project costs, although no municipal counterpart had been anticipated at appraisal. With the
increase in Bank and municipal shares in the project financing plan, State counterpart funding was
reduced from the US$45.5 million planned at appraisal to US$10.9 million by completion.
During the course of implementation, the project was subject to a number of factors which
hindered the achievement of its objectives:
*  the uncertain and changing macro-economic environment which imposed several economic
stabilization plans and led to inefficiencies in implementation of the sub-projects;
e  ad hoc Central Bank regulations freezing all municipal borrowing on two occasions;
e  a political crisis in Santa Catarina following the terminal illness and death of the State Governor
while in office in 1989; and
*  weak Borrower commitment during several State administrations, compounded by poorly
managed transitions between administrations.
Factors that helped the project during implementation included:
*  change of institutional arrangements at mid-term, which provided for greater project sustainability
and smoother implementation;
*  skillful project management by the Santa Catarina State Development Bank (BADESC) in the
project's latter stage, successfully bringing the project to a close; and
*  improved monitoring of sub-projects and program administration.
Bank performance on the whole was satisfactory, especially during project preparation. While the
performance of individual supervision missions was satisfactory, these missions were not fielded with
warranted regularity and frequency.  Borrower performance started well with the highly satisfactory
preparation of the project, and although extremely weak during part of the implementation period, the
Borrower's overall performance during implementation was judged to be satisfactory.
iv



Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
The project outcome as a whole is rated satisfactory. Project sustainability is rated as likely,
thanks mostly to the effective participation of municipalities and the successful establishment of a State
Municipal Development Fund (MDF). The satisfactory project rating was justified based on an evaluation
of the achievement of the project objectives: two of the three objectives were largely achieved; lack of
agreed monitoring indicators and conflicting data makes difficult a conclusive judgment regarding the
third.  Given that there were many external factors (particularly related to the macro-economic
environment) conspiring against its success, the efforts of the local authorities and the Bank in bringing
the project to a satisfactory conclusion are to be commended. Overall, the project experience was
worthwhile, since it provided many valuable lessons to help guide the design and implementation of
similar projects in the future.
Any Bank support for future operations of this kind in the State should depend upon an
assessment of: (i) client ownership and the risks presented by political institutional changes; and (ii) the
likelihood of successful local resource mobilization at all levels.
The main lessons for future projects are that:
*  strong, well-defined institutional arrangements are critical to successful implementation of the
project;
*  attention to the project modus operandi is particularly important early on: the operating manuals
of the program should be established during preparation and disseminated during the project
launch phase, so that steps are relatively automatic during implementation. Procurement and
project design assistance to municipalities, as well as establishment of project monitoring systems,
can help stimulate increased and better-quality investment by municipalities;
-  municipalities should be called upon to provide counterpart funding, as a means of providing
incentives for increased own-source revenues, and increasing project ownership;
-  the Bank must become more sensitive to political cycles and their effect on the project's
implementation schedule to improve the chances of successful completion;
*  project design needs to attach specific performance targets to individual project objectives; and
*  although real property and betterment taxes proved to be quite small in the context of total
municipal revenues in the State of Santa Catarina, they could play a larger role as a revenue
source to municipalities. Greater attention should be given by the Bank in supervising the
implementation of components aimed at increasing municipal own source revenues.
v






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SANTA CATARINA SMALL TOWNS
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
[Loan 2623-BR]
A. Project Objectives
1.    According to the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) dated September 5, 1985 and Loan Agreement
(LA) dated June 26, 1986, project objectives were to:
*  strengthen the managerial and financial capabilities of municipalities;
*  improve local government resource allocation; and
*  provide local government basic economic and social infrastructure which would contribute to
stimulating production and exports.
The SAR expected the operation to support: (i) increasing revenue-generating capacity at the local level;
(ii) devolution of administrative and financial management responsibilities from Federal and State levels
to municipalities; and (iii) provision of basic physical infrastructure. Thus prior to Brazil's 1988 fiscal
and administrative decentralization, the project was conceived as an instrument to devolve financial and
executive responsibilities to the municipal level of government in one of Brazil's most developed states.
2.     These objectives were clearly formulated and sound. A key project concept was the provision
of infrastructure finance to municipalities which were committed to improving their management and
finances. The project also supported these improvement efforts by providing technical assistance and
training. Helping municipalities fulfill growing responsibilities in a recently democratized country -- the
first general mayoral elections were held in 1985, the time of appraisal -- made the project a very
appropriate and timely effort. The proviso that project infrastructure should stimulate production and
exports was helpful to a country emerging from the 1982 external debt crisis, although this objective was
gradually de-emphasized during implementation (para. 7). Moreover, the project encouraged
decentralization at another level: it was the first Bank-financed urban operation contracted with a state
government in Brazil. Hitherto, the Federal government had always been the borrower of such loans.
3.    To achieve these objectives, the project design was simple, modeled on the earlier Parana Market
Towns Improvement Project (Ln. 2343-BR) successfully underway at the time of project appraisal. While
infrastructure investments were originally conceived by the State as a means of reconstructing roadways
and bridges damaged by severe 1983 floods, eligibility was broadened during preparation to also include
productive activities (warehouses and grain silos), community facilities (schools and sports facilities), and
equipment and vehicles (for road maintenance and solid waste collection). The project was targeted at
municipalities with populations of less than 50,000, and provided grant-funded technical assistance and
training to municipalities, their associations and the State itself. Project design (LA Schedule 4) required
that municipalities be creditworthy to be eligible for project funding. Other conditions for sub-project
financing included a satisfactory municipal investment program and an acceptable action plan for own
revenue mobilization. Sub-loans would be amortized under agreed terms and conditions and would
capitalize a State Municipal Development Fund (MDF). Improvements in municipal financial capacity



were to be monitored through an indicator linked to yearly performance targets in the appraisal report2.
At the State level, overall project implementation was the responsibility of the Secretariat of Planning
(GAPLAN) in charge of project planning and investment appraisal. The State development bank
(BADESC) was responsible for assessing municipal creditworthiness and channeling project funding. The
project mobilized the 22 municipal associations in a State with a long associative tradition at this level.
The associations helped to wholesale the delivery of project technical assistance efforts to smaller
municipalities and served as a channel of communication for sub-borrowers.
4.     At mid-term, changes were made to the implementation arrangements which affected project
scope and objectives, de-emphasizing productive activities, expanding access to the program, increasing
the role of local governments, and increasing Bank participation (para. 12).
B. Achievement of Objectives
5.     The project had wide coverage, reaching 217 of the State's 260 municipalities. It was successful
in providing physical infrastructure, with about US$44.2 million disbursed by project completion for these
components (urban infrastructure, community and productive facilities, equipment and vehicles). This
represented about 90% of project costs, consistent with appraisal estimates (paras. 6-8). There is also
evidence of a high degree of correlation between participation in the project and investment expenditures,
indicating that the project improved municipal resource allocation (para. 9). It is not clear, however, that
the strengthening of managerial and financial capabilities of municipalities was fully achieved as
envisioned at appraisal (paras. 10-1 1).
6.     Physical Components. Nearly 85 % of the State's municipalities participated in this component
of the project. About 60% of total project costs were allocated for urban infrastructure, as foreseen at
appraisal. Infrastructure components included pavement and roadway improvements, drainage, and bus
terminals. Street paving proved to be in greater demand among municipalities than expected, accounting
for 52% of total project costs at completion (versus 36% planned). City mayors saw paving as an
investment that improved the urban environment of outlying city districts -- providing better drainage,
access, and lowering dust levels -- and as one which gave them both financial and electoral dividends.
As intended at appraisal, most investments were low-cost. Completed irregular cobblestone paving, for
example, cost as little as US$6.50 per square meter. On average, paving unit costs for completed
components were nearly 40% below referenced prices used by the State's highway department (DER-SC).
Bank support and orientation was a key factor in achieving these satisfactory results. Site visits made
during the completion mission to a number of cities confirmed the good condition and working order of
investments.
7.     As planned, some 20% of project funding went to finance equipment and vehicles. In addition
to solid waste collection equipment, the Loan also helped finance the purchase of agricultural, asphalt and
quarry equipment, consistent with the project's initial focus on productive activities. This focus was
gradually de-emphasized, however, as such expenditures began to be the responsibility of the private
sector. At mid-term these were formally removed (para. 12). By completion, barely 0.5% of total
project costs had been invested in productive facilities (5.0% planned). In contrast, community facilities'
2 The SAR set targets for how much municipal revenue generating capacity should increase for municipalities in a region
compared to the average of the best performers in the relevant size category.
2



share of total costs increased by project completion to reach 11.3%, compared to the 8.0%  intended at
appraisal. These components were implemented, however, with little attention by either the State or the
Bank to utilization plans, cost recovery measures or procurement arrangements.
8.     Using the same methodology as at appraisal -- measuring imputed rental value increases resulting
from paving projects -- the weighted average of re-estimated internal economic rates of return (IERR)
at project completion was calculated to be 17.1 % for a sample of paving sub-projects. Although
somewhat below the IERR average of 22% projected in the SAR, such a result is to be expected in the
context of a contracting regional and national economy. The completion re-estimates nevertheless indicate
that the investments were worthwhile. No economic rates of return were calculated for sub-projects other
than paving.
9.     Improved resource allocation. The project aimed to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of
local governments' spending decisions, particularly by increasing their investment capabilities.
Municipalities partly achieved this objective through the project, although not in precisely the way
intended at appraisal. A statistical analysis carried out in the context of project completion reveals that
independently of any population increase, the more municipalities participated in the project, the more
they allocated their other resources to other investments (Annex 5). This evidence points to the project
having encouraged greater allocation of resources to investments by those municipalities most closely
engaged in the project. Project technical assistance to help municipalities prepare engineering designs
and the Bank's persistence in pursuing efficient procurement procedures may have contributed to such
a result.
10.    Increasing municipal revenue generating capacity.  Improved own-resource generation was
designed to come from increases in the property tax (IPTU) and in increased use of betterment fees, the
former to be monitored with established targets. Monitoring efforts were weak, however, and municipal
revenue generating capacity did not enter into on-lending decisions, as foreseen at appraisal. Although
updated cadastral lists aimed to increase IPTU collection, statistical analysis of the results in
municipalities where this updating was done indicates no significant relationship between project cadastre
expenditures and amount of IPTU collected (Annex 5).3 On the other hand, the Borrower's ICR includes
an analysis on the basis of a sample of 24 municipalities demonstrating significant own source revenue
increases (from US$5.8 per capita in 1986 to US$9.7 per capita in 1992); however, this increase may
not be attributable solely to the project. Thus given the somewhat inconsistent results, it is difficult to
draw a conclusive judgement regarding the successful achievement of this objective.
11.    Strengthening the managerial capabilities of municipalities. The lack of agreed and monitored
performance targets makes the achievement of this objective difficult to assess. Half the US$8.4 million
intended at appraisal were spent on technical assistance and training for improving municipal
management. The expenditures made during the first half of project implementation (1986-89) financed
engineering designs (helping to lower unit costs of later investments) and equipped municipal associations.
During the second half of project implementation (1989-92), a more general institutional development
approach was tried. Project technical assistance helped municipalities prepare urban plans and property
3 Bank missions discovered during supervision, however, that many municipalities had hired the same unqualified consultant
to undertake these investments. Further, very little effort was given to training of municipal staff. Thus if updating of cadastral
lists is to play a significant role in raising municipal own source revenues, greater attention must be given by both the Borrower
and the Bank in supervising the implementation of these components.
3



cadastres. Monitoring the performance of a few key indicators such as municipal productivity in the
delivery and operation of urban services would have helped guide the project toward the achievement of
meaningful managerial improvements in participating municipalities, and provided an indication of
comparative progress in achieving this objective.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Proiect
12.    Mid-Term Changes in Project Arrangements. Significant changes were made to the project at
mid term and consolidated in amendments in 1990 and 1991. These changes reduced project scope, and
modified institutional arrangements and project objectives slightly. These changes increased likelihood
of achievement of the project objectives. Specific changes included the following:
*  a reduction in total project costs from US$70.0 million to US$52.1 million;
*  a reduction in the number of eligible components, focusing on those which best leveraged
improvement of municipal revenue generating capacity, simplified project implementation and
supervision. Productive activities, and equipment and vehicles were removed;
*  an increase in Bank participation from 35% to 50% of project costs accelerating disbursements;
*  all municipalities in the State (regardless of size) were allowed to participate and to provide
counterpart funds. This in turn: (i) reduced the reliance of the project on State funding,
mitigating one of the major risks identified at appraisal; (ii) brought the implementation
arrangements of the project in line with more recent Bank urban loans in the States of Parand and
Rio Grande do Sul (Loans 3100-BR and 3129-BR); and (iii) created greater project ownership
by the municipalities now as major stakeholders;
*  a reduction in the amount of State grant funding from 35%  to 15%  of sub-project costs, and
agreed criteria for allocation of grant funding; ' and
*  a transfer of project implementation responsibility from the State Secretariat to BADESC.
These changes brought significant benefits, including lower project risks and increased project
sustainability through widened sub-borrower participation. Moreover, the changes simplified the project
and reduced its scope, enabling it to be completed with fewer counterpart funds. The full transfer of
project implementation responsibility to BADESC, along with the State's reduced counterpart burden,
however may have led to diminished State interest in the project. Out of US$45.5 million planned at
appraisal, the State spent only US$10.9 million by project completion, and its commitment to the project
was weaker than desired.
13.    Factors beyond the control of the Borrower. Factors that adversely affected the project included:
* the uncertain and changing macro-economic environment which imposed several economic
stabilization plans -- including price freezes, changes in the national currency, and complicated
regulations for administration and indexation of contracts -- created inefficiencies in
implementation of the sub-projects and made difficult any planning and budgeting. These
external shocks, particularly the 1986 Cruzado Plan (which artificially bolstered municipal cash
4 Grants and other discretionary transfers might not have actually been reduced -- grants may have been channeled to the
municipalities outside the program without utilizing the allocation criteria established by the project. Additional research on the
use of discretionary transfers in the State would be required to clarify this issue.
4



flows by reducing the real value of their spending obligations), may have created a disincentive
for municipalities to improve their own source revenues;
*  the 1988 Constitutional reform of intergovernmental finance that allocated Federal and State
transfers to municipalities and may have further created disincentives for municipalities to put
their own financial houses in order;
*  ad hoc Central Bank and other regulations controlling public sector debt in Brazil, which
suspended borrowing entitlements of municipalities eligible for project loans on at least two
occasions (1988 and 1992); and
*  the political crisis provoked by the terminal illness and subsequent death of the State Governor
while in office in 1989, which caused a loss of project accountability and effective paralysis of
management during that year.
There were thus few years -- perhaps 1987, 1990, and 1991 -- when project performance was not
severely affected by external factors, associated mostly with Brazil's unstable monetary and institutional
environment during project implementation.
14.    Although these factors could not be controlled by project authorities, similar events may occur
in the future in Brazil and the project experience provides some guidance about appropriate reactions to
them. Project managers and Bank supervision missions need to closely monitor the impact of major
external events on an operation, and advise the appropriate authorities. This was done successfully for
example when the Bank advised federal agencies about the difficulties which Central Bank resolutions
were causing in project implementation, leading to a streamlining of Central Bank procedures.
15.    Factors under the control of the Borrower. Factors that adversely affected the project included:
*  reluctance of successive State administrations to assume full ownership of the project, manifested
by the lack of timely counterpart funds, frequent staff changes and slow disbursements at certain
points; and
*  poorly managed transitions between successive State administrations (over a six-year period, there
were eight different project coordinators).
Initially, borrower ownership was strong, since project identification and preparation was a State
government initiative. The first administrative changeover (1986/87) caused a rupture, however. New
officials were not convinced by a project concept developed under a competing administration. The
second administrative changeover (1990/91) found a replacement of the executing agency's
implementation team, leading to almost a complete loss of institutional memory and project momentum.
16.   Factors under the control of the Borrower. Factors that favorablv affected the project included:
*  substantial municipal contributions to project counterpart funding. By project completion,
municipalities spent US$13.7 million, 26% more than the State;
* skillful management by BADESC in bringing the project to its close. In effect, BADESC acted
as the agent of Santa Catarina municipalities who became the real owners of the project during
its closing months; and
*  improved monitoring of sub-projects, including procurement administration after mid-term (with
the support of the Bank). Among the results of the greater control were lower unit costs of
project investments.
5



D. Sustainabiity
17.    Likely. Due to the effective participation of the State's municipalities as implementation neared
completion, the probability of the project maintaining its achievements is likely. The MDF's balance at
Loan closing of US$3.5 million, while not reaching the US$4.8 million projected at appraisal, is
nevertheless evidence of the ability of local governments to generate (and repay) funds for infrastructure
investments. The existence of this balance in the MDF argues for the project's sustainable impact.
E. Bank Performance
18.    Project identification andpreparation assistance: Highly satisfactory. Through a constructive
dialogue with the Borrower, the Bank succeeded in channeling the State's initial enthusiasm and
motivation for a project to reconstruct 1983 flood damage into a municipal development operation with
longer-term objectives. The Bank provided assistance to the Borrower to prepare the project, especially
in the fields of economic development and municipal finance. Early missions, using the PRAM project
as a reference, encouraged State officials to visit Parana to familiarize themselves with this operation.
19.   Appraisal: Satisfactory. Project appraisal properly identified the key issues which were critical
to the project's successful completion -- notably cost recovery, municipal finances, project institutional
arrangements and counterpart funding.  The appraisal mission was staffed with diversified skills
appropriate to the tasks at hand. The mission conducted a thorough analysis of the economic and
municipal finance aspects of the project, determined existing conditions of the State and municipalities,
grouped municipalities based on socioeconomic similarities, and established quantifiable targets including
one key indicator to monitor progress. A weakness of appraisal is that additional indicators and
parameters should have been developed to assess all of the project's objectives.
20.    Supervision: Satisfactory. While the performance of individual Bank supervision missions in
the field was generally satisfactory, the missions were not fielded with the regularity and frequency
necessary to follow the rapid evolution of events in the State. Although 90 staff weeks (about 11 per year
on average) were spent on the project, missions were in the field for a total of only 45 days (5.5 days
per year on average). At critical moments -- in 1988 and 1990 -- ten to twelve months elapsed between
missions. For the first half of project implementation (1986-89) missions were staffed by one or two
persons for a few days only, and project supervision suffered as the Bank underwent its own major
reorganization in 1987. Further, the skill mix deployed on supervision missions did not always cover
the aspects of the project highlighted at appraisal.  As a result, inadequate attention was given to
monitoring of indicators of infrastructure unit costs, and to municipal financial and managerial
improvement. Much of the emphasis of missions in the later years, however, correctly focused on the
institutional issues at the State and municipal levels which became critical to successful project
completion. Further, the Bank assisted the Borrower in making important modifications to the project
at mid-term (para. 12), increasing the likelihood of achievement of the project objectives. Later project
supervision benefitted greatly from the experience of the new municipal development projects coming on
stream in the states of Parana and Rio Grande do Sul (Lns. 3100-BR and 3129-BR), through exchange
visits and joint meetings between officials of those states and Santa Catarina's project staff.
6



F. Borrower Performance
21.    Preparation of the project: Highly satisfactory. Stimulated by the desire to deal with the
aftermath of the disastrous floods of 1983, the highest authorities in Santa Catarina State were strongly
motivated in project preparation, and successively mobilized the full support of the federal authorities and
local municipalities. Further, State authorities were willing to discuss and agree with the Bank on a
modified design which would lead to a more sustainable, long-term developmental impact than the
infrastructure-only approach which the State had originally envisioned.
22.    Project Implementation: Satisfactory. For much of the period, project implementation was
disappointing due to the issue of diminishing Borrower ownership over time, manifested in the shifting
locus of the project unit within the State administration5 and the lack of BADESC's effective engagement
in the project early on.  Poor control and lack of accountability during the first half of project
implementation meant that sub-project funding was extended to municipalities which had not fulfilled
project conditionalities, particularly with regard to improving their revenue collection. Weak project
monitoring also led to ineligible expenses being financed out of Loan proceeds. This resulted in an
arrangement to reimburse these expenditures which in turn meant blocking of the Borrower's access to
the Special Account for an extended period, leading to further project implementation difficulties (Annex
9). Project implementation improved significantly, however, when BADESC assumed full responsibility
for its execution following mid-term modifications. There were outstanding improvements in project
monitoring, and project performance generally improved greatly, enabling the project to be fully
completed (with one extension) in a period of 7.5 years. While implementation was quite weak
throughout much of the early project period, the significant improvement in later years makes the
Borrower's project implementation efforts satisfactory overall.
23.    Compliance with Loan Covenants:  Deficient.  Non-compliance was a serious problem
throughout most of the implementation period, reaching a peak at mid-term when about 30 major and
minor contractual obligations were in non-compliance. Under BADESC's management, however,
compliance with major covenants improved to full compliance as the Loan neared closing.
G. Assessment of Outcome
24.    Overall rating.  Satisfactory.  The project outcome as a whole is rated satisfactory.  The
satisfactory project rating was justified based on an evaluation of the achievement of project objectives:
two of the three objectives were largely achieved; lack of agreed monitoring indicators and conflicting
data makes difficult a conclusive judgment regarding the third.  The project provided physical
infrastructure with satisfactory economic rates of return, and helped to improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of municipal resource allocation. The results in terms of strengthening the managerial and
financial capabilities of municipalities are inconclusive. Among the reasons for this: (a) the inadequate
attention paid to developing performance indicators -- a project design issue; and (b) poor monitoring of
municipal administrative and financial capacity improvements, and enforcement of on-lending
conditionality linked to such improvements -- an implementation issue.   Particularly regarding
5 The project moved from GAPLAN to the Secretariat of Urban Development and Environment (SEDUMA) in 1990, to the
Secretariat of Planning and Finance (SPF) temporarily in 1991, and finally to BADESC in that same year. BADESC is under
the direction of the SPF.
7



strengthening of municipal managerial capacity, anecdotal evidence related to sub-borrower improvements
in procurement processes and the like, suggests that the project probably did have a greater contribution
than a cursory evaluation may indicate. Given that there were many external factors (particularly related
to the macro-economic environment) conspiring against its success, the efforts of the local authorities and
the Bank in bringing the project to a satisfactory conclusion are to be commended. In conclusion, project
design was largely sound; project implementation efforts should have been stronger to fully achieve all
objectives. Overall, however, the experience was worthwhile, and provides many valuable lessons to
help guide project design and implementation in the future.
H. Future Operation
25.    The key to the future sustainability of this project is in the hands of Santa Catarina's
municipalities, which are formally responsible for operating and maintaining the facilities provided.
Municipal associations, better equipped as a result of the project, should be able to help smaller towns
meet these responsibilities more effectively. All municipalities that received funding under the project
will remain tied to the MDF until their loans are amortized; this contractual obligation to maintain debt
service payments is expected to strengthen financial discipline. The MDF will oblige the State to retain
an interest in continuing to monitor project performance in the medium term.
26.    Follow-up Actions. In its future dialogue with the State of Santa Catarina, Bank dialogue may,
among other options, develop the possibility of its providing guarantees for private finance of
infrastructure in municipalities throughout the State. At the same time, it is essential for the Bank to
establish a clear dialogue with the highest authorities in the State, as well as other interested parties, to
ensure that ownership and commitment of a project with long-term developmental objectives is not put
at risk by the volatile political agenda. If this risk is assessed as being reasonable -- and the there is a
sound dialogue on the issue of resource mobilization -- the Bank could pursue the possibility of preparing
a follow-on project in the State that could benefit from the rich learning experience of the PROURB
project. At the same time, experience of the completed project should be employed in the process of
developing new operations elsewhere.
I. Lessons Learned
27.    The most significant positive lessons learned from the successes of the project are as follows:
*  Strong, well-defined institutional arrangements are critical to successful implementation. The
responsibility for project implementation was moved from the State administration to BADESC,
where it was less affected by political interference in decisions such as application of criteria for
on-lending and grant funding.  As a result of this clear delegation of responsibility for
implementation, the project was satisfactorily completed. However, there may be a trade-off
between greater autonomy on the one hand, and government ownership on the other. Since a
project is more isolated from political interference in an independent entity, it may also become
less of a priority to high-level officials because it is more difficult for these leaders to reap direct
political dividends. This can have negative effects on the availability of counterpart funds.
*  Interested municipalities proved to be willing to provide substantial counterpart funding, even
8



though none was foreseen at appraisal. Municipal counterpart funding participation diversifies
risk by reducing reliance on a single source (the State) for counterpart funding. It also provides
the significant benefit of providing leverage for municipalities to increase own-source revenues
and improve ownership by making municipalities major project stakeholders.
* Attention to the project modus operandi is particularly important early on: the operating manuals
of the program should be established during preparation and training held during the project
launch phase, so that steps are relatively automatic during implementation. Moreover, efforts
should be made to disseminate project operational manuals to clients, as these manuals may be
created for Bank consumption, archived and forgotten during implementation, leading to ad hoc
procedures, inefficiencies and non-compliance with legal agreements.   Related to this,
procurement and project design assistance to municipalities, as well as establishing project
monitoring systems, can help stimulate increased and better quality investment by municipalities.
Persistent attention to procurement guidelines can yield satisfactory results by helping investments
become more cost-effective.
28.    Lessons derived from the project's shortcomings include:
* to improve the chances of strong borrower ownership during project start-up, projects should be
appraised in the closing months of a government administration only when there are sound
arrangements for a smooth transition to its successor. There was a loss of ownership as the highly
motivated administration that prepared the project remained in office only for five months after
the Loan became effective.
* project design needs to attach specific performance targets to each project objective. The lack of
targets left project technical assistance efforts without direction or clear parameters for measuring
achievement. Aiming to raise municipal revenues by an explicit amount and to increase the
productivity of urban service delivery and operation up to a quantifiable standard of efficiency,
for example, might have helped project managers guide a project toward the achievement of its
objectives. With indicators such as these it is also easier to draw unequivocal conclusions about
the success or failure of specific interventions.
- Conditionalities requiring municipalities to improve their revenue collections must be rigorously
monitored and applied to on-lending decisions in order to link project funding decisions with the
objective of increasing municipal resource mobilization. Otherwise, project interventions can
even be counter-productive, discouraging municipal efforts at improvement.
* Although property and betterment taxes proved to be quite small in the context of total municipal
revenues in Santa Catarina State, they could play a much larger role as a revenue source to
municipalities. Greater attention must be given at both the design and implementation stages to
components aimed at increasing municipal own-source revenues. Care should be given to
downstream issues, particularly the strengthening of procedures for the billing and collection of
taxes due. Projects addressing municipal and inter-governmental financial reform should also
attempt to address the incentive system and criteria for allocating transfers, which together
account for a significant portion of all municipal revenues. The issue of discretionary State
grants to municipalities was also not addressed. There is a need to focus upon criteria and
incentives behind these State transfers as well.
9






ANNEX 1
Table 1: Suimmary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives                 Substantial         Partial      Negligible     Not Applicable
Macro policies                               D              E                D               Exl
Sector policies                              DE                              D              Iii
Financial objectives                         DE i                                            El
Institutional development                   El              El              111             FEl
Physical objectives                         El              El              El               El
Poverty reduction                           El              El              El               C:
Gender issues                               El              El              E                il
Other social objectives                     El              El                l              E
Environmental objectives                    [               Exl
Public sector management                                     x E l          El              []
Private sector development                  E               Exl l
B. Proiect Sustainability                     Likely                    Unlikely             Uncertain
Hizhly
C. Bank Performance                          Satisfactory          Satisfactory              Deficient
Identification                                l                       E                      C]
Preparation assistance                      El                        El                     E
Appraisal                                   El                        El                     El
Supervision                                 El                        El l
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                     Satisfactory             Satisfactory            Deficient
Preparation                                 El                        El                     El
Implementation                              El                        El                     El
Covenant Compliance                         E                         E                      Exl
Highly                                        Hifhlv
E. Assessment of outcome                    Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
El              E-l             El              El



ANNEX 2
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan Title                              Purpose                        Year of       Status
l                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Approval
Preceding Operations                      l_l
1. Medium Sized Cities      To improve the living conditions and increase the  06/07/79   Implementation completed, Project
Project (Ln. 1720-BR)       incomes of the populations, particularly the urban            performance audit report (PPAR)
poor, of eight rapidly growing medium-sized cities.          dated 12/01/89.
2. Parana Market Towns      To develop an alternative system of long-term     08/23/83   Implementation completed, Project
Improvement (Ln. 2343-BR)   borrowing for the municipalities, establish                  completion report (PCR) dated
systematic criteria for the selection of sub-projects,       06/12/89.
develop measures for cost recovery of investment
costs and improve standard of living in urban areas.
3. Northeast Urban Floods    To assist the physical and economic rehabilitation of   12/19/85   Implementation completed, PCR
Reconstruction Project (Ln.    NE urban areas damaged by the flood, and to                dated 12/18/90.
2645-BR)                     strengthen planning capacity at the regional, state
and municipal levels.
Subsequent Operations
1. Salvador Metropolitan    To support increased economic productivity in the  4/22/86   Scheduled to close December 31,
Region Development (Ln.     Salvador metropolitan region and strengthen the               1995 (one year extension), an
2681-BR)                     financial capacity of the agencies, through specific         implementation duration of 9 years.
priority infrastructure investments and technical            Loan was restructured and
assistance.                                                  streamlined in 1991.
2. Parana Municipal         Increase municipal capacity to plan, finance and  06/22/89    Scheduled to close December 31,
Development (Ln. 3100-BR)   execute projects through full cost recovery, improve          1995 (one year extension), an
coordination of urban development policy and                implementation duration of 5 years.
investment decisions, and improve targeting these
programs to urban poor.
3. Rio Grande do Sul        Increase municipal capacity to plan, finance and  10/24/89   Scheduled to close December 31,
Municipal Development       execute projects through full cost recovery, improve          1995 (one year extension), an
(Ln. 3129-BR)               coordination of urban development policy and                 implementation duration of 5 years.
investment decisions, and improve targeting these
programs to urban poor.
4. Minas Gerais Municipal    Strengthen municipal financial management,       07/20/93   In first year of implementation,
Management and              improve environmental management and mobilize                project launch seminar held in
Environmental Infrastructure   private resources for municipal service provision in      November 1993.
(Ln. 3639-BR)               the State.
5. Ceara Urban              Strengthen local governments and water resource   09/06/94    Loan was signed December 19,
Development and Water       management in the State.                                      1994.
Resources Management
Project (Ln. 3789-BR)



ANNEX 3
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle       [   Date (planned)          Date (actual)
Identification                                   09/84                 09/84
Preparation                                      10/84                 10/84
Appraisal                                        12/84                 12/84
Negotiations                                     08/85                 08/85
Letter of Development Policy                      n/a                   n/a
Board presentation                               10/85                09/19/85
Signing                                          01/86                06/26/86
Effectiveness                                    06/86                09/24/86
Project Completion                             06/30/93               12/31/93
Loan Closing                                    12/31/92              12/31/93



ANNEX 4
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY86      FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90          FY91     FY92      FY93      FY94
Appraisal          1.9       2.8      5.0      8.8       13.7      18.6     22.2      24.5     24.5
Estimate
Actual            0          1.7      3.2      4.2       9.5       13.2     15.8      17.7     24.2
Actual as % of    0%         61%      70%      47%       69%       71%      71%       72%      99%
Estimate
Date of Final     5/10/94
Disbursement



ANNEX5
Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
1.     The key implementation indicator for the project was increased own source revenues,
specifically stated in the SAR as follows: "Municipalities'per capita own source revenues of
urban taxes, fees and charges, compared to average of the best performers in the relevant size
category. "
2.     Yearly targets for the above indicator were established for the following six
categories: (i) small city, high economic potential; (ii) large city, high economic potential;
(iii) small city, medium economic potential; (iv) large city, medium economic potential; (v)
small city, low economic potential; and (vi) large city, low economic potential.
Unfortunately, this indicator was not monitored during implementation, nor was it compared
to the targets established in the appraisal report. For this reason, a detailed statistical analysis
was done on an ex-post basis to determine if the project did have an impact on financial
management or resource allocation of the municipalities which participated (details of this
analysis are set out in paras. 6-10 below).
3. As part of the Borrower's ICR, an analysis was made of a sample of 24 municipalities.
This analysis showed that overall, own source revenues increased from US$5.79 per capita to
US$9.70 per capita. These results are presented in the Borrower's ICR (Summary provided
in Appendix B). This increase may not be solely attributed to participation in the project.
4.     No physical indicators were established in the SAR for the infrastructure sub-projects,
nor for community facilities, however the Borrower monitored on a sample basis unit costs of
completed sub-projects. For example, average unit costs for pavement were nearly 40%
below referenced prices used by the State's highway department (DER-SC). The results are
summarized in the Borrower's ICR (see Appendix B).
5.     An operational indicator was established to monitor the capitalization of the Municipal
Development Fund (MDF). At project completion, the MDF had a capitalization of US$3.50
million, as opposed to US$4.75 million targeted in the SAR, representing 75% of the
appraisal estimate -- a satisfactory result. When counterpart funds or Bank funds were scarce,
the MDF was used as a stop-gap facility to meet project funding requirements. This level of
capitalization nevertheless is evidence of the ability of the State to generate (and repay) funds
for infrastructure investments. Capitalization of the MDF should be monitored and on-
lending criteria of the fund should be discussed as part of the follow-up actions.
Statistical Analysis
6.     A detailed statistical analysis was done on an ex-post basis to determine if the project
had an impact on improved resource allocation or increased revenue generating capacity of the
municipalities which participated in the project. This was recommended in light of the fact
that the indicators prescribed in the SAR were few and were not regularly monitored.
7.    Improved resource allocation: An analysis of cross-sectional data at the municipal level
showed that the volume of non-project investments over the 1986-92 period to be positively and
significantly correlated with population change and the volume of project expenditure in the



Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation (cont'd)
municipality'. This evidence points to the project having encouraged greater investment by those
municipalities most closely engaged in the project. Independently of any population increase, the
more municipalities participated in the project, the more they allocated their (non-project)
The results of four OLS regression models estimated for the purpose of this ICR were:
Model 1          Model 2            Model 3            Model 4
Variable:                            Net investment       Salary bill          IPTU          Own revenues
Constant                                    1315.15          1123.11            136.67              266.23
*(2.92)          *(2.55)           (0.99)              (0.645)
Project expenditure                            8.63             5.09             -1.40                -3.31
(value of t statistic)                    *(7.38)          *(3.42)          *(-2.90)              (-1.61)
Project cadastre expenditure                                                     -1.48               -21.75
(value of t statistic)                                                       (-0.47)              (-1.62)
Project leverage                           -1126.90
(value of t statistic)                    *(-4.38)
Population change (86-92)                      0.87             1.52              0.29                 1.52
(value of t statistic)                    *(21.76)         *(27.86)          *(16.88)             *(20.83)
R Square                                       0.83             0.84              0.59                 0.70
Adjusted R Square                              0.83             0.84              0.59                 0.70
F statistic                                  352.19           549.36            103.69               168.51
degrees of freedom                              216              216              216                  216
r significant at the 5% level
The independent variables, at the municipal level, were defined as follows: 1. Net investment = total
accumulated investment made by the municipality over the 1986-92 period, minus investments financed through the
project; 2. Salary bill = total accumulated municipal expenditure upon salaries (1986-92); 3. IPTU = total
accumulated IPTU collections (1986-92); 4. Own revenues = total accumulated collections of municipal own
revenues such as IPTU, ISS and user charges (1986-92). Source: BADESC project data base.
Model dependent variables at the municipal level were: Project expenditure = total project expenditure
(1986-92); Project cadastre expenditure = total project expenditure on cadastres (1986-92); Project leverage =
total project expenditure divided by total municipal revenues x 1,000; and Population change (86-92) = estimated
1992 population minus estimated 1986 population (year estimates based upon exponential projections of 1980-91
trend reported in Population Census). Sources: Borrower ICR and IBGE 1991 Census (for population data). As
well as reflecting the absolute size of the municipality and its demographic growth or decline over the period, the
Population change (86-92) variable also stood as a proxy for Federal and State transfers with which is it highly
correlated (simple correlation coefficients of 0.70 and 0.74 respectively). Federal and State transfers at the
municipal level were therefore not included as dependent variables in the OLS regression equations estimated to
avoid problems of multicollinearity.
Accumulated values for the variables over the 1986-92 were used in the models since large annual
variations over this particularly unstable period could not be explained by the project. They were due to major
factors beyond its control, in particular the 1986 "Cruzado" Plan, the 1988 Constitution and Santa Catarina's
political crisis of 1989/90.
From the equations estimated, the following conclusions may be drawn. The values of the adjusted R
Squares (0.59-0.83) indicate that the majority of the variation in the dependent variables is "explained" in each of
the four models. The very high value of the F statistics indicates that the adjusted R Squares are all highly
significant statistically (p values, not shown, are infinitely small). The coefficients of all independent variables are
statistically significant (as indicated by the values of the t statistics at the 5 % level) in all four models, except for
Project cadastre expenditure regressed against IPTU, and Project expenditure and Project cadastre
expenditure regressed against Own revenues. Although not statistically significant at the 5% level, these variables
were retained in the model because there were good theoretical grounds for expecting that project actions
(especially cadastre components) would hlave a positive and significant impact upon municipal revenues. Project
leverage = was tested in models 2-4, but its coefficients were not found to be statistically significant at the 5%
level, so it was only retained as a dependent variable only in equation 1.



Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation (cont'd)
resources to (non-project) investment (Model 1/footnote 1). Technical assistance provided under
the project to help municipalities prepare engineering designs, and the Bank's persistence in
pursuing efficient procurement procedures, may have contributed to such a result. Surprisingly,
project leverage, measured at the municipal level by project expenditures as a share of total
revenues, was negatively but significantly correlated with the volume of non-project investment
(holding population and project expenditures constant). This unexpected result could be explained
by the fact that such project leverage was more easily exercised in the smaller municipalities
which had greater difficulties in increasing their investment expenditures.
8.     As a counterpoint to increasing investment, the reduction of municipal salary expenses
could be regarded as an indicator of improved resource allocation. Project experience showed,
however, that independently of their population changes, municipalities were likely to increase
their salary bills as they took on more project expenditures (details: model 2 in footnote 1). If
this was the result of paying more to better trained staff, as the project intended, or hiring more
employees for operations and maintenance (another project aim), then it was a satisfactory
outcome. More data are needed to draw a firm conclusion. What is clear, however, is that the
size of the aggregated salary bill of municipalities is not a good indicator of project performance,
although some of its disparate parts may be.
9.     Increasing municipal revenue generating capacity: Discounting population changes, the
greater the total project expenditure made in a municipality, the less IPTU that municipality was
likely to collect (details: model 3 in footnote 1). The loan agreement called for total project
expenditures to be made on the condition that improvements were made in local tax collection.
This result indicates that project expenditures themselves discouraged municipal efforts to increase
their IPTU collections. In hindsight, allocations of project funds between municipalities did not
obey the conditionalities of improved collection performance, as called for in the project Loan
Agreement. Although improved cadastres aimed to increase IPTU collection, evidence from Santa
Catarina at the municipal level points to there being no statistically significant relationship
between project cadastre expenditures and amounts of IPTU collected.
10.    IPTU remains a minor source of revenue for municipalities in Santa Catarina,
accounting for only 3.0% of total revenues in 1992. The Municipal Betterment Tax
(ContribuiCao de Melhoria) accounts for a mere 0.7%  of total revenues in 1992. Looking
more broadly at municipal own revenues as a whole, no statistically significant relationship
with the project variables was found at the 5% level, although population change over 1986-
92 figured strongly as always (details: model 4 in footnote 1). Federal and State transfers
accounted for 71% of all municipal revenues during 1986-91 period in Santa Catarina.2
2 Over the 1986-92 period, Federal and Santa Catarina State transfers to municipalities in the State
accumulated to US$186.4 million and US$51.7 million respectively.






ANNEX 6
Table 6A: Project Costs
Appraisal Esti* ate (US$ millions)                         Actual (US$ millions)
Local           Foreign                              Local           Foreign
Costs           Costs             Total              Costs           Costs *         Total
Item
1. Infrastructure  20.0             6.8              26.8                21.6             7.2            28.8
2. Productive        1.8             0.6              2.4                 0.2             0.0             0.2
Activities
3. Community        2.9              1.0              3.9                 4.1             1.4             5.5
Facilities
4. Equipment&       5.3             4.4               9.7                 5.3             4.3             9.6
Vehicles
5. Tech. Assist. &  3.8             2.0               5.8                 3.0             1.6             4.6
Supervision
6. Contingencies    14.9            6.5              21.4                 0.0             0.0             0.0
TOTAL               48.7             21.3             70.0               34.2            14.5             48.7
Table 6B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$ millions)                          Actual (US$ millions)
Local          Foreign                               Local          Foreign
Costs           Costs              Total             Costs          Costs *             Total
Source
IBRD                     17.0             7.5               24.5              16.7            7.4                24.1
Local-State of SC        31.7             13.8              45.5              7.8              3.1               10.9
Local-Municipal          0.0              0.0               0.0               9.7             4.0                13.7
TOTAL                    48.7             21.3              70.0              34.2            14.5               48.7
*       Foreign exchange component of the project costs was forecasted at Appraisal to be all indirect costs. The project was implemented
according to the Appraisal procurement plan, which envisioned all local procurement.



ANNEX 7
Econoniic Costs and Benefits
Physical Components
1.     Ex-post internal economic rates of return (IERR) were calculated for six urban infrastructure
(pavement) sub-projects. The SAR estimated that the average IERR of the physical components
would be 22.0%. Based on the methodology used at appraisal, the weighted average of re-estimated
IERR at project completion for these projects was 17. 1 %, which is an acceptable, although somewhat
lower, average result. Other components -- community facilities, productive facilities and equipment
purchases -- were constructed on the basis of appropriate unit cost and standard designs established by
the State, and no explicit IERRs were calculated.
2.     Major cost and benefits that entered into calculations of economic rates of return were as
follows:
COSTS                     |                 BENEFITS
1. Cost of construction of infrastructure     Increased incremental property values
associated with infrastructure investments,
2. Cost of operation and maintenance          based on increases in property and betterment
tax assessments.



ANNEX 8
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Legal        Type/   Description of Covenant            Original      Revised    Status   Overall 1
Agreement/   Coven                                      Date          Date               Project           Comment
Section      ant                                                                         rating
State Loan                                                                               2
Agreement                                                                                                                    l
2.03         M         Loan Closing Date December 31,   12/31/92      12/31/93   OK                Loan closed 12/31/93 (one
1992.                                                                      extension). Cancellation of
US$293,950.07 was
effective 5/10/94.
3.01 d       M         Review compliance by sub-        9/30                     OK
borrowers of criteria for selection
of sub-projects.                                                                                     l
3.01 e       M         Exchange views on the adequacy    11/30                   OK
of financial arrangements.
3.02 b       M         Establish single registries of                            OK
contractors and suppliers to meet
local registration requirements.                                                                      l
3.02 c       M         Publish general project          1/31                     OK
announcements in two national
publications and one international
publication.
3.03 a       M         Borrower shall allocate in its                            OK
budget adequate amounts for the
execution of the Project.                                                                            l
3.03 c,d     T         Amount of each grant to not                               OK
exceed equiv. of 15% of sub-
project cost. Municipalities to
contribute 25% of sub-project
cost. Total amt. allocated to
grants not exceed 15 % of total
amt. allocated for sub-projects.
3.04 c (i)   M         Prepare quarterly progress       3/31,6/30                OK
reports.                         9/31,12/31
3.04 c       T         Monitor the economic, financial,    11/30                 OK
(ii,iii)               and fiscal impact w/ indicators,
exchange views w/ Bank on the
results of this monitoring.
3.04 c       T         Report on borrowing capacity and   11/30                  OK
(iv.A)                 creditworthiness of Municipalities
3.04 c       T         Report on resource allocation    11/30                    OK
(iv.B)                 (incl. grants and subloans) for
current and forthcoming years by:
(i) region; (ii) type of
Municipality; (iii) nature of sub-
loan.
3.04 c       T         Report to Bank on indicators of  11/30                    OK
(iv.C)                 fiscal, financial, and cost
recovery performance of
Municipalities.



Table 8: Status of Legal Convenants (cont'd)
Legal        Type/   Description of Covenant           Original      Revised    Status   Overall
Agreement/   Coven                                     Date          Date               Project          Comment
Section      ant                                                                        rating                             l
3.04 c       T        Report on status of Technical    11/30                    OK
(iv.D)                Assistance program.
3.04 e (v)    T       Prepare Annual Investment        1/31                     OK
program.
3.04 c (vi)    T      Prepare Project Completion       12/92         04/30/94   OK               Final version completed
Report.                                                                    5/2/94.
3.06 a       M        Borrower to cause BADESC and    11/30/91                  OK
STO and DER and DAE to enter
into an Agreement providing joint
participation in the supervision of
the execution of sub-projects.
3.08 d       M        Borrower to provide Tech.        9/30                     OK
Assist. to Municipal Associations
(MA) in accordance with an
annual TA program, prepared by
each MA and BADESC.
4.02 a,b,c    F       Borrower to have records,        6/30          8/94       OK                1993 audit received, clean
accounts and financial statements                                          opinion.
related to project audited by ind.
auditors.
4.03 a,b     F        Cause to have Special Account    4/30          3/31/94    OK                1993 audit by DTN
audited by Ind. Auditors                                                   completed, clean opinion.
SCHED. 3    r         BADESC to verify borrowing                                OK
B.(iii.2)             limits of Municipalities entering
into sub-loan agreements.
SCHED.       T        BADESC shall retain                                       OK
3.13 (iii.3)          merchandise transfer tax (IPTU)
owed to municipalities, as
collateral for corresponding sub-
loans.
F   Financial covenant
M    Managerial covenant
T = Technical covenant
OK = Acceptable performance



ANNEX 9
Table 9: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
[ Statement Number and Title I                   Lack of Compliance
OD 12.20 Special Accounts    In 1990 and 1991, the PROURB Project incurred ineligible
expenses, disbursed from the Special Account (SA) under the:
OD 12.00 Disbursements      (i) infrastructure component for the construction of police
barracks and (ii) technical assistance component for consultant
fees paid to Municipal Associations in the State. The total
amount of the ineligible expenses (US$ 1,043,095.00) was re-
paid to the SA using substitute eligible expenditures, paid fully
by the State in August 1993. Details are summarized in a
memo to files dated July 26, 1993, available in the LAC
Information Center.



ANNEX 10
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned*                      Revised*                       Actual
Stage of           Staff Weeks            US$         Staff Weeks     US$         Staff Weeks        US$
project cycle
Through Appraisal             48.0             122,400          48.0         122,400       48.0            122,400
Appraisal - Board              2.6              6,630           2.6           6,630        2.6              6,630
Board - Effectiveness          2.9              7,395           2.9           7,395        2.9              7,395
Supervision                   84.0            214,200           85.0         216,750       90.5            230,775
Completion                     3.0              7,650           5.0           12,750       5.0              12,750
TOTAL                        140.5            $358,275         143.5        $365,925      149.0           $379,950
*       Planned/revised figures were not available for FY 85, 86, 87 & 88. In these years, actual values were used for planned.
**      All US$ values are in 1993 terms, based on the average cost of a 1993 staff week in the LAIEU division.



ANNEX 11
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
i                       Performance Rating
Stage of      Month/   Number   Days           Specialized      Implemen-    Develop-                 Types of
Project Cycle     year      of         in          staff skills    tation        ment                    Problems
Persons   Field       represented     Status         objectives
Through           10/84     2          4       Economist, Urban   n/a             n/a          Pre-appraisal - Prepared Project
Appraisal                                      Financial                                       Brief (on file dated 11/26/84).
l__________  ___________  _______  Specialist
12/84     3          18      Economist, Urban   n/a            n/a          Appraisal - Four issues raised -
Financial                                      fiscal targets, level of cost
Specialist, Loan                              recovery, institutional set-up, and
Officer, Lawyer                               inclusion of productive activities.
Otherwise, was basically
developed according to Project
Brief.
Appraisal
through Board    (None)
approval
Board approval    12/85      1         2       Economist           I              1            No impending issues.
through
Effectiveness
5/86       1         1       Lawyer              n/a           n/a           No impending issues.
Supervision       10/86      1         2       Urban Financial     1              I            Regional offices were not set up
Specialist                                     by GAPLAN.
5/87       1         2       Economist           2              1            Lack of counterpart funds,
project coordination moved from
GAPLAN to SEDUMA
12/87     2          4       Urban Planner       2             1            Lack of counterpart funds
Financial Analyst
10/88     3          5       Urban Planner,      3              1           Lack of counterpart funding,
Economist,                                     non-compliance with 30+
financial analyst                              covenants, weak capacity in
coordinating unit (PCU).
12/89     3          8       Urban Planner,      3              1           Lack of counterpart funds,
ID Specialist,                                 municipalities now participate
Urban Specialist                               with own counterpart. Need to
re-focus project objectives to
reflect new conditions due to
new constitution.
5/90      3          2       Urban Planner,      2              1            Lack of counterpart funds
Financial Analyst
(MS), ID
Specialist
5/91      2          1       Urban Planner       2              1            Received State proposal to
ID Specialist                                 transfer project coordination
from PROURB (In Sec. da
Fazenda) to BADESC.



Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions (cont'd)
_          _         _                       I                        Performance Rating
Stage of      Month/   Number  Days           Specialized      Implemen-    Develop-                Types of
|Project Cycle   year       of         in         staff skills    tation        ment                    Problems
Persons   Field      represented      Status        objectives
10/91     3          4       Urban Planner,     2              1           Project coordination moved from
Civil Engineer,                               Secretary of Fazenda to
ID Specialist                                 BADESC
6/92      3          3       Urban Planner,     2              1            Transfer of project coordination
Financial Analyst                             from PROURB to BADESC
ID Specialist                                 completed. Monitoring system
implemented. Delays in
Counterpart funding of ID
l____________              component.
10/92     3          3       Urban Planner,     2              1           Federal Resolution 36 (requiring
Civil Engineer,                               Central Bank & Senate approval
ID Specialist.                                for on-lending) and delays
approvals of sub-loans. Request
for I yr. extension. State
presented follow-up project.
Counterpart funds have been
available. Monitoring system has
improved BADESC's ability to
monitor project particularly
procurement and disbursements.
2/93      2          2       Urban Planner,      1             1            Loan extended by I yr to
ID Specialist.                                December 31, 1993. Resolution
36 continues to represent a risk
to project although State has
managed to obtain municipal
lending approvals.
7/93      2          3       Procurement        2              1            Repayment of ineligible expenses
specialist, ID                                from special account was
specialist, Civil                             resolved, Municipal Cadastres
Engineer                                      continuing with 3 completed and
17 still to be executed. No
progress on Borrower's ICR; a
follow-up program would be
linked to successful completion
of ICR.
Completion       2/94       2          3       Financial Analyst   2            2            Loan Closed 12/31/93. Draft
Economist                                     ICR was discussed; Borrower's
final version received May 2,
1994.



APPENDIX A
PROGRAMA DE APOIO AO DESENVOLVIMENTO DE CIDADES DE PEQUENA PORTE
DO ESTADO DE SANTA CATARINA (PROURB)
(Empr6stimo. 2623-BR)
Missao de Supervisao
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    Uma missao do Banco Mundial composta por Mary Sheehan e Roy Gilbert visitou Santa Catarina
durante os dias 31 de janeiro de 1994 e 2 de fevereiro de 1994 para acompanhar o fechamento do projeto
PROURB, e iniciar conversac6es com as autoridades estaduais a respeito de uma possibilidade de
preparar um novo projeto no Estado, com o apoio do Banco Mundial. A missao queria agradecer as
cortesias das autoridades estaduais e de representantes do BADESC, que ajudaram muito ao bom
andamento dos trabalhos realizados. Esta Aide Memoire reune as principais conclusoes e recomenda,ces
da missao, que sao sujeitas a posterior confirmacao atraves de carta de gerenca do Banco Mundial em
Washington.
Encerramento do PROURB
2.     Depois de uma prorogacao de um ano, emprestimo 2623-BR fechou oficialmente no dia 31 de
dezembro de 1993 (com aproximadamente US$1.4 milhoes restante do valor original do emprestimo de
US$24.5 milhoes). A conta especial foi fechado o 27 de Janeiro de 1994. Segundo o Acordo do
Emprestimo (e acordos da ultima missao de Julho de 1993), aplicacoes para reembolso de despesas
eligiveis seriam acetadas ate um periodo 4 mese apois a data do fechamento (ou, seja o 30 de Abril de
1994). Para serem consideradas eligiveis, despesas teriam que ser de contratos frimados antes do 27 de
Setembro de 1993.
3.     Uma aplicacao  (numero  80) esta sendo processada dentro  do Banco  Mundial para
aproximadamente US$740,000. 0 BADESC confirmou as suas intencoes de enviar ao Banco uma ultima
aplicacoa para o resto das despesas eligivies fietos dentro do projeto tao logo possivel. A rnissao
comprometiu-se verificar o valor restante no Emprestimo e informar ao BADESC.
4.     A missao esclareceu que nao foram eligiveis para reembolso -- nem para ser considerados como
contrapartida -- gastos de readjuste no valor dos pagamentos aos empreiteiros durante o periodo que a
conta especial foi congelada. A missao lembrou que cuaisquer pagamentos com empreiteiros nao pagos
ate agora para tais depsesas devem ser resolvidos antes da data DE 30 DE aBRIL DE 1994 (VER parag.
2). A missao tambem lembrou que nao seria possivel considerar gasotos feitos nos Planos Basicos de
Desenvolvimento Regional (PBDRs) sendo que esses despeses foram feitos atraves de custeio de orgaos
oficias, sem processo licitatorio.
Relatorio de Encerramento do Projeto
5.     Foi entregue a missao um relatorio de encerramento do projeto feito pelo BADESC. A rnissao
fez uma rapida revisao das varias partes do relat6rio, e comentou que o relat6rio representa um progresso
importante no trabalho. Em termos gerais, constatou-se que ainda falta preparar material sobre os
seguintes aspectos:
*      perfil dos investimentos feitos, por tipo de subprojeto, importante para chegar a um
estimativo de custo final do projeto;
*      perfil dos investimentos de acordo corn a distribuicao geografica;
*      avaliacao da taxa interna de retorno econ6mico (TIR) dos subprojetos executados;



*      avaliagao das financas municipais; e
*      avaliacao das mudanSas de comando desde o infcio do projeto.
Detalhes specificos sobre algums destes aspectos siguem:
6.    Estimativo de Custo Final. Na estimativa do custo final do PROURB, a niissao notou que e
importante levar em conta o valor real (em US$) dos dispendios realizados no momento de pagamento
de faturas pelas prefeituras. Em casos de atrasos nos reembolsos pelo Estado para estas faturas, poderia
haver uma queda substancial no valor deste reembolso com relacao ao valor pago pela prefeitura. Pela
evidencia apresentada, existem indfcios de demoras em reembolsos ao longo do programa PROURB.
Consequentemente, num ambiente de inflaglo alta e persistente, huve provavelmente uma contribuigao
de uma 'contrapartida informal' por parte das prefeituras, que ainda nao esta contabilizada. Por esta
razao, foi acordado que as tabelas de custo incluiriam um item especifico refletindo o valor desta
contribuiggo. A inclusao deste item elevaria o custo final do programa dos atuais US$45.5 milh6es
contabilizados pelo BADESC. Com respeito ao formato das tabelas de custos do PROURB, se prop6e
as tabelas no Anexo 2.
7.     Avaliacao de Sub-projetos concluidos.  No que diz respeito A avaliagAo dos subprojetos
concluidos, a missao lembrou que e importante estimar a TIR. 0 anexo 1 deste Aide Memoire indica
os variaveis a serem usados nos diversos casos. Como nao seria possivel estimar as TIRs para todos os
investimentos do PROURB, dentro do prazo que ainda existe para terminar o relatdrio, sugere-se entao
estimar-las para uma amostra de casos. Importante seria que tal amostra incluiria exemplos de todos os
principais subprojetos, e tambem exemplos de investimentos em todas as regioes do Estado. No caso
mais comun de subprojetos de pavimentaggo, por exemplo, o fluxo de beneficios econOmicos seria
estimado a partir da amortizaglo da valorizagao dos terreenos meIhorados, ao longo de uma vida ltil de
15 anos, usando uma tqaxa de desconto de 12% ao ano. Calculada a media ponderada destas TIRs, o
relat6rio poderia fazer uma comparacao com o valor global para o projeto, inicialmente estimado no
relat6rio do PROURB (Staff Appraisal Report, 1985) de 22%.
8.    Melhoria nas Financas Municipais. 0 PROURB teve como propdsito principal, a melhora nas
financas municipais no Estado. Por esta razao, seria bom para o relatorio dar bastante destaque a este
tema. Propoe que a ana1ise seja feita, levando em conta tres categorias de municipios:
*      maiores (acima de 50.000 habitantes)
*      medios (10.000 - 50.000 habitantes)
*      menores (menos de 10.000 habitantes)
Uma tabela em anexo do relat6rio poderia incluir indicadores financeiras de cada um dos municipios.
Tais indicadores incluiriam:
*      receita propria total (em US$)
*      receita propria como porcentagem da receita total (media 1986-92)
*      receita pr6pria total, crescimento anual durante 1986-1992
*      receita propria per capita (media 1986-92)
*      receita pr6pria per capita, crescimento anual durante 1986-92
*      receita de transferencias de capital do Estado 1986-92 (% da receita total)
*      despesa com pessoal como porcentagem da despesa total (media 1986-92)
Dentro do texto do relat6rio, poderia haver uma tabela resumindo o desempenho dos municipios por



-3-
classe de tamanho.
9.    Tambem haveria no anexo do relat6rio outra grande tabela mostrando, para cada municipio, o
valor total dos investimentos do PROURB feito nele. Dentro do texto do relat6rio, poderia haver uma
tabela resumindo esta informacao por classe de tamanho de municipio, e tambem por regiao (ou asociacao
municipal).
10.   Foi acordo que o Relat6rio completo (versao final) seria enviado ao Banco ate' 31 de mar,o de
1994.
11.   Anexo 3 deste Aide Memoire contem uma breve resumen da visita feita pela missao a alguns
municipios participantes no PROURB.
Novo projeto proposto em Santa Catarina
12.    A missao teve uma troca inicial de ideias com os representantes do Estado, BADESC, dos
municipios (e suas associacoes), com respeito a preparacio do proposto novo projeto (PRODEM),
aprovado em fase inicial pela COFIEX. Nestas discuss6es todas as autoridades locais expressarem seu
entusiasmo pelo projeto. A missao informou sobre a necessidade de concluir primeiro o encerramento
do PROURB, para que todas as li,ces da experiencia possam estar a disposi,co dos que vao contemplar
uma nova opera,ao.
13.    0 Secretario de Fazenda do Estado expos a missao dos avangos na reforma da situacao financeira
do Estado, agora considerada uma das mais solidas no Brasil. Diante este programa de reforma, haveria
um lugar para um novo projeto, que poderia servir como instrumento na reforma das relacoes
intergovermentais, atualmente em curso no Estado. 0 governo do estado acordou encaminhar em breve
ao Banco um resumen sobre este programa de reforma. Tambem foi esclarecido as prioridades do estado:
(a) cadastramento municipal; (b) melhoria nas financas e gerenciamento local; e (c) sanearnento basico.
14.    Por sua parte, o Banco poderia apreciar tal programa para verificar se ha possibilidades de
preparar um novo projeto que se tornaria o principal instrumento de articulacao financeira entre Estado
e municipios, de tal maneira que possa ajudar levar a reforma para frente.



-4 -
Anexo 1
Os Beneficios a serem Mensurados para a estimativa da taxa interna de retorno rrrR) economico
Nos casos de pavimentacao, iluminaco, controle de erosao. Beneficios economicos de valorizacao dos
terrenos beneficiados, capitalizando o ganho ao longo dos 15 anos da vida util do investimento. E
importante que os municipios identifcam valores de mercado no que diz respeito a medicao desta
valorizacoa.
Nos casos de mercados/feiras, terminais, agua e esgoto. Beneficios financieras medidas a partir de
taxas, tarifas etc. recebidas pelo agent execturo. Esta indicador tambem serve para avaliar a eficacia da
recuperacao dos custos do investimento.
Nos casos de creche, saude, escolas, bombeiros. Sera estimado o numero de beneficiarios, com a
finalidade de estimar o custo de atender 1,00 beneficios, por exemplo. Este exercicio servira para indicar
o custo eficacia do investimento com relacao a populacao alvo.



-5 -
Anexo 2
Modelos das Tabelas de Custo do Projeto
Tabela: Custos do Projeto (em dolares americanos)
Estimados             Revisados             Finais
Itens de acordo com o  (as cifras do appraisal  (de acordo a emenda    (os valores estimados
'Appraisal Report"    report, embutindo os    que levou o valor do    de acordo com a
valores de            projeto aos USS        metodologia discutida
imprevistos)          m)                     em para. 5 acima)
50.00 - 60.00
Totais                 70.00
Tabela: Fontes de Financiamento (em dolares americanos)
.   Estimados (M0)    Revisados (%)          Finais   (%)
Banco Mundial
Estado SC
Municipios I.
Municipios IH.
Totais:                70.00  100%9_                 100%         1 50-60   100%



-6 -
Anexo 3
Visitas aos Municipios
A missao visitou os municfpios de Itajai (1 19.583 hab.), Navegantes (23.609 hab.) e Blumenau
(211.677 hab.) para conhecer as administracoes municipais, ver as obras realizadas pelo PROURB, e
saber as pinioes das prefeituras sobre a experiencia do PROURB. Ao mesmo tempo, se aproveitou para
ouvir as autoridades locais sobre seu interesse em se empreender dentro de um possfvel novo programa.
Em Itaiai, a misslo visitou as obras de pavimentagao (PROMORAR I e II), que melhoraram
substancialmente o meio arnbiente urbano de beneficiarios de baixa renda. As autoridades locais
informaram, que a prefeitura esta proseguindo com o cadastramento dos imoveis nesta area, para que,
no proximo ano, os beneficiarios comencam a pagar pela primeira vez o IPTU. A administragao
financeira local esta bem baseado no uso da informatica, embora hi grandes oportunidades para melhorar
os diversas sistemas existentes, que nao estlo interconectados entre se.
En Navegantes, a administragao local tirou bastante proveito de trabalho institucional realizado
de cadastro municipal. Seu sistema atual, implantado atraves do PROURB, esta o mais amplo dos tres
visitados pela missao. Segundo informarem representantes da prefeitura, o sistema permitiu o IPIU
passar de 4% da receita total ate 35%. Obras visitadas de pavimentagao e da construvao de salas
funcionais, eram todos exemplos de investimentos de baixo custo, com provavelmente altos retornos
economicos e sociais. Esta cidade  evidentemente um importante exemplo de um centro urbano
peeerqueno (alvo inicial do PROURB), que conseguiu tirar beneficios do projeto.
A visita a Blumenau revelou que existe uma oportunidade (e necessidade) de resgatar a
credibilidade dos tributos municipais em Santa Catarina. Segundo os representantes locais, no passado
o  U   chegou a representar nao mais de 1  da receita total. Embora ha melhoras hoje em dia, a
prefeitura atualmente se encontra diante uma situagao dificil no que diz respeito a cobranga de
contribuicoes de melhoria decorrentes de uma obra de pavimentasgo (financiado pelo PROURB) no centro
da cidade. Atraves da pavimentagIo se criou uma via expressa urbana ao longo de oito Iilometros
cortando a cidade. Diante um piora na sua condigao urbana (transito mais pesado, estacionramento
coibido, etc.), alguns moradores e comerciantes estao recusando paagar a taxa de melhoria cobrado pela
prefeitura, para uma obra que beneficia a cidade inteira. Dado as dificuldades, a prefeitura esta relaxando
a cobranga, assim correndo riscos de desmoralizar um importante tributo. Nesta situaglo, ha uma clara
necessidade de ajudar Blumenau resgatar um aspecto importante da sua administragao financeira. Ao
mesmo tempo, e importante buscar meios para analisar (no Estado e no municipio) os custos e beneficios
de uma obra desta natureza, jA que ela se trata de uma obra para melhorar o fluxo de transito, e nao de
levar a infrastrutura de pavimentagao para bairros mais deprovidos, como era o proposito inicial do
PROURB.



APPENDIX B
INTRODUCAO_
0 presente relat6rio foi concebido pelo BADESC considerando a sua responsabilidade na ger6ncia do
PROIJRB nestes dois ultimos anos, bem como as observa,6es deixadas pelas miss6es do BIRD atraves
de seus "Aide   Memoire".   Dadas  as  reorganizaq6es   administrativas implementadas pelo
Estado de Santa Catarina no periodo 1986-1992, houve  mudancas  significativas  na  organizaqdo
gerencial  e subordinacio do PROURB, o que levou a perda de alguns registros da mem6ria do
Programa, em certos aspectos recuperados "a posteriori" e outras  partes resgatadas atraves de
depoimentos colhidos junto a pessoas que participaram ou foram beneficiarias do PROURB.
Para melhor compreensao, dividiu-se este trabalho em cinco partes, cada uma tratando de aspectos
peculiares, porem, buscando-se sempre a integra,co do todo:
Primeira parte:
Trata dos aspectos hist6ricos do Programa, objetivando resgatar toda a mem6ria relativa ao seu
desenvolvimento, dificuldades  vivenciadas,  alteracoes gerenciais,  enfim,  todos os elementos
necessarios a compreensao de sua trajet6ria ate a conclusao sob responsabilidade do BADESC.
Segunda parte:
Enfoca os aspectos quantitativos do PROURB, abordando a aloca,co de recursos, os subprojetos
e licitacoes aprovados e a atuac,o em desenvolvimento institucional, procurando mostrar, por varios
cruza.mentos de dados, o desempenho do Programa.
Terceira parte:
Tem  a inten,co de avaliar o impacto econ6rnico  e social  dos  investimentos nos municipios
beneficiados e no pr6prio Estado de Santa Catarina. Na busca deste objetivo, foi contratada uma
consL:tOn'a especifica, com o desenvolvimento de metodolozia pr6pria para a pesquisa de campo, o
que perritiu o auscultamento de autoridades e beneficiarios sobre a repercussao do Programa.
Quarta parte:
Trata das conclusoes e recomendac,es do PROLTRB, buscando retratar o sentimento do BADESC
e deixar registrados subsidios a formulac,o de outros programas dessa natureza e mesmo diretrizes
a operacionalizagao do Fundo de Desenvolvimento Murucipal.
Quinta parte:
Elenca os documentos considerados importantes  ao esclarecimento  e  compreensao  dos varios
aspectos tratados neste relat6rio.
A partir da transferencia do PROURB para o BADESC, sua implementa,ao deu-se atraves de setores
especlalizados, constituidos junto a Secretaria. de Estado do Planejamento e Fazenda, cada um
deles cuidando de um aspecto especifico das atividades intezrantes da gerencia do Programa. Assim,
foi instituida na organizac,o do BADESC a Area de DesenvolNimento Setorial 6 - ADS 6, composta
de seis Nucleos: de Analise de Projetos, de Licita,ces,  de Anilise Financeira, de Liberac,es,
de Mlontioramento e Avalia,co e de Desenvolirimento Institucional. Esta mesma estrutura
orzanizacional cuidou de resgatar as informacoes relativas aos periodos anteriores para subsidiar suas
atividades. bem como para forrnular o presente relat6rio.



RECONMENDACOES
E  importante deixar registrado, para instrumentar a elaborac,o e implementaco  de  programas
que envolvam  a  integra,co  das administra,ces municipais e estadual, aigumas recomenda,ces
que certamente  trarao grandes beneficios a sociedade,  pelo aumento  da eficiencia dos agentes
responsaveis por suas gestoes:
a) programas dessa magnitude e complexidade tem  necessariamente  que fazer parte do plano
estrateQico de desenvolvimento do Estado;
b) garantir a necessaria integra,co entre os organismos que tem responsabilidades em a,6es afins,
para assegurar o sucesso sob todos os aspectos do programa;
c) neutralizar qualquer forma de interferencia que possa colocar em risco a eficacia do programa;
d) enfatizar, nos investimentos, as questoes institucionais de forma a garantir a adequa,co da estrutura
organizacional a gerencia do programa;
e) incluir, no conjunto dos investimentos, inversoes em projetos de apoio ao desenvolvimento rural,
como forTna de manter o homem  no campo com  as condi,ces mrinimas indispensaveis ao exercicio
da cidadania,
f) a repercussao econ6mica de programas dessa natureza depende da execu,co de projetos que
tenham presentes as vocac,oes economicas das cidades;
g) asseourar mecanismos que earantam a existencia permanente de recursos como contrapartida
para assegurar a eficiencia dos programas;
h) buscar a integragdo dos agentes para projetos de interesse comum, racionalizando a solu,co de
problemas;
i) a experiencia e o desenvolvimento do Programa demonstraram que nao e vaiida a pr6via
distribuic,o de recursos. 0 municipio considera o recurso como sendo seu e nao tem pressa em
estruturar-se para aplica-lo.



CONCLUSOES
E imperioso reconhecer que embora o montante do Programa seja relativamente pequeno,
especialmente pelo prazo de implementa,ao dos investimentos,  trouxe, ainda assim, em  certos
aspectos, resultados altamente auspiciosos, tanto para os municipios, responsaveis pela aplicac,o dos
recursos, como para o Estado de Santa Catarina na gestao do Programa, que encerra grande
complexidade.
Em relac,o aos municipios, o volume de obras relativamente pequeno e o prazo tao dilatado
acabaram atenuando o  impacto  do  Programa, apresentando  pequeno  resultado na reversao de
problemas sociais, principalmente a questao das migraqoes dos campos para as cidades, e destas para
os maiores centros urbanos. Contudo, o PROUTRB representou um instrumento pedag6gico da
maior importancia para romper com uma tradi,ao de acomoda,co e permissividade decorrentes de
praticas-ctienrehisras na gestao da-coisa piuiblica. Como regra, o PROURB  caracterizou administrac,es
municipais altamente preocupadas com a boa aplica,co dos recursos publicos, pautando suas condutas
em normas transparentes, sempre em obediencia a preceitos legais. Alem disso, ampliou-se a visao dos
administradores, que deixaram de lado as preocupa,ces imediatistas para se centrarem nos problemas
que revertam situac,es degradadas, a medio e longo prazos.
No que concerne a administra,co estadual, os erros e acertos na gestao do Programa deixaram
lic6es que asseguram a perspectiva  de melhor desempenho na conducao de programas com essa
comple\idade, e tornaram, ainda, evidente a importancia de confiar sua condu,co a orzanismos mais
estaveis na organiza,co do Estado e menos afeito as ingerencias politico-partidarias, tao pemiciosas
aos objetivos dos instrumentos  que buscam o assentamento de bases ao  desenvolvimento auto-
sustentado. Alem desses aspectos, o PROURB se constituiu em importante elemento do Estado
para a viabiliza,co do processo de municipaliza,co de varios servi,os de atencao a sociedade, entre
eles a assistencia a agricultura, a saude e a educa,cao.
Pode-se afirmar com absoluta seguran,a que tanto as administra,oes municipais quanto a estadual
estao adequadamente  preparadas  para implementar com  sucesso,  qualitativo e quantitativo,
programas de ambito estadual.
A continuidade deste trabalho, ate a nova etapa com  o PRODEM, sera exercitada atraves das
aplicac6es do Fundo de Desenvolvimento Municipal - FMD, cuja regulamenta,co, em fase final de
definicao, enfatiza as quest6es de adequacao institucional, fortalecimento das finan,as municipais, a
descentraliza,co de servicos e a transformacao do BADESC no instrumento por excelencia de apoio ao
desenvolvimento municipal.



1.6.1 - RESUMO DO CUSTO UNITARIO MEDIO DE INVESTIMENTO EM
INFRA-ESTRUTURA
Este resumo foi obtido a partir das amostras - subprojetos - apresentadas nas tabelas antefiores.
O custo unitaino foi calculado ponderadamente pelos valores e areas das referidas amostras.
Tabela 16 - RESULMO DO CUSTO UNITARJO MEDIO DE INTESTIMENZO EM
INFRA-ESTRUTURA
COMPONENTE                      NUMERO         AREA        CUSTO        CUSTO
PROJETO                            DO        CONSTR.        TOTAL    UNITARIO OBS.
TIPO DE SUBPROJETO            SUBPROJETO        (M2)         (USS)      USS M2
Habitacao e Serviros Urbanos
Sistema Viario
Terminal Rodoviario                -x-        16.037,91   2.907.502,25    181,29
Ponte                              -x-         3.008,43    756.167,05     251,35
Pavimentacao de Vias Urbanas
Paralelepipedos                    -x-       154.506,00   1.822.717,80     11,79
Lajotas                            -x-       245.927,00   3.761.785,80     15,29
C. B. U.Q .                        -x-       406.977,00   3.985.486,30      9,79  (4)
P. M. F.                           -x-       131.648,00   2.121.427,20     16,13
Pedras Irregulares                 -x-        63.036,00    406.518,37       6,45
Sa_de Saneamento
Unidade Sanitaria                  -x-           695,38      96.831,57    139,24
Equipamentos Comunitdrios
Educa ,co
Escolas                            -x-         1 .660,37    374.698,76    225,67
Creches                            -x-         2.201,89    341.934,22     155,29
Esportes
Ginsio deEsportes             _    -x-         8.662,16   1.155.810,90    133,43
Equipamentos Sociais
Centro Comunit6rio                 -x-         1.708,21    234.146,59     137,07
Equipamentos Urbanos
Garagem Oficina                    -x-         4.204,65     334.636,93     79,58
Centro Administrativo              -x-         4.011.03    612.181,63     152,62
Fonte: Dados do PROURB, elaborados pelo BADESC.



Tabela 51 - ARRECADA CA O PROPRIA DOS MUNICIPIOS
2 t9 86                            11992
RE!GAO/UN ICfPIoS                            ARRECAR AD;AO       ARREC. RARECA0A;AO                                    ARi!C. PROp.
POPULAO         PROPRIA  WS              /            POPULA4AO         PRdPRIA DOS           /
MUNICfPIoS USS       PER CAPI, A                       Mt!CfPXCS tJSS       PER CAPI TA
Araranqud (++)         40.976            215.549,26   |         5,26           49.846           403.?01,91          8,10
Concordia C..)         62.036            282.177,82             4,55           64.760           5'7.550,9C          8,92
C.ur:ibanos (*4)        40.085            186.503,04             4,65           42.611            589.6C6,9C        11,84
Jaragud do Sul C+,)          62.425            663.769,80            10,63            0.293         1.074.l39,38        13,38
Rio do Sul (+4)         41.112            665.825,40           15,20           46.638            817.213,t-        17,52
Pailhoa (4  )        52.346           186.475,70             3,56            72.032           440.863,82         6,12
Imarul (--)         16.947             9.912,24             0,58           15.140             10.190,41         0,67
SAo Jos& do Cerrito (--)           12.370             2.870,18             0,23           11.447             21.286,94         1,86
ma:os costa (--)          4.800              2.048,48             0,43            5.029             10.003,80         1,99
Bc:uvera (--)          3.591              3.542,57             0,99            4.359            17.102,16          3,92
Paulo Lopes (--)          5.518             36.275,21             6,57            5.546             70.a85 12        12,78
Yaxinal dos Guedes (--)           8.902             29.300 14             3,29            9.354             43.7.9 89         4,67
Gaov. Celso Ramos (+x)          8.756             34.624,80              ,95            9.815             54.251,79         5,53
Por:o Unilo (+x)         28.831            169.841 ,71            5b9            29.995            356.6S ;,38       1:,*9
Navegantes (4x)         18.329            117.292,89             6,40           23.605           366.616,:          15,51
Anita Garibaldi (+x)          12.982              9.803,51             0,76           10.666            51.426,,7          4,52
Morro da Fumaca (+x)          18.745             22.679,77             1,2:           12.713             60.235,49         4,74
Seara (-x)        17.108             59.245,99             3,45           18.289             59.39,7C          3,25
Corupa (-x)          9.629            47.836,96             4,97           10.554             67 . 2823,5-      6,38
Arnsaz&n (-x)         6.049              2.290,71             0,38            6.109            14.485,39         2,37
Josd Bolteux (-x)                            I8.838,91                              4.043            45.209,91        11,18
Santo knaro da Imp. (-x)          12.371             90.259,41             7,30           13.522            202.342,99        14,96
-eborn Rigis (-x)         9.737             22.440 ,97            2,30           11.035             76.2 225          6,91
Caib. (-x)          7.364            21.482,65             2,92            7.43a             46.626,92         6,27
T 0 T A L                          501.011         2.900.888,13             5,79          564.839  |       5.477.029,2'         9,70
LOSENDA (-  Maior Torador
(--) Menor Tomador
(-x) Maior Diversificador
(-x; 8tenor Diveraificador
Va)ores em,, USS medio ano
FonLe - Taxa georncnca elaborada pelo BADESC, a partwr dos censos 1980 e 1.,09  do MOGE
- Dados de balanco dos mumucipios, elaborados pelo BADESC






PARANA,
cwqAke                         PA *A
SANT diARN t.*                                          Ca%se                ,                iAWbk  
MUNICIPAL ASSOCIATIONS                 Rp \                           .,          _{    ^X!t.4zm6qQ*r,    z
BRAZII~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0... a                           V. C*. tI.
ol   so   zoo       A                 r                { - --. Z jX/                                 3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
-r              KltO^TEsS                               )              J/RAZIL 
SATA CAARN                             _                             %    _   
SMALL C TOW    S IMROEM NT             *  PRJC                       hb do                 o
w  _"lif^"ul_^nC_                       n                       s' \    .* X~I
MUIIA  ASSOt 1 nf  7@CIToNSo'*~1
Z~~~~~~N  PLNNN    REIN                                                                               u"2
a~~~~~~~uiia '?'           undarlw4r s



