Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rqwpt Nu 5690b-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
SANTA CA.ARINA SMALL TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
September 5, 1985
Urban Projects Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a resticted distnbution and may be used by recipierts only in the perfornmnce of
their official duties. Its cotents may not otherwse be discosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Cruzelro (CBS)
Exchange Rate      1980     1981     1982     1983     1984
USS1.00=            65       127      169      543    1728
Fiscal Year
January-December
Weights and Heasures
1 meter (m)                = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)           = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2) = 0.386 square mile (sq. mi)
2 metric ton (t)           = 2,205 pounds
Glossary of Abbreviations
AGLUREB    Transport Program for Uhban Agglomerations
BADESC    Santa Catarina State Development Bank
BESC      Santa Catarina State Bank
BNDES    National Bank of Economic and Social Development
BNE      National Housing Bank
CASAN     Santa Catarina State Company of Water and Sanitation
CELF C    Santa Catarina State Electrical Company
CIDU     National Urban Development Council
CURA     Urban Improvement Program (BNH loans to municipalities)
DEL       Santa Catarina State Departnent of Public Works
DER-SC    Santa Catarina State Highway Department
EBTU      Brazilian Enterprise of Urban Transport
GAP^AN   Planning Secretariat of the State of Santa Catarina
ICM      Value Added Sales Tax
MA        Municipal Association
MDF       Municipal Development Fund
ORTN     Readjustable National Treasury Bond
PRO URB    State Support Program for Small Towns Development
SEPLAN    Planning Departaent
STO       Santa Catarina State Secretariat of Transport and Works
SUDESUL   Superintendency for the Development of the South
UPC       Standardized capital unit of account



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
SANTA CATARIN SNALL TOWrS  IPOVENET  PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJBCT SUARY                                           Uii)
I.     THE SECTOR..0.0..   ........         t....
A.  Sector Develoluent and Organization .....
B. Subsector ConstraIt..                                           1
C.  The State of Santa Catara .............................  2
D.  Government Strategy and the Bankt' Role .................   4
II. THE PROJECT .....   5
A.  Project Origin .........................................   5
B. Project Objectives .... * ....                                  5
C.  N1in Features of the Project ........... ..*.**....****.*   5
D. Project Components .................................            6
S.  Project Costs ...............7......................  7
F.  Financing Plan .                                               8
IIT.   PROJECT TIPLEIEATTION                                              9
A.  Institutional and Legal Arrangements ...................   9
B. Project Exeuio   ......................   10
C.  Nonitoring and Evaluation ..............................  11
D.  Procurement                  ..............._                 12
E* Dlebursement                                                   12
F.  Audits....*........ ........... ***..                   .................. 
IVo    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS         .............................  13
B.  The State ...................  ........................  14
C. The NSnicipalities ....     ..........................   15
D.  Cost Recovery .............o ..........-.....o ... ..  18
V.     PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ........... ... .....................  19
A.  General Benefits                   ......                     19
B.  Economic Analysis ...... ...                 .                20
C.  Poverty Ispact ..        ...........................  20
De Risks ...........                                 ...    21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil in December 1984.- The mission comprised Messrs./Mmes. R.
Plessis-Fraissard (Mission Leader), A. Zuniga, G. C. Guarda, LCPUR; K.
Mera, WID; and J. Hicks (Consultant).  Mrs. Niriam Torres assisted in the
production of the report.
Ihk IMP      3 boa m   FIcu dh iudmt ug oW beW iby reespia I  a _in  IP    u
OhNeir a~  din Ie_ cim   moy   ebwsbbchud idout WM  _Ic_ .~ i I.



-ii-
Table of Contents (Continued)                                      Page No.
VI.   AGREE1RITSAN  RECOANND   ATIONS                           .... 21
I.     Charts and Tables
1. Government Organizational Chart
2. General Coordination Organizational Chart
3. Associations of Muncipalitles Existing and Proposed Staff
4. Department of Public Works DAB Staff and Regional Offices
5. Typical Subproject Costs
6. Project Cost by Component
7. Detailed Project Costs and Contingencies Calculations
8. Investment Schedule by Major Component
9. Capitalization of the Municipal Investment Fund
10. Indicative Procurement Distribution
11. Loan Disbursement Schedule
12. Aggregate Municipal Budgets
13. State Direct Administration Budget
14. Consolidated State Corporations Budget
15. State Loan Impact Analysis
16. Impact of Progran on State Finances
17. Impact of Program on Municipal Finances
18. Debt Capacity and Revenue Potential
19. Ecoonomic and Sensitivity Analysis
20. Municipal Cost Recovery
II.   Reference List of Typical Subprojects Types
III.  Resource Allocation
IV.   Municipal Borrowing Capacity
V.    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File



~~~~~~~-i-
BRAZIL
sANT CATARINA SMAI TOWNS IPROVEMNT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borroner:          The State of Santa Catarina
Guarantor:         Federative Republic of Brazil
Project Executing
Agency q:Planning Secretariat of the State of Santa Catarina
(GAFLAN)
Amount:            US$24.5 million equivalent.
Terms:             Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with
Interest at the Bank's6 standard variable rate.
Beneficiaries:     The project would benefit about 190 small
municipalities of up to 50,000 inhabitants (about 2
million people) in the southern State of Santa
Catarina.
Relending Terms:   The Borrower would onlend the proceeds of the loan to
the municipalities through its State Development Bank
(BADESC) and the State Bank of Santa Catarina (BESC)
for 10 years including up to 24 months of grace at no
less than 10.5Z plus an administrative fee of .5X.The
principal of the subloans would be adjusted for
inflation by the ORTN index.
ProJect
Description:     The proposed project would provide a line of credit
(subloans) to participating municipalities in the State
of Santa Catarina for the first time. The subloans
would be complemented by grant funding from the State.
The subloans would finance priority investments
prepared by the unnicipalities with the assistance of
the Municipal Associations, reviewed by GAPLAN and
An ESC, including: urban infrastructure (street paving,
bridges), productive activities (warehouses, grain
storage facilities), community facilities (schools,
social centers), equipment and technical assistance.
The program would focus on strengthening minicipal
management and planning through the preparation and



execution of Investments according to economic
criteria acceptable to the Bank. It would also
strengthen municipal finances and promote rational
allocation of resources by introducing cost recorery
mechanisms for selected types of investments.
Risks:             The timely execution of the proposed project depends
upon the cooperation and coordination of a umber of
entities including GAPLANF, BADESC, BNM, The State's
Secretariat of Transport and Yorks (STO), Department of
Public Vorks (DAE) and Department of Roads (DER) and
the municipalities themselves. The risk of delay is
expected to be aitigated by the strngtheniing of GAPLAN
and the sunicipal associations to insure adequate
coordination. Some delay might also occur if state
counterpart funds are not provided in a timely way (no
counterpart is needed from the Federal Government) but
given the conservative size of the project and its
broad-based political support, this risk should be
minimal.



Table 1: SUMHARY OF PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million)
Percent of
Project Components                        Local Foreign  Total  Base Cost
a. Infrastructure                        20.0     6.8    26.8     55.0
b. Support for Productive Activities      1.8     0.6     2.4      5.0
c. Commnity Facilities                   2.9      1.0     3.9      8.0
d. Equipment and Vehicles                 5.3     4.4     9.7     20.0
e. Technical Assistance &
Project Supervision                   3.8      2.0     5.8     12.0
Base Cost                                  33.8    14.8    48.6    100.0
Physical Contingencies                 3.0     1.9     4.9     10.0
Price Contingencies                   11.9     4.6    16.5     40.9
Contingencies                              14.9     6.5    21.4     50.9
Total Project Cost                         48.7    21.3    70.0    150.9
F_nancn  Plan
Bank                                   17.0     7.5   24.5
Santa Catarina                        31.7    13.8    45.5
Estimated Disbursement                  Bank Fiscal Year
(US$ Million)
1986     1987  1988   1989  1990  1991  1992   1993
Annual               2.11/    1.5   2.9    4.7   5.1   4.5   2.6   1.1
Cm-izlative          2.1r     3.6   6.5   11.2  16.3  20.8  23.4  24.5
Economic Rate of Return:    29Z2/
1/  Including initial deposit of US$1.7 million into the Special Account.
2/ Weighted average calculated for components totaling 67% of total
project costs.



BRAZIL
SATA CARNA   S       TWNS IWROVEMN  PROJECT
I. THE SECTOR
A. Sector Development and Organization
1.01      In the past thirty years Brazil has shifted from an agrarian,
rural society to an industrialized, urban one. During this period, its
cities absorbed waves of migration from rural areas. While the national
population doubled from 52 million in 1950 to 119 million in 1980, the
urban population quadrupled from 19 million to 80 million. Most of the
urban growth has been in Brazil's central west and southern cities -
Brasilia, Belo Horizonte, Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. In these areas
natural population increases are lower than the national average but
economic opportunities are more abundant and both rural and urban migrants
have gravitated toward them in search of euployment.
1.02      The rapid urbanization of Brazilian society created heavn
demand for additional housing, social services and infrastructure. State
and local authorities, traditionally responsible for meeting these needs,
became increasingly unable to meet the growing financial obligations. In
1964 the Government took measures to centralize the management of urban
planning and created the Banco Nacional ds Habita;ao (BNE), a national
housing bank to adminster and control the Housing Finance System. BDE
gradually grew into an urban development bank providing a broad range of
urban services, including a national low-income housing pla (PLANHAB), a
sites and services program to provide shelter to the poor (PROFILUBR), and
a national sanitation plan (PLANASA). Both the housing and sanitation
programs were aided at the local level by establishing State-owned housing
companies (COHABS), and state water companies (SWCs) in 22 of Brazil's
states. Other agencies working in the sector are the National Council for
Urban Development (CNDU), Which was established in 1979 to coordinate and
advise on national urban development policy, and the Empresa Brasileira de
Transporte Urbana (EBTU), established in 1976 to coordinate and plan urban
transport investments.
1.03      Over the past decade Brazil has expanded its housing,
infrastructure and social services with the support of these sector
organizations. Most of its efforts have been directed toward large
metropolitan areas where population increases have been greatest. It has
also taken measures to influence the heavy migration from rural to urban
areas through a policy of developing the interior (interiorizagao)v
providing basic needs to small farmers, upgrading conditions in
medium-sized towns to encourage residents to stay and providing for
settlement of agriculturally productive but less populated areas such as
Amazonia and the Northwest. To some extent these measures may have been
successful as migration to large centers like Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro
has declined.
B. Subsector Constraints
1.04     At the national level, the extent of urban poverty has also
placed heavy demands on the sector institutions which have not been able to



-2-
meet all requirements.  Thus, while the 1960s and 1970s witnessed great
strides in the provision of housing and services in Brazil, some regions
and cities, notably small towns, benefitted less than others. A second
major constraint is that urban improvements have traditionally been
financed almost entirely by federal and state grants, placing a heavy drain
on Government revenues. Uneven and unreiiable flow of funds to state and
local governments has made it difficult for them to plan or undertake
investment programs, to set priorities and allocate resources in an
efficient way. This situatfon has worsened since 1980, because scarce
Federal Government resources were concentrated on agricultural and
industrial investment, while resources for urban and social investment
programs were reduced.
C. The State of Santa Catarina
1.05      The development of urban growth in the State of Santa Catarina
has been similar to that of the nation with urban areas growing more
quickly than rural ones. From 1960 to 1980 Santa Catarina's total
population doubled from 1.8 million to 3.7 million; the urban population
tripled from about 500,000 to over 2 million. Santa Catarina is one of
Brazil's smallest states with 3% of the total population and 1% of its
territory.  It has 199 municipalities. Nine of these wmnicipalties form
large cities located mainly along the coast and have populations between
50,000 and 300,000; 37 cities with populations of over 10,000 are evenly
distributed and form secondary centers; and 153 towns of less than 10,000
are dispersed throughout the State.
1.06      While Santa Catarina has a strong agricultural tradition, it is
one of Brazil's most developed industrial states. In 1983, it contributed
13Z of Brazil's commercial balance surplus and produced US$1.5 billion of
exports, 95% of which were industrial goods. Most manufactured and
industrial goods such as textiles, shoes, wood, paper, equipment and
minerals are produced along the coastal and northwestern areas. The small
towns play an important role in the production network and in society, with
over 50X of the urban population residing there. They serve as marketing
and service centers for agricultural production including fruits, grains,
chicken and vegetables produced in the central region and in the western
plain.
1.07      BNH, CNDU and EBTU participate in the development of Santa
Catarina's municipalities, particularly in its nine larger cities. But, it
is the state-level institutions including -nuicipal associations, the State
Secretariat of Planning (GAPLAN), the State Development Bank (BADESC) and
the State Bank of Santa Catarina (BESC), which bear primary responsibility
for the development of small towns.
1.08      The municipal associations provide a wide range of services to
small towns, including helping them prepare budgets and investment plans
for specific projects such as road construction and maintenance, drafting
municipal legislation and providing technical assistance and training.
Every municipality of the State belongs to one of the 19 municipal
associations. The municipal associations are comprised of a General



-3-
Assembly with mayors from each municipality and a full-time technical staff
including architects, accountants, engineers, lawyers and economists. The
municipal associations are financed by state transfers and a fixed
proportion of municipal revenues.
1.09      GAPLAN, which is headed by the State Secretary of Planning, has
direct responsibility for assisting and coordinating municipal development
programs throughout the state. From 1980 to 1984, GAPLAN has distributed
US$27.9 million of investment grants to Santa Catarina's 199 municipaities
and concentrated over 80% of its programs in smaller towns. These funds
have financed works ranging from schools and health centers to urban
infrastructure and grain-drying facilities. GAPLAN's technical support,
which uutil now focused on institutional and administrative strengthening,
has been fairly successful.
1.10     Other agencies which support the development of small towns are
BADESC, BESC, and Santa Catarina's Secretariat of Transport and Works
(STO), Department of Public Works (DAE) and Department of Roads (DER).
BADESC is a state-owned, development bank with up to 50% of its portfolio
comprised of public sector investments. It administers the funding of a
number of federal programs including those of BN[ and EDTU. It does no-
have branches throughout the state and relies on BESC, which does, to
chann-il funds to individual municipalities. DER and DAE created
respectively in 1946 and 1970, report to STO. DAE has 12 district offices
and a staff including engineers, architects, lawyers, economists and
topographers; it does not actually execute works. DER is organized in 22
residences with equipment to build and service the 2,900 km of state
roads. DER executes and/or contracts and supervises road works. DAE and
DER are responsible for the supervision of all state-financed investments
and for reviewing procurement and engineering designs.
1.11     Urban development in Santa Catarina has suffered from the
constraints described above. The drastic reduction in availability of
resources for public sector investment has had an especially deleterious
effect on small towns. Moreover, the most important source of revenues for
the mnicipalities is the Imposto sobre Circula9ao de Mercadoria (ICM), a
value added tax on agriculture, industry and commerce. In Santa Catarina,
the ICM represents up to 50% of local revenues and up to 70% of state
revenue. The ICM is collected on a variety of goods and services; 80% of
the proceeds are retained by the State and the remainder is channelled back
to the municipalities. Recently the ICM has become less of a gener_ tax
on value added because of exemptions of manufactured exports and some
industrial goods to stimulate production and exports. As one of the
largest producers of manufactured goods, these exemptions have greatly
reduced ICM receipts and hence Santa Catarina's ability to finance
municipal investments. Furthermore, the reductions in federal transfers
and the ICM have made it difficult for Santa Catarina to rehabilitate
infrastructure damaged by floods in 1983 and 1984. The floods severed
communications, damaged US$493 million of transport infrastructure,
destroyed crops, left hundreds home.ess and the State's 199 municipalities
were declared disaster areas.



-4-
D. Government Strategy and the Bank 'S Role
1.12      Brazil has made great strides in expanding housing and urban
services through BNH, EBTU and CNDU. Other local institutions such as
Santa Catarina's municipal associations have also aided the planning of
urban improvements. The Bank has supported this growth through 8 urban
develooment projects totalling US$685.5 million.  Of these investments,
the MNiSum-Sized Cities Project (Loan 1720-BR for US$70 million) and the
Third Urban Transport Project (Loan 1965-BR for US$90 million) supported
works in Florianopolis, Santa Catarina's capital. The Parana Market Towns
Project (Loan 2343-BR for US$52.7 million) represented the first effort to
support the development of small towns and the strengthening of municipal
finance. It is similar in concept to the proposed project and is
progressing well. Two other projects have been completed, albeit with
delays and some cost overruns, and have achieved their objectives. None of
the projects have yet been audited by the Operations Evaluation
Department. In addition to upgrading and expanding low-income housing,
shelter and services, the Bank-supported projects have also contributed to
the preparation of investment plans, training and strengthening of
mmnicipal staff, standardizing the CORAB's procedures and, decentralizing
BNH's preparation and supervision activities to regional offices. The
Bank has helped to improve planning and coordination of urban investments
by supporting the creation of CNDU, and by fostering the establishment of
EBTU. The Bank was also instrumental in promoting an Urban Development
Seminar in Brasilia in November 1984. The participants of the seminar,
Government and Bank staff, concluded that urban development efforts needed
to be reshaped to support macroeconomic objectives, and permit the support
of economic growth while achieving social objectives.
1.13      The proposed project represents an effort to reshape urban
strategy, strengthen municipal financial capacity, support increased
economic productivity of urban centers, improve resource allocation, and
increase municipal cost recovery in order to ease the demand for federal
transfers. To participate in the proposed project, each municipality must
prepare an investment plan with a financial program setting forth its
revenue raising objectives, including betterment taxes, user charges, cost
recovery, and real property assessments. In this regard, the project
differs from previous Bank-supported urban projects in Brazil, with the
exception of the Parana Market Towns Project: because of the planning and
executing skills required it can best be undertaken in a more developed
State like Santa Catarina. The type of investments included in the
investment plan will comprise those aimed at increasing economic
productivity of the small towns, which are an important marketing and
service link in the production network (warehouses, grain drying
facilities, bridges and roads). At the same time, some of the investments
will address social needs by providing schools, community centers, street
paving and parks. The grants, which will complement the subloans provided
with Bank funds, would be allocated for the first time on explicit economic
considerations. The investments proposed are expected to reflect high
priorities and least-cost solutions . It is hoped that, over time, small
towns and larger municipalities throughout Brazil will become less reliant
on grant financing.



-5-
II. THE PR)JECT
A. Project Origin
2.01      The State of Santa Catarina approached the Bank and presented a
detailed program for smaull towns' development in September 1984. A
reconnaissance mission visited Santa Catarina in October 1984 and the
proposed project was appraised in December 198k.
B. Project Objectives
2.02      The objectives of the project are to strengthen the managerial
and financial capability of the mtmnicipalities, improve resource
allocation, and provide basic economic and social infrastructure which
would contribute to stimulating production and exports. The proposed
project would contribute to the decentralization of urban administration
and financial management. The proposed project w'uld support:
(a) increased revenue raising capacity of -nnicipalities by improving
their managerial capacity and fiscal efficiency, and introducing
better defined criteria for resource allocation;
(b) devolution of administrative and financial management
responsibilities from Federal and State levels to municipalities
by improving incentive arrangements and efficiency of the
transfer system; and
(c) provision of basic economic and social infrastructure by
selecting high priority and least-cost solution investment
projects.
C. Main Features of the Project
2.03      The proposed project would provide a line of credit to
uzn-icipalities of the State of Santa Catarina.  The loans would finance
urban infrastructure, public service facilities, productive investments,
and related equipment and services. Municipalities willing and able to
assume loan repayment would submit investment proposals to GAPLAN for
appraisal according to Bank approved criteria laid out in a Manual of
Lending Policies and Procedures. All 190 municipalities with towns of less
than 50,000 inhabitants would be eligible for subloans under specific
financial and technical conditions (Annex III). It is expected that half
of the municipalities would take subloans. Also, municipalities and M&S
would receive specific technical assistance (in accordance with a program
agreeable to the Bank) to upgrade their financial, fiscal, planning and
administrative capacity through the project (paras. 3.07 and 6.03). The
State of Santa Catarina would be the Borrower and the Federal Government
the Guarantor (para. 2.15). The program partially financed by the loan has
been named PROURB.
2.04      The proposed loan would complement and improve on the ongoing
capital transfer program of the State, which would remain at its 1980-1984



-6-
level. For all municipalities participating in PROURB (contracting
subloans or not) the same selection criteria would be applied to all
investments, whether financed from loan funds or through State grants.
2.05      The project would enhance access to public services for an
estimated 2.45 million people (66Z of the State population) and permit
faster and more complete rehabilitation of infrastructure damaged during
the exceptional floods of 1983/1984. It would also have a decisive impact
on investment planning, revenue generating capacity, and access to credit.
To ensure the continuation of the benefits of the proposed project after
its completion and the progressive reduction of federal and state
transfers, a Municipal Development Fund would be established (para. 3.03).
D. Project Components
2.06      The proposed project composition is based on an extensive survey
of the demand emerging from the municipalities, an appraisal of the State
economic and social needs, and the financial and fiscal objectives nf the
program. This composition may vary over time, particularly because
investment priorities may change as flood damaged reconstruction works
advance. The proposed investment program would be submitted to the Bank
annually for approval; it would vary with city size and would be in
accordance with agreed criteria, with the proportion of social investments
within established limits. A representative list of the type of
subprojects eligible for financing is presented in Annex II, and the unit
cost of typical subprojects is given in Annex 1, Table 5. The project
costs by component are laid out in Annex I, Table 6, and a general
description is given in the following paragraphs.
2.07      Infrastructure:  This project component represents 55% of total
project costs. About 362 would be used for street paving and drainage
works, 11% for bridges and pedestrian crossings, and 82 for sites and
services and slum upgrading. Specifications for street paving vary widely,
with asphalt paving in the large towns and cobblestone (-poliedro-),
chiseled stone blocks (-paralelepipedo-), and concrete tiles in small
towns. As a consequence of the severe floods in 1983 many bridges and
pedestrian crossings were destroyed and their reconstruction is urgently
needed to restore access to small secondary settlements and recover access
to large areas of agricultural land.  Slums are a limited feature in Santa
Catarina but one that has been growing rapidly in recent years. This
project component would consist of on-site improvements or relocation of
residents from slum areas to new sites with the construction of service
networks and the provision of core unit and/or the assignment of serviced
lots.
2.08      Productive Activities.  About 5.0% of total project costs would
finance productive activities, which would include such items as
warehouses, plant nurseries, grain-drying and artificial insemination
facilities. Municipalities are interested in attracting business and
successful resident farmers and improving the production generated in their
constituency because of the fiscal returns generated through commercial



-7-
activities. In this competitive environment, municipal governments would
identify studies, small scale pre-investments or support facilities which
would foster local production and increase trade potential. This project
component would provide financing to support these initiatives.
2.09      Community Facilities:  This project component would represent
8.0X of total project costs. It would mainly involve the construction of
schools and sports facilities, social centers, and other public buildings
that would improve administrative efficiency.
2.10      Equipment and Vehicles: About 20.0% of total project cost would
be for the purchase of road maintenance equipment (mostly to improve stone
quarry facilities) and quarry equipment. A minor provision would be made
for the purchase of school buses, ambulances and fire-fighting equipment.
2.11      Technical Assistance and Project Supervision (12Z). This would
include consultant services for preparation of some 100 municipal planning
surveys, zoning and traffic plans, and for the elaboration of manuals. It
would also include consultant services for staff training and techni-al
assistance for GAPLAN, MAs and  ninicipalities.  This would amount to 5%
of total project cost. The project includes 4% of total project cost to
cover the costs for professional services related to the design,
preparation of bid documents. and tendering of project components, and 3%
of total project cost for project supervision and administration.
E. Project Costs
2.12      The total project cost is estimated at US$70.0 million
equivalent, including base costs and contingencies, and excluding taxes.
The proposed Bank loan of US$24.5 million would represent 35% of total
cost. A summary of the project cost by main component is presented in
Table 1 (Summary of Project Costs), and details are given in Annex I,
Tables 6 and 7.
2.13      Where possible, project cost estimates were based on actual costs
of similar items recently executed in Santa Catarina through various State
agencies.  General specifications and dimensions of typical subprojects are
included in Annex I, Table 5. In some caser, works financed under the
project could present variations from observed designs; in most cases,
however, the general specifications and cost per unit area of the works
would be similar (para. 3.04). An average allowance of 10% of base costs
has been provided for physical cor.tingencies.
2.14      Costs are expressed in dollars because of the unpredictability of
inflation and devaluation rates during the implementation period. It is
assumed that higher inflation of local prices would be compensated by
adjustments in the foreign exchange rate. Base costs were determined by
updating dollar equivalent costs of November 1984 to those of June 30,
1985, applying the standard yearly inflation rates of 5% for 1984 and
1985. Rates of inflation estimated for international price trends for



-8-
manufactured goods and civil works are used for the project. They are:
1985, 5%; 1986, 7.5Z; 1987-1990, 8Z; 1991 and thereafter, 5%. A faster
devaluation of the cruzeiro would result in (i) a loss of the dollar value
of the program and slower disbursements. This risk is taken into account
by the use of the standard disbursement schedule for the project; and (ii)
a heavier burden of Bank loan repayment for the State which is assuming the
foreign exchange risk. A sensivitity analysis has been made to assess the
impact of foreign exchange variation (para. 4.07).
F. Financing Plan
2.15      The Bank loan of US$24.5 million to the State of Santa Catarina
covers 35% of total costs. The equivalent of US$45.5 million of
counterpart funds would be financed from the State budgetary resources.
Municipal repayments would serve to capitalize the Municipal Development
Fund and the Bank loan would be repaid from State budget (para. 3.03).
2.16      About a third of the State capital grants would be apportioned to
those of the 190 municipalities with towns of less than 50,000 inhabitants
which would prepare an annual or mltiannual investment program and which
would participate in the Technical Assistance Program (para. 6.03). Agreed
allocation criteria based on population, growth and economic contribution
to the State income would be used for the apportionment (Annex III). The
remaining State counterpart funds would be matching grants, tied to the
subloans and shared between the municipalities taking loans (para. 6.04).
2.17      Bank loan proceeds would be onlent to municipalities selected
according to criteria acceptable to the Bank and who were willing and able
to carry the debt service (para. 6.05). The maturity of subloans would be
ten years on average, depending on the type of component financed, and with
a grace period sufficient to cover implementation of works but not
exceeding 24 months. The interest rate applied to the subloans would be no
less than 10.5X, and the adjustment of principal would be in accordance
with the variation of the ORMh index (para. 6.06).  A 0.5Z service charge
would be retained by BADESC, the financial agent. The municipal share of
the proceeds from the Value Added Tax (ICM) would be used as collateral for
subloans (para. 4.16).
2.18      The Government of Santa Catarina intends to implement the program
over a four year period, and budgetary allocations would be assured
accordingly. However, conservative assumptions based on average
disbursement profiles for lines of credit in the region were used in the
calculation of costs and benefits (para. 3.13). The corresponding
investment plan (in June 1985 US$ million equivalent) covering 7 1/2 years
would be as follows:



Table 2: INDICA2IVE PROJECT INVSDfENT  PLAN
Financing        1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  Total   Z
Sources
Santa Catarina   1.7   3.8   7.1   10.1   9.0   7.4   5.3   1.1  45.5   65
State
World Bank       0.9   2.0   3.9    5.4   4.9   4.0   2.8   0.6  24.5   35
financed
TOTAL PROJECT    2.6   5.8  11.0   15.5  13.9  11.4   8.1   1.7  70.0  100
COST
III.    PROJECT ILEMEKIATION
A. Institutional and Legal Arrangements
3.01      Institutional Arrangement:  The State PEInning Secretariat
(GAPLAN) which is part of the Cabinet of the Governor woild Administer,
monitor and supervise the program. Six regional offices have been set up
for effective monitoring, supervision and coordination of technical
assistancel/ Project execution would be carried out by the
MuniciplpKLiies which would report to the corresponding regional offices.
The Mi pal7hssociations would be the vehicle for promoting the program,
and they would provide a wide range of assistance in technical,
admin-strative, legal, fiscal and financial matters, and for subproject
identification, design, preparation, operation and monitoring. They would
also be associated with the micro-regional planning and coordination of
investment and road maintenance.  Funds for the program would be
appropriated annually in the budget of the State and would be committed
over three years by the State Development Bank (BADESC). A Municipal
Development Fund (MDF) would be created and capitalized with municipal
repayments (para. 3.03); the Santa Catarina State Bank (BESC) which has a
branch in every imnicipality would be used for payments, as it is customary
for state-wide development prograo. The State Secretariat, of Transport
and Works (STO) would be contracted by GAPLAN to undertake, through its
Department of Public Works (DAE) and Highway Department (DER), the
technical control of the works and the preparation and supervision of
tenders. DAE/DER have the capacity to supervise and control a large number
of small and scattered works through their decentralized offices, and would
report to GAPLAN's regional offices. Disbursement of loan proceeds would
be made from a Special Account established at the Central Bank of Brazil
(para. 3.14).
3.02     Legal Arrangements: The loan would be made to the State of Santa
Catarina with the guarantee of the Federative Republic of Brazil.
Formalization of an agreement satisfactory to the Bank between the State
1/ Every regional office includes a staff of 1 economist/administrator, 1
senior architect/engineer, 1 senior engineer, 3 draftsmen, 1
administrative secretary and 3 administrative assistants.



-10-
Government and BADESC its financial agent for the execution and delivery of
the Loan Agreement would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan
(para. 6.18). A Participation Agreement, referred to in the Manual of
Lending Policies and Procedures and agreed with the Bank, would be
signed between GAPLAN and the participating municipalit4es. A sdbsidiary
Sub-Loan Agreement would be signed, -with the authorization of GAPLAN,
between BADESC and the participating municipalities. A contract would be
signed between GAPLAN and DAE/DER for supervision of works and tender. A
contract would be signed between BADESC and BESC for transfers of funds and
services.
3.03      Municipal Development Fund: A Municipal Development Fund (MDF)
would be established no later than December 31, 1987. The objective of the
Fund would be to finance urban infrastructure services and facilities,
equIpment, urban transportation, project preparation and studies,
development planning, and local administration upgrading. The resources of
the MDF would include the municipal repayments for sub-loans of the
project, and later repayments resulting from other lending activities of
the Fund. The interest rate and the monetary correction applied to the MDF
loans would be consistent with the conditions applied to the project
subloans. The loans would be guaranteed by collaterals which would inc]nde
municipal share of value added tax, other federal transfers, real estate or
other guarantees, as appropriate. The capitalization of the Fund by
minicipal repayments would maintain lending to municipalities at no less
than the peak level of project implementation (US$4.75 million) after 1988
(Annex I, Table 9). All municipalities of the State of Santa Catarina
meeting the financial and techniFal eligibility criteria would have access
to the Fund. The contractual agreements between the State of Santa
Catarina, the MDF and the municipalities would be governed by specific loan
and project agreements. The Fund would be managed according to public
accounting and budgeting norms applicable in the State, including annual
auditing. The State and the municipalities would be represented in the
administration of the Fund. The appraisal of projects to be financed by
the HDF would be the responsibility of GAPLAN. A lending manual,
consistent with the Manual of Lending Policies and Procedures of the
program would be elaborated for this purpose (para. 6.07).
B. Project Execution
3.04     Plans and drawings for subprojects would be prepared by the
MAs and reviewed and approved by GAPLAN and the respective sectoral agency
as appropriate. In manv cases, final drawings are already available for
prototype solutions and only require adaptation. The appraisal mission
reviewed the specifications and design standards of a number of subprojects
and found them satisfactory and consistent with local construction methods
and available materials. Also, they are simple and small in size, and
their implementation can be carried out by local firms. Past experience
confirms that in many cases the successful bidders are contractors already
working in the subregion or municipality concerned. The capacity of the
local construction industry is adequate for the execution of the proposed
program.



-11-
3.05     Approved drawings would become part of the supporting
documentation kept for field inspection by the Bank. Preparation and
supervision of tenders and supervision and physical control of the works
would be made by DAE/DER through their network of regional offices, staffed
with capable technical personnel experienced in the respective kinds of
works. DAE and DER would periodically report to GAPLAN's regional offices
on the progress of subprojects to authorize disbursements (para. 6.08).
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.06     GAPLAN would carry out systematic monitoring and evaluation of
project implementation in accordance with an information system agreeable
to the Bank, with particLlar attention to:
(a) the borrowing capacity and creditworthiness of municipalities at
the time of allocation of subloans and from year to year, to
ensure that the requested subloans fall within established limits
(Annex IV);
(b) specific indicators of financial performance of municipalities in
generating and managing fiscal resources, including current
expenditures (para. 3.07);
(c) information on the resource allocation by subregion, type of
municipality, subsector of investment and subproject impact in
order to direct resource allocation and take corrective action as
appropriate, and assess the extent to which subprojects achieved
their objectives (paras. 6.09);
Cd) supervision information provided by DAE and DER on subprojects
for each major -omponents, each subregion and municipality type.
3.07     Technical Assistance Program: A condition of eligibility to
participate in the program would be to enter the Technical Assistance
program (para. 6.03). The assistance would be provided for design and
tendering of works, preparation of surveys, zoning and traffic plans, and
cadastral registration. Assistance will also be available to
micipalities for staff training, budgeting, accounting, financial control
and auditing. The innovative aspects of the project would be the emphasis
on revenue raising, cost recovery and financial return on investments
(para. 4.10). Techni-al assistance will focus on the recovery of the
investment (para. 4.17), operation and maintenance costs of subprojects
through:
(a) betterment charges to the direct beneficiaries of street related
improvements;
(b) user tariffs for service provided;
(c) charges for facilities (such as warehouses, nurseries); and
(d) incremental real estate tax following assessment and periodic
reassessment on urban real property.



-12-
The overall performance of municipalities would be measured by the per
capita own source revenues of urban taxes, fees and charges (excluding ICK,
transfers and borrowing). The performance of every town within a region
would be compared to the average of the few best performers in the relevant
size category. This would serve as a basis for the setting of yearly
individual targets of fiscal improvement. Tbe individual targets would be
aggregated into regional performance targets which would be submitted to
the Bank for review and comments together with the implementation
assessment of the previous year (para. 6.10). As appropriate, the fiscal
performance of a region could be taken into account in the grant allocation
of subsequent years.
3.08      Reporting:  GAPLAN would furnish to the Bank quarterly reports
summarizing the use of project funds, physical progress, procurement of
goods, up to date economic, financial and fiscal impact indicators, and the
status of the technical assistance program. A brief analysis of the
implementation status, outstanding achievements and issues would be
attached (para. 6.11). The last report of the year would include a review
of the compliance by the municipalities with the selection criteria, and
with the terms and conditions of the respective subloan agreements. It
would also include the proposed allocation of resources during the
subsequent year for Bank approval (para. 6.09). GAPLAN would also be
responsible for organizing and preparing the Project Completion Report
(para. 6.12).
D. Procurement
3.09      The execution of the proposed project with some 100
municipalities expected to participate, would entail a great number of
contracts of limited size in scattered locations (no less than 1170
contracts would be awarded for amounts varying from US$10,000 to
US$200,000). Procurement of civil work, amounting to US$25.7 million (42%
of project cost excluding technical assistance) would be by local
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank, since it is very
unlikely that it would interest international contractors. For works not
suitable for contracting, notably cobblestone paving and landscaping, Santa
Catarina's municipalities have experience to execute such works through
force-account, and do so economically and efficiently. The total amount of
such force-account works are not expected to exceed US$13.2 million (21% of
project costs excluding technical assistance) and only materials and
equipment purchased through procedures acceptable to the Bank would be
eligible for reimbursement. This is expected to add up to no more than
US$8.7 million (14% of project costs, excluding technical assistance).
Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than US$10,000, and contracts
for works estimated to cost less than US$25,000 would be made by local
shopping involving at least three price quotations from open suppliers'
listings. The procurement of road maintenance equipment, school buses,
ambulances, etc. would amount to US$14.0 million (23% of project costs
excluding technical assistance) and would be made over a period of six to
seven years through contracts not likely to exceed US$200,000, following
local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank (para. 6.13).



-13-
3.10      Contracts would be too small and numerous for ex-ante review by
the Bank. Since bidding documents and evaluation procedures would be
acceptable to the Bank, the review of contract awards would be delegated to
DAB and DER, which have the necessary expertise. The Bank would re-.lew
procurement on an ex-post basis by sampling, and if it were determined that
the procurement was inconsistent with the procedures agreed upon, the Bank
would cancel the corresponding amount of the loan.
E. Disbursement
3.11      Disbursements will be made for 50% of total expenditures for
civil works, materials and equipment of subprojects for which the
municipalities have entered into a previously approved subloan agreement
with BADESC. In addition, the Bank would disburse 50% of total
expenditures for services, materials and equipment made by GAPIAN for
technical assistance.
3.12      All disbursements under the loan would be made against a
certified statement of expenditures for services, equipment, materials, and
civil works under contracts. Supporting documentation for these
expenditures would not be submitted to the Bank, but would be retained by
GAPLAN to be made available for periodic review by Bank supervision
missions. Retroactive financing in an amount equivalent to US$1.8 million
will be permitted for expenditures after June 1, 1985, for technincal
assistance, englneering, and civil works (para. 6.14)
3.13      Investments are likely to begin slowly while GAPLAN gains
experience in the management of the program. The commitment of loan funds
is expected to take five to six years and the execution of the
corresponding sub-projects anywhere from six to seven (para. 6.15).
December 31, 1992 is the recommended closing date. The investment schedule
is presented in Annex I, Table 8 and disbursements in Annex I, Table 11.
3.14      A Special Account in U.S. dollars with an initial deposit of
US$1.7 million would be established in the Central Bank. Replenishments to
the Special Account will be at the exchange rate prevailing at the time
payments are made by BADESC/BESC. The Borrower would submit to the Bank a
monthly statement of the activities of the Special Account (para. 6.16).
F. Audits
3.15      A qualified independent auditor satisfactory to the Bank would be
hired by GAPLAN to prepare yearly audit reports on the consolidated project
accouut and the statements of expenditures, including relevant
recommendations. The terms of reference of the auditor would include
comments on the methodology and standards of bookkeeping used to compile
statements of expenditures and ensuring that they reflect properly incurred
expenditures for legitimate project purposes (para. 6.17). The audit
reports would be conveyed to the Bank no later than six months after the
end of each fiscal year. Banco Central would submit audit reports of the
Special Account no later than four months after the close of the Central
Bank"s fiscal year.



-14-
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Summary
4.01      Methodology:  The impact cf the project on the State finances and
on the individual and overall municipal finances has been estimated using-
key financial indicators measured with and without the project. The
analysis integrates all relevant aspects of the project including operating
and maintenance costs, cost recovery, sub-loan repayment, direct impact of
the project on local fiscal capacity and budget, indirect impact through
the sharing of State fiscal revenues, and Bank loan repayment by the
State. Several scenarios identified the impact of a contracted four-year
implementation schedule proposed by the State Government, and sensitivity
of the program's viability to a smaller impact on the taxable base and a
reduced municipal participation to the program.  Finally, an assessment was
made of the municipal potential for raising of local own source revenues.
4.02      Overall Results:  The project would increase unicipal capital
investment from an average US$5.6 million to about US$8 million a year,
without producing a significant increase in its debt burden. Furthermore,
the inclusion of the proposed project (i.e. PROURB program) in the
projected State budgets would not require significant diversion of funds
from other proposed programs. A shorter project implementation as proposed
by the State Government would have a positive impact oi the project cash
flow for the State, however, absorption of technical assistance could not
be expected to occur more rapidly in municipalities.
4.03      The impact of the program on the State finances would be
sensitive to the increment on the taxable base of ICM producing investments
such as bridges, warehouses, and grain storage facilities (35Z of total
program cost) (para. 4.07 and Annex I, Table 16). Municipalities, who
receive only 20% of the ICM returns, would be little affected by smaller
than anticipated returns on economic investments. On the other hard, local
revenues would need to be improved in all size groups of towns and unrder
all scenarios in order to ensure a positive cash flow for the project towvs
(para. 4.12). The aggregated potential for improvement of local resources
in all the smaller towns of Santa Catarina, calculated on the basis of
underutilized fiscal measures and observed performance for groups of towns,
represents about US$13.5 per capita per annum, or albout US$20 million
statewide2/ (para. 4.10). This is comparable to or larger than the
recurrent7budget deficit in these towns since 1980, except for 1982 (Annex
I, Table 12). The potential for improvement of municipal own source
receipts is therefore quite large in Santa Catarina, and improving
financial management could substantially reduce current transfers and
capital grants over time. The setting up of a Municipal Development Fund
would represent a first step in this direction.
B. The State
4.04      Financial Performance:  Between 1980 and 1984 the State recurrent
budget grew on average 8% per year. Expenditures, however, grew an average
12% per year, that is more rapidly than own source revenues and economic
2/ Average ppr capita own resources of municipalities in Santa Catarina
were US$9.5 in. 1980 and about US$11 in 1981-84.



-15-
growth (ICM grew 6Z during the period); this was made possible by
borrowing, which increased from 1IZ of revenues in 1980 to 23X in 1984,
while ICh revenues declined from 72X to 54% of total revenues. This
reliance on borrowing during the period caused the State to exceed its
legal limit for new borrowing and required authorization from the National
Senate. The 1983 floods aggravated the situation at a time when State
finances had deteriorated and federal transfers were reduced to accomodate
the national financial constraints. These constraints, however, spurred
corrective measures and trends were reversed. Borrowing was reduced,
current expenditures were contracted to 1980 levels, while capital
investment returned to 40% of budget. The investment effort was
concentrated in direct State investments with priority given to capital
grants for municipalities (Annex I, Table 13).
4.05      The consolidated indirect administration budget of State
corporations and agencies, utility companies and foundations represents an
additional 30 to 35% to local finances. This budget shows a healthy 7Z
yearly growth in direct receipts since 1980, except for the year after the
floods. Federal transfers ceased after 1982 and contributions of State
transfers decreased steadily from 70X to 52% of total revenues during the
last five years (Annex I, Table 14). Overall, consolidated direct and
indirect administration budget of the State in 1984 was US$365 million31
(below their pre-floods level) and the total budget was U-S$712 million, of
which federal transfers represent US$76.5 million.
4.06      Impact of Program:  Since 1980, capital grants to munic_palities,
which would be replaced by the proposed PROURB program, averaged about
US$5.6 million annually. This represented 26% of municipal investmeuts and
over 22Z of total State investment, and under 2% of State share of value
added tax (ICM). The counterpart fund requirements of the proposed loan
would peak at US$10 million in 1988, which is comparable to the 1982
transfers, and would not constitute an excessive burden on the State given
the net positive cash flow of the project (Annex 1, Table 15).  Debt
payment to the Bank at the end of the grace period would represent a minor
additional capital debt service with a maximum increase on the capital
account debt service of 7% in 1990 (Annex I, Table 15). In addition to the
repayment of the loans by the municipalities, about 40% of project
investments would generate value added tax returns which would be shared
between the State (80Z) and the municipalities (20Z). Given the positive
impact of the project under all scenarios, the State should have no
difficulty in meeting its debt repayment obligation.
4.07      A sensitivity analysis was made to assess the impact on the cash
flow of the project of: a) lower than expected economic rates of return on
the components with a value added tax return (ICM); and b) foreiln exchauge
variations resulting in 20Z increase in debt repayment (Annex I, Table
16). A 20% reduction of the expected ICM return would decrease the
financial rate of return of the project by approximately 20%. This
illustrates the importance of economically productive municipal
infrastructure components for the financial feasibility of the State's
program. It should be noted that the State has direct influence over the
program's investment schedule as well as over its ICM impact, through
3/ Excluding State share of value added tax (ICM).



-16-
promotion of economically productive activities. Thus, the proper balance
between net financial impact and the proportion of State funds allocated to
the proposed program would be an object of the State's asnagement of the
program. The increased burden of the debt repayment that would be
associated with a real devaluation of the cruzeiro relative to the US
dollar would have a strong impact on the cash flow of the project. Also,
a reduction in the implementation period (e.g. four years) would have a
strong positive effect on the cash flow, but would increase the demand on
State matching grant funds. (Annex I, Table 16).
C. The Municipalities
4.08      Financial Situation:  The generalized structure of municipal
budgets in the State of Santa Catarina for the period 1980-1982 shows the
following characteristics4/i  value added tax (ICM) to local revenues
Increases with the size oF towns fr-om 30% to 50% (Annex I, Table 12); and
taxes (real estate, urban services and betterment charges) also increases
with town size from 7% to 19Z. These receipts cover an average 80% of
current expenditures: 64% in the smallest municipalities and up to 100% in
the larger ones. The recurrent budget deficit improves with the size of
towns, except for towns of about 10,000 inhabitants. In the less developed
areas of the State, the groups of -problem towns- are of a wider size
range. Finally, debt service accoants for a small proportion of overall
expenses (around 3%), because of the scarcity of borrowing opportunities.
4.09      An analysis of the evolution of unicipal budgets expressed In
constant dollars shows that aggregated recurrent municipal deficit which
peaked at US$32 million in 1982 was reduced to about US$10 million in 1983
and 1984 (Annex I, Table 12). This was possible because current
expenditures which had grown 25% a year in small and large towns alike
until 1982 returned to 1980 values, declining from an aggregated US$90
million in 1982 to US$50 million in 1984. After growing 21% per year (and
faster in larger towns), investments dropped everywhere, particularly in
the most dynamic areas of the State where they were reduced to 50% of their
1980 volume. The reduction of ICM revenues by 40% in all cities in 1984
was due to the impact of the floods on the economy. Nonetheless, the
municipalities were able to increase their own source revenues after 1982,
except in the larger cities affected by the floods. This result, although
modest in absolute terms, illustrates the resilience of the State to the
compounded effect of the recession and floods, and the responsive
management capacity of municipal governments.
4.10      Finencial Potential:  A detailed analysis of own source revenues
was made to quantify the potential for increases in revenues and debt
servicing capacity. The approach compared per capita revenue collection
performance within groups of comparable municipalities. Size of towns,
4/ Municipal budgets were examined for 26Z representative sample of towns
stratified by size for the period 1980-1982.



-17-
geographic contiguity, and socio-economic characteristics were used to
identify homogeneous groups (Annex I, Table 18).; With improved fiasncial
managemen., most municipalities have the potential to improve their
performance to the level of the per capita average of the two best
performers of their respective groups. This average could be a performance
target for the municipalities of the group5/-  Thus, with the provision of
technical assistance to inprove financial janagement, it is estimated that
the aggregate potential increase of -m1icipal own soorce revenues in the
State could amount to about US$20 million by 1988; this would correspond to
an increase of 35Z of the aggregate own source revenues of municipalities
before the floods and represent about 22% of capital investment of cities
that year. For the purpose of project evaluation, however, it was assumed
that half the cities would take loans, and with a focussed Technical
Assistance Program should reach their target by project completion (paras
4.11 and 5.02).
4.11      If all eligible municipalities would reach the full potential of
their respective per capita revenue collection target at the end of project
completion, 3.2 times the Bank financed loans could be absorbed
satisfactorily.  It is more likely that not all municipalities would be
willing to take loans. Also, the legal borrowing limits to which the
program is restricted may not accommodate all subloan requests (Annex IV).
A conservative implementation scenario was retained and it was assumed that
about half the. towns would enter the program, resulting in an overall
absorbtive capacity of 1.6 times the available loan program amount (Annex
I, Table 18).
4.12      Project Financial Impact:  The proposed project would affect
municipal budgets in several ways, including increased maintenance and
operation cost, increased investments and debt repayment, and growth of
value added tax revenue (ICH), betterment levies, property taxes and user
charges. The financial burden associated with the project was compared
with the expected incremental municipal receipts from direct cost recovery,
improvement of overall fiscal performance of towns and increased ICM
taxable base; if there was no cost recovery, cash flow would be negative in
all towns, despite the indirect incremental ICM revenues.
4.13      In the planning regions III and VI (Map 18850) with high economic
potential, all 113 municipalities with small or large towns (representing
59% of all towns and serving 61% of the population of the project area)
present scope for improvement of per capita revenue collection and capacity
to successfully absorb project loans. The large towns alone. (with 42% of
the urban population) could exhaust the loan and service it. The lending
procedures of the proposed project (including identification, appraisal and
selection of subprojects) were designed to ensure that all towns have a
fair opportunity of participation and that better endowed towns do not
exclude less dynamic towns. Small towns in these areas ;with 13% of the
population) could absorb about 8% of the loan which is consistent with
their share of population and initial debt capacity limit. The subloans
are therefore likely to be mostly distributed among the 60% of the towns
located in the dynamic areas of the State. The required fiscal effort to
5/ In the case of the high economic potential groups where a small number
of -star- municipalities and sea resorts with special assets raised the
group target to unrealistic levels, it was calculated using a larger
number of best performers.



-18-
be achieved by the end of the project completion would be less than the
average incremental potential of US$20 per capita, and given the capacity
of the towns, it should represent a modest effort.
4.14      In the less dynamic and the depressed areas of the State, smaller
towns under 6,000 inhabitants (25% of all towns) should also be able to
absorb about 8Z of the subloans which is consistent with their share of
urban population. This could be achieved successfully with a steady
upgrading of own resources in municipalities taking loans of about US$6 per
capita, which is the identified potential for improvement (Annex }, Table
18).
4.15      The larger towns of the less dynamic and depressed areas of the
State (15% of all cities) could absorb about 1OZ of the subloans. This
would require increasing the per capita revenues of participating
municipalities by a modest amount of about US$3.3 by the end of the
project. Careful consideration would need to be given to the proposed
financing plans and cost recovery programs of these municipalities, and,
given the competition to obtain loans, they may represent unlikely
participants to the program (Aauex I, Table 18).
D. Cost Recovery
4.16      All Bank loan proceeds, except the technical assistance
components, would be onlent to municipalities in such a way as to ensure
full cost recovery by the State from participating cities (para. 2.17).
Loan repayment would be secured through the customary withholding of value
added tax proceeds to the municipalities.
4.17      In municipalities, project investments would be recovered in
different ways according to the nature of subprojects (Annex I, Table 20).
(a) Urban infrastructure components (34% of subloans), would be
recovered up to 100% directly through betterment charges to the
beneficiaries. This would cover all investment costs (labor and
material, financing and administration). In addition to direct
cost recovery, real estate taxes would be increased as a result
of the improved value of property6/. Experience of cost
recovery for urban infrastructure is generally satisfactory
although it may vary with city size, the economic development of
the region and the social condition of the residents. In
addition, the State has adopted a practical program to upgrade
property tax cadasters and ensure their regular upgrading. This
program would be enlarged. Project eligibility would require a
satisfactory cost recovery plan;
(b) productive investments (6% of total subloans) would be recovered
directly through user charges for the services. Sub-loan
requests would include a proposal on user charges and financing
plan;
6/ The urban property tax IPTU consists of a yearly 1% tax on the assessed
value of urban land and 0.5% on buildings.



-19-
(c) other investments (such as equipment and vehicles) would have a
direct impact on the installed capacity for agricultural and
industrial production in the municipalities and would be expected
to be partially repaid through incremental -value added tax
accruing to the constituency. This is the case for 22Z of
proposed investments such as erosion control and reclamation
(a- though the impact of such works may not be quantified on a
generalized basis), and purchase of equipment for road
maintenance (para. 5.05);
(d) community facilities and social investments may not be recovered
directly. The costs (22Z of total investments) would be borne by
the municipalities through their budgets. In the case of slum
upgrading, partial recovery would take place with some conmmuity
participation, direct charges and/or long term property value tax
increments.  The size of non-recoverable social investments in
any municipal package would be limited, and this limt would be
more restrictive for smaller cities with less financial capacity.
4.18      Cost recovery by =unicipalities cannot be reviewed by the Bank
for each investment item due to the large number of subprojects and because
municipalities may choose to recover investments through a variety of
complementary fiscal tools (betterment charges, property tax, fees, user
ch-arges...).  Cost recovery would, however, be measured by GAPIAN as a
function of the per capita revenue collection target. In other words,
although the appraisal of works and the eligibility for financing would be
made on the basis of individual project cost recovery and financial plans
of investment, cost recovery performance would be measured and monitored at
the aggregated town level and reported at the regional and city group level
to the Bank. The minimum per capita revenue collection necessary to ensure
a positive cash flow for municipal projects would be determined by GAPLAN
in terms of the per capita revenue target to which the town belonged.
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. General Benefits
5.01      The proposed project would contribute to strengthening procedures
for resource allocation and selection of investments, and ensure cost
recovery. It would also support the implementation of the Government's
devolution policies and permit gradual reduction of capital grants through
the establishment of a Municipal Development Fund. The project would in
the short term bring about improvement of public investments in Santa
Catarina, and in the long term establish adequate incentive arrangements
and a reliable and adequate source of municipal investment financing.
5.02      The proposed project would also help enhance revenue raising
capacity. It can be expected that no less than half of the potential
increment of own source revenues could be achieved by the end of project



-20-
implementation, resulting in an overall increase of about US$10 million in
municipal revenues.
5.03      Another significant benefit of the project is expected to be a
contribution to regional productivity. Properly planned upgrading of
economic and social infrastructure and services should support the growth
of productive activities and taxable value added. The improvement and
modernization of the urban infrastructure would induce cost savings in
operation and maintenance and the establishment of private enterprises in
the serviced areas. These savings can be reliably quantified only for
works improving access to agriculture production areas.
5.04      Rates of return were calculated for components totaling 67% of
total project costs, namely for: a) bridges and road maintenance equipment
corresponding to 27Z of proposed project cost; and b) a sample of
investment packages corresponding to 40Z of proposed project cost in
selected towns in each size category. The non-quantifiable benefits from
technical assistance would be increased minincipal rer7enues, improved
planning and better public investments. Facilities with a predominantly
social function (e.g. schools, sports facilities, social centers, public
buildings) would impact social welfare, health, education and the property
value of neighboring homes; these benefits are not quantified. Calculation
of financial returns on productive investments would be required to qualify
for such subloans, but no economic rate of return has been calculated for
these components. The weighted average economic rate of return for the
project is 29%.
B. Economic Analysis
5.05      Bridges and Haintenance Equipment. The rates ot return of
bridges and of maintenance equipment are 40Z. Cost overruns of 20% reduce
the returns respectively to 30% and 14%. The economic analysis was based
on vehicle operating cost savings for the transportation of agricultural
production. The zones of influence of bridges were limited to 50 ha and
the zone of influence of roads to 150 m on each side. Agricultural
production was estimated according to 1983-84 State data. Project life was
set at 15 years for bridges and 7 years for maintenance equipment.
Constant June 1985 prices were used for the analysis. The foreign exchange
estimated at 35% was shadow-priced at 1.2, the shadow exchange rate
currently used for Bank-financed projects in Brazil.  Standard maintenance
costs for infrastructure and equipment were included.
5.06      Urbaw Investment Packages:  The economic analysis included all
urban infrastructure investments such as street paving, storm drainage and
sewerage. Economic rates of return were computed for observed past
investment packages using actual costs and benefits of subprojects in the
chosen towns. The overali rate of return was 22%. It corresponds to the
weighted average internal rate of return of the various city groups which
increases with size from 14Z to 24%.



-21-
5.07      The approach compared sets of street related investments made
during list year with recorded increment in imputed rental values of
abutting properties. The analysis was based on a sample of seveaal cities
in each size category. In the smaller towns (less than 20,000
inhabitants), fiscal values were used although they tended to be about 35%
below actual commercial values. In larger towns where fiscal values vary
erratically between cities according to fiscal policies (from 5% to 75% of
commercial values), observed commercial values were used.
5.08      Benefits and costs, excluding taxes and transfers, were expressed
in constant June 1985 prices. Specifications varied with city size and
paving was assumed to be on average 12 m wide in the larger towns and 6 m
wide in the smaller. Implementation was assumed to last 3 to 6 months,
based on past experience. Average project life was set at 15 or 30 years,
w-ith no salvage values. The maintenance cost for paving and sidewalk was
assumed to be 4% from the third year onwards. An average 3% of capital
costs was used for maintenance costs starting the second year for other
investments. No adjustment was made to the investments costs to account
for the unskilled labor component and the possible effect of labor
intensive construction techniques on employment and social wclfare. The
foreign exchange component, estimated at IO, was shadow-priced at 1.2.
5.09      Sensitivity Analysis. A sensitivity analysis was conducted to
verify to what extent the rates of return would be affected by possible
increases in project costs. Cost overruns of 202 and implementation
periods lengthened two times would reduce overall returns to 21%. The
return of all investment packages remained above 12% (Annex I, Table 19).
C. Poverty Impact
5.10      About 8% of total project cost would be devoted to slum upgrading
and related site preparation and would benefit directly some 4,500 families
with less than three minimum salaries, the poverty threshold. The
community facilities would also benefit the urban poor, although it would
not be specifically targetted towards it. Given the distribution of
poverty in Santa Catarina,7/ about 11Z of total project cost would benefit
the poor.
D. Risks
5.11   . The proposed project depends upon the institutional set up, cost
recovery achievements by wnicipalities, ancL availability of counterpart
funds. Coordination is crucial given the large number of entities
involved. The strengthening of GAPLAN and the Municipal Associations would
help mitigate risks. As a matter of fact, various directorates of GAPLAN
have been strengthened and its strong position in the Governor's Cabinet
should help.
5.12      The improvement of cost recovery procedures for the relevant
public investments by iunicipalities is necessary to ensure adequate
maintenance and operation of the new investments and a positive financial
7/ See J. F. Hicks and D. M. Vetter 'Identifying the Urban Poor in Brazil-
IBRD Staff Working Paper No. 565, 1983, Table 17.



-22-
impact of the program on local finances. Should it fall short, the use of
State transfers to cover municipal current expenditures would be in
contradiction with the project's objectives. In light of the advanced
state of definition by GAPLAN of the technical assistance program and
monitoring system, and given the observed capacity of state and local
institutions, the probability that cost recovery would be inadequate is
small.
5.13      The lack of appropriate counterpart funds has recently been a
major cause of implementation delays in Bank projects. In Santa Catarina
this risk has been minimized by: a) the conservative size of the program;
b) the political support of the State Government combined with the proposed
timing of implementation; c) the commitment of the State Government to
implement the program in a shorter time than the proposed schedule; and d)
the absence of counterpart requirements from the Federal Government.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements reached during Negotiations
6.01      Formal approval of the revised Manual of Lending Policies and
Procedures to be made before loan signature (paras. 2.03 and 3.02).
6.02      Adequate staffing of Mulnicipal Associations in accordance with
schedule presented to the Bank (para. 1.08 and Annex I, Table 3).
6.03       Eligibility criteria for a municipality to participate in the
program (para. 2.16 and Annex III):
(a) an urban population of the main town below 50,000 residents in
1980;
(b) the presentation of an annual or multi-annual investment program
satisfatory to GAPLAN and BADESC;
(c) The participation to the Technical Assistance program.
6.04      Criteria for allocation to Municipalities, cf grant funds (para.
2.16, and Annex III):
(a) One third distributed according to population growth and
per capita income.
(b) TWo thirds distributed as matching grants to uunicipalities
taking loans.
6.05      Eligibility criteria for a municipality to receive project
subloans (para. 2.17 and Annex III):



-23-
(a) The adequate borrowing capacity according to Senate Resolution
No. 62 dated October 28, 1975, as amended by the Resolution No.
64 dated July 11, 1985.
(b) A plan of action for improvement of fiscal revenaes satisfactory
to the Bank and GAPLAN.
(c) Collateral guarantee.
(d) Entering into a participation agreement.
6.06      Subloan interest rates, maturities and grace period (para. 2.17).
6.07      Establishment of a Municipal Development Fund no later thal
December 31, 1987 (para. 3.03).
6.o0      GAPLAN will ensure efficient project supervision by revieving
relevant documents prepared by the Hunicipal Associations and control of
works through its regional offices (paras. 3.04 and 3.05). -
6.09      Yearly review by GAPLAN and the Bank of (para. 3.06):
Ca) resource allocation by subregion, type of municipality and type
of investment;
(b)  regional indicators of fiscal and of ffinancial municipal
budgetary perforiance and cost recovery;
(c)  status of implementation of the Technical Assistance program;
(d) status of implementation of the monitoring and evaluation
program;
(e) the lending program for the next year and the allocation of
counterpart funds.
6.10      Key monitoring indicators and subproject evaluation procedures
would be submitted to the Rank for review and comments together with
assessment of previous year's results (para. 3.07).
6.11      GAPLAS would furnish to the Bank quarterly progress reports
(para. 3.08).
6.12      GAPLAN would be responsible for organizing and preparing the
Project Completion Report (para. 3.08).
6.13      Procurement of civil works, goods and services by Municipalities
to follow locally advertised competitive bidding, comparative shopping and
force account procedures acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.09).



-24-
6.14     Retroactive finacing totalling US$1.8 million equivalent is
recammended from the 1st. of June 1985 (pars. 3.12).
;.15     Loan funds shauld be comd tted to Nunicipalities within 6 years
f   project signature para. 3.13).
6.16     Special Account to be established in the Central Bank with an
initial deposit of USS1.7 million (para. 3.14).
6.17     External audits of proJect accounts and timely delivery (para.
3.15).
Conditions for Loan Effectiveness
6.18      Conclusion of an agreament satisfactory to the Bnk, between the
State of Santa Catarina and BADESC its financial agent for the execution
and delivery of the loan agreement (para. 3.02).
6.19     Registration of the Loan Agreement with Bnmco Central do Brazil
(para. 3.02).
6.20      Pulfillent of all necessary governmental actions for the
execution and delivery of the Loan Agreement on behlf of the State,
including arrangements satisfactory to the Bank between GAPLAJ, BDESC,
STO/DAE, DER and the Associations (par. 3.02).
6.21     With the above assurances, a ents and conditions, the
Project is  uitable fOr a Bank loan of US24.5 mion to the State of
Samta Ctarnba to be repaid over a period of 15 years, inluding three
years of grace.



P~~~~~ J ..BE!...BRSSW 
R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I H                 
en...              .................. ....-
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~T  4 *..-.
~.  I.....        rn    I- I.............
I:~~~~GE
T 144



BRAZIL
SANTA CATARINA SMALL TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Chart 2: General Coordination Orgaizational Chart
I    h-- -I      I   ---   I
I~~ ..  r
MW*  I dk tovrwJn
I SfX I                           -
frimynollo  ~~Moduotlwon     Fc
I~ ~~-i .                  l. 
........ ......  ionowwOK"ondewbavCoa           AiwwIn                         0
F._._._._W~~~~~~~~~~~I X    Itd& ISW ~    fWwi~ IIW I,j
I~~~~~  L~ L1'J L4 1LJ
1XAN1S~~~Wm   1OWMono
-     a.  .     . . -  . .  _ .   _ -          I     
I                          J                              V**aj-21J22



so                                          -  ;                     e                  - -    - -     
NO .    1    [[1   l [1,   s1  }1   [i r   
c                                                   sH                             " h                    *      II
fi|tll  II  I    f V  It[T2 1111         [fl ftj 1fl        hf [    II ,11(  fItf (If ff1   111   IIj if  f   ^1 l
0



MM CMUK MLWZfIL 4AMPU
Table 41  IEPWJ M  (V KLC WUSS (DOM)
SWYMN ~JU lE:UWI UFMX
IlS.       Wad.       3rd.      4tl.        5th.      6th.        7th.       otth,      gth.        IUth1.     IIth.     12th.
Caqquy                  Iba:-  ULgttict   Ulstrict   Utstrict  UWstrict  OiMtrict                Ulstrict  atrict   District   Lairict   iMatrict   Watrtct  District  1UUL
qti.   FpoLil      L.qina   Cuicaum    Itajal  JAnLwlIl   lo do          waP        Ni* ru     loto      Cayim      XAu'u   SW tiuel
SUl                            Wka         Nobm                  D'Uette
gtreur                                47        8          2          2          I          2          2          3          2           I          2          I          1       74
Ardiltect                             19        _-                                                                                                                                23
Laer                                   7        _          _          _          _          _          _          _          _          _          _           _                   7
endst                                  S        _          I          I          _           I         _          _          _           _          _          _          _
Awsntalt                               _        _          _                     _          _                      I          _          _          _          _     
AdinLatr. Tech.                        5        _          _          _          _          _          _                      _          _          _          _
ei'ULamrrlg Tedi.                      I        _          _          _          _          _          _          _          _           _          _          _          _
Culontay Act. Tech.                    4        _          _          _          .          _          _           _          _          _          _          _
A4pit E nwlrwtqF Somices               b                                                                                                                                           a _  I  _  _  _  _  _  _ -  _  _  S
HadLutI   vl a Ted.                  W        16          3          2         .-          _           I          2                     I          2          I          I       'J)
TqMqr r                                3        _          -          I          _          _          _          _          _          _           _                              4
Prsii   aid Woatk Assistat             I        -          -                                _          .          _          _          _          _           _          _
#d. Wdwam/oJr Servi4s                  9       21    '          _    _    _                            2          -                                _ _ _       3 _                45
tn caWo    ka an/ac Setvce             4       Ii          I _                                         -          4                                _ _
Secretay                              15        _          -          I          _          _          _           I         _           _          _          _                  11       8
Adnlutratle Apnt                      Wi        7          1          _                                                       2          2                                   _44
Antstratse Ant Assistant              II        -          -          I                     _          2          _          _ -         -               -                -       IS
Chuffair                              1i       14          3          I          2          3          2          4           I          1          2                     2 2     54
Hmantenaw                              I        3 I                   _                     -                -          -          -                     -                         b
Halntenxwt    A statt                 1        9          2          _          _          _           _          _          _          _          _12
Typist                                 5                      _-                                                   - _  _    _           _                                         6
aHA"er                                22        3                     _ -                   _          _          2          _           I          I          I          _       32
Saetva                                I5        8          3          I          _          _          _           I          _          _          _          _                  28
Sewrity Service                                                                                                                                                                    I _  _  .  _  _ -  _  _  _  _  _
_rfL                      _08                         . I             12          1         7          9          21         b           6          1          7          4      512
._  _. ___.__ __.. _ .. ..  .... ._ , *_ ....... _  _._..... . _ _ .. .._ 
U'



BRAZIL
SANTA CATARINA SKALL TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table 5: Typical Subproject Costs
Estimated Total Loas Program
Subprojects                            Quantity   Base Costl'    Z of              Unit Cost,/
S Thousand&.  Total             (Typical)
Street Paving and storm drainage                      1000000       14450       29,7       $14.50/m2 of pavement
Town Squares Improvements                                   50       1070        2.2        $22000/town
Bridges and Crossings                                     200        5352       11.0       One lane, 12m spans
$16500/bridge
Two lane, 12m span:
$36500/bridge
Sites Preparation                                      260000        1873        3,9       $7.00/i2 of deleloped land
Slum Upgrading                                          90000        1873        3.9       $12.00-25.00/m  of street
Other Works (valley-bottoms reclamation,                                                      area
traffic signs, etc.)                                   __          2142        4.4
Warehouses                                               16000        997        2.1        $60.00/m2 of roofed area
Grain Drying Facilities                                  __          1022        2.1
Nurseries and Artificial Insemination                    __           414        0.9                  _ 
Schools                                                    40        1635        3.4        $39000/school (3 classrooms)   N
Sport Grounds                                              40         506        1.0        $12500/sport ground
Social Centers                                              30        701        1.4        $23000/social center
Other Public Buildings (municipal police, etc.)          __          1051        2.2                  __
Equipment and Vehicles                                   ._2/        9730       20.0        Dozers (depending on size
and specs.)s $47000-98000
Graders: $68000
Rollers (6-8 Ton); $27000
Front Loaders (medium
size): $110000
Trucks (dump)s $45000
School buses: $25000
I/ In US$ of June 1985
2/ Approximately 80X of equipment expenditures will be for road maintenance
(around 180 units of varied equipment); approximately 15X will be for school buses
(around 60 units) and 5Z for other vehicles (ambulances, etc.).



- 30 -                                       ANeX I
Page 6 of 25
BRAZIL
STA. CATNINA SIULL TOM  IIFRUT  PROJECT
Table 6: Proijct CSs br Compmt
(in MS Thosad of June I9U)
f.e.c.    ercnt of
Project CoanpoRts                       Lal Foreign  Total    I            as Cats
A.  INFRASTIICE
Street Paving                      10837    3612   14450        251   29.7
To  Squars Iapro       ts           856      214    1070        201    2.2
kridn aN  Crl    iq                 4014     1338    5352       25     11.0
Traffic Signs                       214       54      268       20?    0.6
Strwt Furitu                        214       54      268       20'    ,.6
Erosion coetrl & rKclaatiou         1044     562    160         35      3.3
Site  Preparation                   1405      468    193        255    3.9
Slu Upqrading                       1405     468    1873        258     3.9
Subtotal A                       199      6770   2759         251   55.0
B. SUPPORT TO PRIUMCTIVE ACTIVITIES
arekouse                            748      249      997       25      2.L1
Brain Drying Facilities             766      255    1022        251    2.1
Nursies and Artificial Inses.       310      103      414       25I    0.9
Subtotal B                        1824     608    2433        25?    5.0
C. cWNITY FACIUTIES
Schools                            1226      40    1635        25?    3.4
Sport Grounds                       379       126     506       25?     1.0
Social Centers                      525       175     701       251     1.4
Othr Public kildings                71#      263    1051        251    2.2
subtotal C                       2919      973    3992        25?    9.0
D. EUIPIEtNT  D VIEHICLES              532    4379    9730          45?   20.0
E. TEDNICAIL ASSISTANE AND
PROMEC SUPERYISION
Santa Catarina                     3795     2043    5139        357    12.0
USE COST                              33979    14773   48652        30%   100.0
Physical Increase                  330       1477    4865       30?    10.O
Price Escalation                   11477    5005   I642         301   33.9
Subtotal Contingqcies            14865    642    2134         301   43.9
TOTAL PROJET COSTS                    48744    21255   70000        30?   143.9



- 31 -
ARM I
Page 7 of 25
BRIZIL
STA. CATARINA ShALL TOIMS IMPRDVNENT PROJECT
Table 7:
Detailed Project Costs and Contingencies Calkulations
(in USS Thousand of June 1985k
Base     Contingencies      Total
Project CQomonents                      Costs  Physical    Price   Costs
A.  INFRASTRUCTURE
Street Paving                       14450     1445     4895    20790
Town Squares l.prove2uts             1070      107      363      1540
Bridges ad Crossings                 5352      535      1813     7700
Traffic Sings                         268       27       91       385
Street Furniture                      268       27        91      395
Valley Bottoms Reclamation           1606      161      544      2310
Sites Preparation                    1873      187      635      2695
Sl1  Uporading                       1873      187      635      2695
Subtotal A                        26759     2676     ?O65    39500
B. SUPPCRT TO PRODUCTIVE ACTIVITIES
Marehousus                            997      t00      338      1435
Graia Drying Facilities              1022      102      346      1470
Ilrceries and Artificial Insen.       414       41       140      595
Subtotal B                         2433      243      824      3500
C. COMHUNITY FACILITIES
Schools                              1635      163      554      2352
Sport Grounds                         506       51       171      728
Social Centers                        701       70      237      1008
Mther Public Buildings               1051      105      356      1512
Subtotal C                         3992      399     1319      5600
D.  EQUIPEoENT AND VEHICLES              9730      973     -296    14000
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
PROJECT SUPERYISION                  5938      594      1978     9400
TOTAL PROJECT CSS                       4962      4865    16482    70000



.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I1 Ee   IBw|nIWtI":       fi   E l  Y_1! I tSX  
I             E       l  8i         a|!;8           gtFl            Su    B!           !l2ll;         !ltl
|  ||                    ,"sa flI            n,         |2      ,          EI;-'           R|tI
N  d  Z  X                                                         ffi  |       | | ^ E  | |     |  i ffi I 



FUND,3 APRIL 95
BRAZIL
SANTA CATARINA SMALL TOWNS IMIPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table 9: CAPITALIZATION OF THE MUNICIPAL INVESTMENT FUND
GAPLAN   GAPLAN
PROJECT   CUMUL   OTHER       TOTAL *  FUND     *MUNICIPAL REPAYMENT TO FUND: FUND        STATE    FUND       STATE
YEAR   CLENDARLOANSTO  PROJECT LOANS TO    FUND * ADM NBT   PROJECT   OTHER    TOTAL    SUPER~-  REPAYNT  CONTRI   CONTRIB
YEAR    MUNICIP   LOANS   MUNICIP   LOANS t  COST  u  LOANS    LOANS    LOANS  # -AVIT    LOAN    REPAYMT  REPAYMT
-----------  ----  ---  ...  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -__ _____ f_ _  _ __
1        1995      0.99      0.99                0.99                                                       0.262              0.262
2         1996      1.76     2.64                1.76      0.09    0.151                0.151               0. 37    0.061   08376
3         1997     3.43      6.07                3.43      0.19    9452                 0.452               0.766    0.272    0.494
1989     t.22    t5.04       0,53      1:75      8O'i88    10o309H             l.o9               .924    '@53    2.35q
6         1990     3.52    19.56       1.23      4.75      0.t9    24576    0.091    2,666                  3.645    1.256    2.399
7         1991     2.46    21.02       2,29      4.75      0.19    3.179    0.302    3.491                  3696         1,01  2,695
9         1992     0.53    21.55       4.-12     4,65      0.18    3.600    0.697    4,296                  3 .559     * 000    3.559
9         1993                         4.75      4.75      0.19    3.690    1.407    5.099                  3.369    0.t69    3.201
tO         t994                         4.75      4.75      0.19    3.690    2,232    5 92?                  3.179    0.992    2.197
11         1995                         4.75      4.75      0.18    3,540    3.063    6.603                  2.993    1,673    1.310
12         199g                         4.75      4.78      0.19    3.239    3.901    7.139    0 0 lo        2.900    2.209    0.591
13         1997   .475                            4.75      0.1      :.651    4.746    7.397        .000    2.610    2.467
14         1999                         4.75      4 75      :,l9    1,939    5 597    77435         :000     2.420    2.505              w
15         1999                         4.75      4.75      0.19    1.115    6.455    7.570    0.409    2.231    2.231
16        2000                          475       4.75      0t       0.512    7.320    7,832    0,961    2.041    2.041
17        2001                          475       4.75      0.19    0.091    9.102    9.192    3, 262
to         2002                         4.75      4.75      0.18               9.769    8.769    3.839
19        2003                          4.75      4.75      0.1                9.261    9.261    4.331
20         2004                         4.75      4.75      0:.19              9.443    9.443    4.513
Repayment ratio lOysar repaysmnt,lyeAr grace,liI  inturst;            0,16989
0
IH.



- 34 -
ANNEX I
Page 10 of 25
BRAZIL
SANTA CATARINA SMALL TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table 10: Indicative Procurement Distribution
(in US$ thousands - June 1985)
Total            LCB  CONTRACTS              Force
Subproject Type               No. of    Civ.Wks. Mat. & Equ. Accounta/
$ Amount  .ontracts  $ Amount   S Amount   $  Amouut
Street Paving          20790       190        6230        5820        (8740)
Town Sq. Improvent.    1540         60          460        430         (650)
Bridges & Crossings    7700        150         7700        -            -
Sites Preparation       2695        75        1300         555         (840)
Slum Upgrading          2695        75         800         755        (1140)
Other Worksb/           3080      n.s.          920        860        (1300)
A. INFRASTRUCTURE      38500       550        17410       8420       (12670)
Warehouses              1430        25         1430        -            -
Grain Drying Fclts.    1470         25         1470        -            -
Nurseries & Art.Ins      600        40          300        100         (200)
B. SUPPORT TO
PRODUCTIVE ACTVS    3500        90         3200         100         (200)
Schools                 2352       1GO        2352         -            -
Sport Grounds            728       100         218         200         (310)
Social Centers          1008        60        1008         --           -
Other Pbl.Buildings    1512       n.s         1512         -            -
C. COMMUN. FACILITS    5600        260        5090         200         (310)
Road Equipment         11200       180         -         11200          -
School Buses            2100        60          -         2100          -
Other Equipment          700        30          -          700          -
D. EQUIP. & VEHCLS.   14000        270         -         14000          -
TOTAL A+B+C+Dc/        61600      1170       25700       22720       (13180)
Percentages             100%                   42%         37%          21%
a/ Dollar amount exclude3s value of purchased materials given in side
column.
b/ Includes: Traffic signs, street furniture and valley-bottom
reclamation.
c/ Excludes $8.4 million technical assistance and professional services
expenditures.



- 35 -
ANNEM I
Page 11 of 25
BRAZIL
SANTA CATALINA SNAL TOWNS  UROVEENT PROJECT
Table 11: Loan Disbursement Schedule
Calendar Year           Bank    Fiscal              Disbursements
Semester Ending          Year  Semester          Semester   Cuzulative
June      1986           FY87    Second            1.9          I.9a/
December 1986            FY87    First             0.2         2.1
June      1987           FY87    Second            0.7         2.8
December  1987           FY88    First             0.8         3.6
June      1988           FY88    Second            1.4         5.0
December  1988           FY89    First             1.5         6.5
June      1989           FY89    Second            2.3         8.8
December  1989           FY90    First             2.4        11.2
June      1990           FY90    Second            2.5        13.7
December  1990           FY91    First             2.6        16.3
June      1991           FY91    Second            2.3        18.6
December  1991           FY92    First             2.2        20.8
June      1992           FY92    Second            I 4b/      22.2
December 1992            FY93    First             1.2I /     23.4
June      1993           FY93    Second            1.1/      24.5
a/ Includes USS1.7 million Special Account opened upon loan
effectiveness.
b/ Rate of disbursement reduced to recover advance made for Special
Account.



- 36 -
ANNiX 1
Page 12 of 25
BRAZIL
SANTA CATARINA SMALL TOWNS WMPROVEWENT PROJECT
Table 12: Aggregate Municipal Budgets
(US$ thousands)
Economic
Year    Potential      Town     Own Source       ICK         Current       Capital
Group        Size 1/   Revenues                  Expenditures Expenditures
1980 -  low             S             241        1,491         3,057         1,163
L            680         2,199         3,737         1,5515
medium          S            309         2,104         3,451         1,141
L          1,805         5,b46        10,7b5        2,714
high           S           1,213        10,006        16,210        6,382
L          b,407        14,251        21,455         7,329
STATE                     10,655        35,697        5b,765       20,987
1981    low             S             238        1,676         3,944         1,090
L             790        2,693         5,172         1,650
medium          S            331         2,309         4,850         1,668
L          2,154         7,965        14,415        3,085
high           S           2,239        11,060        20,b2l        7,1B9
L          7,335        15,276        26,209        9,183
STATE                     13,087        40,979        75,211       23,895
1982    low             S             263        2,254         5,377        2,280
L          1,201         3,031         6,402       4,251
medium         S             360         2,585         5,733       2,445
L          2,092         8,097        16,324       4,725
high           S           1,965        12,7Z4        25,633       7,136
L          7,466        16,852        31,991       9,903
STATE                     13,347        45,543       91,460        30,740
1983    low             S             232        1,894         3,407           443
L            728         3,031         4,494         1,871
medium         S             292         2,089         4,187        1,125
L          1,947         7,U78        11,4s3        2,4Y0
high           S           4,850        11,237        20,207        5,615
L          6,213        15,433        23,808        9,539
STATE                     14,262        40,7bZ        67,586       21,083
1984    low             S             316        1,429         2,845           472
L             799        1,516         3,941         1,246
medium         S             341         1,699         3,441        1,005
L          3,505         3,538         8,72b        2,5b3
high           S           3,573         8,096        13,710        3,764
L          5,025        10,344        17,392         3,301
STATE                     13,559        26,992        50,055       12,351
II S Small  0-6,WU0 ir.abitants.
L Large 6-50,000 inhabitants.



- 37 -                                      MM7 E
BRAZIL                                          Page 13 of 25
S[AIE: 29 mes                                     saS irmui qjL TMu D                ff r_rEcr
Table 13: STATE DIRECT ADMINISTRATION BUDGEr
wlith Project
CUSS Rilliousl
DI&'ES?e  SDUCE- 7 YE
ICI0 ETI: 17%
1988    1981     192    1983    1984    1985    1986    1997    1988    1989    1996    1991    1992
I. RECEIPTS         364      46K      547     515      567      5;5      619      682      689     674      692      718      743
1.  1n-Suce         288      322     39       322      343      3so      384      43      424      446      46B      492      511
a  ICM             261      395      265     295      333      355      373      392      412     433      456      479      503
b. hUws             19       17       86      29        9       18       10       11       12       12      13       13       14
2 hFd. Transf.       43       52       61       78      76       89       94      122      158     166      174      183      192
.L Brroming          40       93      136      115     133     1I2       121      136       84      38       23       14        4
a. Smestic          29       69      121      57       93       4        43       64       30       4        4        3        3
h Foreign         -12        24       15      58       37       58       78       71       47      34       19       11        1
4. Other              0        9        0       6       18       19       20       21      23       25       27       29       38
IL EIVENDITURES     392      466      593     S        567      574      615      678      683     669      686      71n      735
. Crret             237      268     391      358      336      348      361     379      383      393      S99      495     448
.. & OpW.           95      143      1B0      162     184      187      195      195      199     283      237      211      215
b. DtSeb vice       23       36      45       24       57       62       65       69      66       78       69       69       99
-Domestic           6        8       25      21       31       28       35       33       32      32       31       31       42
-Foreign           16       22       21       3       26       34       30       35      34       37       38       33       57
c. Transfiers      119       96      166      163      96       98    1N        115      117     128      122      124      127
-To Nimcip.        33       33       53      36       37       39       41       44       46      48       58       53       56
'Constitution     28       31       34      33       34       36       38       48       42      44       46       4E       51
4Yoluntary         2        2       28       3        3        4        4        4       4        4        5        5        5
-Others            89       63      113      127      59       53       59       72       72      72       72       71       71
2. Capital          155      138      292     151      231      M76      255      299     350      277      287      306      295
aL lwiestants       18       23       37      28       97      113      125      149   166        175      16       171      159
L Capital oP.       26       22       24       6       11       ll       I3       13      13       12       12       12       11
c. Transfers        97       84      138      91       37       39       39       43      46       48       49       51       51
-To Municip.       30       34       45       37      37        3       39       43      46       48       49       51       51
*Constitution     28       31       32       31      34       36       38       40      42       44       46       48       51
Voluntary          2        3       13       7        3        4        2        3       5        4        4        2        1
4Erants           8        a        8       8        I                 0        0       8        8        O        8        O
Loans             i        o        a       o        o        1        2        3       5        4        4        2        1
-Others            67       58       86      54        I        S       NA       NA       N       NA       U        NR       NA
d. Debt Sevice      14        9       11      33       87       63       77    1l2        75       42       38       72       73
-Dhmestic          14        6       18      33       79       23       34       63       46      24       17       41       42
-Foreign            a        2        1       6        8       1V       42       39      29       18       14       31       31



- 38 -
ANNEX I
Page 14 of 25
BRkZIL
SANTA CATARIIA SEALS TOWNS IMPROVEKENT PROJECT
Table 14: Consolidated State Corporations Budget (1980-1984)
US. Millions
1980     1981      1982      1983      1964
Total receipts             135.0    152.6    180.8    156.5    157.8
Own receipts                28.9      29.9      32.0     35.8      22.3
State transfers             94.2    105.8    117.3       98.1      82.3
Federal transfers            0.0       0.0       0.0       -         -
Credit operations           12.4      16.9      31.5     22.6      53.2
Total expendi-tures        136.1    153.8    194.4    137.0    157.8
Personnel expenditures      36.6      36.8      45.1     35.3      24.6
Debt service                 1.6       5.7       7.9      9.6      24.0
Capital investment          60.4      73.2      92.1     58.7      68.9
Financial investment        17.1      16.7     30.6       6.8      10.0
Other expenditures          20.4      21.4     30.6      26.8      30.3
Deficit/Surplus             (0.6)     (1.2)    (13.6)    19.5



-39 -ANNEX I
BRAZIL                        Page 15 of 25
STATEI: 29 MAR 5                             STR. ATIIS4 SULL TIMS DOVEJU  PROEC
Table 15:   s:nrE uOR IMIPCT   YSIS
(uss NHllian
IKJES7Mf SDEfIL 7 VERE
Ia RElTIm: 17%
1985    l136    1997    1988    19    1999    1991    1992
RECEisPTS
ICN
Wlith Project                                355.4   3353  392.24  412.22  43L49  45S65  475.32  5W95
WithOUt Project                              355.43  373.17  391.39  411.40  432.33  453.51  415.29  30.l9
Irumu                                         LO      L33    L35    L82    L46   2?34    Z52    2.86
Increase as Propotion of 'Without Project     L00      .0      .39     .00     .83    .09    1.91    1.91
Borrowing
llith Project                                1M1.78  121.29    i.74   84.44   3.17   23.19   14.13    3.99
WithOt Project                               19.86  119.16  131.89   79.91   33.33   19.2    1128    3.39
Iries.                                        6.2    2.35    3.85    5.42    4.84    3.99    2. 2    1.61
lImrcr as Proportion of ilithout Project'     L1l    102    L.33    L7    L15    L21    L.25    L1
Nunicipal Repaymt of Loans
-rreaw witb Project                           L.O9    11S    L49    1.12    2.12    M23    3.48    3.95
DPACT ON RECEIPTS                               L92    2.53    4.69    7.36    8.33    8.86    9.82    7.41
Debt Service - Caet Decount
With Project                                  62.28   55191  6L63   66.25   69.53   69.44   69.49   9971
Without Project                               aiN   64.66   67.86  M5502   6L8-3  67.63   67.83   97.19
-Irase                                        L26    6.44    n77    1.23    L45    1.60    1.65    1.2
Increase as Proportion of 'Without Project     .08    19      191    L.82   6L.2   L2    0.32    9L.2
Municipal Infrastructure Lows
With Project                                   .8I    1.B    3.39    4.77    4.26    3.51    2.48    L53
Natching Grant teeds                           L61    3.60     .77    9.54    8.L    7.02    4.97    1.37
capital -ant Programed (Withut Project)      3.59    3.77    3.96    4.16    4.36    4.58    4.81    5.5
Current Grant Programed (Without Project)    3.59    3.77    3.95    4.16    4.36    4.58    4.81    515
IC Inease Expeceted  ith Project            eQZ0    133    135    1.82    L46    2.34    2.52    2.86
Municipal Loan Repayments With Project       LIS    e.15    6.49    1.12     2E    2.82    3.48    3.95
Su of Potential Grants                       7.18    9e2   8.76   10.25   12.21   14.13   1S62   1691
Debt Service - Capital kAount
With Project                                  69098    691    E. 86   75.24   '172     .24   72.44   72.84
Mithout Project                               6&98 9   6.21  131.86   75.24   39.ES   29.21   7R.40   71L.
Ircrease                                      9.19    9*3    Let    9.39    2.34    2.94    2.94    2.4
Incrase as Proportion of 'Without Project'    Le    96e  LQt O         .08    .9.5    1.7    0.83    923
Project Supervision and Tedmical Assistance      .11    .25    e.46    3.65    Q.5B    8.48    t34    6.9
EXPMiITUIE IWACT                                1.18    2.48    4.61    6.65    F-34    7.54    5.52    4.17
NET IMPACT OF PROGRAK                           -.26    Q.64    9.36    2. 7*    -el    1.22    2.3    3.25



LRAZTh
SAN  CATARI  4WL TM  T        W    PrECr
Table 16: Invat of Progran on State Finance
(US$ inmoim)
Project        IOl      Foreign     Program   act
Inpluentation   Returns    Exchawe   an State Firnc    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1981    1992
Exqected
7 years           17%                Revenue           0,92    2.53    4.69    7.36    8.33    8.86    8 .82    7.41
Elerditure        1.18    2.48    4.61    6.65    8.34    7.64    6.52    4.17
Cash flow       -0.26    0,04    0.08    0.71   -0.01    1.22    2,30    3,25
Financial IRR     94%
Eqected
7 years         teduced              Revenue           0.92    2.47    4,63    7.22    8.07    8.49    8.38    6.91
to 14%                eiditure         1.18    2.48    4.61    6,65    8.34    7.64    6,52    4,17
Cash flow       -0.26   -0.01    0,02    0.57   -0.27    0.86    1.86    2,74
Finmcial IRR      74%
Eiqected                                                                                                                         0
7 years         reduced    debt      Revene            0,92    2.47    4.63    7,22    8.07    8.49    8.38    6.91
to 14%    repayments  EReniture        1.23    2,57    4.77    6.90    9.04    8.37    7.26    4.88
increased   Cash flcw       -0,31   -0,10   -0.14    0.32   -0.97    0.13    1.12    2,03
20%      FinancLal IRR     33%
4 years           17%                Rewnue            0.92    5.38    9.01   12.63    8.73    6.98    6.98    6,98
as proposed                          Ependiture        1.18    5.58    8.66   10.95    6.58    3.94    3.75    3.56
by GAPLAN                            Cash flw         -0.26   -0.20    0,35    1,68    2.15    3.04    3.23    3.42
Finandal IRR      132
4 years                              Revemre           0,92    5.32    8,88   12.36    8,26    6.46    6.46    6.46
as proposed     reced                E)Verditure        1.18    5.58    8,66   10.95    6,58    3.94    3.75    3.56
tb GAPUN        to 14%               Cash flow        -0,26   -0.26    0.23    1.41    1.69    2.52    2.71    2.90
Financial LR      113%
4 years                     debt.    Rewmue            0,92    5,32    8.88   12.36    8.26    6.46    6,46    6,46              w
as proposed     reduced   repaynnts  EDpenditure       1.23    5,72    8,92   11,36    7.40    4.73    4,50    4,27
as GAPUNs      to 14%    increased   Cash flar        -0.31   -0.39   -0,04    0.99    0.86    1,74    1,96    2.19
20%      Firn1 IRR         71%
.__                             _                       -       -.                    



- 41 -
ANNE I
Page 17 of 25
STNI: I PR8 5                                                         BRAZIL
STR. ITARINR  GULL TOM  INUISI  PREU
Table 17: Impact of Proram on municipal Finces
fUSS Thausandi)
GREJP OF XXICIPrI                                                       mawns
High Eonasic Potential                                                   Invest Schdule:           7 Year
S1l City Size                                                            Pra  Numicip. Taking Loan        1.5
I4 Rhetun:            1.17
- 9 mae  isa981I  192        t      198       198        is     191      1s       is        is       1991     199
IRECEIPTS         11976    14254    1597    14479    18312    11199    129        15211    17348    17728    17869    17741    16713
_ Curret           93      11592    1294    13411    %942        8514     9129     9793    1533    11319    12194    1S76    13
a. TeSane          637     1119       983    2425    1786        680      997      1316     1635     1955     2276     2599     2521
b. ICI            5993     5530      6362    518       4048     429#     4475     4694      4970     29       5615     5914    6187
2. Capital         2633      2        3294     168      i;i      2695     35       5483    I6S1       6481     5764     463      3l81
a.Borring          237      247       117      338      381      44        t:       NA        I        w        I           
h. Transfrs
-grants           N        U l      NA       IIR      NR       516     112      2161      3154     27       2248     159       342
-Loa              NA       N        INA       NR      UN       2i       576      1984     157      136*     124       795       171
EX  ITUES         11813    14257    16551    14471    l112    1134      12915    15619    17323    17772    17931    17745    16524
1. Current        8105    18311    12917   10103       6855     7805     8233     86        93       994    335    1 4    11232
2. Capital        319      3595     3        287       1882     3162     49       5964      7329     6939     6321     564      3679
3.Debt Serv.        NA       N                  N        NI      528      576      684       36       647      962     1113      15
BEDT UDII            NA       NA       NA        M      5513     56       6        79        9557    19611 1 1         1381   11623
WS  NEW  0T          N                              1L583         258      576      1984     1527     136      1124      795      171
IMESTIOI PR06RP FIOCIL IMPACT
RECEIPTS               516      1867     3735     5461     5414     5119     4531      3-
Current                Q      319      671      1674     1523     1955    2362    2736
Capital              516     1548    396       4387      3891     316      216       296
EXPENDITRES            544      1686    3428      5315     5331     5945     4392     2691
Current               a        90      287      E56       793      979     1110     1138
Capital              51F     14       35        437      3891     3164     2169      29
NET IMPACT OF PROGRAM    -20               181     37        146       83       73      139      335



- 42 -
ANNEM I
Page 18 of 25
S1TI: I APR 85                                                         BRAZIL
STA. CATARIM SML TOS IllEN PGE T
Table 17: Impact of Program on Municipal Finances (Continued)
'WSS Thousands)
GMROI F W MI        [ES                                                   ASaFWTI
tligh Eccncc PDtential                                                    Invest. Shedule:         7 Years
Lare City Size                                                            Prop. Nunicip. Takinu La:    Q5
IDa Return:            L.17
198      1981     1982     1983      1994     1985     1396     1987      1998    19B9      1998     1991      1992
RECEIPTS          1481    178A      13478    18318    11143    12357    15297    18991    22456    23144    23455    23323    21757
1. Curet          127MM    147eB    16322    1455   10119    98           18954    12172    13U5    1483    16269    17631    18M
a. mm-Source    .323       3668     3733      3187     2512     2381      3226     475      4926     5781      660      7592     9367
b. ICX            7126     7638     8426      7717     5172     52M9     5437      5724     610      5555     6991      739X     776
2. Canital         1699     38?6      3156     163       738     259      4343      6810     8971    O2261     7186      5592     282
a.J orrcing        388      130       43      1611       13    -M           NA       NA       NA                NA        N        II
b. Trasrfers
-Granti3          NA       No       NA        NA       m       816     1822    3          4829     4314     355       2514      541
-Loans            NAl      NA                 NA       NA      9'      911      1714     2414     2157      1777     1257      271
EXPENDITURES      14644    17999   21254    18318    11143    12818    15146    1SM         21799    22337   2235    21939    19615
1. Current       13728    13185    15935    11         9696     889f    9382       9816    18729    11439    12899    12686    13124
2. Cuoital        3664     4591     4951      4769     1651    37E-      5598      81UW    1837      945      8621      7178     4342
3.  eb: Serv.       N        NA        UR       1        NA       ;7;     454      265       569     12        1427     1761     199
MEBT LIMIT           NR       IR        MM       NR     7832     666      7488      9419    11573    133I5    1484      146      15869
R'S NEU DEBT         NA       NA        NA       1:     1132      OA       911      1714     2414     2157      1777     1257      271
IMEST?GNT PRD6M  FINRNC}L INPACT
RECEIPTS               816  3; 4                  962      949       6R2      953      6974
Current                2.     81      164       2598     3594     4574     5515      63
Capital              816     2539     490       7634     6254     510B     39         572
EXPOMITURES            PE6?    2V8       5516     82       8531     83        7854     43
Current                '      142      328       899     1255     15       1755    1BM
Capital              BIE    2539      4948      731      6254     519B     3539       572
NEr IMPACT OF PR(rGRA[   -:               582      1979     1128     1317      1599     1999     260



-43 -                             AME I
Page 19 of 25
SWU: 1l  85                                                           M&IL
sm. (-   9OLL Urn nwImira PSUEI
Table  17:  :pact of Progrsa  oft Nmicpal FinAnces  (Continued)
dii Elauie Pnt.tia1 IdmL WNWl                                                                     7 Yws
hi11 City Sue                                                            Prop. Ndrip. Tauing Loam:    LS
tw                     . L17
tugn     wM       L9       19613    j        Igs      isa&     Is6       tue9     mgs tl a          1991    iue
RECEIPTS           27    39          4165    285       2351    2         232      2M5      31       34    281          33zs    323
L Cwri             1976     2319     a5    2M27        195      162$     1756    1794       im       l99     25        21       233
a. Om-Swr          1R       165      lB       146      171      12D      145      171       198      224      251      277      3B4
L  ICI           1ic2      115      123      1945                35      867      953      946       993     1        17       1131
2 capita            911      gm      164       577      549      86a      9i      169       24       16    1191  1t3             997
Dowoa g             35        a      345      126       64       5       NA       88        8        No       IA                IR
L TrasfErs
-rat              88       Ii       10       Ml                47      10       196      277         7      34       144       31
-tam              8        88       88       NAi      ml       23       52       99       138      124     1in        72       16
ElI91l             285      3336     4171    285       2358 .    4P      2647     285       3116    3212      325      3327     3279
L Currnt          17m      2425    2867    2a9        1721     16SI     1727     1799     1895      193    2868      2151     2226
E. Capital         gm       834     1223      563      523      753      818      97        1114   195    I006        99      852
3. Debt Srv.        ml       IR       NA       No       ml      112      116    L16          33       59       82     IO       114
DEBTLINIT LO                  NR       NA       NR     1628     1316    1496      1678      1921     051     2126      2195     Z256
YWRs F8EEDET                           NA Ml  8  No     335       23       52       9B       139      12     12        72       16
wIEDr  E  FD                   MCT
RYECEIPTS rl*47                 1n       262      411      408       365      354      160
Current                0       24       51       82      116      152      184      213
Capital               47       76      212      329      282      213      1n       -53
EBPENDITURES            49       89      245      413      412      384      322       165
Current                3        8       19       52       72       89      161      193
Capital               47       76      212      329      2a2      213      128      -53
nETr riPAr  OF PROGRAm            -3       11       18       -2      -12      -18      -17       -5



A1NE I
Page 20 of 25
SAID: I APR85                                                      BSL
CTAT83IJ SaL I1E DWVBIT MEOET
Table 17: Impact of ProRram on MuniciPal Finances (Continued)
aS Th1_
PREt IF MICIPAULIS                                                      MS TI 
llediu Eanmic Potential                                                Invest Shedule:          7 Years
Large City Size                                                        Prop. N eip. Taking Lowc       e5
U  Retum:            6.17
1530  9158       1982    1993      191      18       1985    1987      198    158        1                 1952
RtECEIPTS        6595    9629    14         7746    6295      6665    7131    7878    IIY9        8819    987       981    8O35
L Cwrrnt          5717    684    7172    6K2    454           4914    5155    5 31    5718    60Zi    6331    6643    6951
a.  1oarce        913   177    1946         974    1752       758      me       947    1f3    1148        1I       1337    1438
h. EN            223    3982    448         3539    1769    2682    2796    2962    307    3187    337             344    3S4 3
Capitail           127    2223      332      13      1317     1757    1976         3    287      2618    2%0 Z666           191
B.DrmTiuu          99      116      537      354      239       99        3       NR      8        8        8        8 
h Trnsfurs
-Bralts         UN        1A       83       NA       I       144      326      663     849      759      625      442       95
-Loans           NA        I       IP       U        IR       72      166      3n1     425      31       313      m         46
EXI3RIlES         6923    8952   16748    7746    52M5    6714    7141    7866    8539    85l2    969   95                   8998
1 Curent        5M        72Z7    8162    5741    43          5121    S2       546      544    6111    6315    66           6867
2. Capital        1357    1542    2352    1245    121         143t      6       2192    2515    24         27      2643    1572
3. DebtS rv.                         1        NR No    A       234      248     218      1N      183      Z51      310      351
IEDlTlU T           U        NR t R                   3655     37i4    4125      4       5213      M19    5794    5978    6138
YRS NEW DEBT        NA       I    R  1         1       763       72    1i6       361      425      379      313      2         48
DlllEW PEEU FDURC DJT
DCEtPTS              144      378      878    1333    1316       1283    128      5tl
Curet                 O       74      157      2s       361      469    5R        657
Capital             1*4      31       721    111        941      734      452     -76
EIIITtIES              151     342      822    1342      1342     1257    187I      552
Curnt                 8       25       58      158      221      272      39       317
Capital              144     364      721     1684      5I       734      452      -76
NET IMPACT OF 'ROCRAM              -8       35       56       -4      -36      -5      -56       -11



- 45 -
ANNEX I
Page 21 of 25
sw: AMRes                                                             unitL
sin mam  mu.L S76 D5C59 PMr
Table 17: Impact of Progra oan Municipal Finances (Continued)
alss mhoea
SWRW IF MM6IP
Lo Etmic Pential                                                        Ivet. dieule:             7 Teas
ball City size                                                          Wop. luuicip. Tak   Loan          .5
1W Mtn:               .17
1        19811   190       198   9          1Mf  IS8         fI W      190      190      19        J91     199
RECEIPTS          2231     2696     3845      21        8       1917    2853      m        265  2E 62    26W          265       S
L Carrt            1613    2966     297       2936     163      1386     1468              151      1714     17       iS       2S9
a.IDASou           121      119      131      116      ISB       83      115      147       179     212      244      277       39
L UN               746      a       lZ7      947      714      590      614      643      619      721      762      OK        837
2.a  ptal           557      639     1198      12       137      561      595      78       952      9        838      737 m     53
a &trrun           414       28       69       24       33      192       U      -          U        U        Uf       U         U
L Trasfers
-ents             U        NA       U        NA       U        61      137      257      363      324      267       I19       41
%                 m U    1          NA U              NU       31       68      12       181      16       133       9         a
EPIUAS             2186    2i8       3969     2188     183      1914     2000    2212       M3      2635    273         76M     254
L. CGat            SZ9     1972    2689      1784     14       1333    139       142      1546    IS        I 1793   116       18O3
L! Capital         592      545     L140      221      236      539      562      756      927      m3       al       709       52
3. ebt Swrv.        1 i       R       IR       U        U        21       27       46       a        77     1t7        t12      L5i
I UNIT               u        IR t              NA 1is          t1       1        13s      t50 i1VA          17i2     1753      172
IS NES W IEIRT                NA NA    U                 63       31       68     1i        181      e62      133       94       20
afJT  RIID FINL D1Pr
RECEIPTS                Fl      1to      312      5%       499      445      365      175
Currnt                 t       32       68      119      1        20       246      2"
Capital               El       68      244      396      333      242      119    -169
EENDITUES               ES       84      287      S        24       465      393      176
Carent                 3       11       25       67       94      116      132      135
Capital               61       68      244      396      333      242      119    -169
INET IMPACT OF PROGRA              -3       16       25        6      -13      -2       -18       -1



-4C-                                D 
Page 22 of 25
STLOI: 38 NM 85                                                    lAwL
STWIL lm    L lDS TUM  97 pow
Table 17: lWact of ProMrm on Umicipal Finances (Contioue)
W IF  CIPPITIES                                                       S
LaW E ic  Potetial                                                    Inmt Sdi*1e:            7 Trs
Lwe City Size                                                         ppop. fuicip. Taiq Lom         35
IIJ  turm:           3.17
1993    1991     1992    1983    1994    1915    1996    1987    1991          pH      199      1391 lUI
RECEIPTS          2791    3426    5246    3331    2837    i8          3B76    32B4    3U19    353B        593     3791     3R
L Current         2262    2869    39    2U7          2416    2179    2         23        1                         2937
a.Im-Sau          3468    395       61      361      460      341      366     392       41      445      472  S            21
b. U0            1190   13        1515    1515    9SW       1643        112   124    1171       1291    122    13         13W5
2. Cantal          529      619    2m3l      954      392      75B    9o         914    11        1315    1lO3      977      gt
a& Twin            45       78       53      128     177       33   I 3          15   IP           9l      m    I R
b. Transfers
-grants          Mll      NA       1       93                29       65      122      172     1        126       89       19
-LOOs            MR       93       93       93       No      15       32       61       a6      77       63       45       13
EXPEIITLES        2762    313    5421    3331    217    2966    397    333              3521    3i3       3742    3
1.     at 1869             MS     33l         7              1974     m9      219    2129       2317    245          1    391
2. capital        779      8       2126     936    6e3        933    - 992    1399      127     1214    139    11S         1129
3. Debt Serv.   I R   I              9R      9        No      186      1a9      195       36               51       63       71
NlT UNLIT           NA       9        9       NA    1464    1437    117         194    23        2         242              2M3
VRS NEIl            NA       No       9        3      MS        15       32       61       a6      77       63       45       is
LWJES1If PM=  FDIJCI  DACT
RECEIPTS               29       62      163     Z5       2*7      an      1i        91
Cuwr                  a       15       31       so      72       93      112      13
Capital              29       48      132     215      175      133       75      -32
EIWITUIES              31       56      152     257      2        239      3        13
Crent                 2        5       2       32       45       55       62       64
capital              29       46      132      25       175     L33       15      -32
ET DiPACr  OF  PROGRA             -2       7       13       -2       -9      -13     -13       -5



- 47 -
ARM I
Page 23 of 25
S,WU  r ;UL SUI T=n vwEG
Tab]e 18: Debt chl1  ad Urn Poteatlal
Debt Serdrg CaLcaty
% of State                                aoIoI z t      B pe  gpita
R FgLns               Urbzm      Offical Debt Cqty         flal  I'm pII          Al
Flc    CiW        P             LiLt a of Oct. 19B4 1/      of   2_ of tba town
Regim   Pttia1       Size      (1M )     1 iEwliro  % I_ caizmt  usf              % loa oaumt
in a VI    bigi    0-6,M        13.4          9.2          42.3            8.0          37.0
&69).OM      41.7         13.4         62.2            2.1     -   10.3
II & V    -di      0-60W         3.5          3.3          15.3            0.6           2.9
6-9OMo      ^24-3          4.9         Z.7              1.9           8.9
I & IV     low    0-6.W          4.1          1.8          8.3             0.8           3.8
6.50.X      13.0          2.4         11.1             0.4           1.8
1CD          35.0         161.9           34.8          161.4
LB. Total 2     oa1cx it ii    .56.
1/ ;  debt ceaecdiy is a yzmic indcator tzat    acc ordiff t       Ceetecia (We  k  V). It is
calozlated eve2y trn 1V the State Redc    a ton mqimts a loan. Obn det ciLW as of Oteber
194 28 low t    the o3mfl debt caity over the pecol of project lWA'
21 2his Is equitmlmt  te  laIot la   =t o       cted that con rzmlt in a positive.wc    fLov of the pir
in umcipalitiues IgiU H It a) the project is        in 7     ; b) hblf of the citits aoter fs
pro,   c) all cLti  estsr  tbe pwR  rzde  1OC% of 1hEr fS19 pc capita t       aget at   e a  of project



- 48 -
ANNEX I
Page 24 of 25
BRAZIT
SANTA CATARII& SNAIL TOWNS INPROVEMENT PROJECT
Table 19: Economic and Sensitivity Analysis
Urban Investment Package
IRR
20% Cost
Town Group    Town Size              IRR               Overrun 1/
A & B           0-2,000               14                  13
C & )           2-6,000               15                  15
E & F           6-20,000              27                  26
G              20-50,000              24                  23
Veighted Average       22                  21
1/ No lower benefits scenario was included because the fiscal improvements
proposed in the project were not included in this anal,ysis.



- 49 -
AI I
PW 2 of 2
TMbl 2D. mIcipal Cost DinoV62y
of Inugetmt 'APstte  it CbaimtZia    thr               Nmi4al
Couponeut  cosu  cMWB     FarzCi  Od    IMui 3e
A. Iltrtucro
Street Pvig                           3.7         v          v
Tom Sime Imp1mnt                       2.5                                      4
Si'tr '   L    aI                      1_ 4 sv               *
kidgm an     nizU                     12*5
1wcui Cotrl and BsdmU5 7                                                              v      *
B.   PpDrt bo PlmdUve AedvitLU
ar m Grain D$Di4 Facdl       4.6
1aueri  an Artificial h m..            1.0 
C. Cm;zzItV FacUtiEs
Sdhod                                  3.9
Smrts Grtamu and Social Caxbor         2.7 v
Other PabUc  zdlax                     2.5
B). Bp.ait an Vddelas
Euiput and Vebicls for Road Ihint.    18.2
Odxe- Bpmt an Vebc                     4.5
TOMAL                                1C0         35.1       42.5        5.6   46.4  40.0   Z.4



- 50 -
ANEX II
SANTA CATARINA SHL TOWNS INPROVTENT PROJECT
Reference List of Typical Subproject-Types
A.  I[FRASTRUCTURE
(i) Road Paving and Storm Draiiiage; (ii) Upgrading of Town Squares
(Improvement of existing or new town squares, including paving of
pedestrian paths, landscaping, equipment and public lighting);
{iii) Bridges and Crossings; (iv) Site and Services and Slum
Upgrading; (v) Traffic Signs and Signals (Improving traffic safety and
regulation within towns); (vi) Street Furniture (Benches, public
garbage containers, mail boxes, etc.); (vii) Land Conservation and
Reclamation (Drainage works and earth filling for erosion prevention
and stabilization).
B.  PRODUCTIVE ACTIVITIES
'i) Warehouses and Grain Drying Facilities (For grain storage in order
to foster local production and increase trade potential); and
(ii) Nurseries and Artificial Insemination (Establishment of nurseries
for trees, agricultural products, seed for agricultural production,
and artificial insemination facilities for stock improvement).
C. CONMHMITY FACILITIES
(i) Schools; (ii) Sports Facilities; (iii) Social Centers
(Construction of buildings in the mnicipal town center for community
activities); and (iv) Other Public Buildings (Construction of Public
facilities to improve administrative efficiency).
D.  EQUIP^NT AND VEHICLES
Procurement of equipment for construction, repair and maintenance of
rural feeder roads and quarry equipment, and vehicles for community
services (school buses, ambulance, fire-fighting equipment, garbage
collection, etc.).



- 51 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4
BRAZIL
SANTA CATARINA SNALL TOWNS INPROVEXENT PROJECT
Resource Allocation
Past Criteria of Resource Allocation
1.        Until now, distribution of state grants for capital investment to
municipalities (independently from the mandatory sharing of tax proceeds),
has been made in a highly centralized manner on an ad hoc discretionary
basis largely in response to political pressures. Also, the budgetary
allocation for capital grants has varied greatly between years from the
equivalent of US$2.0 million to US$12.9 million between 1980 and 1984.
Overall, these transfers contitute a sizeable effort of the State and a
substantial contribution to municipal investment capacity, averaging US$5.6
million annually, and representing 29% of all direct investment of the
State, 3% of all capital expenditures aid 2% of ICM revenues. State grants
accounted for over 26% of all mnnicipal capital expenditures during the
period 1980-84 and added 24% to municipal own source revenues, excluding
ICN. Because of the lack of distribution criteria, this substantial
support to capital investment has been somewhat disconnected from GAPLAN's
efforts to modernize the State planning structure and to provide tailored
technical assistance to municipalities and Municipal Associations. The
shortcomings of the traditional pattern of distribution of capital grants
are indicated below:
(a) GAPLAN is the target of constant political pressures by
municipalities, either directly or through their associations
and elected bodies;
(b) the support thus provided to municipalities is not fully
effective because of lack of programming;
(c) the allocation procedure does not take into account real costs
and makes it difficult for GAPLAN to exert quality control on
investments;
(d) lack of financial programing caused poor planning and sub-optimal
selection of investments by municipalities;
(e) liquidity constraints result in delays in construction and
investment cost overrUns;
(f) the anticipation of payment delays by the contractors is
reflected in higher contracting prices.
Proposed Criteria for Resource Allocation
2.        As a condition of the loan, GAPLAN would agree to adopt
systematic criteria in the allocation of capital tzansfers for all
municipalities (para. 6.07 and Annex I, Table 15). These criteria and the
method of resource distribution for the grants and subproject selection for



- 52 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4
the loans are detailed in the Manual of Operations of the Program which
would be referred to in the Loan and Project Agreements.
3.        Allocation of Grant Funds. The State would appropriate resources
for the program in its yearly budgets. About one third of capital would be
distributed first between the six main sub-regions according to the
forecasted total populatiou of the municipalities in 1988 (the mid-year of
the project implementation period). The use of the projected population
would ensure that the more dynamic areas where needs for infrastructure and
investments are growing fastest are not penalized in comparison to less
dynamic subregions. A factor directly proportional to the per capita
contribuition of the subregion to State income would be applied to this
population. This factor varies from 1.1 for the most efficient region to
0.9 for the less efficient ones (Annex I, Table 15). More efficient
subregions would therefore receive a higher per capita allocation than
subregions making a smaller relative contribution to the State's income.
Thus the system would be based on a per capita allocation, but would have a
marginal correction for the economic prod-uctivity differentials and the
population dynamics of each region.
4.        Within each subregion, the tran.sfer funds would be distributed to
individual municipalities in such a way as to compensate for the lower
resource generation capacity cf smaller towns. For this purpose,
municipalities are classified in size groups, in which the average ratio of
current costs to own receipts, (including the ICN) was calculated. The
ratio varies from 1.684 for the smaller towns to 1.073 for the larger ones
(Annex T, Table 15). The per capita allocation in each size group was then
corrected by the corresponding ratio. The proposed apportioncent promotes
the most dynamic and efficient areas of the states while taking into
account the lesser borrowing capacity of the smaller towns.
Allocation of Loan Funds
5.        The proceeds from the Bank loan would be on-lent by GAPLAH
through BADESC/BESC to the municipalities which would apply for subloans
and meet the required criteria of eligibility. Such tests would ascertain
that the subloans fall within the legal borrowing limits of each
municipality and would be complemented by an assessment of the cash flow
and/or financial plan of the proposed subproject including operation and
maintenance costs and cost recovery. Only municipalities who wish to enter
the subloan program and fulfill the conditions would participate. The
demand for subloans is likely to vary with the regions and the sizes of the
municipalities. It was assumed that half the municipalities would ieceive
subloans, although with the absence of alternative sources of financing the
initial response to the program may be higher.
Allocation of Matching Fund
6.        The demand for and distribution of subloans would determine the
distribution of the remaining two thirds of state counterpart in the form
of a tied grant attached to the loans. For every amount of subloan taken
by a municipality, the State would apportion an equivalent amount of
matching grant. If the subloan is larger than the per capita grant



- 53 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4
allocation for the city, every cruzeiro of subloan in excess Y uld be
matched by two cruzeiros of matching grant.  Given the novelt} of the
program and the limited resources of local governments, these matching
funds would serve as an incentiie. For purposes of disbursement, they
would also ensure that in any municipality the subloan would not correspond
to more than 40% of the municipal investment package. Finally, although it
would be the State's obligation to provide the municipalities with
appropriate counterpart funds, municipalities may choose to participate in
the progran with their own resources, adding in this way to the volume of
the total investment package, and of the possible loan amount.
7.        GAPLAN would also define the procedures for selecting subproject
proposals by local administrations. These criteria discussed during
appraisal wonild be included in the Operational Manual and would include
technical specifications, economic justification, financial plan, cost
recovery proposal, and physical, social and economic impact evaluation.



BRAZIL
NIP                                                                            SANTA CATARINA SHALTL TO-WNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
nis-Im                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~GRANT ALLOCATION
4asunso    Is111                I           eu             I              #9 iiut              fle um Immi           I  Isnu              wssuvnMC"            la mu     I  WheN   sp ol    IIIO5W    Reun
35559p   on         s1in   64      i eilx          A"           siips        EN       511511-0 046 o     l ug 596151 55 5lit                 4     0161 5   I  lol  1RNi    I   DIl.- I,   I  90lPt lUl       qAIU,111 mu           u KIP  Oi
lqglp    IgI       p,       uiwsgntin  VW          Oa        ip      I"       NM       up      Ow       "e       suit  -tIS  1111111    I    *(jf              I   I  ew                     Ifn   I   -noIIMiIam          I   I   iui,na'iui   (Ill
*        .O 6,44    9   I        It"5 11 .196 tC  I01     549       05.11   Il16"   .INI                                                                                                               .06    *,1ag    OI.       9.1191
a I    loaN       use;1    I     e;sl    "I"C      CIl"    gill      PUI      16.11    ll6.36    C1I                                                                                                            6.99         1.1     31g.  gu
5  1666      1.5111    I     455  1 61           Il 4 1. 1 010   661      10,961   1.119;   ..'u                                                                                                            1,6111   C51      0,51M    SUIt
I    lu.eN       6.114    I l5 ur ns       1      51.04   g"M       66       N Il    LI';  .6.969                                                                                                              6.611    ISM    6.535    664955
I    465946     SCSI1    I onto5    a"             11 pill)Pu      uaf       95."61.US    4.111                                                                                                                awn   0.5*,   *."I    glee:
Sell              em15    u0                     ... iNN  t lsl      awn      eon1    sun11   liutn  es1r1   nill    sIl            ,0l1    544      s.ut   WI,        miii     eq      e.M   959651   '6,69   LIPS1   C 1   1,145    e.seu1
o  96    .1       I       D      Sell    W3.9    rul       ull;     i.;t   CUSS    iCI                                                                                                                  .115;  9,691    0.635    M0.16
5  10CC      1.411    I    4169   iSUC         64,11    old     ai        6a,n 1 . 311    Lift 6611                                                                                                          .966    6.IS   M.ol   gout
6MW       s.lCi     I     lIlt    I' ll"1.1    4641          ONmu          CIII 60    4.911                                                                                                              .6.144    SIN11   Cel    5.541
I-IN"    g.11 I           6049 11 6         19.01   110*    loll    41.1    agal   em.11                                                                                                                 1.6451   CON"    g,qm    g"t
I    "4-16      0.11    C          C        C      C011       C       C      CIS    COl   Cal                                                                                                                  e.m;1  e.m        *,m      I'e"
"la;gl;    Is                                      un su            N;        g.       5 .6 41 1 II    6165         C    *,141   6gw:1    aN    11.65:  Ililo:  11er1          ggp    11.1111  MCCI        .66  gg.Cs35   el1n    urn4   gee"
a  sm    6.0      e      si       6C     ue       rm      ieg       o.:      g        ,.sIg.ion   0.111   cell1   e.;,E
66C     1. VA    Iu I   WV   JIM;        10.11   IC111   "Mo        W6."    1.911   .11                                                                                                                 .1    II u    .~   VA    CI.N1
I       NS6       .61  1         191  will    "a  .L"   sin         ml    111    ),55m   ..1141 0                                                                                                                     .54;  $ir "ge       g,41
5   I     666CC      g,ila     S      9IS    6654"    v3."   SooC      IIN4S        1 si t i      *6.,Cn                                                                                   *o                                MHg     #.i*   #.  " ni
I    worse    1.ll        C    ON 046    m        3.5  3JIM       9146       44.61    Loll  .6.46                                                                                                              $.eat  ICIS        e 0,051 1441
i     Ml        6.24Lin   S    65mi   44Cm        iu.g   gin      Cli        29n0     IDs   4,69                                                                                                               9.1111  0.110   e.C1i   g,gei11
3506W  gOT)    5   50415    95010  geI sept   non          1.1 M             11    11           10    119           pt    so 116            W      Wi su"it    5.54ISO"0.ltt                  SIaN    pate    eggs    gmI
...       ..               .                 - .............................-...............  .  ...                . ...... .                                        9.9........... ...
SS i m        5.4       0    ltS      31 4        .990           ni        6.1     161 *.g   ~9C 16C                  1C        .5        i      s96Sis           351       96       et544              .   re     I 's lee,    un      sig"
I     CIW       LW 116             C11   4 C       Cit     Ul 1S           C IL      1,1144 C I   urn                                                                                                          Cut          0. 40 .60    gUC
i      .96C       glee1     9  116 10 004li        it'"    not1    bleN       5)4      tlt..qteit    . 0.94411                                                                                                    IS O             ,11   C14it
I     lIeup      1.145      I  ll ION      l 1 M     IS,6    alC    6910    51.111  gMMg   'LO11                                                                                                               6,514    04541    6, 13   uni
g   V     etNM       g,gu 51        ISMg    MiS       ItCI   MSi    NIPs         14.31   o.iu1   em                                                                                                                 1.0161   9.964   Ul 1.196 Cle
5 eeg   Is'M       I    CMP   ut          u1.1   ail       uri   n aim           n   .1tr 1                                                   1.04;                                                    a        usc,   urn    u'se
*nn1r                    9    ae        u;       144 psfa                  sCsI       gn. I.u         tolt "u.391Ci                                                                                                            0.111    gOs
*    9650044    6,073  I   511    mlt      l IA 9554         50        .N4    9.194  1 'CM                                                                                                              6.1161   CMI    CIa,9   g.Isf
Lo I           ................ .... .... ........                                       ......  ..         ....... ...... . . . . . . . ..... . ...   ..............          ....... ...~  ....... 9,5  ... -..    ...
I      -P        Il       IS   illl   11314       11.11  giR   lRiti        11I. 44 1. 11 .1.51   ss64ee               511       at        ;        i        m      gp         u        ,n055          46       ,14 uui Ci .1          4     41on
9   9660     1.019          140 sCi   1441     11ist1  ISM      runl      99.441   ,1 . 911   1 u-I'                                                                                                                 0        0,342    6.1911
I     eMS0    9,6 PI    1            40      SON      5in1.5t lol       mlu      59.05    s-m     e.ttt9                                                                                                           6.11  0.151    0.161   0.1115
a     0.16C     659 9ll   I    W51l   on?         E1lm    ou         ii 01           111   11;.n;                                                                                                              1.14111   6.150    oltS    5.64
I* WHM           g,91i1        91"m6    Ril ii       n    New    Del        01.6)      u      0,41                                                                                                             9,1101   0.96I   C.114    geOm
....                  .       .       .       .- .                  .~             ~          ~         ~ ~ ~~~.................... ........ ..91
eta   W       3.  is AaC 55                     99 11131ll  n1149651      t13.11   1.111   *1.19111          53      ll         .S        1      ge      oD         n       6       uti~                    ilC.iC9L11 1 Ci    0.2611   0.655
I.                          ITPI.1  6     0111   Ht .N    1109   *651:19  111 * .i   t 1t  4.4CI                                                                                                            1,11091   0415    40,04   Chit1
4-04          .    w11   tits       usMImp    n.ltt     1 t it i m WU    1."      '      11 4,5  lt,11tn   kil    CIA    0.0161
0  usun       ian1     I fl 015C         p 441 1       IRI$ 11019 glt     611    1,61q    0,101                                                                                                             &.$M   I559      040*    0,V13
I    *"0C       1.994      5 Pas14    xi"         19.11  ff111     gm 1     1169  .4    lTDn    eel:                                                                                                           1.0101   *1.11i   *.#s    thAM
*  6.6w       IO 1      a1  & itIs.I   JIM1    ON1  l10l0    6ffl         Us1a   sig1   sin                                                                                                                 9.9m1 .01 L.3    "e         gnng
- . . . -..  - . -.     .     .     .     .     ... .           . ..        .            .       ....  .--.           .          3.396-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R'ol -... ._
-. ...".. .."...             ... . .... ......................................   . .. -1 il   .4 LO   .-1  . -0 cl"
9  sIll    .100    U  a    i    10104       91t14           lal        69      L11    .6*11  IWO,lo411   0,014    u,e3"I    0sli411111 fil
5  1.01CC  6.045    58   hill   1001W   1.     10       o        9h      LS        ,6                                                                                                             5.4 10,6          till    0.960
I4  0      gun       1.914    i     si 6 4 149 Nun      0 6. 4 se te i 51    111  MI1   eSs:   lesS                                                                                                                senAt   uni    gets6   *l
a;wu    :1.1       It  116155     M"49111    3.414  n    ile   d 0 0     .69 .111Ll    L4.96                                                                                                            119011   L4151   941 .4 0flu
O    96366C      6,019   96  I4331[  90111        13 I uI O n   IWSa         IDf   gLeft   4-.t1,111                                                                                                         iiqs       .510    u.srs    s               b
I5    M-M         .       v8 1   IlSO)   MR1)110    64.11 lal lliDiW)        113,4    Linf  -4,g314106    41            sm      5369       N      1CManl SU                    166        1310           u.  Mils   u.n    LSo            e.mt1
lag  .IN uuO*4W swclsqehCoisOC                           u  0.691                                                                                                                                                                 low06
5d   16g6w165ut5164u04eM        Is.I
Arcmdop u Mefia.iq ge
964W1wIds  ed   uca.  916l id        w66 gt W         inT be  eStirUil.              er4nus1
Uddpqor" U                             I                                                                                                                                                                                       IN
IC 11li1r4Og PI6Pm  oil, cr.1  mwg  any On  mu"s gle



- 55 -
ANM IV
BRAZIL
SANTA CATARINA SNALL TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Municipal Borrowing Capacity
1.        In Brazil, borrowing operations by State and Municipalities are
subject to three principal limits, which were established in Federal
Resolution No. 62 of October 28, 1975. Exceptions are classified as
"extra-limit" and must be submitted to the Federal Senate via the Central
BAnk for approval. For example, BNH and FXDU loans have been excepted.
The three conditions that a municipality must meet to contract a loan are:
(a)   the cumulative debt outstanding in any given year shall not
exceed 70% of the borrower's total revenues in the previous
fiscal year (adjusted for inflation and including transfers);
(b)   the amount of debt contracted in any year shall not exceed 20% of
the total revenues of that year; and
(c)   the debt service (interest plus amortization) in any year sPall
not exceed 15% of the total revenues of the previous year.
2.        The Resolution No. 64 of Jul,y 11, 1985, amended the system of
adjustment for inflation in the above mentioned resolution and introduced a
monthly correction with official financial index.



-56 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
SANTA CATARINA SKALL TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector and Santa Catarina
Nifueroa de Santa Catarina. GAPLAN - Outubro 1983; 273 p.
Boletim Conjuntural Santa Catarina.  GAPLAN/SC; Junho 1984; Vol. 7 No.
182; 30 p. & 30 p.
Desespenho da Economia Catarinense em 1983. GAPLAN/SC; 12 p.
S{nteae Anual da Agricultura do Santa Catarina 1983. Secrstaria de
Agricultura e de Abastecimento; Instituto CEPA/SC; 373 p.
S$ntese Anual da Agricultura de Santa Catarina. Volume I Desrmpenho
Perspectivas 1983-1984; Secretaria de Agricultura e do AbasteAimento;
Instituto CEPA/SC; 340 p.
XXVI Sondagem Conjuntural Inddutria de Transformuato. Julho 1984;
GAPLAN/SC; 34 p.
Receita e Despesa da microregiao polarizada segundo as categorias
econamicas 1976-80. Foz do Rio Itajaf; 12 xerox.
A experiSucia do associativiamo aunicipal do Santa Catarina.  XI
Congresso Nacional do Municipios; Balneirio Camboriu; 5 Outubro de
1984; FederaCao Catarinense de Associa "es de Municipios FECAN; 24 p.
Relatorio dos pregufzos causadoaa sociedade Cataeinense par fenomenos
climticos; GAPLAN; Outubro 1983; 15 cap.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project.
Support Program of Urban Development of the -Smaller Towns in the State
of Santa Catarina; 171 p.
Receitas realizadas y disponiveis em Santa Catarina; 1981; 2 tables;
Secretaria do Fazenda; Assesaoria especial.
Previsio/realiza,cao do ICM 1983-1984. Secretaria da Fazenda;
Assessoria especial; 2 tables.
Orgamento 1984.  Autaquias e fundacoes; Decreto 20876; 20 Dezembro
1983; GAPT-4 SC; 102 p.
OrEamentos Nunicipais Consolidados receitas 1984. 1983, 7 xerox.



- 57 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 3
Demostrativo das despesas municipais 1984. 7 xerox.
Quadro de Detalhamento da despesa. 1984; GAPLAN/SC; 209 p.
Or amento 1984. Autaquias e fundapoes; Decreto 20876; 20 Dezembro
1983; GAPLAN/SC; 102 p.
Evolupao do numero do municipios integrantes do projeto CIATA. SC; 5p.
Convanio que entre si colebram a UnIo Federal e o Estado de Santa
Catarina visando a impantao do grojeto deiominado Conv=&ni de
incentivos ao AperfeipOQMento T6calco-adzinistrativo de mniRCipios.
CIATA; no & bito do Estado.
Resumo da implantaqio e manutenio do projeto CATh en Santa Catarina;
2 zerox.
Organizsaio sintetica por irea do atividade do governo do Estado de
S.C. (4 serox).
Entidades da aduinistragio indireta e fundacional (2 pages of xerox).
Estatuto Social; BADESC.
Relat6rio da AdministraNao; BADESC; 1981, 1982, 1983.
Relat6rio de atividades e prestaqo de coztas 1983. Associapio dos
municLpios da regiao da Grande Floriandpolis; GEANYPOLIS.
Assessoria em Plaeejazento Urbano. Conv&zio de Coopera;ao T&cnico-
.Financeira entre Secretaria de Transportes e obras STO e Assoc&api` dos
Municfpicz da Regiio ds, Grande PlorianiSpolis; Naro 1983; 42 p.
Plano de Trabalho 1984/87, Gabinete de Planejamento e Coordenagio
Geral; Janeiro 1984; 4 p.
Apoio ao Desenvolvimento rrbano. CAPLAN Subehefia de articulacio com
s          OiOS; 10 p.; modelo de lei de cSmara, modelo de plano de
aplicaao,r modelo do coutrato de prestapio de servijpos.
Relaci`o de Pessoal do GAPLAN por Fornza o Professional. I page.
Estrutura Organizacional e Regimento Interno. 69 p.
DAE SC - Organigrgmi e Normas Relativas a Licitacao.  9 xerox.
Decreto 73140 de 9 Novembro 1973 - Reularaento as Licitacoes e os
Contratos Relativos a Obras e       oServigo de Engenharia. e das outras
Providencia. Xerox 39 p.
Lei OrAnica dos Municipios do Estado de Santa Catarina. GAPLAN; 64 p.
Estatuto AssociaVio de Nunicfpios da Reglio do Alto Vale do Itajaf.
AMAVl; 14 p. (t coples).



- 58 -
Page 3 of 3
Form used by GRANPPOLIS to calculate fiscal values.
Perfil Municipal. 2a. Versao GAPLAN/SC; 12 p.
Estado de Santa Catarina - Capacidade de Eudividamento. 31/7/84; 8 p.
State loan impact analysis table.
Eunic4pal fi-nncial impact analysis.
Municipal distribution of grant allocation.
Standard participation agreement between GAPLAN and the Municipalities.
Standard subloan agreement between BADESC and the Xunicipalities.
Contract between GAPLAN and DAB.
Contract betweeL BADESC and BESC.
Draft Manual of On-lending Policies and Procedures, GAPLAN 1985.
Technical Assistance Program, GAPLAN 1985.
Preliminary Information System to Monitor the PROURM program, GAPLAN
1985.
Proposed allocation of resources for the second seumater of 1985,
G'ZLAN.
C. Selected Tables
State financial analysis and project impact analysis.
Municipal financial analysis and project Impact analysis.



<      4
s--
SANTA CATARINA"                                                       /            /t                                            .  
SMALL TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
URBAN  NETWORK  AND S-t- /     
RATE  OF  POPULATION  GROWTH, 1970  1980-
I=0-2              0  10-20                                       (@\          R/5 /W<9 
10-15    h        D  I16  x-ciro ludded tA 
ByMunicipaityc           Urba Crnspry
Crefe afillter          lion NetworkC       C<                              )
1980         _        s%                             BRAZIL           /                                              nptye
-~    Railroads                                                                                          na Wm *wdwKe*b,aw 
w                                                                                                           Yo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~?  e  of no tE   a " .
---- Municipal Boundaries                           uL Ia  to bowwmas t
Association Boundaries                                                                                             of      V o& r    ,t  ft
State Boundaries                                                                                                 VWPO OR**
InternotIonal Boundaries                                                                                         womsom*    
|  53'                     5i'                                                                              496' 5f  *?             /



AP A\  A RA
s. ~~~PRANA                                                                                                                            e 
-2s          AND PLANNING REGIONS                                                   \  -\                              / )    .   62  .                      .Osds
BRAZIL
SANTA CATARINA
SMALL TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
MUNICIPAL ASSOCIATIONS                                                      Cv 1d
28,            AND PLANNING REGIONS                                                                                                  W
Municipal Boundarles
Association Boundaries
* *. e . Planning Region Boundaries
State Boundaries
International Boundaries
0             so             100                                 B R A Z I L
29                          KILOMETERS
71w nv AIl bee piowed by The WNW 8e*s6 old I saw*%k IN ft e1W1WOW  of
ttisrewws  e aufilt9wtine pedlwM  eol niegctww Vmw' Iw and tieNmS
FHien Cawebe rdh d    bf VeN d eftltiW V bXrd&W ~ an H t Ow p  oW
We'sJ 5I H9 a4lL wilm WI'n ot anwi U _w Cl d                                     Pa  r# Ca farina  
9                       ss'~~~~~~~~5                  5?                            51                            S                             4O 



94N4                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~SANTA CATARINA
SMALL TOWNS
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
-MSldpe humdai
AGRICULTURAL FRODUCTION  ~ ~      ~          ~         ~         IOU           OUTION BY'                                                                                  i
PLANNING REOGION AS A PIRCEN     OF                 V                                 PLANNI         )MTLA Of  *
THr. STATE Coeclain cIti.s abow 50,000), 197!   #                                      TiHE STATE (sxc Wir cdii)a aw 50.00),197    le
i  1l0-20%  10                            5^                  7 *g                         10-201%                                             |/
MGM *m 20%                                                                             Mom then 20% .aozn
1WllON of U DMA                                                                      ODISTM0I OF DATA
Abi                                                                A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I~~6.66 
IS                                                                                       10^1X'" 30 fO WI                                                                                 .gt    b 1 1n'" X iO a "~ "-6- rS-ui-1
1 --j                                            -ft~~~ a -
0 ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~040
COMMI%I,AL REVENUE BY                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~TOTAL PROCUCTIN BY
PLASNT  ll(el   TNUASOA ER                  IVNPLANNING N GIN AS AMERCEN OF
1111 SAT (adin cilia vba 5000)197                                                      THE1 STATE (eac  lag cilia  50,001975               .*
OF DATA                                                                      GITNUTION OF CAVA
I  w                       I                                 /    I    ^,i
7.70                 41.U6                                                                226                 3.0I



-     0404ig4                                                                                P44,SANTA CATARINA
SMALL TOWNS
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PROPORTION OF TOTAL                                                                    PROPOTON OF tOTAL
AGRICULTURAL LAND IN THE MICRO REGION                         w ..1                    AGRICULTURAL LAND IN THE MICRO REOION : 
USED FOR CULTIVATION, I8 M                                                                UNDER PASTUREE, 1M                   6
LOU tm J0%                   Ilk,                                                     Lu * , m 3OLs    _  70%
30-33%                                                                                    3035 Ii2 d   J% A t'=                                O          ,^                     1              
Hm tre35%                                             .Md"% Om 3
Mkro Reqgbn Tondre                                          VI                         Ne Rb6n grlwn#
,WWT* OF "DATA                                                                             DItWT   DOF DTA{~__^__ ~
^24.17 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  
I?   X   ^30 '" 40   so   60                                                              20 o             So"X17U o                                                                0 dO  '= 
4                                                J. ,6                                                 ,         ..5.._S__ .  _
,.46                             6543                                                    14,,"                        66.,,
TOA  Uay..
S      Lsathn25%                                                                               Le" . ii a$%
25-3 , J%                                      V                                        AeIS   2S%           ,                       5 ;g                
- ko blaen bow&reszIt  *....qfil*.... %iY "WX 
WROPOTION OF DOTAL                                                                   TOTAL O iON OF DAT
ARCTUAtlADNTIIROEIO               DTIETAEIduIgct.abwO, )  97                                                                 
4035                                                                                  1525
16,n          4Z33                                                                  6113                  4OSS
.                                                                                                         .ei  _at 25%  Mar, Mini 25%






