Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A;/ . p.2c -~ 6WE
Report No. P-4 144-BR
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$24.5 MILLION
TO THE
STATE OF SANTA CATARINA
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE
SANTA CATARINA SMALL TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
.,
August 29, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its cotents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



aURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1984                      August 30, 1985
Currency Unit  Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1 = CR$1,847                    US$1 = Cr$6,970
CR$1 = US$.000541                  CR$1 = US$.000143
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AGLURB           -   Aglomeracoes Urbanos
(Transport Program for Urban Agglomerations)
BADESC          -   Banco de Desenvolvimento de Santa Catarina
(Ssnta Catarina State Development Bank)
BESC            -   Banco do Estado de Saata Catarina
(Santa Catarina State Bank)
BNDES           -   Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e SociaL
(National Bank of Economic and Social Development)
BNH             -   Banco Nacional da Habitacao
(National Housing Bank)
CASAN           -   Companhia Santa Catarinese de Agua e Saneamento
(Santa Catarina State Water and Sanitation Company)
CELESC          -   Companhia de electricidade Santa Catarinense
(Santa Catarina State Electricity Company)
CNIX            -   Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Urbano
(National Urban Development Council)
CURA            -   Comunidade Urbana para Recuperacao Acelerada
(Urban Improvement Program)
DAE             -   Departmento Autonomo de Edificacoes
(Santa Catarina State Department of Public Works)
DER-SC           -   Departmento de Estradas de Rodagem
(Santa Catarina State Department of Roads)
EBIU            -   Empresa Brasileira de Transporte Urbano
(Urban Transport Enterprise of Brasil)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CAPLAN          -   Gabinete de Planejamento e Coordenacao
(Planning secretariat of the State of Santa Catarina)
ICM             -   Imposto sobre a Circulacao de Mercadoria
(Value Added Sales Tax)
ORTN            -   Obrigacoes Reajustaveis do Tesouro Nacional
(Readjustable National Treasury Bond)
SEPLAN          -   Secretaria de Planejaaento da Presidencia da Republica
(Presidential Planning Secretariat)
STO             -   Secretaria de Transportes e Obras
(Santa Catarina State Secretary of Transport and Works)
SUDESUL         -   Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Sul
(Southern Regional Development Agency)
IThis documwnt has a resticted distibution and may be used by mecipients only in the pMforne
of their oficial duties. Its conesnU nay not otherwie be disckbu without World Blank authoriition.



BRAZIL
SANTA CATARINA SMALL TOWNS IDPROVEMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            The State of Santa Catarina
Guarantor:           Federative Republic of Brazil
Project Executing
Agency:            Planning Secretariat of the State of Santa Catarina
(GAPLAN)
Amount:              US$24.5 million equivalent.
Terms:               Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Beneficiaries:       The project would benefit about 190 small
municipalities of up to 50,000 inhabitants (about 2
million people) in the southern State of Santa
Ca tarina.
Relending Terms:    The Borrower would onlend the proceeds of the loan to
the municipalities through its State Development Bank
(BADESC) and the State Bank of Santa Catarina (BESC)
for 10 years including up to 24 months of grace at no
less than 10.5Z plus an administrative fee of .5Z. The
principal of the subloans would be adjusted for
inflation by the ORTN index.
Project
Description:       The proposed project would provide a line of credit
(subloans) to participating municipalities in the State
of Santa Catarina for the first time. The subloans
would be complemented by grant funding from the State.
The subloans would finance priority investments
prepared by the municipalities with the assistance of
the Municipal Associations, reviewed by GAPLAN and
BADESC, including: urban infrastructure (street paving,
bridges), productive activities (warehouses, grain
storage facilities), community facilities (schools,
social centers), equipment and technical assistance.
The program would focus on strengthening municipal
management and planning through the preparation and
execution of investments according to economic criteria
acceptable to the Bank. It would also strengthen
municipal finances and promote rational allocation of
resources by introducing cost recovery mechanisms for
selected types of investments.



- ii. -
Risks:              Timely execution of the proposed project depends upon
the cooperation and coordination of a nmber of
entities including GAELAN, BADESC, BESC, The State's
Secretariat of Transport and Works (STO), Department of
Public Works (DAE) and Department of Roads (DER) and
the municipalities themselves. The risk of delay is
expected to be mitigated by the strengthening of GAPLAN
and the municipal associations to insure adequate
coordination. Some delay might also occur if state
counterpart funds are not provided in a timely way (no
counterpart is needed from the Federal Government) but
given the conservative size of the project and its
broad-based political support, this risk should be
minimal.
Estimated Cost:                            -          S$ millions
Local   Foreign   Total
Project Components
Infrastructure                               20.0      6.8      26.8
Support for Productive Activities             1.8      0.6       2.4
Commnnity Facilities                          4.9      1.0        3.9
Equipment and Vehicles                        5.3      4.4       9.7
Technical Assistance & Project Supervision   3.8       2.0       5.8
Base Cost                                      33.8     14.8       48.6
Physical Contingencies                        3.0      1.9        4.9
Price Contingencies                          11.9      4.6       16.5
Contingencies                                  14.9      6.5      21.4
TOTAL PROJECT COST                             48.7     21.3      70.0
Financing Plan:                                     -US$ millions
Local   Foreign   Total
Bank                                           17.0      7.5       24.5
State of Santa Catarina                        31.7     13.8      45.5
Estimated Disbursements                            -US$ millions-
Bank Fiscal Year                    1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993
Annual                              2.1  1.5  2.9  4.7  5.1  4.5  2.6  1.1
Cummulative                        2.1  3.6  6.5 11.2 16.3 20.8 23.4 24.5
Rate of Return:                          29Z



IP"ERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US24.5 MILLION
TO THE STATE OF SANTA CATARINA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE SANTA CATARINA SMALL TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to the State of Santa Catarina with the guarantee of the Federative
Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$24.5 million to help finance
the Santa Catarina Small Towns Improvement Project. The loan would have a
term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with the interest at the
Bank's standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1 
2.        An economic report entitled -Brazil:  Country Economic
Memorandum" (Report No. 5373-BR, dated February 26, 1985) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on March 7, 1985.
3.        Brazil's Government changed in March 1985 when President Joao
Figueiredo completed his six-year term in office. The main economic
priorities of the Figueiredo Administration included the growth of
agriculture, the expansion of manufactured exports and reduced dependence
on imported oil, and at the same time an improvement in the situation and
prospects of the most economically disadvantaged people and regions,
especially in the Northeast. The prime political concern during this
period was the return to a fully democratic system of government. Much of
the Government's attention, after 1980, had to be diverted from longer-term
political and economic change because of the stabilization problems
confronting Brazil. In spite of the economic recession and consequent
social pressures, however, substantial progress has been made towards the
structural changes needed for Brazil's next stage of development.
4.        The presidential elections held in January 1985 resulted in the
election of Dr. Tancredo Neves, whose subsequent inability to take office
presented a crisis for the new Government. With the death of Dr. Neves in
late April, Vice-President Jos6 Sarney became President and now faces the
tasks of pursuing the objectives stated by Dr. Neves and attaining broad
popular support. The new Government has indicated that its primary
economic goal will be to restore the country's economic growth in order to
expand employment opportunities, improve the remuneration of the labor
1/ Parts I and II of this report are similar to the corresponding sections
of the President's Reports for the CHESF-FURNAS Power Transmission
Project and the Southeast Power Distribution Project (Report Nos.
P-4073-BR and P-4074-BR respectively, both dated May 15, 1985).



- 2 -
force, improve social services, and bring about a more equitable
distribution of income. The Goverument also recognizes that for this
growth to be solidly based, it is necessary to control inflation, put the
finances of the public sector on a sound footing, and overcome constraints
on growth imposed by the balance of payments.
Poverty Alleviation
5.        Although Br-z'l continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government over the past decade has made substantial
efforts to relieve poverty. The educational system has been rapidly
expanded, giving rise to increased enrollment rates and reduced
illiteracy. Social security programs have been strengthened and extended
to rural areas, and health services for the poor have been upgraded and
expanded. Increased government efforts have also been directed to low-cost
housing programs for the poor and the improved provision of water and
sewerage services. In part as a reflection of these and other programs,
there are indications, based upon preliminary estimates from the 1980
demographic census, of substantial living standard and welfare improvements
during the 1970s. Considerable absolute real income gains were realized by
all income decile groups. Non-income gains, as reflected by improved
access to public services, declining infant mortality, and increased
durable consumer goods possession by households, also attest to significant
poverty reduction during the decade. Given the impact of recent economic
difficulties on output and employment, however, some of these gains may
have been seriously eroded. One of the first actions of the new Government
was to introduce a priority program for the social sectors for 1985, with
Increased provisions for nutrition, health, housing, school improvement and
water supply programs, assistance for small farmers, employment creation
and special assistance for the Northeast.
Recent Economic Performance
6.        Brazil achieved a remarkable 11% annual grovth in GDP in the
years 1967 to 1973, with declining domestic inflation and a significant
liberalization of both foreign and domestic trade. Further substantial
growth c~curred in the years from 1974 to 1980, at an annual average rate
of 7%, but in greatly changed circumstances. Following the large increases
in 1973 in the price of imported oil, the international recession, and the
sharp deterioration in the terms of trade, successive Brazilian governments
sought to maintain output and employment growth through policies
characterized by generous credit and tax incentives for industrial and
agricultural exports and import substitution; rising import barriers;
investment in domestic energy resources to substitute for imported oil; the
expansion of state enterprises; and heavy foreign borrowing. Between 1975
and 1980, Brazil's medium and long-term debt more than doubled from US$23.3
billion to US$54.9 billion. The efforts to redress the external imbalance
after 1974 created strong internal pressures and increased inflation. The
economy remained vulnerable to external shocks, and when further increases
in oil prices occurred in 1979 and 1980, and international interest rates
increased, the current account deficit more than doubled to reach US$12.4
billion. Domestic inflation accelerated to 11OZ.



-3-
7.        Stabilization measures, relying heavily on monetary policy,
resulted in a decline in GDP in 1981, ending the long period of sustained
growth. Incipient recovery was checked in 1982 by a combination of
external developments, including declining world commodity prices, economic
problems of some major trading partners, and the international debt crisis
of August 1982. Faced with the loss of its reserves, the
reluctance of foreign banks to roll over existing loans or extend new
credits, and bleak international market prospects, Brazil sought assistance
from the International Monetary FuLnd in support of an intensified
adjustment program. In February 1983 the IMF pledged financial assistance
of the order of US$5.4 billion in compensatory financing and through the
Extended Fund Facility for the years 1983-85. Associated with this were
commercial bank commitments for 1983 of US$4.4 billion in new loans, the
rescheduling of US$4.6 billion in loan repayments due in 1983, and other
measures of financial support. A similar agreement for 1984 provided,
inter alia, the rescheduling of US$4.7 billion in loan repayments, and the
commitment of US$6.4 billion in new commercial bank loans.
8.        The primary objective of the program was the reduction of the
current account deficit and external borrowing requirements. The cruzeiro,
which is pegged to the US dollar, was devalued by 30% in February 1983 and
subsequently adjusted in line with domestic inflation. Import restrictions
were increased, and tight fiscal and monetary restraints were imposed.
Imports fell by 212 in 1983, and exports increased by 8.5% in spite of
adverse trading circumstances, resulting in a trade surplus of US$6.5
billion and a reduction in the current account deficit from US$14.8 billion
in 1982 (equivalent to about 5% of GDP) to US$6.2 billion.
9.        In 1984, these trends continued, with the complete elimination of
the current account deficit in the balance of payments. Accordingly, in a
period of two years Brazil achieved an external adjustment equivalent to
over 5% of GDP. An unprecedented trade surplus of US$13.1 billion was
generated. Although total imports, especially of oil, continued to fall,
much of this surplus resulted from export expansion. Measured in current
US dollars, total exports for 1984 were 23% greater than in 1983; the
comparable increase for industrial exports was 37%. Reflecting the
favorable trade performance, and substantial net capital inflows, Brazil's
international reserve position also improved markedly in 1984 with a net
increase of over US$7 billion.
10.       At the same time, the major source of internal disequilibrium,
the public sector deficit, was also brought under better control. Central
Bank figures shov that the consolidated, operational public sector deficit
was reduced from 6.6% of GDP in 1982 to 2.5% in 1983; a small surplus was
planned for 1984, but recent information indicates that a significant
deficit remains. Steps were taken, however, to reduce product and interest
rate subsidies and, adjust relative prices for fuel and other publicly
administered products. Although inflation continued high, substantial
progress was made towards establishing a new basis for growth.
11.       The short-run costs of adjustment have been high.  Inflation
reached 211% in 1983 as a whole, exacerbated by crop shortages, increases



- 4 -
in administered prices, very high real interest rates, and the effects of
devaluation. GDP fell by 3.2% in 1983, with the greatest reductions
concentrated in the industrial and commercial sectors. All together, per
capita GDP declined by over 12% during 1981-83. For that period industrial
employment fell by over 20%, with the largest reductions in incomes and
employment concentrated in the main industrial centers.
12.      Sparked by the export resurgence, GDP for 1984 is estimated to
have grown by 4.5%, or over 2% per capita. The increase in manufacturing
exports has led an incipient industrial recovery, despite the fact that for
most sectors the proportion of total output which is exported remains
small. Overall expansion is still inhibited by depressed domestic market
conditions, however, which can be expected to continue until there is some
relaxation in the present austere demand management policies. In
particular, recovery is not likely to become generalized until real
interest rates fall from their present levels of 30-40%.
Economic Outlook
13.      Building upon the favorable 1984 results, Brazil's overall
external economic prospects continue to be positive for 1985 and 1986.
The international reserve situation is the strongest in many years, with
the Central Bank's cash position currently reported to be more than US$8
billion. Such reserve levels would allow for considerable contingenclas in
the balance of payments for 1985 and beyond. In addition, as compared with
1984, some aspects of the international economic situation appear
encouraging; both international interest rates and oil prices have
declined. A change of 1% in the average interest rate paid by Brazil means
a balance-of-payments gain or loss of about US$750 million. Similarly, a
dollar per barre] change in average annual oil prices has an impact of
about US$250 million on the trade balance.
14.       Exports in the first quarter of 1985, were 12% lower than in the
same period of 1984, and were subsequently affected by industrial
sroppages, mainly in Sao Paulo. A recovery has since occurred and by June
1985 a trade surplus of US$5.5 billion had been achieved, although with
both exports and imports slightly down from the first half of 1984.
Current Government estimates are for total 1985 exports of nearly US$26
billion and a trade surplus of US$12 billion, with non-oil imports
increasing but imports of oil declining further.
15.       In spite of the improved production performance in 1984, domestic
economic prospects are clouded by inflation, which remains a critical
issue, and reducing it under the current system of indexation and in the
context of very resilient inflationary expectations has proven to be
exceedingly d'fficult. Indexation, while making it difficult to reduce
inflation, does mitigate some of the adverse economic and social effects
commonly associated with it. A major challenge for the new Government will
be to restore confidence and, in doing so, dampen 'nflationary
expectations. To accomplish this, a comprehensive and consistent
medium-term strategy and a clearly stated and credible short-term economic
program will be essential. This will have to include, inter alia, a
substantial reduction of the public sector deficit.



- 5 -
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
16.       The medium-term economic prcapects for Brazil are generally
encouraging, albeit dependent on the economic policies pursued by the
Government as well as a number of external economic factors outside the
control of Brazilian policy-makers. The levels of international interest
rates and of oil prices, growth in the OECD, the avoidance of additional
trade barriers for Brazil's exports, and the availability of modest net
amounts of external financing, are all critical for Brazil. The
medium-term strategy is expected to focus on further export promotion,
greater productive efficiency, reduced inflation, increased investment and
savings, and a reduced reliance on external borrowing.
17.       On the basis of relatively cautious assumptions relating to the
international environment, and the projected domestic economiz recovery,
Brazil could achieve substantial improvements in its balance of payments
situation, external debt outlook, and creditworthiness indicators. The
resource balance has turned positive with the large trade surpluses of 1983
and 1984. Total medium- and long-term debt is projected to grow in nominal
terms more slowly than the projected rate of international inflation.
Cross disbursements are projected to rise from US$14.8 billion in 1985 to
about US$20 billion in 1990, and amortization from US$11 billion to about
US$15 billion in the same period, with net disbursements averaging
approximately US$4.5 billion. The projections are consistent with
reductions of total real commercial bank exposure in Brazil and a reduced
share of Brazilian loans in total commercial bank lending portfolios.
Nevertheless, moderate amounts of new lending are expected to be required
after 1985.
18.       Creditworthiness indicators for Brazil would improve
substantially over the projection period. With the base case projections,
interest payments would fall from 37% of exports in 1984 to about 21% in
1990. The total debt service ratio is projected to fall from 72% in 1984
to about 48% in 1990. These projections assume that debt repayments due
during the next five years will be either rescheduled or compensated by
equivalent new loans, included in the gross capital inflows referred to in
paragraph 17.
19.       GDP is expected to show a gradual recovery from 1985 on, the
growth rate accelerating from 4% in 1985 to over 7% in 1990. Throughout
the 1984-90 period an average increase in real per capita consumptiou tf
near 3.5% annually is projected. Even so, it would not be until 1988 that
the 1980 level of per capita income would be restored. Alternative
balance-of-payments projections, including a scenario with interrupted OECD
recovery and continued high international interest rates, indicates that,
even if international trade conditions are less favorable, and the net
capital inflow substantially smaller than assumed in the above projections,
Brazil should still be able to achieve equilibrium in its-external
accounts, while maintaining positive economic growth rates, albeit lower
than would be required to obtain a sizeable reduction of unemployment
levels.



- 6 -
20.       Any projection results must be viewed cautiously because of the
uncertainties regarding future international conditions. Nevertheless,
some conclusions may be drawn. First, the success of Brazilian development
strategy over the foreseeable future will depend upon the country's success
in expanding exports. Second, given the seriousness of the external
constraints, Brazil's economic growth over the period 1984-90 will be more
modest than during the 1970s. Thus, policies impacting on the growth of
employment opportunities will be a particuiar concern.   Third, to sustain
that more modest rate of output growth will require both a continued net
inflow of external financing, at least in nominal terms, and a greatly
improved savings effort from the domestic economy. Finally, despite the
clear difficulties and risks inherent in the current situation, Brazil has
the economic strength, with the support of its lenders, to work its way out
of the present liquidity situation and resume a satisfactory rate of growth
while continuing to meet its international obligations. Thus, Brazil is
creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terus in the magnitudes
indicated above.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
21.       By March 31, 1985 the Bank had made 136 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$9,866.7 million (net of cancellations), of which 64 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150
million per year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$472 million in FY82,
US$764 million in FY83, and US$1,405.0 million in FY84. The undisbursed
amount as of March 31, 1985 was US$3,560.3 million. Annex II contains a
suwmary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments
22.       Over the FY77-84 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
USS425 million to over US$1,573 million per year. In FY84, 10 loans
totalling US$1,573.8 million were approved. Nine loans totalling
US$1,523.0 million have been approved for Brazil in FY85. They were a
US$300.0 million loan for a third development banking project, a US$72.0
million loan for a science and technology project, two loans totalling
US$122.7 million for nural development projects in the Northeast of Brazil,
a US$16.3 million loan for a technical assistance and pilot rural water
supply and sanitation project, US$200.0 million loan for a railway project,
two loans totalling US$712.0 million for a power transmission project and a
power distribution project and a US$100.0 million loan for a land tenure
improvement project in the Northeast. Work is advanced for a third rural
development project in the Northeast, a second alcohol development project,
a second agriculture sector project, an irrigation project, a metropolitan
urban development project in the Northeast, a second export development
project, a sector loan for electric power, a public sector management
project, and an urban flood reconstruction project in the Northeast.
23.       Brazil's external medium- and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated to have been US$80 billion at the
end of 1983. The Bank's share in this total is estimated at 4.6% while its
share in total debt service is estimated at 4.2%.



24.       As of March 31, 1985, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$1,030-A1 million, of which US$676.92 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$353.49 million, US$270.18 million
represent loans and US$83.31 million equity. A summary of IFC's
investments as of March 31, 1985 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
25.       Brazil is now undergoing a difficult adjustment period, .a large
pa t due to external events. At the same time, it faces the challenge of
developing a longer-term development strategy compatible with lower average
economic growth rates and reduced availability of external resources, while
satisfying the country's vast unmet social needs. These present and
prospective adjustments are being accompanied by complementary changes in
the Bank lending strategy for Brazil.
26.       In the short-run, the Bank will try to help ease Brazil's current
external financing constraint through accelerated resource transfers
coupled with support for the major policy changes required by the austerity
program and necessary for longer-term growth and lower inflation. In
support of these efforts, several modalities of the Bank's Special Action
Program, approved by the Executive Directors on February 22, 1983, are
being reflected in our operations. These include working capital financing
under the third agro-industries project, financing of a higher share of
costs of recently approved projects in social sectors, supplemental
financing amounting to US$30.5 million for two on-going agricultural and
rural development projects, and amending existing loans where warranted to
provide for higher Bank disbursement rates during the period covered by the
Bank's Special Action Program. Also, greater use is being made of Project
Special Accounts into which Bank funds are deposited in advance in order to
reduce the need for the Government to prefinance the Bank's share of
project costs, and which allow disbursements of Bank funds to be made at
the exchange rate prevailing on the date of expenditure.
27.       The Bank's longer-run lending strategy is directed toward helping
Brazil resume efficient and sustainable growth. One focus of the lending
program is on structural transformation and efficient resource use.
Expanding exoort capacity in industry and agriculture will ease the foreign
exchange constraint on development while promoting efficiency through
exposure to international competition. Several loans to BNDES aimed at
strengthening industrial cevelopment along these lines have already been
made. Sector loans to industry and agriculture, envisaging a restructuring
of incentive and trade policies in support of Government initiatives, have
been approved by the Executive Directors. Follow-up loans designed to
support the next steps in this adjustment process are under preparation.
Given agriculture's large potential contribution to export growth and
import substitution, adjustments in this sector will be crucial to Brazil's
transition from stabilization to growth.
28.       Another lending priority is the development of domestic energy
resources on a cost-effective basis and energy conservation. Lending for
the electric power sector, which encouraged the development and use of
hydroelectric energy, and the alcohol and biomass energy development



project, have addressed the need to reduce petroleum imports. Further
lending will be based on appropriate pricing of energy, so as to provide
incentives to producers and encourage conservation by consumers while
reducing Government subsidies to the energy sector.
29.       A third lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the
efforts of the Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income
segments of the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those
groups, and to improve their living conditions. Previous loans for primary
education, vocational training, agricultural research, agricultural
extension, polder construction in the lower Sao Francisco river basin, and
integrated rural development were designed to assist low-income groups in
rural areas, especially those in the Northeast and the Northwest. Loans
for water supply and sewerage projects throughout Brazil, loans for urban
transport in several major cities, a loan for sites aind services and
low-cost housing, and three loans for urban development in two metropolitan
areas, in medium-sized cities, and in small market towns, are assisting the
improvement of the living conditions of the urban population, particularly
of the urban poor. Following up on a nutrition research and development
project and a first health project for the Northwest region, a basic health
care project in the state of Sao Paulo and a national health studies
project are helping promote efficiency, cost effectiveness and equity in
the delivery of health services in Brazil. Several projects for rural and
urban development, for health and for rural water supply and sanitation,
directed to the needs of the lowest income groups in the Northeast are
under preparation. The proposed project would address social concerns as
well as support productive activities in the southern State of Santa
Catarina while strengthening municipal administrative and fiscal
capability.
30.       Institution-building and improving the operations of the public
sector remain important components of the Bank strategy for Brazil and
would be a prominent feature of the proposed project. The Bank also serves
as a catalyst in stimulating the inflow of resources. Continued lending by
the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the international financial community as
a sign of confidence in Brazil's development prospects.  In some sectors,
especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation has helped
Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts from bilateral credit
agencies and private financial institutions than may otherwise have been
provided. Since 1976 through June 30, 1982, ten cofinancing operations for
about US$560 million have been arranged and signed with private financial
institutions. Cofinancing opportunities are rather limited in Brazil for
the time being, as the volume and terms of commercial bank financing
available to Brazil are determined within the framework of the debt
rescheduling package. Cofinancing could become more important in the near
future, however, and as evidenced by the recently approved Bank
participation in a syndicated guarantee facility for the Carajas Iron Ore
Project (Loan 2196-BR), the new cofinancing instruments developed by the
Bank could play a role in encouraging commercial banks to provide Brazil
with better financing terms and possibly additional lending for high
priority projects.



- 9 -
PART III - THE SECTOR
Sector Development and Organization
31.       In the past thirty years Brazil has shifted from an agrarian,
rural society to an industrialized, urban one. During this period, its
cities absorbed waves of migration from rural areas. While the national
population doubled from 52 million in 1950 to 119 million in 1980, the
urban population quadrupled from 19 million to 80 million. Most of the
urban growth has been in Brazil's central west and southern cities -
Brasilia, Belo Horizonte, Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. In these areas
natural population increases are lower than the national average but
economic opportunities are more abundant and both rural and urban migrants
have gravitated toward them in search of employment.
32.        The rapid urbanization of Brazilian society created heavy
demand for additional housing, social services and infrastructure. State
and local authorities, traditionally responsible for meeting these needs,
became increasingly unable to meet the growing financial obligations. In
1964 the Government took measures to centralize the management of urban
planning and created the Banco Nacional da Habitacao (BNH), a national
housing bank to administer and control the Housing Finance System. BNH
gradually grew into an urban development bank providing a broad range of
urban services, including a national low-income housing plan (PLANHAB), a
sites and services program to provide shelter to the poor (PROFILURB), and
a national sanitation plan (PLANASA). Both the housing and sanitation
programs were aided at the local level by establishing State-owned housing
companies (COHABS), and state water companies (SWCs) in 22 of Brazil's
states. Other agencies working in the sector are the National Council for
Urban Development (CNDU), which was established in 1979 to coordinate and
advise on national urban development policy, and the Empresa Brasileira de
Transporte Urbana (EBTU), established in 1976 to coordinate and plan urban
transport investments.
33.        Over the past decade Brazil has expanded its housing,
infrastructure and social services with the support of these sector
organizations. Most of its efforts have been directed toward large
metropolitan areas where population increases have been greatest. It has
also taken measures to influence the heavy migration from rural to urban
areas through a policy of developing the interior (interiorizacao),
providing basic needs to small farmers, upgrading conditions in
medium-sized towns to encourage residents to stay and providing for
settlement of agriculturally productive but less populated areas such as
Amazonia and the Northwest. To some extent these measures may have been
successful as migration to large centers like Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro
has declined.
Subsector Constraints
34.       At the national level, the size of urban poverty has also placed
heavy demands on the sector institutions which have not been able to meet
all requirements.   Thus, while the 1960s and 1970s witnessed great strides
in the provision of housing and services in Brazil, some regions and



- 10 -
cities, notably small towns, benefitted less than others. A second major
constraint is that urban improvements have traditionally been financed
almost entirely by federal and state grants, placing a heavy drain on
Government revenues. The recently uneven and unreliable flow of funds to
state and local governments bas made it difficult for them to plan or
undertake investment programs, to set priorities and allocate resources in
an efficient way. This situation has worsened since 1980, because scarce
Federal Government resources were concentrated on agricultural and
industrial investment, while resources for urban and social investment
programs were reduced.
The State of Santa Catarina
35.        The development of urban growth in the State of Santa Catarina
has been similar to that of the nation with urban areas growing more
quickly than rural ones. From 1960 to 1980 Santa Catarina's total
population doubled from 1.8 million to 3.7 million; the urban population
tripled from about 600,000 to over 2 million. Santa Catarina is one of
Brazil's smallest states with 3% of the total population and 1% of its
territory. It has 199 mxnncipalities. Nine of these municipalities form
large cities located mainly along the coast and have populations between
50,000 and 300,000; 37 cities with populations of over 10,000 are evenly
distributed and form secondary centers; and 153 towns of less than 10,000
are dispersed throughout the State.
36.        While Santa Catarina has a strong agricultural tradition, it is
an industrial state and one of Brazil's most developed. In 1983, it
contributed 13% of Brazil's commercial balance surplus and produced US$1.5
billion of exports, 95Z of which were industrial goods. Host manufactured
and industrial goods such as textiles, shoes, wood, paper, equipment and
minerals are produced along the coastal and north western areas. The small
towns play an important role in the production network and in society, with
over 50% of the urban population residing there. They serve as marketing
and service centers for agricultural production including fruits, grains,
chicken and vegetables produced in the central region and in the western
plain.
37.        BNH, CNDU and EBTU participate in the development of Santa
Catarina's municipalities, particularly in its nine larger cities. But, it
is the state-level institutions including municipal associations, the State
Secretariat of Planning (GAPLAN), the State Development Bank (BADESC) and
the State Bank of Santa Catarina (BESC), which bear primary responsibility
for the development of small towns.
38.        The municipal associations provide a wide range of services to
small towns, including helping them prepare budgets and investment plans
for specific projects (such as road construction and maintenance), drafting
municipal legislation and providing technical assistance and training.
Every municipality of the State belongs to one of the 19 municipal
associations. The muricipal associations are comprised of a General



- 11 -
Assembly with mayors from each municipality represented on the association
and a full-time technical staff including architects, accountants,
engineers, lawyers and economists. The municipal associations are financed
by state transfers and a fixed proportion of municipal revenues.
39.        GAPLAN, which is headed by the State Secretary of Planning, has
direct responsibility for assisting and coordinating municipal development
programs throughout the state. From 1980 to 1984, GAPLAN has distributed
US$27.9 million of investment grants to Santa Catarina's 199 municipalities
and concentrated over 802 of its programs in smaller towns. These funds
have financed works ranging from schools and health centers to urban
infrastructure and grain-drying facilities.  GAPLAN's technical support,
which until now focused on institutional and administrative strengthening,
has been fairly successful.
40.       Other agencies which support the development of small towns are
BADESC, BESC, and Santa Catarina's Secrerariat of Transport and Works
(STO), Department of Public Works (DAE) and Department of Roads (DER).
BADESC is a state-owned, development bank with up to 50% of its portfolio
comprised of public sector investments. It administers the funding of a
number of federal programs including those of BNH and EBTU. It does not
have branches throughout the state and relies on BESC, which does, to
channel funds to individual municipalities. DER and DAE created
respectively in 1946 and 1970, report to STO. DAE has 12 district offices
and a staff including engineers, architects, lawyers, economists and
topographers; it does not actually execute works. DER is organized in 22
residences with equipment to build and service the 2,900 km of state roads.
DER executes and/or contracts and supervises road works. DAE and DER are
responsible for the supervision of all state-financed investments and for
reviewing procurement and engineering designs.
41.       Urban development in Santa Catarina has suffered from the
constraints described in para. 34. The drastic reduction in availability
of resources for public sector investment has had an especially deleterious
effect on small towns. Moreover, the most important source of revenues for
the muuicipalities is the Imposto sobre Circulagao de Mercadoria (ICM) (a
value added tax on agriculture, industry and commerce).  In Santa Catarina,
the ICM represents up to 50% of local revenues and up to 70% of state
revenue.  The ICM is collected on a variety of goods and services; 80% of
the proceeds are retained by the State and the remainder is channelled back
to the municipalities.  Recently the ICM has become less of a general tax
on global value-added because of exemptions of manufactured exports and
some industrial goods, to stimulate prodection and exports.  As one of the
largest producers of manufactured goods, these exemptions have greatly
reduced ICM receipts and hence Santa Catarina's ability to finance
municipal investments. Furthermore, the reductions in federal transfers
and the ICM have made it difficult for Santa Catarina to rehabilitate
infrastructure damaged by floods in 1983 and 1984. The floods severed
communications, damaged about US$493 million of transport infrastructure,
destroyed crops, left hundreds homeless and the State's 199 municipalities
were declared disaster areas.



- 12 -
Government Strategy and the Bank's Role
42.       Brazil has made great strides in expanding hwusing and urban
services through BNH, EBTU and CNDU. Other local inst:.tutions such as
Santa Catarina's municipal associations have also aided the planning of
urban improvements. The Bank has supported this growth through 8 urban
development projects totalling US$685.5 million. Of these investments,
two, the Medium-Sized Cities Project (Loan 1720-BR for US$70 million) and
the Third Urban Transport Project (Loan 1965-BR for US$90 million),
supported works in Florianopolis, Santa Catarina's capital. The Parana
Market Towns Project (Loan 2343-BR for US$52.7 million) represented the
first effort to support the development of small towns and the
strengthening of municipal finance. It is similar in concept to the
proposed project and is progressing well. Two other projects have been
completed, albeit with delays and some cost overruns; they are considered
to have achieved their objective. None of the projects have been so far
audited by the Operations Evaluation Department. In addition to upgrading
and expanding low-income housing, shelter and services, the Bank-supported
projects have also contributed to the preparation of investment plans,
training and strengthening of municipal staff, standardizing the COHAB's
procedures and, decentralizing BNH's preparation and supervision activities
to regional offices. The Bank's role has helped to improve planning and
coordination of urban investments by supporting the creation of CNDU, and
of urban transport investments by fostering the establishment of EBTU. The
Bank was also instrumental in promoting an Urban Development Seminar in
Brasilia in November 1984. The participants of the seminar, Government and
Bank staff, concluded that urban development efforts needed to be reshaped
to support macroeconomic objectives, and permit the support of economic
growth while achieving social objectives.
43.       The proposed project represents an effort to reshape urban
strategy, to strengthen municipal financial capacity, to support increased
economic productivity of urban centers, to improve resource allocation, and
to increase municipal cost recovery in order to ease the demand for federal
transfers. To participate in the proposed project, each municipality must
prepare an investment plan with a financial program setting forth its
revenue raising objectives, including betterment taxes, user charges, cost
recovery, and real property assessments. The type of investment included
in the investment plan will comprise those aimed at increasing economic
productivity of the small towns which are an important marketing and
service link in the production network (warehouses, grain drying
facilities, bridges and roads). At the same time, some of the investments
will address social needs by providing schools, community centers, street
paving and parks. The grants, which will complement the subloans provided
with Bank funds, would be allocated for the first time on explicit economic
considerations. The investments proposed are expected to reflect
least-cost solutions and high priorities. It is hoped that over time,
small towns and larger municipalities throughout Brazil will become less
reliant on grant financing.



- 13 -
PART IV - TRE PROJECT
Background
44.       The State of Santa Catarina approached the Bank and presented a
detailed program for small towns development in September 1984. A
reconnaisance mission visited Brazil in October 1984 and the project was
appraised in December. Negotiations were held in Washington in August
1985. The Brazilian delegation was led by Drs. Flavio Velloso da Silva and
Gilson Luis Leal de Meireles of the Planning Secretariat of the State of
Santa Catarina (GAPLAN).
Project Objectives
45.       The objectives of the project are to strengthen the managerial
and financial capability of the municipalities, improve resource allocation
and provide basic economic and social infrastructure which would contribute
to stimulating production and exports in an important industrial state.
The project would contribute to the decentralization of urban
administration and financial management. It would assist in this
undertaking as described in para. 43.
Project Description
46.       The proposed project consists of subloans financing subprojects
to be carried out by municipalities and a technical assistance program.
The project would be carried out in the period January 1986 to December 31,
1992. The subproject components would include:
-  Infrastructure (US$38.5 million or 55% of the total project cost
including contingencies). Paving of streets with cobblestones or
stone blocks and in a few instances, asphalt surfacing, and
related street improvements; drainage and earthfill for erosion
control; town square improvements; replacing bridges and
pedestrian crossings to provide access to small secondary
settlements and agricultural land; upgrading slums which have
recently appeared in Santa Catarina as a result of the recession
and floods through sites and services including core units and/or
lots serviced by utilities.
-  Productive activities (US$3.5 million or 5%).  Construction of
grain storage and drying facilities to promote production and
increase trade, establishment of nur;eries for agriculture
purposes and erosion control including seed and tree development;
and construction and establishment of artificial insemination
centers to improve livestock quality.
-  Community facilities (US$5.6 million or 8%).  Construction and
equipping of schools and sports facilities, construction of
social centers for community activities and public facilities not
provided for by state programs.



- 14 -
- Equipment and vehicles (US$14 million or 20%). Procurement of
road construction and maintenance equipment, quarry equipment,
ambulances and fire-fighting equipment and acquisition of school
buses to provide rural students with access to schools.
The technical assistance component would include:
- Technical assistance (US$8.4 million or 12%). Consultants'
services to assist municipalities in preparing investment plans
including designs, bidding documents, planning surveys, zoning
and traffic plans, manuals for project execution and cadastral
registration, improving budgeting, accounting and auditing
procedures and financial control; assisting GAPLAN in supervising
and administering the project and undertaking staff training of
GAPLAN, the municipalities and the municipal associations. The
municipalities' partipation in the technical assistance program
would be a condition of their participation in the program
(Section 3.01(d), and Schedule 4, draft Loan Agreement).
Project Implementation
47.       The State of Santa Catarina would be the Borrower and GAPLAN
would be responsible for administering the project. The Federative
Republic of Brazil would guarantee the loan and the Borrower's obligations
(Sections 2.01-2.02, draft Guarantee Agreement). The State Development
Bank (BADESC) would act as financial agent to the State through a Financial
Agency Agreement for purposes of msking subloans to the municipalities
(Section 3.05(a) draft Loan Agreement).
48.       Municipalities wishing to participate in the program would enter
into a Participation Agreement with GAPLAN, through which they would
undertake to follow the selection, design and financial criteria included
in the Manual of Lending Policies and Procedures already agreed to with the
Bank (Section 3.10, draft Loan Agreement). Municipalities wishing to
receive subloans would submit applications to GAPLAN which would review
them before submitting them to BADESC. The Bank would review and approve
the overall investment program on an annual basis (Section 3.04(c) draft
Loan Agreement). BADESC would review subloan applications and
municipalities' creditworthiness. Once a subloan is approved each
particlpating municipality would enter into a Sub-Loan Agreement with the
State (Section 3.01(c), draft Loan Agreement). BADESC would enter into an
Operating Agreement with BESC to channel loan proceeds through BESC's
branches located in each municipality (Section 3.07, draft Loan Agreement).
Finalization of the above cited arrangement would be a condition of
effectiveness (Section 3.07, draft Loan Agreement). Counterpart funds for
the project would be budgeted by the State for the municipalities on an
annual basis (Section 3.01, draft Loan Agreement).
49.       Each municipality, with the assistance of its municipal
association, would plan investments, identify subprojects, and be
responsible for execution. The municipal associations would play an
important role by providing technical, legal, administrative and fiscal
assistance. Since the quality and capacity of the municipal associations
varies, it is proposed to strengthen and increase their professional staff
from 80 to 141 before March 15, 1986 (Section 3.08, draft Loan Agreement).



- 15 -
The muaicipal associations would also prepare specifications and designs
for the subprojects with the assistance of consultants as needed. A sample
of the specifications and design standards of several subprojects was
reviewed by the appraisal mission and found satisfactory. The designs
would be reviewed by the regional offices of DAE and DER. STO, DAE and DER
would enter into a supervision agreement with GAPLAN for this work (Section
3.06, draft Loan Agreement). Municipalities participating in the program
would receive advice and training under the Technical Assistance Program.
The Technical Assistance Program would also provide training to the
municipal associations, state agencies and GAPLAN (Section 3.08, draft Loan
Agreement). Most of the civil works would be undertaken by contractors
although some would be suitable for force account. GAPLAN, would supervise
and coordinate project activities through its 6 regional offices which
would be adequately staffed with no less than an economist/administrator,
an engineer, architect and draftsmen (Section 3.01(c), draft Loan
Agreement). GAPLAN would prepare quarterly project reports on physical
progress, procurement, use of funds, and the Technical Assistance Program.
GAPLAN would also annually review each municipality's creditworthiness, its
performance with respect to revenue generation and cost recovery and the
fiscal impact of the program. These reports would summarize outstanding
issues. GAPLAN would also prepare a Project Completion Report once the
project is completed (Section 3.04, draft LoanAgreement).
50.       In order to continue the small towns program once the Bank loan
is disbursed, it is proposed that a Municipal Development Fund (MDF) be
established. The MDF would be capitalized by the municipalities' repayment
of subloans which would begin in 1987. MDF proceeds would then be lent to
municipalities which met the financial and technical criteria described
below at an interest rate of no less than 10.5%, plus an administrative fee
or .5% and including monetary correction. The MDF loans, would be
guaranteed by the municipalities' ICM, real estate or other guarantees.
The ICM could be transferred directly to the MDF to serve as repayment by
the municipalities of their subloans. GAPLAN would prepare an operational
proposal for the establishment of the MDF by December 31, 1986; the MDF
would be established no later than December 31, 1987. During negotiations,
it was agreed that the MDF would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and the audit would be submitted to the Bank
(Section 3.09, draft Loan Agreement).
Selection and Design Criteria
51.       Municipalities participating in the program, whether they take
subloans or only receive grants, would meet the criteria set forth in r:le
Manual of Lending Policies and Procedl"res (see paragraph 48). The criteria
requires that the municipalities: (a, have an urban population as recorded
in the 1980 Census of less than 50,000; (b) an annual or multi-annual
investment program satisfactory to GAPLAN and BADESC; and (c) participate
in GAPLAN's Technical Assistance Program. The following additional
criteria would be applied to those municipalities receiving subloans funded
by the Bank: (a) meet federal creditworthiness standards, i.e., cumulative
debt in any year not exceeding 70X of total revenues of the previous fiscal
year, debt contracted in any year not exceeding 20% of total revenues of



- 16 -
that year and debt service in any year not to exceed 15% of total revenues
of the previous year; (b) obtain a collateral guarantee satisfactory to
BADESC consisting of the municipality's 1CM; and Cc) sign a Sub-Loan
Agreement with BADESC; and (d) present a plan of action for improvement of
fiscal revenues satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower (Schedule 3,
draft Loan Agreement).
52.       In the past, the State has allocated grant funds unevenly and on
an ad hoc basis, without assessing the real cost and demand of investment.
This has resulted in the financing of less essential investments.  Under
the proposed project, the State has agreed to allocate one-third of its
grant resources to the six sub-regions on the basis of the 1988 estimate of
population and per capita income index. The remaining two-thirds of the
State's grant resources would be used as matching funds for the subloans
and would be allocated accordingly (Section 3.03, draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost, Financing and Cost Recovery Plan
53.       The total cost of the project excluding interest during
construction and taxes is estimated at US$70 million equivalent. The
foreign exchange component is estimated at US$21.3 million or 30X of the
project cost. Costs are based on November 1984 prices (updated to June
1985) and include physical contingencies of 10%. Price continzencies of
US$16.5 million or 24% of project costs and physical contingencies are
based on international inflation of 5% in 1985, 7.5% in 1986, 8% in 1987
through 1990 and 5Z thereafter. This assumes that the Cruzeiro would be
devalued in accordance to the differential between domestic inflation and
international inflation. Construction costs are based on unit costs
provided by GAPLAN,DAE and DER for similar works. Technical assistance and
consultants costs are based on Bank experience with similar internationally
and locally recruited experts in Brazil. Equipment costs are based on the
procurement of similar items by the Borrower and by the Bank under other
projects.
54.       The Bank loan of US$24.5 million, representing 35% of total
project cost, would finance 100% of foreign costs and US$3.2 million in
local costs. Given that the project will benefit the small municipalities
of the State which have less financial capacity, the proposed inclusion of
a small share of local costs is reasonable. The State of Santa Catarina
has agreed to finance the balance of US$45.5 million (Section 3.01(b),
draft Loan Agreement).
55.       The State of Santa Catarina would on-lend the proposed Bank loan
to the muncipalities through BADESC for 10 years including up to 24 months
grace, interest at no less than 10.5% plus an administrative fee of .5%.
The principal of the subloans would be readjusted for inflation by the
ORTN Index. All funds for the project would be channelled through BADESC
which would pass them to BESC's regional branches.
56.       The Municipalities would recover most of the cost of the subloans
received by them (including principal and interest) as follows:



- 17 -
(.~) Infrastructure Investments. Street paving, furnishing and
signalling and town square improvements: up to 100% of
costs would be recovered directly through betterment
charges, while an additional amount would be recovered
indirectly by the municipalities through increased real
estate taxes made possible by the improvements to property
values. Bridges, crossings, erosion control and reclamation
- close to 100% would be recovered indirectly through
incremental value added taxes. For slum upgrading, because
the beneficiaries are below the poverty line and comprise
people living on river banks who have been badly affected by
the flood disaster, cost recovery would vary and be
dependent on the beneficiaries' ability to repay as
determined by the nunicipality and GAPLAN.
(b) Productive Activities. Warehouses, grain storage and
nurseries - 100% cost recovery through charges to
beneficiaries.
(c) Comminity Facilities. Schools, sports grounds, social
centers and civic buildings-would not be subject to cost
recovery; and
(d) Equipment. Close to 100% cost recovery through incremental
value added tax.
Cost recovery obligations are stated in the Manual of Lending Policy and
Operation which has been reviewed and approved by the Bank. The approval
of subloans and a municipality's eligibility to borrow would be subject to
its cost recovery program as presented in its financial plan. The level of
cost recovery is considered appropriate given the municipalities' financial
situation. It would not be possible for the Bank to review actual cost
recovery by each municipality for every investment item. Moreover,
municipalities may choose to alter the blend of cost recovery through
betterment and user charges, property taxes, or other measures. The level
of cost recovery would therefore be monitored and assessed by GAPLAN using
each municipalities' annual per capita revenue collection as compared with
the targets set forth in its financial plan. Cost recovery performance
would be reviewed anr,ually by the Bank (Section 3.04, draft Loan
Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
57.       Procurement under the project would be carried out in accordance
with local procurement procedures satisfactory to the Bank. It is unlikely
that these small works and equipment packages would interest international
contractors as they are scattered among the municipalities. The
procurement of civil works would amount to about US$25.7 million or 42% of
project cost excluding technical assistance. Civil works such as
cobblestone paving and landscaping, amounting to about US$13.2 million or
21% of project cost excluding technical assistance would not be suitable
\N



- 18 -
for local competitive bidding and would be undertaken by force account.
Only equipment and materials purchased through procedures acceptable to the
Bank would be eligible for reimbursement. This is expected to amount to
about US$8.7 million or 14% of project cost. For contracts for goods of
US$10,000 and less and contracts for works of US$25,000 and less, three
price quotations from open suppliers' listings would be used. Procurement
of road maintenance equipment, school buses, fire-fighting equipment and
ambulances would amount to US$14 million or 23% of-project costs excluding
technical assistance.  Despite grouping of municipal equipment acquisition
contracts, these contracts are not expected to exceed US$200,000 and would
be awarded over the six to seven year life of the project. Local
procurement procedures ensure adequate competition and are consistent with
Bank procurement guidelines. Technical assistance and consultants'
services amounting to US$8.4 million or 14% of project cost, would be
procured following the Bank's "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants-
(Schedule 5, draft Loan Agreement).
58.       Bidding documents and evaluation procedures would be reviewed by
DAE and DER who would report to GAPLAN. In view of the quantity and small
size of procurement, the Bank would carry-out ex-post reviews on a sample
basis (Schedule 5, draft Loan Agreement).
59.       A special account for the project in the amount of US$1.7 million
(estimated four months' disbursements) would be established in the Central
Bank (Schedule 2.02 and Schedule 2, draft Loan Agreement). The Bank would
disburse at a rate of 50% of total expenditures for civil works, materials
and equipment related to improvements made through subloans. The Bank
would not disburse against subprojects funded entirely by grants. The Bank
would also disburse at a rate of 50% for expenditures by GAPLAN for
technical assistance contracts (Section 2.02, draft Loan Agreement). The
Bank's participation in total project costs amounts to 352. All
disbursements from the loan would be made against certified statements of
expenditures. GAPLAN would retain detailed documentation for expenditures
and make it available for review by the Bank during supervision. Both the
special account and project accounts would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank (Section 4.02, draft Loan Agreement).
60.       Retroactive financing in an amount equivalent to US$1.8 million
would be required for technical assistance, engineering and civil works
which have already begun. The State has budgeted for the 1985 program and
the municipalities have budgeted for their investment programs and
completed the corresponding designs. Retroactive financing would be
limited to the period from June 1, 1985 (Section 2.02(b), draft Loan
Agreement).
61.       Santa Catarina intends to implement the program within a
four-year period. However, a disbursement profile of seven years has been
used reflecting an IDF-type line of credit project rather than a
traditional urban project. This profile implies that disbursements would
be completed by the Closing Date of December 31, 1992. The proposed
disbursement period reflects that the program is likely to begin slowly as
GAPLAN gains experience and that subloans would be commited in 5 to 6 years
and corresponding subprojects completed in 6 to 7 years.



- 19 -
Benefits and Risks
62.       The major benefits from the proposed project are institutional,
financial and technical improvements which cannot be quantified. The
project is expected to strengthen the financial capability of 190
municipalities, by increasing their revenue-raising capacity through use of
improved cost recovery arrangements, betterment charges, and real estate
taxes, which form part of the financial plans required for subloans.
Through the process of planning and preparing investments financed for the
first time by subloans instead of grants, the municipalities will be
encouraged to adopt least-cost technical solutions and focus on
high-priority investments, factors which will greatly improve resource
allocation. The allocation of grant resources by the State for the first
time using economic criteria will also improve resource allocation. The
shift away from total reliance on grant financing for urban improvements
which the proposed project is enforcing has important ramifications for the
betterment of Brazil's economy.
63.       The weighted average economic return estimated for components
equivalent to 67% of project cost is 29%. Individual returns for bridges,
maintenance equipment and urban investment packages, range from 14% to
40%. In addition, the project will help to stimulate productivity in an
important industrial State and contribute to rehabilitating the damage done
by floods.
64.       Timely execution of the proposed project depends upon the
cooperation and coordination of a number of entities including GAPLAN,
BADESC, BESC, STO, DAE, DER and the municipalities themselves. The risk of
delay from the participation of these numerous entities is expected to be
mitigated by the strengthening of GAPLAN and the municipal associations and
by close super-;ision. Some delay could also occur if state counterpart
funds are not provided in a timely way (no counterpart is needed from the
Federal Government) but given the conservative size of the project and its
broad-based political support, this risk should be minimal.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Loan Agreement between the State of Santa Catarina
and the Bank, the Guarantee Agreement between the Bank and the Federative
Republic of Brazil and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
IV, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
66.       Special conditions of the loan and conditions of effectiveness
are discussed throughout this report and sumarized in Section III Annex
III. A condition of loan effectiveness would be the finalization of
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank between the State of Santa Catarina,
BADESC, BESC, STO, DAE; and DER to transfer the proceeds of the loan and
execute the project (paras. 47-49).



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I am satisficd that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
68.       I recomend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
August 29, 1985
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 21 -                                                Page 1 of 7
BRAZIL                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                             REFERENC   GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) la
HOST                (MOST RECENT CSTIMATE) /b
RECENT        MIDDLE INCOHE         PUDDLE INCOME
1960!    197iwot    zSTlMATn.b    LAI. AtERICA 6 CAL           EUROIE
An (TDSAJD  Sq. us)
TOTAL                           8512.0       8512.0     8512.0
ACRICULTURAL                     1636.4      1951.2     2352.7
GN PEE CAPITA (USe)                 330.0       600.1      2240.0           2105.6                  2345.3
ClElM   SuNOPflZO wM CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EqUIVALENT)    264.D        412.0      740.0            995.5                   1122.8
F0r9ULATIO AIID VTAL STATISTICS
POrULATSON.MI1-?EAR (TNDUSANDS)  72594.0    95847.0   L26aO6.0
URBAN POPULATIoN (I Of TOTAL)     44.9         55.8       68.8             66.5                    4t.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 200O (HILL)                         181.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                           303.6
POPULATION ICHENTUM                                      1.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. RN.                      8.5         11.3       14.6             35.7                    82.9
PER SQ. ID. ABRI. LAND          4.4         48.4        52.7             92.4                   158.9
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (Z)
u-I' YRS                        43-b        42-7       40.9             39.9                     31.b
15-64 YRS                       53.h        54.3        55.6             56.0                    61.1
65 AND ABOVE                     2.b          3.1        3.5              4.1                      7.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                            3.1          2.8        2.3              2.4                      1.b
URBAN                            5.7          5.0        4-1              3.6                      3.7
CRUDE RIIITH RATE (PER THMS)      42.7         35.0       31.2             31.3                     23.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)      12.9         10.3        B.1              8.1                     5.5
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            3.0         2.'         1.9              2.0                      1.6
FAHtLY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (TNOUS)         .         111.0      203.6 Ic
USERS CZ OF MARRIED WOMEN)                                               40.3
FM0 Am HIURTfrio
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     89.0        102.0      133.0            111.3                    114.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF REQUIREMENTS)    106.0       104.0      107.0            ..-06                    12S.6
PROTEINS (GRMS PER DAY)         64.0        62.0        60.0             67.3                    S9.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      35.0        34.0       36.0 id          34.1                     36.5
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE       19.4         12.5        8.0              5-7                     5.2
LIFE EXPECT- AT BIRTH (TEARS)     54.7         38.9       63.8             64.7                    67.4
INFAST HORT. RATE (PER THOUS)    118.2        98.6        73.4             60.6                    54.2
ACCESS To SAFE WATER (.POP)
rTOAL                                        55.0       77.1 /I          65.4
URAN                              ..         7S.0      8u.S 7W           78.1
RURAL                             *          28.0       56.s 7e          46.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(I OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                        58.0       64.8 Ie          52.9
URRAN                             ..         85.0       83.7 7;          67.0
RURAL                             ..         24.0       31.7 7;          24.5                       -
POPULATION PER PHrYSICIN        2210.0      21300                        1917.7                  1065.8
POP. PER NURSING PERSON         2810.0       1120.0        ..             815.8                   764.4
POP. PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                           310.0       270.0      250.0 I          367.2                    326.3
URBAN                           250.0       320.0          .            411.5                   201.5
RURAL                             * -          **                      2636.3
ADMISSIDNS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..        18.4          ..             27.3                    20.0
AVERArE SIZE UF 8OLSEHOLD
TOTAL                            5.1          4.8        4.9 I-
URBAN                                         *.6       1*.77              **
RURAL                                         5.2        5.3 7i.
AVERA(E NO. OF PERSONS/ROCH
TOTAL                             *           1.1
URBAN                             ..          1.0
RURAL                             ..          1.2
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                           38.7         47.6       67.4
URA                               .-         75.6      58.5
RURAL                              *          8.4       20.6



ANNEX I
- 22 -                                                  Page 2 of 7
BRD.                  -SOCL IICATORa  DATA SlI.
BaZIL                               RINVR CE MGR   (ECGTD AVERAGEU) La
OST                 (MOST RECENT ESTMATEC) 1
RECENT        MIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLIC
1960&1  197aL- LJESTi        /     TAT. 4113A04  CAR            EURope
ADJTED EOMRT RATIOS
PRINARY.  TOTAL                   95.0        54.0        93.0 f0.4                                 101.1
3SI4C                  97.0        54.0        93.0 Jfl        106.3                     105.5
130I1                  93.0         84.0       93.0            104.5                      96.7
SECONDATu TOTAL                   11.0        26.0        32.0 4tb-        43.2                     59.1
mma                    11.0         26.0       29.0 7jj         42.3                      68.9
73013                  10.0        27.0        35.0             44.5                      50.6
VOCATIONAL CZ OF SECONDARY)         18.6        16.7        59.2 ^           33.6                     21.6
PUPIL-TEACHEPR RATIO
PRXILMA                           33.0        28.0        26.0 af          30.1                     25.1
BECODR                            13.0        13.0        14.0             16.8                     20.5
ADULT LItACY RATE (1)               61.0        66.2        76.0 /g          79.5                     75.6
PASSENGER CARS/TNOUSAKD POP         7.6         16.6       43.9              46.0                     54.7
RADIO RECIVUS/TBOU8AND POP          65.4       108.4       165.1            225.6                    164.9
TV RCIVZRSI/HOUSAJID POP            16.5         4.3       119.7            107.2                    123.8
NENPAPER ("DAILY CENRAL
IIrXzar'") CIRCULATDON
PEU THOUSAND POPULATION           52.9        35.6        44.0             63.5                     96.3
CD3344 ANNUAL ATIEUWICEICAIITA      4.4                         2.0 1.S       Li                       2.9
TOL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)          23326.0     30411.0    40365.0
MALEZ (PCERCE)                    17.2        20.1        23.2             23.2                     345
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             51.9        45.6        29.9             31.5                     40 7
IOU9sTE (CnPUB)                   14.8        18.3        24.4             23.9                     23.3
PARTICIPATON RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             32.1        31.7        31.3             32.2                     42.9
NAZL                              52.7        50.3        43.9             49.3                     54.7
DtvUz                             11.2        12.8        14.8             15.2                     31.0
ECONORIC DEPENDENCY Rio              1.4         1.4        1.4               1.4                      0.9
PERCENT OP PRI?ATE INCQCO
RECEIVED 3Y
HIGHEST 5: OF  OSEOLDS              ..
HI_HEST 20E OF HOUSEHOLDS         60.0        63.5        62.0 /
LOWEST 20S WO  SE01SOLDS          3LJ          3.2         2.8                .
LOWEST 402 OF HUSZEHOLDS          10.8         9.0         9.4
mm TAr aOuS
ZSTIRATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCCI
LEVEM (USS PER CAPITAL)
URSa                               ..           ..          ..            288.2
RUAL                                ..                   150.0 /d         184.0
ESTDIATEC RELATIVE POinTY INCOME
LEE (0SS PEt CAP)
URAN                                ..          ..       465.0 /d         522.8
RURAL                               .           ..       332.0            372.4
ESTINATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVanT XNCOltE IEVL (2)
RAN                                ..
RURAL                              ..
,,Io AVAIABL
NOT APPLICABLE
NOTE S
/a  The group averages  or each indicator are population-weighted artthateic mean. Coverag  of countries among the
Indicators depend. oi avalability of data and i. not uniform.
/b   Unlees otherwise noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; end data for "Moat  ecaent Estimte" betmen 1980 end 1982.
/c  1975; Id 1977; /a 1976; Lf 1979; /L Reginning 1973 prIssy and  eacondary educAtion cover age groups 7-14 and 15-17
inated of 7-l and Il-17 in earlier year.: thereforer. mt recent e*timatam are not comparable vith earlier data;
l 1978.
JUNE, 1984



- 23 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 3 Of 7
SEFtNMONS OF SOCAL INDICATOIaS
Notcsr Athough die datm ar drwn from oustn generllyjudgd the mos tuthoibutivt and reliabk it should aso be noted that they may not be nnmatiomnly
comnparable beause o the lack of sandardizedeflnimion and conpt sedw by diffeent countries in eoflltng the data. The data are. nonetheles useful to
describe orders or mngniudc indictc trends and chaacteriz cerain major differncea between ountries.
The rcfemernac groups am (1) thc ssue eountry group of thre subjet country nd (2) * country group with sonewwht higher aveawg incomec than the country
groupothe wsubjct country (cpS for "Hig Incmne Ol Expoters grpup where 'Middle Incm&North Afri and Mid4le East ischoen becuse otrontgr
soeio-cultuss affnities). In the rercence group data the avCegs sre population weighted arithmtic means for each indicator and shown only when majority
of the countries in a group hbs data for tht indicator. Sine the covnag ofcountries among the indicators depnods on the availability ordata and is not uniform.
caution must beeeresedt in matingavergeso orea indicator to anothesvr essvcersges rc only useul in compsungthe value ofoneindicatorsi a time among
the country and reference groups
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                           Cride  irt Rate (pe theusaud)-Number of live births in the year
Teal-Total surface arm comprising land area and inland waters;   per thoumnd of mid-year population; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                        Cruk Dtah Rate (per *hauzamdl-Number of deaths in the year
Agrkaltssa-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or     per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen gadens or to  Grsss Reprdwc i Rat-Average number ordaughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                            will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific ferility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current         in 1960, 1970. and 1983.
market prices, calculated by same conversion method as World      a              -Acpts Anna (fhemads)-Annual num-
Bank Atlas (1981-83 basis); 1983 data.                          ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                   family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.      Pa Ly Plai-Ues (per ofmarred w               e)-Thepercen-
petroleum, natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geotbermal ekc-   tage of married women of child-bearing age who arc practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970, and  whose husbands are practicing any forn ofcontraception. Womcn
1982 data.                                                       of child-bearing age are generally women aged 1549. although for
some countries contraceptive usade is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                  groups.
Toea Populati.. Mid-Year (trheaadsj-As of July 1: 1960. 1970.    FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
ae efoFeeod Prodwa'a  Per Capita (1969-7 = ]i)-Index of per
Urba  Populaion Gpercen of totaf)-Ratio of urban to total        capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and sced for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.      include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Pft*p.las  P-jectiou                                             which are edible and contain nutrients (eg. coffee and tea are
Population in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.   excluded); they comprise cereals, root crops, pulses, oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with infornation on   vegetabks, fruits, nuts. sugarcane and sugar bcets livestodck and
tot3l population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregatc production of each country is based
international migration in the basc year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price wdights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intcrvals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.              Per Capita Supply qefCa      (ptrcean ofqdrense-o Comput-
Stationary populatin-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supphes available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. wnile age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domstic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacment levd  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate = 1). In such a population, the birth rate is  exdude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temnperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate or decline of fertility  ageandsexdistributionof populationand allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                       waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Popsuation Momentum-ls the tendency for population growth to     Per Capt Sply of Prtein (grs per day)-Protein content of
cortinue beyond the tine that replacement-level fertEity has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for al  ountries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which IO grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year : onward. 1985 data.                        75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Population Dfssity                                               average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.knt-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-    Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                  hr Cpita Protein Supply 1m; Animmd gad Psle-Protein supply
Per sqknm. agricultural lwtd-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                             1970 and 1977 data.
Populaio, Age Structre (percenr)-Children (0-14 years). work-    Chf(ages 1-4) Death Rate (per thourand)-Number ofdeaths of
ingage(l5-64years), andretired(65yearsandover)as percentage      children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.               group in a given yrcar. For most developing countries data derived
Popstfatiou Growth Rate (perceafl-tzea--AnnuaJ growth rates of   from life tablcs; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.     HEALTH
Populaton Growth Rate (pcrceut)-hr   --.Annual growth rates      Lie  Expctany at Birth (year)-Number of years a newbom
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. arid 1970-83 data.     infant would live if prevailing patterns or mortality for all people



- 24 -                                           ANNEX  I
Page 4 of 7
at the titre of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its life:  Pupti-teacher Ratio - primary. and secondary-Total students en-
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                      rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
14aw Mortly Rate (per thusa_dj-Number of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding klvds.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year 1960. 1970 and 1983 data                                  CONSUMPTION
Acces to Sae WJiere (percet of pqplutiwI-- teta, whew,  Ad     Passenger Cas (per Meant populadon)-Passenger cars com-
red-Number of pcople (totaL urban, and rural) with reasonabk   prisc motor cars seating less than eight persons; excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or  ances hearses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontaminated water such as that from protected  RaiJo Ref'm  (per themndrnplatiau)-AII types of recrs
boreholes, springs and sanitary wells) as pemntages of their respec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
tive populations. In an urban area a public fountain or standpost  excudes un-licensed recivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a hour may be considered  registration of radio sets was in effect; data for recnt years may
as being within reasonable acses of that house. In rural areas  not be comparable since most countries abolished licning.
reasonable access would imply that the housewife or members of the
housdhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TV Reevr (per thawed pepuimuj-TV receivers for broadcast
in fetching the family's water needs.                          to general public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV
AsJ  olar an)edt tefp t t l  arhm.  mccirevcrs in countics and in years when rgistration of TV sets was
Access to Excret Dispotua (percext of ppatn.-ta,we,            in effect.
and md-Number of people (totaL urban. and rural) served by
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  NewspIpS Cwcdaao  (per thousadpopmatsou)-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal. with or  age circulation of -daily general interest newspaper. defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording gener news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
Population per Physiciam-Pnpulation divided by numnber of prac-  Cina Anunl Anendan  per Capia per Yes-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university lvel.  number of tickets sold during the year. induding admissions to
opuatioa per Nwsin Persoa-fpulation divided by number of       dnve-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses. assistant nurses,  LBR FORCE
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                         LABOR FORCE
ftplaw  per Hospital &rd--to4 m_i, ant rwaro-lpulation         Totad   aedr fore tandutsplEconymically active persons, in-
(totaL urban. and rural) divided by their respective number of  luding armned fortes and  unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds available in pubic and private. general and       ario students, c.  covering  population  of aD ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments  varous countres are not comparablc 1960. 1970 and 19S3 data.
pcnnanendy staffed by at last one physician. Establishments prov-  Fa    (prcent-Femalc labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principaly custodial cia  are not incuded. Rural hospitals,    force.
however, include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agricut re (percent)-Labor force in farming forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant. nurse. midwife. e-c.)    and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offcr in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                         indzsry (percearj-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Admissiow   per Hospita Bed--Total number of admissions to or  facturing and lectricity. water and gas as percentage or total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       forcm 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Prttio Rate (percent)--otal. make andfema--Pa rticipation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rates are computed as total, male. and female labor force
Avre 5i:r   HoaselAt (persons pe h        tAvh)-totZA  wh_,    as perentages of totaL male and female population of all ages
adrural-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively, 1960. 1970. and 1923 data. These are based on ILO's
living quartcrs and their main meals. A boarder or lodgcr may or  partcipation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population, and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national source
Avere NaMter of Fermi per Roam-teod. whb. and rural-           Econocmi Dependwy Rato-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural     65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DlSTRIBUTION
Peceage of DueNgs with El c,ric-t-roal. when, and  ral-        Pnftabe of Total Disposahk In1s (Aot i cask ad kmd)-
Conventional dwellings with electriciy in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban. and rural dwellings respectively         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adused Enrollment Ratii                                        The following estimates are very approximate measures of po'erty
Plrmwy school - total, male and female-Gross total. male and  levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the primary levl as percentages of  Esiiated Absoute Porty lcome Lve (USS per caWira)-irhn
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and nrral-Absolutc poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-fnoo requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countrics with universal  Eumtaied Relatve Poverty Income Level ( 1US per capiroa)-ara
education. gross enroDment may excced 100 percent since some   cod uraIl-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban klvel is
age.                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - toral, male and femal-Computed as above     living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estimaed Populao  Below Aioute Poerty Income Led  (per-
mary instruction; provides general. vocationaL or teacher training  cenmJ-urban and rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of agr, correspond-  who are -absolute poor.-
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocational Enroihni npercent of scaordan )-Vocational institu-           Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical, industriaL or other programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



23
lsm I
Pas 3 of 7
MAZ - OmzcW011m
:*Fdw          129.7 Sum  (Sd-1983)
GN Mar Cutta: 3I53.3W (1913)
ISS milsn at                                                        _ia! tah  Rom (1)
oant Prim
Indlcator                     19113                             Actual                                                         ProecJ ted
1975     a1m     aim 1         193Jd    ImP                    a99      aM         19117     1r         -,       9S
Caa D_ic PrSdwt/a            9zwm              5.6      7.2     -.6        0.9       -3.2      4.S      *      .3       5.6       6.2       6.7       7.1       7.3
~Agr1un                      23.166          2.7      b.2      6.4      -2.5        2.2      3.9            3.0       4.0       6.0       4.0       4.5       4.5
Urr                         61 I           Q 5.3     7.9     -5.2       GA        -6.s      IA       s      .7       7.0   b .O          9.0       9.0       9.1
serviam                     102a173         10.3      7.3     -0.1        .7       -a.,      3.7            3.5       4.5       5.2       S.5       6.1       6.4
COu1tis                       167.M           A.4       1.5      0.2       3.3       -2.0      2.6            7.1       1.3       5.3       7.1       7.6       7.7
Gtrow-n_ob                     V.9W          -4.0      12.1    45.9       -4.2      -17.5      4.S            *.1      17.1      a.5        6.7       7.1       7.3
E I    of cmf                  23.21          12.4     22.7     20.9      -.A.       13.6    20.0            -6.5       6.6       6.6       s.3       5.3       5.9
eat ofs GUS                    1q.y%          9.6       1.6    -13A       4.2       -17.2     17.1           1A.4      32.6       9.6       6.2       9.0       9.2
G    Natkal Sav_               20.03          46.      11.6    -16.6     -10.6       -3.4     22.6           -0.7      26.5      12.4       3A        7.5       7.1
Priam
lr eaftsaor (19R10D)                         30B      2.955    5,34      11.4D     2N.A21   W.563
fae ste (waserge.cdASS)                       8.1      52.7     93.1     179.5      577.0  a.s6.9
Shet of GOP at abt Priam CZ)                                      flat Incr    C)
(AL aeOs Prim)                                       Ue tOxs 170 rdm)
19is 5      m       iviic I     9l )C                       t975-e    9ID4s    130.91
0sa  w1 c PruAet                      11.0      150.D    U10.0    IM.0                              6.5       0.       6.6
Pgtiantt                             9.2       31.0      3.3        7.5                           9.5       2.2       4.2
try                                 321.1      NB       31.9      3.4                            4.6      -0.3        LS
S,,s                                43.6      6J        43.9      41.9                            7a        33        5.6
n__1s                                 76.6      61.3      74.7      73.5                            7.7     -3.I        6.4
Grow la                               27.3      21.1      13.0      21.0                            La       4.2        9.4
(rWS                                   7.5       Si       13.5      U.7                                        5        5.2
1wrra GUS                             11.4      1L.Z       6.2       7.2                          -i.3      -IA        9.4
r_ NRais SySW                         22.3      16.1      16.4      2D.9                           -I.A      4.5       Il.1
M o2ft a C
t       s Of ke P rim
P.bic Flsa (Canal or-n=a)                                1970     3975    iwo    19a ,   tsslar  iV'
Owrs  1urns                                               b 16.5   19.I    20D    2D.1    13.9    Z1.
GnEstqsdtan                                              14.4      15.3    17.6    39.8    7.2    25.
carpl  C.) or DtUet H-                                    2.2      40       3.2     0.1    -1.4    4.2
Cpital Emndine                                            2.6      1JJ      3_7     *_l     33      3.A
nlwmci  iact)                                             0.4    -0.2      0.5      3.9     4.9     7A
Octer IndSitos                    3975-0  10i53  196509
GN cbn Rate (C)                     7.n     OS      6.9
W Per Coaita toidi Rate CZ)        1.0     -1.9      *.5
E.W Ox-ptsis  tCnh Rat (2)    6.5           -        -
I30                                1.3     21.7     1.1
Imilni Savljga oRil                          o.5     0.1
Iport ELmtidty                    O.2    -2.4        3.
Is AC awthtec  ims; coW         aM OM sI   a factor eat ai swill .c MM Aeto mcsaim d  mt fidcarct t_  ad s di.
/b  197540 ertim_u a  for g       1tm:   simm  for mh we: lw  am for f td imawles wth d                     ie n i,  n a m  aid 1. ewis,n.
/c Pn,jact yas at  nwt rim.
Hd  Ptnlidsary.
a ESatiate.
If  193D42  misdk grraate astiursw  ffa  slas the fcary bxtc ad dma prma    hawbo. -                     ai1- _tam   to  m fn t.l scqias.
AfU  D. I3S5



26
AngEX I
Page r6 et
=am - CNmL n mm
Los ofice at                                           Amam Q_ id Rates) - Cm autat 1970 pries)
Cl 
Indicator                     19c3 actuaa                                                                                    Proj ected
1975     19S      1911      1962       39la    lIU/C    I935         916       197       1916      I9g      1990
tfrrdml      e                 23,3            23.9     21.2      9.9      -3.0       27.5     20.1        4.        4 4.6     4.         5.3       L.3      6.0
hriy/a            -            6.9W0          30.7     20.4     46J      -10.1       14.3      9.0       -1.3       4.2       4.2       4.4        4.5      4.7
omfactui/b                    10.613           0.0      Z.5     40.6       7.4       43.5     30D.       -7.0       5.0        5.0       6.0       6.0      7.0
ledtlm  7orut                  15.49          -15.0      1.4    -9.4    -43.3        -15.9     D.1        36.4       32.6      94         6.2       9.0      9.2
Fccd & Cmmr0 Co               1*670           3.2    13.2   -5.8         -1.2       4.1    112.0        7.6       3.1        5.3       7.3       ?J       I.0
tcrulm                       6*607           -3.8    -9.8      -5.0      -2.6      1L0A    -13.0        .0.9       1.1        1.1      -1.6       5.9      6.
IMddmy ad qzd_                1.N15           9        6h.4    4.9      -32.2      -11.0     35.4       23.9      25.7       13.J       6.1       6.5      tlJ
Oth,m                         3,257         -0.6    -2.2        3.8     -3.        -20.3     7D.9       23.5       9.6       9.0       30.3      10.2     10.3
Priam
Eprt Prim lidem                                 176      13         525   1 9          192       191       223    2             31 1 m    251        1       30
4aqrt Pric  Dam                                242      431       474        522       43        313       339       333       356       N          95       425
T= dO Tfral  Tned                               72        67        53        43        39        57        62        66        a6        7V         71       71
Gw1tiav of I3idadlae lUode (2)                              I      kMult INCIIONS (2)
(Kt  wr    Prim.)                                    (at aitn   1970 pdm3
1975      19W0      115       19110                         1973.6   196345   191.3
EWeo                                  100.0     100.0     10.0      100D                            5.6      11.0       5.1
Primi^pI                            6.7       44.6      46.2       44.5                           1.1       61.6      4A
;_ ufacurlb                          37.3      55.2      53.8      55.5                          36.2 /a   23.2       5.8
zoo                                     0IDO.0    I3.LO   I_.0      1D.0                          -1.4       -2.7       9A
rid ad   GmrC                        9.6       11.1      15.7      13.3                          17.5     - 4.5       6A
rouIam                              23.4      44.6       a.5       6.1                            4.3      -7.3       Z.2
;bdvMy ad 6PdK                      26.5       15.       211.      33A                           -7.5      -3.       11.9
Othr                                 38.3      3.1        7.0      47.6                          -1.9      -3.1       9.6
!m  of T1       vdth           Seems of trad zlth        Sham of trai  id cldu1
1ntrial cmtrixm   l           IbemloPIq Omer[  (K)          si7plI  imxur. m
Drimdcm of 7vae                    1975    19B      Y193         1975     19E0    193         1975     191    1NI3
:qt                              60.2     57.3    6.3          23.5     WA.5    21.8         0.8       1.1     L2
LWot                             61.3     466    3L5            8.7     16.0    17.4        13.2     14.1    19.3
la For tin [riod 1981-1990. Prhmay P_uiu       a. -Woof gab p1e  rm  m.
/b Por de  prrSd 1975-198,   vdamm Inefudu o          oa.
/c Prelaiminr.
/d 3.         And I,m  projections we mimlatdn   -  fE1bamN
Sep-at p-oeau  -   .i. fcr th  apr j       r-oa1toalm2i mditirn- oWte. aw         tu,  I r I  ad    m            man11 a for Imn mu ad
ineufacur. ed   i-       .   ad  wWor ds.  rim  for qr1m1wal amudi              raualit r1l piujectioEP. ME loam  raumm In wriaziunl q       is
~eqdro b rnel .. ceaily    t. adY ceffee. moa. ad   m  *t           lam teh  3 pr pi  for        . .  tbm padd ad mopAmm  gwu   at 521   _n
1936-90.
IImfaenw3          we mu mero  to dell  In 31 ad   _ .betm  5n dpe y    became 1955-6. a . moe                  ti i    ipnc  dont od ti
law 197In ad early 19w. Sd_-prad             , uidch cenllt of mta1naul-b    ad ilrm  prucs am   [ctd to foll  du puAh of mouid
pis.e  r t tl_ur  rla qrim1b ia     . rc os. Prib_ for nprimry alti   m   ad to foUla ti  himumtimml prim izdu (IFI).
Ater 1965 alu iq t       1dty group E      petrolmmu see an   ely detezuizud. Quid of food ad    ot lor _er g      ISdlo    to gh. in
private xwApta  intelm ad mdmal imodit. to GOP sradh, fertilizer, to qriiutawl ucax avuth: odur 1ri                     . to  1    la  mrma t
grlikh; amplt1 god, to flad In_mm.. TIa grw,th tn de1c oll a.uuim  In a f.mtdatof OP paith. Dome                   oic cproluctima Ins _mte  to
Immamme frm 530.C00  bp  In 3963 to 6.a O bpd In 1986. r nldr at dint leel uCU  199D. 0L1 I      am  drAijd - a rzasdl.
1m      t prim Idim. for food. otber iza.ialz  gods. ad  pWtatl pods mot tv d           -w abug 6-K pm yr. Pta1 prim  m    with
1D'  e La trla  a    lsd lrpla prim  indm - tdUd Inciumn abet tim ues -  En ad fer   p    .idt tim   ~    pIM lid  -  dd              mm tim tim
InX.
Ipril 30. 29WS



27
SALA   OP FAsMlTIS. UTEDAL CAPITAL AM MIT
(D3  Hl_silc   at CWn.n Psi...)
va.1..ti.-       1291.7  glkt1. (.3d-1912)
orP P   Capita  1111 0 (3951)
-tual          _-Pralectad-                                                              -
197       19         3l95       13912      1393       3994 /4   I935        39f4       397        393        394        1990
Oct *.-r.     C_d ..d ksoI-.         -,.70      -12.344   -I1.192    -14.474    -4,250         482    -1.l44      -3.139       -1.52      -779       -1i1       -754
.pa t        d                      33.  *               270  0.31 21 3 2 20,311  21.31,9  27.001    24.os70    14         14.314     13.f1 7    44,44      11.139
lartc  r Ca-                        32 ,23     22.9      22,093     39,195      151423    131.39     15,725     31,e31    27.19       23.447    2*'4        32.21?
Nat Paet. ral e                     -1.731    -.4 21    -9.s31    -13.923    -3.0113   -30.172 .4-2.023   -40.021    -1.315    -31.503    -12.,31    -12.219
(at   Ith I.t.ma p.V.R..         (2.042) 1   (.411    C1.944)    (9.123    (3.4731    (9.352)   (10.111)   (.1312       (9.517)   010.005)   3.3097)  (30.703)
- HALT dat)
Mat 1u.-P,a   a."c-                 -3,43_    -2.120     -2.341     -3.13S     -2.401    -3,234      -2,433    -3.120    -4.030       -4.905     -1.771     -.,926
mat T.a.cf.r                              13        123        EU         -3(       103       137          0          a          0          0          0          O
C.tvat - tat au1t _4.43                         -12.438   -11.003   -14.711       -4.342        454    -1,443     -3.159     -1.13       -71        -533       -154
Oiret Irt-t l ....t-..t                  39 1231  3.131                 933         4        3.04?       732        002        no       3.014      1.230      3.442
MALT a*   (3.)                         4,130      4,491     ,4*50       7,499      1,32    7 .41         2.729     3. 14     4.217      4,392      1,311       S .29
COma  Oc.ta.ct.                               C     I.93)   (31.331)  (3. 3912  (14.943)   (10.903)   (13.811   (34.340)  (34.3432   (161.9273 I  ) (39472   (200l2  (20.432)
Ar-CstMI                            (2.121    C   03)    (1.19)2    (1.404)    ('.")M  (30.240)   (33313)   (14334)   (5.74100   (34.710)  (35.444)  (35I.09)
Ira.. ll   Luama Abred (NOT            -394        -27       -921       -594         122       m0l          0    -3.400    -1,310    -2.4(3    -1.3(          -1.044
o014r Capital (3t l.dl.  a -rr..
cd  '-'-la )                            73      1."3      2.129      2.710     -1.993     -4.33        -U20        202       -733    -3.,30    .4.414       -3.Z13
OCarc. 3. fc..vc  (-idiau
tccrcc.c)                            3.223     1.319       -349      4.31          24    -1.021        -1W        -71t       -911       -993     -1.344     -I.594
2.taf_tacllcrc3 04ccr...              5,139      4.933       ,101ws    5.20       3,.57     10.474     30,914     111137     32.,l5    I31.430      15.024    34.21J
W 1   glE?                             34      .1.34         WI         4)        307       -          -          -          -          -          - _
3c.rt.3 a. tatb..I Inert. (GM)3            3.13       1.0        5.1I       3.4        2.1        4.5       4.5        3.0        1.4        .13        4.9        4.4
lctat     CaPtal cu 3.t
crs_c Othun tc                        4,912     11.31)    134041      14.913    Io.3 2       311.111   34.311     UA.W30     18.931    15.941      20.011    20.412
OtflcIcl Gra.                        -          -    -                -           _          _         _          -          -          -          _          _
Cana    -lc..L-au                      332        39         19        250          4         73         74         13         43         in         30          7
mAC                                   37        1s          31        1S0          1         Go        40         17          11        10          4          I
orcc                                -          -         -           -             I         1s         9          3          I          0          a          0
.ID.                               -          -          -          -          -          -          _          -          -          _          _          -
OCh.r                                 35          1          2      -          -              3         1          3          9          3          4          4
a-C-           1tc. Lc              4.,30      1.2        34.024    14.03       30.9       13.07     34,747     34,193     139."0o    33.929    20.791     20.4z2
OCfIeLSa  tprt Cc.dtt                131        412         5         342      1.09      2.101      3.3u       .32        3.294      3.309      I.300      3.30e
l33                                 210        345        23         423      3,204      3 294      3.413      3.94       3.443      3,303      3,544       12.73
othur 3,iclatra"l                    339        in3        390         31       237         2M          7        274        214        243        249         170
prt_1.                            4I3D0    30.353      14.362      1.2007     3.373      13.917     11.349    22.,72     13.190     34.,01     3.7791     31.433
gmll D bt
-St octatdtl.. ad _    cicra       235 :441              44,423     11.04      7933       s 12    92.2.31    95,09 s391              103.52,124    1(3,42    34.002
141t/u031  tastacd        1199        9        A9 4,2     4993        5,03      417        1340       3,43       9  W4 97,21    104.39             33319
PrfrctaF It -Gc.tC.d              9,59       34.435    1919       21,325     22132l    39,213       *1.921    32,'412     159        403        134        2,3413
mdlaur_     Dc t        3.614                  3.023     1,s    54,122         31.93      13.127     32,12.310    30.19    I."?9      1.43       9,.24      3.,41
1ra0  ISEne   (1
1390 d1a.r..cuct/tta  W-.
dlhs3Su 1.5                            3.2        L4         4.2.      31.3        6,9       9.1        5.2        7.4        7,0        7.4        1.5
I3D O(/.tul M0D                         4.1        3.2        1.4        3.7        4.4        ).2        4.0        4.9        7.2        71         2.4        7.6
I15D d- e d a  dc            t-l    c t.1.  2.1    2.3        2.3        2.5        4.2        1.3        4.3        4.1        5.4        4.5        4.3        1.4
D.b. SmLcee
rt.a  -nle. Pa.t. lb                1,410      1.341      31.221     34,32     32.206    20.973      22.m       24.n      23.213     2s.s3    24.431       24.494
Wmtur=t                            3.43      4.323      1.928      1.243      7.142    10.121     33.57      10.271     31.543     10.735     30.794     33.401
fav..t. - I ta-t. C (lc3               13.3         4.35     30.4        11.7      44.0       72.2       10.0       7513       43.9       30.9       55.4       44.1
-rW  ltra.t 3.. -  be
C-...t-d L.- (3 1.                       3.7       32.7        2S.1       2.         33.4       13.9      12.0        3.9        9.9        9.7        9.1        S.S
or 1.1.                                  I.                   I.                     D. Z.w Sr                                  _                      .
Ftr:nt. 3..                              .9         34        241        1.          3.4s                           a.. * _.              ca.        a.. *.-.
A. r_ rt.lt fr ._
racut_d L.   (Tact) I.                   9.0        9.1        9.7        30.9        9.1       9.3      130.       13.4        3.I       131.   1     3.5       13.
off 1.11                                38.4      32.7        1A.4      33.7       32.9       ca.        u...         s         ..         a         a...       u
NrIre. S-"                              4.9        3.9        9.0       30.2        3.4        .a.       u.s.       s.c.       a,a        u.c.       c.a.       a..
A. I f Debt o"t.rt_d
3    Itt   t tt. ar dublIc D0t O4.tctIadlc
ibtariti. d_  ICiU.S 1                                        St.
trltrla  4_ et1hic l0 ycr.                                   95.
ittfl strs..t   .10.4  O ncatdiurg
lutur-t d_  ctbk  t.  flMt car                              a...
is  D.c.cutOaS, _.M ad dali.. ra  tic  adjc-cut.
/4  1as.cc        t_ ad  rtac  -   dI- cd Is-  t-  dut be.-t C  -    I-   4..
L.  70l. Dbt e ly 1cr 3913.
/d  Prcici-y,
/ Fr 1982. t.          cac.l    et_i    e      .chbdtll   art. s     t.  ar    -  y'ar. thc utlctu tc 1-Irt. yriclpal that   id 4. 4_ aIt_t t cllc.
* -. - MA.    labIa.                                                                                                                        It- 2. 3933



28
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STAT9ME  OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1985)
Amount less   Undis-
Loan f   Year           Borrower                   Purpose       Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Millions)
Seventy two loans fully disburset                                   3,107.7
1195     1976  Brazil                          Rural Development       12.0        1.3
1317     1976  Brazil                          Agro-Industry           83.0       25.9
1362     1977  State of Minas Gerais           Rural Development       42.0        1.4
1452     1977  Brazil                           Education              32.0        7.1
1488     1977  Brazil                          Rural Development       11.0        2.3
1525     1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao     Sewerage               110.0       57.5
1537     1978  Brazil                          Rural Development       24.0       13.2
1538     1978  ELETROBRAS                      Power                  130.0       15.8
1557     1978  Brazil                          Roads                  114.0       17.3
1568     1978  Brazil                          Agric. Extension       100.0       16.4
1589     1978  Brazil                          Rural Development       37.0       15.0
1654     1979  Banco Nacional da Babitacao      Sites and Services     93.0         .6
1656     1979  Rnnco Nacional da Habitacao     Water and Sewerage    100.0        13.2
1714     1979  Brazil                          Rural Development       26.0       16.3
1720     1979  Brazil                          Urban Development       70.0       26.6
1721     1979  COPEL                           Pbwer                  109.0       26.7
1728     1979  Brazil                          Rural Development       40.0       22.5
1729     1979  Brazil                          Irrigation              28.0        4.7
1730-5   1979  Brazil                          Roads                  110.0       25.7
1822-5   1980  Brazil/BNDE                     Pollution Control       34.0       30.4
1823     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao     Water Supply           130.0        4.3
1824     1980  CEEE                             Power                 114.0       73.2
1839     1980  Brazil                          Urban Transport        159.0       37.9
1850     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao     Water Supply           139.0       32.9
1867     1980  Brazil                          Education               32.0       18.1
1877     1980  State of Minas Gerais           Rural Development       63.0       51.5
1895     1980  ELETROSUL                       Power                  125.0       87.9
1924     1981  Brazil                          Rural Development       56.0       23.9
1939     1981  ELETROBRAS                      Power                   54.0       43.4
1965     1981  EBTU                            Urban Transport         90.0       57.0
1970     1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao     Water Supply           180.0      108.0
1989     1981  Brazil                          Alcohol Development   250.3        87.0
2015     1981  Brazil                          Agriculture             29.0       16.6
2016     1981  Brazil                           Agriculture            60.0       17.9
2060     1982  Brazil                          Agriculture             67.0       31.4



29
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
A. SUMMARY STAITMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of March 31, 1985)
Amount less   Undis-
Loan f  Year            Borrower                    Purpose      Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Millions)
2061     1982  Brazil                           Health                  13.0        6.0
2062     1982  Brazil                           Highways              240.0        63.7
2116     1982 Brazil                            Agriculture            26.4        15.1
2138     1982  ELETROBRAS                       Power                 182.7       146.4
2163     1982  Brazil                           Agriculture            26.4        18.6
2170     1982  Brazil                           Urban Development     123.9       105.0
2177     1982  Brazil                           Rural Development      42.7        31.7
2193     1982  Brazil                           Urban Development       8.9         4.8
2196     1982  CVRD                             Iron Ore              304.5       117.2
2224     1982  Brazil                           Feeder Roads          154.0       129.0
2225     1982  BNDES                            Development Barking   220.0         9.5
2249     1983  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply          302.3       210.0
2268     1983  Brazil                           Agro-Industries       400.0       374.0
2269     1983  Brazil                           Rural Development      67.8       60.0
2343     1983  Brazil                           Urban Development      52.7        48.1
2347     1983  Brazil                           Export Development    352.0         1.4
2348     1983  Brazil                           Agriculture           303.0         6.0
2353     1983  Brazil                           Agriculture            65.2       61.0
1729-1   1983  Brazil                           Agriculture             7.7         7.7
2060-1   1983  Brazil                           Agriculture            22.8        22.7
2364     1983 Eletrobras                        Power                 250.6       227.5
2365     1983 Eletrobras                        Power                 222.8       190.5
2366     1983  Brazil                           Education              20.0        17.4
2412     1984  Brazil                           Education              40.0        36.9
2446    1984  Brazil                            Federal Highways      210.0       189.7
2447/1   1984  State of Sao Paulo               Health                 55.5        55.5
24487   1984  State of Sao Paulo                Health Studies          2.0         2.0
2488fr  1985  Brazil                            Development Banking   300.0       300.0
2489/T   1985  Brazil                           Education              72.0        72.0
Total                                                9,866.7 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bark                 1,734.8
Total now outstanding                                8,131.9
Amount sold                              45.8
Of which has been repaid               45.8            0.0
Total now held by Bark                               8,131.9
Total undisbursed                                               3,560.3
/1 Not yet effective.
/2 No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.
Note: The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bark/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



30                                                        bw 3 f 3
S. SlXr Q 1GM  DNw i            a of Ihzch 31. 1915)
o b   Lg o r                                 Toe fhuImm.            _         Ius Ir       tq     TdaL
1907                Sc       do Dumil Ms. d. Elctddihid                            Flmti  E,tiin                          2.00               2.0'
1958                0UrAft. S. A. mlul= a  hpu                                      LIP ad &a                             1.20       -       1.
1958                0. L R Plaatlau doh Imil. S. A.                                 hA^        hzm                        0.45       -       0.4!
1958                W.U.yW.B4dan tb  -Il. S. A6 - iuhti& e QNr.1o                  lIno Vddcs                             2 L45      -   L     4
1959                Gamp a sIUm1d  de nM    Pa,t1an. S. A.                         c                                      1.2D       -       LQ
1959                Oanian ,olulm. S. A.                                           Lip                                    4.00       -       4A|L
1966/1968/1972      A    Vlaxi. S. A.                                              Sel                                   8a0        1    .93  9.
19W1969             &pe e Calow Gmtmrlne. S. A.                                    RAlIp an 1mr                          3.78       3.41     Liu
1967/1912           UltmfartLI. S. A. - Ia butda e  Qdo de F4rtilim                Fetilm                                 8.22      303    11.27
1969                 Pm*damo Din. S. A.                                            Pe         t 1hbew                     5.50      28       L3b
1920                FoUo1flin. S. A.  1uda e Gdo                                   Letwhd_la                              5.50      2.18     k38
1971                CdaLm. S. A. I bucra eG Crdo                                  lPomd ia                              4.00       144      6.04
1971                Rlo Gunk - Gprd   de Ca.1n.L-. do S1M                           llp                                   ..9)       -       4.90
1972/1975/1981      CQiuAa da Cmg  Nioml tude fmm                                  Cn                                   169.14      6.70   175.8.
1973/74M/81/83/86   Coqpdda SidazugL= cb Qu,.ti  - ONEJA                           SInai                                 76.97     15.2     92.24
1973                lVImi -k-bc k%ve1pz Fad - qH?                                  Gwf1 Nhimt Dar eln                     5.00       -       5.Ld
1973/1978/1983        rmm de  a      ll_de   tun e Rao=*lilmnda - lEDI S. A.   Eduel Eidzg ad Bef1dg                     85.00     8L74    9.7'.
1974                lhm   -  Wlkrml S. A.                      SauIm ami Jn11l Ebdpmm                                    6.0         -       6AIX)
1974                Fablnah de Teclb UIm. S. A.                                                                         310          -      3Lo
1975/1979           C4_=w   td_ rImhmt1         d.                                 (khmu Bia&                            6.18       L19      7.37
1975                G,dtow NIrdone. S. A.                                          LUadumcas                             .LOD        -      10Jk
1976                Selim  liz*tda - 1I1 dIo  Wbohate. S. A.                       T1aiia                                6.45      10       7.45
1976/190D           Tenmr S. A. -T        CaInumi do N lte                         T            * ]                      16.    =   _-t
1977                86 S. A. ftnamu HaLzxglcm                                      armn and Ah-diam a a                 20.02.0
1977                 oEwmo Rlo dc  Iamc S. A.                                      M    9                                15.         -      15.D
1978                QS1 Stdausia S. A.                                            kr   aid    el                          8.38      3.00    1L38
1979                 olvdo dR1 Xwom  e Veicin. S. A.                               PI,r Wr"Vdd                           60.0       5.27    65.27
195                 aihg do I     h    to S. A. - IhIlm                            Redyd  CaGne                          2.00        -       2.UO
191D                Dab dPA= S/A - m            - AgUrlazm. Lsahtda
e CGno de o                                                IlOlmmgbr  B.41l.                      3.50      1.80     4.50
198                 Villa1 lzakmtdm de eAs S. A.  V- ID5                           1   antd S5na                          5.00               5. IU
19lD                PER - Coptnha knuhutr de! de LIprquJm                          ChidmaL aeid PtrodiniL               15.00      2L0      17.00
198)                I~D.1aL a CamorcSe S. A. eIx ad Laodinlmls                                                           -             0.25
198D                S           a  Qdidm  e 5sum  S/A                              Fertllinm                             35.00      6.00    41.00
198D                Folnui hauqin                                                   aLmi  ant F.ood 1ico1s             43.W0      S.0     4H 00
1981                B.lipr                                                         Ibl  aid  C *niralmc                   -         1.50     1.50
1981                  G _uIa Bhlia1z de hdqal Rdn -  hAE                           Food VAn Fotod romaalg                 5.50      3.0      8.50
1981                Tn1usto                                                        Ciedia  aid I_rldeimlx               46.0,)      4.00    50.00
1912                CElo  GM                                                       Gr And C utmmi slitendals           40.00       5.00    45.00
19Q                 IL1aing S. A.                                                  %w rapLnia Iheat                      30.00     0.45    30.45
191U                Cla  _lqpm        de lhrmt ;a (0)                              Jhu  Capjdall Ifra                    -           .03      D3
190                  itlm F1dfLco                                                  Foad and Food F     toaIzq            13.00     -        13.00
1983                Co .dd-a l         do _m. (MM)                                 Hi 011                                6.10      -        6.10
1981                PIFA -  pel de rqmxa     S-A.                                  Ruip & Rupar Pruhaga                  f3.OO      5.17    65.17
1983                sococorA                                                       Fot amat Food fIo,uud                 3.0        2.50     5.50
19R3                CDnC                                                             tc and C      satmalon Jbteara      35.00      -       35.00
19W                 CGrth Alomiquidics  IdaI                                      Ohemole aid F     etrmcs              2D.00      4.00    24.00
1985                Qdalm do ad"                                                   Ohmis aid Peudin1nad                   2.75      1.8D     4.55
Tolal Cr         M                                                                        9o1.97     9.44  I,30.41
1wa G-Iac'-o. Tereilaotv. 1apyta  ard Slm                                                 66L.79     15.13   676.92
T         tbin  U   lbw  ld by IFC                                                        718          .31    353.49
TasI  U tdlabraid                                                                          71.39     12.56    83.95
JqSd1 15. 1985



31                   ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
SANTA CATARINA SMALL TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Elements
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 13 months
(b) Agencies which prepared the project: GAPLAN with financial assistance
from CNDU.
(c) First presentation to the Bank: September 1984
(d) First mission to review project: October 1984
(e) Appraisal mission: December 1984
(f) Negotiations: August 1985
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: December 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1. The State of Santa Catarina agreed:
(a) That signature by GAPLAN and each wanicipality of a participation
agreement setting forth the procedures for executing works in
accordance with the Manual of Lending Policies and Procedures would
be a condition of onlending to each municipality (para. 48).
Cb) To study and prepare by December 31, 1986 a proposal for creating
and operating a Municipal Development Fund (MDF). The MDF would be
established by December 31, 1987 (para. 50).
(c) Eligibility criteria for participating in the program:
Ci) an urban population of less than 50,000;
(ii) presentation of annual or multiannual investment program
satisfactory to GAPLAN and BADESC; and,
(iii) participation in the Technical Assistance Program (para. 51);
(d) Additional eligibility criteria for receiving subloans:
Ci)  meet federal creditworthiness standards;
(ii)  enter into a Sub-Loan Agreement with BADESC setting forth the
terms of the subloans;
(iii) a collateral guarantee, and
(iv)  a plan of action for improvement of fiscal revenues (para. 46(e)
and 51).



32
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) Subproject selection and the allocation of subloans and grants would
follow criteria set forth in Manual of Policies and Procedures (paras.
51-52);
(f) The State would undertake to strengthen staffing of the municipal
associations by increasing technical staff from 80 to 141 in line with
an agreed upon staffing plan (para. 49).
(g) Bank review of investment plans and monitoring of cost recovery (para.
56).
2.  Finalization of arrangements satisfactory to the Bank between the
State of Santa Catarina, BADESC, BESC, STO, DAE and DER to transfer the
proceeds of the Loan and execute the project (paras. 47-49).



0             50             100 KILOMETERS                                                                                                   26
t I                         ao-IA 
<   s ,,oS~I, C,my.                                                   '^d I
Z     3Jo0Cdd      ;\aS.qt.  
162
SMALL TOWNS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT                                       >1 $a&                                2e;*                         W        c S-Z;tROU
URBAN NETWORK AND                                                                                                           c
RATE OF POPULATION GROWTH, 1970 -1980 o   &f [''- 
28'          By Municipality:       By City: +it\..     . iTG7
Less than 0%      0    5-10%                                     *e*'  \                                                Sk    <-  _iI
0-2              0    10-20                                        aw .                                          t'erF@ 5                L 
;           ft 1~ More tha,n 15    -~   firom thed Projectd-*j~4
MunicipaItiy           Urban Tronsporta-   {%gi7a
Creat edafter         tionrNetwork:AZ
-     Railroads                        \/ |                                     ,b K V.         /              ,.           r W
-29                                                                                                                                                    VVf?PM.U.Of ?w '0 A  29'
~~~~~{     Chz reeom
Municipal Boundaries                                 \_            9W bw,avg:                                               er rues Iv
Association Boundaries                                                                    ,    4     5                     .flWF,
|            ---   ~~~International Boundaries                                9 /^,St= 
*                                                                                                                                                        &xt, 57-  5!  ma* 
-  53                     52                                                         50'                           *9'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F.N
BRAZIL                                    P                                  Lo"" LW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



