Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3023 TUN
             (Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
           ENTREPRISE TUNISIENNE D'ACTIVITES PETROLIERES
                        Dated May 10, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3023 TUN
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated May 10,  1989 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND   DEVELOPMENT   (the   Bank)   and  ENTREPRISE
TUNISIENNE D'ACTIVITES PETROLIERES (the Borrower).
     WHEREAS (A)  Republic  of  Tunisia  (the  Guarantor)  and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described  in  Schedule  2  to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations  of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake  such  other obligations as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
     (a)  "The Project Unit"  means  the  unit  established by the
Borrower pursuant to its internal rules and procedures to be main-
tained in accordance with  the  provisions  of Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement; and
     (b)  "Statutes" means Law  72-22  of  March 10, 1972, comple-
mented by  Decree  73-173  of  April  16,  1973,  under  which the
Borrower was established.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank  agrees  to  lend  to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the Loan
Agreement, an  amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent to five
million five hundred thousand dollars ($5,500,000).
     Section 2.02.  The amount  of  the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement for expenditures made  (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect  of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of  three-fourths  of  one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal  amount  of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Guarantor  and the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means  the  six-month period com-
               mencing on each date  specified  in Section 2.06 of
               this Agreement,  including  the  Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
Page  3
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admin-
istrative, financial, engineering, commercial and petroleum indus-
try practices, and shall  provide,  promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  In order to facilitate  the  carrying out of the Project
and without limitation on the  generality of paragraph (a) of this
Section, the Borrower shall maintain  The Project Unit, with staff
and resources and  under  terms  of  reference satisfactory to the
Bank and to the Guarantor, to act as the implementation unit under
the Project.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
             Management and Operations of the Borrower
     Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry out its operations and
conduct  its  affairs  in  accordance  with  sound administrative,
financial, commercial,  engineering  and  petroleum industry prac-
tices under the supervision  of  qualified and experienced manage-
ment assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 4.02. The  Borrower  shall  at  all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery,  equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly  as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof,  all  in  accordance with sound engineering,
financial, commercial and petroleum industry practices.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower  shall  take out and maintain with
responsible insurers or make  other provision, satisfactory to the
Bank, for insurance  against  such  risks  and  in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section 4.04.  The Borrower shall  at all times take all such
action within its powers  to  maintain its corporate existence and
right to carry on its operations,  and take all steps necessary to
acquire, maintain and  renew  all  rights,  powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary  or  useful  in  the conduct of its
business and for the execution of the Project.
                             ARTICLE V
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 5.01. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect  in  accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Page  4
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year: (A)  certified copies of its finan-
               cial statements for  such  year  as so audited, and
               (B) the report of  such  audit by said auditors, of
               such scope and  in  such  detail  as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records, accounts and financial statements
               as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
               time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section,  records  and   accounts  reflecting  such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE VI
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 6.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that the Statutes shall  have  been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so  as  to  affect materially and adversely the
ability of the Borrower  to  perform  any of its obligations under
the Loan Agreement.
     Section 6.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in  Section  6.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
                            ARTICLE VII
                            Termination
     Section 7.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
Page  5
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VIII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 8.01. The President Directeur General of the Borrower
is designated as representative  of  the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 8.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          Entreprise Tunisienne
           d'Activites Petrolieres
          27 bis Avenue Khereddine Pacha
          1002 le Belvedere
          Tunis, Republic of Tunisia
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               ETAPETROL                         15128
                                                 13877
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                    ENTERPRISE TUNISIENNE D'ACTIVITES PETROLIERES
                    By /s/ Abdelaziz Hamzaoui
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
Page  6
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
    Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Equipment and         1,300,000            100% of foreign
     materials                                  expenditures
     (excluding Part D                          and 90% of local
     of the Project)                            expenditures
(2)  Consultants'          3,300,000            100% of foreign
     services,                                  expenditures and
     training and                               80% of local
     specialized                                expenditures
     services
(3)  Unallocated             900,000
          TOTAL            5,500,000
2.   For the purposes  of  this  Schedule:  (a)  the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures  in  the  currency of any country
other than that of  the  Borrower  for  goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and (b) the term  "local  expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of  this  Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding  the equivalent of $500,000, may
be made on account of  payments  made for expenditures before that
date but after November 30, 1988.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objective  of  the  Project  is  to  provide  a basis for
increasing the opportunities for  discovery and development of the
Guarantor's hydrocarbon resources by: (i) attracting international
oil industry participation in  exploration for hydrocarbons on the
Guarantor's prospective open  acreage;  and  (ii) strengthening of
the Borrower's technical  capabilities  to  manage the Guarantor's
petroleum sector activities.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time, to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Exploration Promotion Technical Assistance and Training
1.   Evaluation of the  hydrocarbon  potential  of the Guarantor's
territory through compilation and  analysis of both existing rele-
vant data and such new data as  is  to be acquired under Part B of
the Project.
2.   Preparation of detailed  promotional  studies  and reports on
such hydrocarbon potential in  form  and  content sufficient to be
presented to the international oil industry to attract its invest-
ment in exploration.
3.   Carrying out of a program to:
          (i)  organize promotional meetings in Tunis and in major
               international oil centers; and
Page  7
         (ii)  arrange suitable contacts with interested investors
               from the international petroleum industry.
Part B:   Data Acquisition, Processing and Reprocessing
1.   Acquisition, processing and  reprocessing of geophysical data
through the use of seismic and other state-of-the-art techniques.
2.   Acquisition, necessary processing  and interpretation of geo-
physical  data  obtained  through  conducting  gravity  and airmag
surveys in locations in the Guarantor's northern region.
Part C:  Procurement of Laboratory Equipment and Material;
         Training
1.   Acquisition of geochemistry laboratory equipment and computer
hardware and software for  use in seismic, geological, geophysical
and log processing.
2.   Training of the Borrower's staff in the use of newly-procured
items identified in paragraph 1 above.
Part D:   Procurement of Other Equipment and Materials
     Acquisition of sedimentology  laboratory equipment and compu-
ter  hardware  and  software  for  use  in  reservoir  engineering
studies.
                     *     *     *    *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (Expressed in Dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
     beginning October 1, 1994
     through   October 1, 2005                       230,000
On   April 1, 2006                                   210,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.O4 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                             .18
     before maturity
More than three years but                             .35
 not more than six years
     before maturity
Page  8
More than six years but                               .65
 not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but                            .88
 not more than fifteen years
     before maturity
More than fifteen years before                       1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Services
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and services shall
be procured under contracts  awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof,  goods manufactured in the Republic of
Tunisia may be granted a  margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of  paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Specialized  computer   packages,   laboratory  and  computer
facilities may be procured under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures  on  the  basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three qualified
suppliers eligible under  the  Guidelines  and  in accordance with
procedures set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II  of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.   Specialized geological, geophysical and computer services may
be procured under contracts awarded  on the basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
from at least two  different  countries  eligible under the Guide-
lines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more,  the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (a) (ii) of the Loan Agreement.
2.   The figure of 10% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Page  9
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to  assist  the  Borrower  in  the  execution of the
Project, the Borrower  shall  employ  consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and  conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank  to  assist:  (i) in developing of promo-
tional studies and reports  and in organizing promotional meetings
and international petroleum industry contacts  under Part A of the
Project; (ii) in  organizing  and  in  interpreting  results of an
airmag survey  of  Guarantor's  northern  territory;  (iii) in the
preparation  of  documentation  and  technical  specifications for
computer hardware and software  to  be acquired under the Project;
and (iv) in the training  of  the  Borrower's  staff in the use of
computer hardware and software to be  procured under Part C of the
Project. Such consultants  shall  be  selected  in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by The World Bank  as  Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
