fiLE        C  o   py                   Document of             CIRCULATING COPY
The World Bank TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo. P-1785
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AD DEVELOPENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON TWO
PROPOSED LOANS
TO THE
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMNT BANK
March ll, 1976
Thi document l t a c =,-3            - stribut  db       on     z th
thei  official  duties. its  leontents  may   notan movew   be  Ofd   bYac ip.le w th  o nlyO,Id  ak atoI



l/
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00         2.00 BD$       (Barbados)
=    1.46 B$        (Belize)
=    2.37 EC$       (Eastem Caribbean) -
=    2.55 G$        (Guyana)
=    1.10 J$        (Jamaica)
=    2.37 TT$       (Trinidad & Tobago)
=    1.00 B$        (The Bahamas)
1/   As of December 1975
2/   Antigua, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St.Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla,
St. Lucia, and St. Vincent.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL ELANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON TWO PROPOSED LOANS
TO THM CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a conventional
Bank loan, and a loan on Third Window terms, to the Caribbean Development Bank
(CDB) equivalent to U $17.0 million and US$3.0 million, respectively, to help
finance sub-projects in agriculture, industry, tourism, transportation, urban
development, education, and public utilities in CDB member countries. Appro-
priate governmental guarantees would be provided (see paragraphs 44 and 45 below).
The interest on the conventional Bank loan would be 8&% per annum and amorti-
zation would conform substantially to the aggregate of the amortization schedules
applicable to the sub-loans financed by the loan which would have a maximum term
of 25 years including up to 10 years of grace. The Third Window loan would have
a term of 25 years, including seven years of grace, with interest at 4U4 per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.        An economic report entitled "Caribbean Regional Study" (No. 566a),
which was based on the findings of a Bank mission to Commonwealth Caribbean
countries in November and December 1973, was circulated to the Executive Directors
on June 20, 1975. Separate economic reports on The Bahamas, Barbados, Guyana,
Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago have also been circulated to the Executive
Directors.1/ The followiing paragraphs are based on the findings of these eco-
nomic reports and commenl; on recent economic developments. Country data sheets
for the larger countries are attached as Annex I to this report.
The Regional Integration Movement
3.        The Commonwealth Caribbean consists of six independent countries -
Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago, Guyana, Barbados, The Bahamas, and Grenada, five
United Kingdom (UK) Associated States - St. Vincent, St. Lucia, Dominica, Antigua
and St. Kitts-Nevis-AnguiLlla, and five UK Dependencies - Belize, Montserrat,
Turks and Caicos Islands., Cayman Islands, and the UK Virgin Islands. It embraces
a total population of 4.? million with a combined GDP of about US$3.7 billion in
1972.
1/ "Current Economic Position and Prospects of The Bahamas" (No. 390a-BM),
circulated on June 18, 1974; "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Barbados" (No. 506a-B]3), circulated on August 18, 1975; "Current Economic
Position and Prospects of Guyana" (No. 242a-GUA), circulated on December 27,
1973; "Current EconomLc Position and Prospects of Jamaica" (No. 257a-JM),
circulated on March 12, 1974; and "Current Economic Position and Prospects
of Trinidad and Tobago" (No. 435a-TR), circulated on August 6, 1974. An
economic report on Grenada and new economic reports on Guyana and Jamaica
will be ready for circulation shortly.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contenis may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



4.        Building upon the basis of a community of interest, imparted
largely by a common British colonial heritage, the Caribbean countries have
embarked upon a number of initiatives to construct a framework of cooperation
in an attempt to overcome the handicaps of small size, economic fragmentation
and external economic dependence. An early attempt was made at integration
with the establishment of the West Indies Federation in 1958. However, this
short-lived experiment was unable to survive the nationalist sentiments which
dominated the Caribbean when two of the Federation's major member countries,
Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago, achieved independence in 1962. The idea of
regional economic association was revived in the mid-1960's and culminated
in 1968 in the formation of the Caribbean Free Trade Association (CARIrTA).
Within this free trade area, the lesser developed countries of the region
joined together in forming the Easterm Caribbean 'Common Market (ECCM). In
1970 the CDB was established and in October 1972 CARIFTA member countries
decided to strengthen the integration movement still further by forming a
Caribbean Community and Common Market (CARICOM). 1/
5.        The integration movement aims at promoting economic growth and devel-
opment for the region with emphasis on employment creation, at reducing the
region's external dependence, and at fostering a regional cultural and political
identity. It provides a framework within which the countries of the Caribbean
can strive to extend the size of their markets thereby achieving economies of
scale, develop united policies towards the outside world, and make special
arrangements to assist the economic development of the ansller countries of the
area.
6.        CARIFTA provided member countries with an enlarged free trade market
and hence the opportunity to capture the benefits of competition, specialization
and larger scale production. CARICOM represents a deepening of regional inte-
gration and includes such measures as the establishment of a common external
tariff, a harmonized system of fiscal incentives for industry, taxation agree-
ments and the formation of a Caribbean Investment Corporation (CIC) to channel
equity funds to the less developed member countries. It calls for co-ordination
of national development planning, rationalization of agriculture and joint
development of regional natural resources and cooperation in monetary and
exchange rate policies. CARICOM also provides for cooperation in other areas
including health, education, culture, transport and the harmonization of
foreign policy but it is in the field of economic integration that most progress
has so far been made. The community also established a structure that should
permit member countries to negotiate more effectively as a united group on
matters of international trade. Since the establishment of CARIFTA intra-
regional trade has more than doubled from US$45 million in 1967 to US$114
million in 1972 while the share of intra-CARIFTA trade in total regional trade
rose from 6% to 9%. Although this ratio is still low, it marks the beginning
of a trelnd wILichi will cuntinue in future years. The Caribbean countries
have made it clear, however, that they will judge the success of the integra-
tion movement not only by the growth in regional trade, but also by the
success in cooperation in other fields of endeavor.
1/ The Bahamas, Turks and Caicos Islands, Cayman Islands and British Virgin
Islands are not members of CARICOM; they are, however, all members of the CDB.



-3-
7.        A distinguishing characteristic of the region (excluding Belize)
is the economic dichotomy separating the four so called "more developed"
countries (MDCs - Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago, Barbados and Guyana) from the so-
called less developed countries (LDCs). The LDCs have a total population
of 600,000 and an extremely poor resource endowment; they are dwarfed
economically by three of their four larger partners. The MDCs with a total
population of 4 million account for 94% of the region's GDP and have an
average per capita income almost double that of the LDCs (estimated at US$375
for 1972).  The high income of the MDCs is based on a relatively narrow but
well developed resource base comprising bauxite, petroleum, sugar and tourism;
the LDCs on the a her hand are dependent largely on agriculture and to a lesser
extent tourism as the mainstays of their economies. An attempt has been made
in the regional institul;ional framework to accord recognition to the special
needs of the LDCs. The CARICOM Treaty contains special provision for the LDCs,
including a relatively Long grace period in which to adopt the common external
tariff and the right to retain special fiscal incentives for industries. In
addition the CDB is charged with a special responsibility to pay particular
attention to the needs of the LDCs, while the Caribbean Investment Corporation
(CIC) operates exclusively in those countries.
Recent Economic Developnents
8.        With some exceiptions the decade of the sixties was a period of steady
growth for the MDCs averaging about 5% per annum. Neither central government
finances nor the balance of payments posed great difficulties. Thia situation
changed, however, in 1972 when the inflow of investment slackened appreciably,
in part a response to specific sectoral considerations, such as the completion
of an expansion phase in bauxite/alumina industry in Jamaica, and in part the
reflection of a deterioration in the general international climate for
foreign investment. The pace of growth slowed and the underlying structural
imbalance in the trade account of the MDCs was exposed. By the time corrective
action was initiated,the region was in the throes of a severe foreign exchange
crisis which persisted through 1973 and 1974. The situation was aggravated for
all but Trinidad and Tobago, a petroleum exporter, by the sharp rise in interna-
tional oil prices in 197,14. However, in a commendable spirit of regional co-
operation, Trinidad and robago provided balance of payment support for its
partners in CARICOM. At the same time Barbados and Guyana benefitted substan-
tially from the sharp increase in sugar prices in 1974 while Jamaica also in
that year introduced a levy on the production of bauxite which more than com-
pensated for the rise in oil prices. The net result of these various develop-
ments was to improve and strengthen the balance of payments position of all the
MDCs during 1974 and 197'5 as compared with the immediately preceding years.
9.        After a period of relative price stability in the sixties when
inflation averaged about 3 or 4% per annum, all four MDCs have experienced an
unparalleled inflation during the last three years. In its early stages this
surge in domestic prices could be largely attributed to the imported effects
of the general rise in world prices including food and petroleum; however, sub-
sequently domestic factors, such as the high wage settlements negotiated by
active and politically influential trade unions, have assumed a more prominent
role. An effective incomes policy should be, therefore, a priority policy
objective for all countries of the region in seeking to restore price stability
and cost



- h -
10.       The economies of the LDCs have been underpinned by substantial
assistance from the UK which permitted their economies to grow at a modest 2
to 3% during the decade of the sixties. This assistance has also compensated
for a level of gross domestic savings which has been negative in many cases, but
it has not been sufficient to generate a rate of growth comparable with that of
the MDCs. Moreover, the LDCs have suffered a major setback from world inflation.
Unlike the MDCs, the LDCs have no major exports other than a few primary agricul-
tural products (particularly bananas and coconuts) and tourism with which to
offset higher import prices; the LDCs were thus severely affected by the decline
in tourism resulting from the major recession in North America. It is estimated
that as a result of the world economic recession and the escalation of import
prices the GDP of many LDCs may have fallen in real terms during 1974/75.
Development Problems
11.       The major and perhaps most critical development problem confronting
the countries of the Caribbean is the persistent and high level of unemployment
which pervades the region. It is estimated that about 13% of the region's
labor force is openly unemployed and another 4% are those who have withdrawn
from labor market because of the lack of employment opportunities. The situation
is likely to be aggravated in the immediate future with the slackening in emigra-
tion to North America and the UK, partly attributable to the tighter immigration
policies being pursued by these countries, and a significant acceleration in the
rate of increase in the potential work force during the rest of this decade.
The unemployment problem needs to be tackled in the context of inducing a higher
rate of economic growth and in this respect an improved export performance is
of prime importance. This will require a stricter control over costs and
greater productivity in export industries to ensure that a competitive edge
is maintained in overseas markets. For the longer term it will be important
to develop the skills of the labor force through a more intensive program of
industrial and technical training.
12.       In order to achieve the rates of growth necessary to make any signi-
ficant impact on unemployment, a major effort is needed to revitalize the
agricultural sector in the region. Until recently a relatively neglected
sector, its performance in terms of both exports and domestic supply has been
poor. Underlying the stagnation are basic problems such as a skewed land
distribution, poor agronomic practices, rising unit production costs and a
widening gap between earnings in agriculture and other economic activities.
Stronger and more determined efforts need   to be made to rehabilitate the
export sub-sector, improve efficiency and contain costs, and utilize land more
productively. However, before a regional policy can be developed it will first
be necessary to overcome fundamental technical and institutional problems at
an individual country level.
13.       As indicated above, balance of payments difficulties during the last
few years have acted as a major constraint to growth in the region. However,
the medium term balance of payments prospects of the MDCs as a whole are greatly
improved as a result of higher prices for petroleum, bauxite and to a lesser
extent sugar, and increased taxation receipts should improve the central govern-
ment finances of these countries. There are significant differences between
the MDCs, however, with respect to future growth prospects. Whereas the mineral
exports of both Trinidad and Tobago, and Jamaica appear to provide a strong



- 5 -
and relatively secure source of foreign exchange earnings, Barbados and Guyana
are much more dependent upon sugar--the price of which is projected to be much
lower than the high levels prevalent in late 1974 and early 1975. The attain-
ment of a reasonable rate of growth by Barbados and Guyana will depend, there-
fore, upon careful balance of payments and fiscal management.
14.       The outlook for the LDCs is less encouraging. They face the prospect
of a widening external account gap with meagre domestic fiscal resources with
which to sustain a development program. The net effect of recent events have
been cushioned, however,, by increased external assistance from a number of
sources. Trinidad and T'obago has already extended balance of payments assist-
ance to the governments of Grenada., Dominica and St. Vincent and in late 1974
made a loan of US$5.0 million to the CDB on soft terms for relending in the LDCs.
Canada, the UK, the US, Germany, Venezuela and Colombia have made contributions
to the CDB's Special Development Funds, an important source of soft fumds for
the LDCs. However, the financing needs of the LDCs are formidable if they are
to raise their rate of growth to even 5% per annum. With this goal in mind,
public investment requirements for the five-year period 1975 to 1979 have been
estimated at US$250 million in constant 1974 prices--some 65% above the level
attained in the preceding five years. This target can only be attained, however,
if the LDCs are prepared to make an exceptimnally strong domestic fiscal effort.
If appropriate recurrent expenditure and revenue policies are adopted, it should
be possible to generate a positive level of budget savings which, together with
domestic borrowing, cou:Ld result in a contribution from domestic resources
equivalent to about 25% of the proposed public investment. The remainder of
the financing will have to come from external sources, both from within the
Caribbean through a transfer of resources from the MDCs to the LDCs, and also
from bilateral and multilateral agencies outside the region. The CDB, as an
important regional deve:Lopment institution with a special responsibility to
assist the LDCs, can plky a unique role in mobilizing financial assistance
from within the region and externally, to accelerate the development of the
LDCs and help redress the economic imbalance between them and the more advanced
MDCs.
Creditworthiness
15.       Given its comfortable foreign exchange reserves situation and its
low debt servicing liability, Trinidad and Tobago enjoys high creditworthiness.
The three remaining MDCs5 have borrowed substantially abroad, including frequent
resorts to the Euro-dol:Lar market during the period 1972 to 1974, to strengthen
their foreign reserves position and help finance expanding public sector invest-
ment programs. This has resulted in a sharp increase in their external public
debt which rose from an aggregate of US$160 million in 1971 to about US$690
million at the end of 1V7h. Over this period there was an increase in Guyana's
external public debt ser-vicing liability fram 4.9% to 5.1% of export earnings,
in Jamaica's from 3.8% to 6.7% and in Barbados' from 1.1% to 3.1%. Given the
importance of exports in the GNP of these countries, debt servicing ratios of the
level indicated are relatively high but, provided the countries pursue sound
fiscal and balance of p.iyments management policies, they should be able to service
further external loans on canventional terms.



- 6 -
16.       As indicated in paragraphs 7 and 14 above, the LDCs have limited
resources and relatively low per capita income and are confronted with
difficult development programs. In their efforts to overcome these draw-
backs and to achieve a satisfactory rate of growth, they will need to continue
to rely heavily on concessional external assistance for financing their develop-
ment programs. They are, therefore, considered eligible for Third Window loans,
with the exception of Belize which has an estimated per capita income (1972)
of US$670. The proposed Third Window loan of US$3.0 million to the CDB would
be for relending exclusively to the Commonwealth Caribbean LDCs, excepting
Belize. While the LDCs would also be eligible for borrowing from the CDB from
the proceeds of the conventional Bank loan, because of their limited debt
servicing capacity, we expect that this borrowing would be very selective and
largely confined to revenue producing projects, mostly in the private sector,
which may be relied upon to service the sub-loans. Both the CDB, as required
by its Articles of Agreement, and the Bank would need to be satisfied that the
borrowing country could manage to service the additional debt obligation. The
UK would guarantee repayment by the CDB to the Bank of Bank funds relent in the
UK Associated States and Dependencies (see paragraph 44 below).
PART II - BANK GIRUP OPERATIONS IN THE CARIBBEAN
Introduction
17.       The Bank has on-going lending operations in Jamaica, Guyana and
Trinidad and Tobago and has made 31 loans/credits in these three countries
totalling US$267 million. Of this amount 53% has been for infrastructure
investments in transportation, electric power, telecommunications, water and
sewerage; the remainder has gone into agriculture (11%), education (22%),
DFC operations (3%), family planning (2%), sites and services (5%) and sea
defenses (h%). There have so far only been two IFC investments in the Caribbean
region, both in Jamaica; there are under preliminary consideration further
projects in Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as at January 31, 1976 for each
of the three countries and notes on the execution of on-going projects. The
following paragraphs describe the proposed Bank lending program in the four
MDCs and possible future regional projects.
Jamaica
18.       In Jamaica, the Bank expects to place increasing emphasis in its
lending program on the agricultural sector to support efforts to promote exports,
stimulate import substitution, strengthen the balance of payments and help
check the population drift from the rural areas into the cities. A rural
development project has recently been appraised and it is expected that the
preparation of a sugar rehabilitation project will shortly be completed. Also
being appraised is a proposed third agricultural credit loan to the Jamaica
Development Bank. In other sectors, a second population project with a
nutrition component will soon be presented to the Executive Directors and a
second power project is being prepared by the Jamaica Public Service Company.



-7-
Trinidad and Tobago
19.       Assuming thait oil prices broadly maintain their present levels
Trinidad and Tobago should have considerable resources at its disposal for
financing its future dcvelopment effort. In these circumstances, the primary
role of Bank assistancEt would be to provide technical assistance for policy
planning and institutic,nal development so as to enhance the country's capacity
to prepare and execute projects. During the next few years the Bank is
planning to proceed with a modest lending program in Trinidad and Tobago and
barring any sharp decline in the country's oil revenues, it is not likely that
a net transfer of resources will result from new loans by the Bank to Trinidad
and Tobago. In the transportation sector a second highway project will
shortly be presented to the Executive Directors. In agriculture, the Bank
plans to assist in the financing of a rural development/land settlement
project. In the social sectors, a third education project may be considered
for Bank financing.
Guyana
20.       In Guyana the main emphasis of the Bank's lending program would be
in the agricultural sector where Guyana has good potential for exploitation.
Increased agricultural output should'help improve Guyana's balance of trade
and increase employment opportunities and raise incomes in the rural areas.
Projects under consideration for future Bank financing in this sector include
forestry processing and drainage and irrigation. In infrastructure, a possible
water supply and sewerage project for Georgetown is under preparation. The
Bank is also Executing Agency for UNDP-financed studies of water transport,
airfields in the interior and access roads to coastal agricultural areas. These
studies might lead to the development of projects suitable for financing by
the Bank, or by the CDB from the proposed Bank loan.
Barbados
21.       The Bank and (DB are currently helping Barbados, which joined the
Bank in 197h, to develoyp a tourism project for their financing. This would
be an innovative project and comprise a cluster of locally-owned small hotels
sharing common services and entertainment facilities with linkages with local
agricultural production and handicrafts and iinproved marketing and promotional
arrangements. If successful, the project might serve as a model for replica-
tion elsewhere in the region. Further ahead, the Bank and/or CDB may develop
an agricultural project which would contribute to agricultural diversification,
the development of new crops and other farm products and improve research and
marketing.
Bank Regional Lending
22.       The proposed loans would be the Bank's first to the CDB. We expect
that further loans will 'be considered as needed in future. Since its estab-
lishment in 1970 the Ban;k has maintained close relations with the CDB and is
acting as Executing Agency for a UNDP-financed technical assistance project to
provide experts to assist CDB in its operations. The Bank is also cooperating
with the CDB in the preparation of a number of projects in the Caribbean region.
As noted in Part I, during the last few years the integration movement has
gained increasing momentum and CDB can play an important role in helping its
member countries to formuilate and implement coherent national development
strategies with a regional perspective. The proposed loans, together with the



-8-
Bank's technical assistance, would help strengthen this important regional
institution and thereby assist in the economic development and integration
of the region. Bank support would also assist CDB in its important role as
a catalyst in mobilizing development assistance for its Caribbean member
countries. The Bank expects increasingly to look to the CDB to finance smaller
projects where the Bank's contribution would be less than about US$6.0 million
were the Bank to finance them directly. The approach would be flexible and
would take into account the nature of the project or sector, CDB's willingness
and capacity to handle the project, and the views of the borrowing country.
23.       One product of the integration movement is an endeavor on the part
of the countries in the Caribbean to cooperate in the exploitation of the
region's natural resources and in the development of services on a regional
basis. The Bank can play a useful role in such regional projects by providing
financial support and technical assistance in establishing the necessary
regional entities which will be required to manage and operate the projects.
Feasibility studies are under way for a possible regional cement project to
be established in Barbados and owned jointly by the governments of Barbados
and Guyana. The studies may result in the preparation of a project which
would be suitable for Bank financing. Other regional projects may be developed
which the Bank may consider supporting. It is also envisaged that part of
the proceeds of the proposed Bank loans to the CDB may be used for smaller
regional projects in the Caribbean.
PART III - THE SECTORS
24.       The proceeds of the proposed loans would be relent by CDB for
private and public sector projects in eligible CDB member countries for
agriculture, agro-industry, manufacturing industry, tourism, transportation,
public utilities, sites and services, and technical and vocational education
and training (Section 1.02(d) of draft Loan Agreements). Relending of Bank
funds in other sectors may also be undertaken with Bank approval, provided
that they are sectors included in the Bank's own lending activities and that
CDB has developed the necessary technical capacity.
The Agricultural Sector
25.       The agricultural sector in the Caribbean is of major importance as
a source of foreign exchange, employment and income. The sector's performance
in recent years has been poor, and in 1972 the region switched from an agri-
cultural surplus area to a deficit area with a net balance amounting to about
US$50 million. This was accompanied by a reduction of about one-third in
agricultural employment between 1960 and 1970; nevertheless, the sector remains
the largest source of employment in the region absorbing about 25% of the
working population. As noted above (paragraph 12) the underlying problems
include a skewed land distribution, inefficient methods of production, widening
disparities between agricultural earnings and earnings in other sectors and
weakness in government support services and pricing policies. The countries
of the region recognize the seriousness of the problem and the need to revitalize



- 9 -
the sector so as to increase employment, raise incomes in the rural areas,
check the rural/urbzm drift and assist the balance of payments. The larger
countries in the region are initially tackling the problem on a national
basis and the Bank is assisting these national programs. The CARICOM Treaty
recognizes that there is scope for a regional approach to the sector's
problems, however, amd calls for a comprehensive rationalization of regional
agriculture through an integrated regional plan. The CDD is already very
active in lending to the agricultural sector, and has under active considera-
tion a number of regional food production projects (such as the production
of corn and soya beans in Guyana for the regional market). It is expected
that a substantial part of the proceeds of the proposed Bank loans would be
relent for national agricultural projects in the Caribbean.
The Industrial Sectcr
26.       Nowhere is the dualistic structure of the more developed Caribbean
economies more evident than in the industrial sector. Jamaica, Guyana and
Trinidad and Tobago all have major industrial complexes devoted to the
processing of their mineral resources. These resource-based industries are
characterized by highly efficient and capital intensive technologies and a
great sensitivity to signals emanating from the world's commodity markets
where the bulk of their production is sold. By way of contrast, the rest
of the manufacturing sector sells its products principally on the local or
regional market. The combination of small size and highly protective inward-
looking industrialization policies has led to a relatively inefficient and
high cost manufacturing industry. Notwithstanding these shortcomings, however,
manufacturing appears to offer quite good prospects for increasing production
and employment if appropriate steps are taken to improve efficiency. Output
in the MDCs consists mostly of consumer goods and in the LDCs production
largely consists of high weight to value goods such as cement blocks, furniture
and bottled drinks. The CDB in 1971 commissioned the Economist Intelligence
Unit to carry out an industrial survey in the LDCs and several investment
opportunities were identified in the framework of their investment incentive
system.   The CARIFTA trade liberalization program has contributed to an
expanded volume of trade within the region, but given the limited size of
the regional market, the best long term prospects for manufacturing may lie
in exporting outside the region. In this respect policies to improve the
cost competitiveness of Caribbean industry will hold the key to future growth
in manufacturing industry.
The Tourism Sector
27.       Tourism has been an outstanding growth sector in the region and has
provided the Caribbean countries with an important source of foreign exchange
and employment.  Tourist arrivals to the CARICOM countries rose at an average
annual rate of 12% during 1968-72 and in 1972 gross foreign exchange earnings
from tourism totalled about US$190 million, although return flows to pay for
incremental imports are large, ranging from about 35% in Jamaica to perhaps
50% or more in the smaller islands. The tourist boom led to over-investment
in hotel accommodation, resulting in a drop in the average occupancy rate
from 52% in 1968 to 4L6% in 1972. 1/ Coupled with the onset of the energy
1/ The Bahamas provides an exception to this downward trend in occupancy rates.
In this case, however, occupancy rates have been maintained by reducing
room rates in rea]. terms and this has led to financial difficulties for
some hotels.



- 10 -
crisis and the recession in North America, the main origin of the tourist
flow to the Caribbean, this has created financial difficulties for many hotels
some of which have been forced to close. However, in the longer term the rate
of growth in tourist arrivals may well return to the high levels of recent
years.
The Transportation Sector
28.       The two fundamental problems of the CARICOM States--isolation and
smallness--can only be relieved by efficient and reliable transport systems,
both sea and air. The LDCs in particular are dependent on efficient sea trans-
port for developing merchandise trade and on air transport for the development
of tourism. Intra-regional general cargo traffic transported by sea is
expected to grow from about 350,000 tons in 1973 to some 600,000 tons in 1980;
and the LDCs may be able to capture a greater share of the projected longer-
term increase in tourist traffic if more reliable air services can be provided.
There is scope at the regional level for coordinated planning of investment
in physical facilities and equipment to avoid over-investment and minimize
transport costs. A rational regional approach would call for the development
of an integrated system of trunk and feeder routes both for shipping and air
transport. The CDB is already active in transportation and it is expected
that its role will expand in this sector under the proposed project.
The Provision of Credit for Development Finance Companies
29.       There is a diversity of financial institutions throughout the region
although commercial banks predominate. However, commercial bank lending to
priority sectors, such as agricultural and manufacturing industry, is considered
inadequate. In particular there is a need for long-term credit in these sectors
and to satisfy this demand a number of government-owned development finance
institutions have been established. These include agricultural development
banks and DFCs, the aims of which are to build up centres of technical expertise
to help identify, appraise and monitor projects. These institutions rely heavily
on financial support from the government or external aid agencies. In the LDCs,
the CDB has played an important role in establishing government intermediary
institutions and in extending to them both technical and financial support.
It is expected that the CDB will continue to expand its lending to these
institutions.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
30.       A report entitled "Appraisal of Uaribbean Development Bank" (No. 935a
dated March 3, 1976) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
The main features of the loans and the project are summarized in Annex III.
The project was appraised in June 1975. Negotiations for the proposed loans
took place in Washington in January. The CDB delegation was led by
Mr. William G. Demas, President of the CDB.
CDB's Objectives and Policies
31.       The CDB was established in 1970 by 16 regional members, Canada and the
UK as non-regional members, with additional financial assistance from the US, a
non-member. Venezuela joined the CDB in 1973 and Colombia in 197h. CDB has been
designated an Associate Institution of CARICOM with which it shares the task of
supporting the regional economic integration movement with special emphasis on
the needs of the LDCs. In fulfilling this objective, the CDB is required to



assist its regional members in the coordination of their development programs,
in the provision of appropriate technical assistance and in the financing of
their projects and programs.   The CDB is also required by its Charter to be
guided by sound development banking principles, and to finance only economically
sound, technically feasible and properly appraised projects. The Charter also
contains a number of operating limitations designed to safeguard the CDB's
financial soundness. Th,ese limitations are complemented by the CDB's "Financial
Policies" statement and together they constitute a reasonable and prudent basis
for conducting its operations.
CDB's Management and Oranization
32.       Each member country-/appoints, for an indefinite period, a governor
and an alternate to serve on the Board of Governors, the highest policy making
body of CDB. The Board is composed of 17 governors who meet at least once a year
and voting power is roughly proportional to shares subscribed. The Board of
Governors delegates certain functions to the Board of Directors which is com-
prised of 10 members, appointed for a renewable two year period of whom eight
represent the regional miembers and two the non-regional members. The Board of
Directors meets at least every two months and is responsible for general policy
and directing the operations of the Bank, including loan and other investment
approvals. The President of CDB conducts the current business of the bank under
the guidance of the Board of Directors of which he is the Chairman. The CDB
quickly established itself as an important and well-managed regional institution
under the leadership of its first President, Sir Arthur Lewis. He was succeeded
in 1974 by Mr. Demas, ar able Trinidadian economist and former Secretary General
of CARIFTA and CARICOM. The CDB has a total staff of 106 of which 53 are
professionals. Nine staff members are at present employed under a UNDP technical
assistance program for which the Bank is the Executing Agency (see paragraph 22
above). UNDP has indicated that it would be favorably inclined towards continu-
ation of its present program of technical and financial support to the institution
when it expires during 1977.
CDB's Operating Procedures
33.       The CDB's project officers assist in project identification and
development and in project appraisal. The CDB's appraisals are generally
of high quality and include thorough analyses of the technical and economic
feasibility of a project, its organization and management and other pertinent
considerationss.  In view of the CDB's strong appraisal capabilities, strength-
ened by the staff recruited by the Bank under the UNDP project mentioned in
the foregoing paragraph, it is proposed to dispense with any requirement under
which proposed sub-loans over a specified amount (i.e. the "free limit") are
sent to the Bank for prior approval. The CDB's procedures for supervising
the implementation of sub-projects are satisfactory. Its procurement rules
have recently been amended and widened to permit procurement of goods and
services to be financed from the proceeds of the proposed loans in all Bank
member countries and Switzerland. Disbursement procedures are satisfactory
and require the borrower to present evidence that approved expenditures are
actually being made. As prescribed in the CDB's Charter, separate accounts
are maintained for operations financed out of ordinary capital and out of each
of CDB's Special Funds; the CDB engages independent auditors and since the
CDB's inception none of its reports has had any qualification.
1/ Except for Mbnserrat, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands and Turks and
Caicos Islands, which Jointly elect one governor.



- 12 -
CDB's Current Operations
34.       The CDB lending is divided into ordinary capital operations financed
from ordinary capital resources (OCR) and special operations financed from
special fund resources (SFR). SFR resources comprise (a) the Special Development
Fund, which is used for projects of high developmental priority calling for
softer terms than those available from OCR, and (b) other Special Funds which
the CDB administers on terms agreed with the donors. By the year end 1974, the
CDB had approved 52 loans from OCR with a total value of US$37.9 million and
94 loans from SFR with a total value of US$45.7 million. Agriculture and infras-
tructure projects have predominated, together representing 87% of the total
amount of the CDB approvals. The LDC's projects account for 87% of the total
number of approvals and 62% of the total amount lent, 20% of OCR lending and
96% of SFR lending. At the end of 1974, the restriction against lending SFR
in the MDCs expired and the MDCs have become eligible for SFR, subject to the
CDB's obligation under its Charter to have special and urgent regard to the
needs of the LDCs and to the agreement of the donors. A high proportion (28%)
of the CDB's lending has been channeled through intermediary institutions.
Many of the local DFC's, particularly in the LDCs, need considerable strengthen-
ing, both financially and operationally, and the CDB plans to concentrate in
future on the institution-building aspects of their DFC operations so as to
create a network of viable intermediaries. Of the total of the CDB operations
to the end of 1974, agricultural projects accounted for 34%, infrastructural
projects (mainly ports and roads) for 53% and industry and tourism for 13%.
As of December 31, 1974, of all the CDB loans committed   (i.e. loan agreement
signed) 77% was undisbursed. The lag in disbursement is largely due to the
limited capacity of the LDCs to implement projects quickly and to a shortage
of local counterpart funds in some cases. The CDB is taking steps in consulta-
tion with the LDC representatives to accelerate project implementation.
Moreover, the CDB recently secured a US$5.0 million loan from Trinidad and
Tobago to finance the LDCs' needs for counterpart funds (see paragraph 14
above).  Proforma financial statements as of December 31, 1975 show that CDB
disbursed US$22.3 million during 1975 compared to total cumulative disbursements
of US$7.0 million during 1970/74; these figures reflect the priority now bes.ng,
given to improving project implementation.
CDB's Resources
35.       The CDB's total OCR as at December 31, 1974, amounted to US$28.7
million in paid capital shares, surplus and reserves. The CDB may also borrow
against its callable shares (now valued at about US$125 in 1969 US dollars)
b-ut its maximum permissible borrowing is limited by Board of Governors resolution
to the equivalent of UK and Canada callable shares or about US$54 million in
current US dollars. So far no such borrowing has occurred. CDB's. resources
have recently been supplemented by a Trust Fund (not backed by CDB's capital)
of US$25 million from Venezuela; CDB has also negotiated a line of credit with
the Export/Import Bank of Japan for about US$7.1 million equivalent. SFR avail-
able to the CDB as at December 31, 1974, from six separate special funds totalled
US$70 million which by July 1975 had been increased to US$B4 million.



- 13 -
CDB's Projected Operatiaos and Resource Requirements
36.       The CDB's five-year lending program (1975-1979) envisages doubling of
lending for agriculture sand infrastructure and a nearly five-fold increase in
lending for industrial anid tourism projects. During the period, agricultural
lending is projected to account for about 40% of the total lending, infrastruc-
ture for about 32% and industry and tourism 28%. On the basis of the CDB's
forecast of lending operations, OCR funds will be used to finance one-third of
the agricultural lending,, one-third of the infrastructure lending and two-thirds
of the industry and tourism lending. SFR will continue to be used largely to
finance LDC projects altliough it is projected that the LDCs will also receive
about 30% of the availabLe OCR. Starting in late 1975, borrowings will be
needed for disbursements to meet a projected gap of nearly US$63 million through
1979. US$52 million of this gap would be financed from the proceeds of the
proposed Bank loans, the Venezuela Trust Fund and the line of credit from the
Japanese Export/Import Bunk. It is expected that the CDB would seek a further
Bank loan for commitment starting in 1978 so as to meet its remaining OCR
financing requirements duLring the aforementioned five-year period.
CDB's Financial Conditionx
37.       The CDB's consolidated (OCR and SFR) gross income in 1974 was 7% of
average total assets and consolidated net income was about 4%. The CDB allocated
only 21% of its administrative expenses to the SDF in 1974 although special
operations financed from the SDF accounted for 54% of both the total amount and
number of operations. The CDB recently decided that, effective January 1, 1975,
administrative expenses would in future be allocated between OCR and SFR operations,
approximately in proportion to the expenditures incurred in these operations. The
CDB's net income as a percentage of average total assets in its ordinary capital
operations is expected to be about 2.9% in 1975 and 1976 declining to about 1.7%
in 1979, or equivalent to a spread between its gross revenues and average cost
of funds of about 3%. This is acceptable for an institution which does not assume
the foreign exchange risk in its operations. If the Bank increasingly uses the
CDB as its intermediary for its Caribbean lending, as presently contemplated,
the CDB may have to find ways of generating additional income to cover the
additional administrative costs of a higher level of operations. It is planned
that within one year of :Loan effectiveness the Bank and the CDB will review
the CDB's financial position with particular regard to the adequacy of its net
income and reserves and consult on any steps which may be considered necessary
to strengthen its finances, including an upward adjustment in its lending rates.
CDB's Interest Rate Policy
38..      Present CDB interest rates for OCR loans vary according to the
borrower. The rate for Joans is 8.5% to governments, 8.0% to government
financial intermediaries, 10% to private non-agricultural borrowers and 9% to
private agricultural borrowers. These interest rates include a 1% per annum
commission (which CDB is required by its Articles to charge on its OCR operations
and put to a special reserve) and result in a composite OCR average lending rate
of about 8.75%. A commitment fee of 3/4% per annum on undisbursed balances is
payable. The interest rate .on soft loans from SFR for all borrowers is 4%.
On balance, the average CDB lending rate on OCR operations is in line with the



-14 -
current lending rates of other regional and international lending institutions
operating in the area. However, the CDB's average lending rate for OCR is
only slightly in excess of the cost of the proposed conventional Bank loan.
In the long run this may make it difficult for CDB to continue to borrow from
the Bank. Nevertheless, the lack of an adequate interest rate spread on this
loan is manageable in view of CDB's relatively high paid-in capital base and
the fact that the ultimate sub-borrowers will bear the foreign exchange risk
involved (see paragraph 40 below for relending arrangements for the proposed
Third Window loan).
Terms and Conditions of the Proposed Bank Loans
(a)   Country Eligibility
39.       The proceeds of the proposed Bank loans would be relent by the CDB
only in Commonwealth Caribbean countries who are members of the Bank and the
CDB and who are deemed by the Bank to be eligible borrowers at that time (Sec-
tion 1.02(e) and Schedule 3 of draft Loan Agreements). The proceeds of the
Third Window loan would be relent by the CDB only to the governments of eligible
LDCs in the Commonwealth Caribbean (ref. paragraph 16 above). In determining
eligible borrowing countries, the Bank will consult with the CDB from time to
time and will take into account in particular, the creditworthiness of the
countries concerned.
(b)   Relending Arrangements
40.       The interest rate charged by the CDB on Third Window sub-loans to
eligible LDC govemrments would be 4h9 plus the 1% per annum statutory commission;
sub-loans would have a term of up to 25 years including up to 7 years of grace
and the amortization of individual sub-loans will correspond to the amortization
schedule of the Third Window loan to the CDB (Section 2.08 of draft Loan Agree-
ment I). The proceeds of the CDB Third Window sub-loans may be relent by
governments, in which case the government sub-loans would have an amortization
and grace period appropriate to the sub-project and would bear an interest rate
consistent with CDB's present interest rate structure (paragraph 38).
41.       The proceeds of the conventional Bank loan may be relent by CDB for
sub-projects in eligible countries. CDB's present interest rate structure
would apply to the sub-loans. The amortization of sub-loans would be subject
to a maximum of 25 years including up to 10 years of grace and will be
determined in individual cases within this maximum by the CDB on project
grounds, with the exception of public sector projects in the LDCs where country
considerations may also be taken into account (Section 2.08 of draft Loan
Agreement II).
(c)   General
42.       Except as already noted, the terms and conditions of the proposed
loans would be those used for Bank loans to development finance companies,
including the standard commitment fee and procurement rules. For civil works
estimated to cost US$2 million or more, international advertising and notification
of bidding to local representatives of Bank member countries and Switzerland



a 15 -
will be required; with respect to equipment estimated to cost US$50,000 or
more there will be regiaaal as well as local advertising and notification
to representatives aforementioned. The period of commitment will be two years
and the closing date for disbursements will be December 31, 1979.
(d)   Disbursements
43.       The Bank would normally reimburse the CDB 65% of total project costs
in the MDCs and the LDCs (representing the estimated average foreign exchange
costs). Exceptions to this would be cases in which the foreign exchange com-
ponents are identified and listed in detail; in these cases the Bank, at CDB's
request, would finance the individually identified foreign exchange costs.
Another exception would be loans for public sector projects in the LDCs; since
the LDCs may have difficulty in generating savings for investment and, also,
recognizing the fact that the LDCs have to import a very large proportion of
project components, the ]3ank would finance 80% of the public sector projects
in the LDCs. It is proposed that the CDB be permitted to finance retroactively
from the proposed conventional Bank loan up to US$4.0 million for disbursements
made after October 27, 1975, the date of amendment to CDB's procurement rules,
which meet the Bank's usual eligibility criteria (Section 2.02 of draft
Loan Agreement II).
(e)   Guarantee
44.       The UK government has advised the Bank that it is willing to guarantee
to the Bank repayment by CDB of Bank funds used to finance subprojects in the
UK Associated States and Dependencies, provided that the requirements of the
Colonial Loans Act are complied with and that parallel legislation is enacted
in each territory concerned assuring repayment to the UK in the event that the
UK is called upon to fulfill its guarantee obligation to the Bank. It is not
certain that all of the IJK Associated States and Dependencies will have enacted
the requisite legislationi by the date of signature of the Loan Agreements and
it is therefore proposed that the Loan Agreements should preclude the commit-
ment of Bank funds by CD]3 to finance subprojects in any UK Associated State or
Dependency until an appropriate UK guarantee has been issued in respect
thereof (Section 2.02(b) (ii).
45.       With respect to relending by CDB of Bank funds to finance subprojects
in independent CDB member countries, each of such countries has advised the
Bank that it is willing to guarantee to the Bank repayment by CDB of Bank funds
used to finance subprojec:ts in such country and the draft Loan Agreements provide
that there shall be no commitment of Bank funds by CDB to finance subprojects
in any such country until. an appropriate guarantee has been issued in respect
thereof (Section 2.02(b) of draft Loan Agreements). Any regional subproject,
i.e. a subproject located in the territories of more than one country, would
normally have to be jointly and severally guaranteed by the countries concerned.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
46.       The draft Loan Agreements between the Bank and CDB, the draft form of
Guarantee Agreement to be provided by a CDB member in whose territory an Invest-
ment Project is located (the United Kingdcxm in the case of Investment Projects



- 16 -
located in UK Associated States and Dependencies), the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank and the text of a draft Resolution approving the proposed loans are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
47.       The draft Loan Agreements contain most of the provisions normally used
for development finance company projects; however, attention is drawn to the
special features particularly related to the operations of a regional institution
and to the relending of Third Window funds which have been referred to in para-
graphs 24, 39, 4o, 41, 42, 43 and 44 hereof.
48.       The draft form of Guarantee Agreement, referred to in paragraph 46
hereof, has been approved by Barbados, The Bahamas, Guyana and the UK, and
formal confirmation of approval is expected to be received shortly from Jamaica,
Trinidad and Tobago and Grenada, but in each case with provisions required to
ensure compatibility with statutory requirements in the country concerned. The
UK guarantee will be subject to a ceiling of US$10.0 million in the aggregate.
In each case, except that of The Bahamas, the Guarantee Agreement will be in
a blanket form covering all sub-loans to governments or agencies thereof and
may be extended to cover other types of sub-loans. In The Bahamas the Guarantee
Agreement will be entered into on a case-by-case basis. In the majority of
the countries concerned, approval by the legislature or authorizing legislation
will be required for the purpose of entering into the Guarantee Agreement. The
Bank has been advised that no difficulties are anticipated in connection
therewith.
49.       I am satisfied that the proposed loans will comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
50.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loans.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
March 11, 1976



ANNEX I
age l of 10
ums nDAn - Wcnx
M   k,59 larl                                       O    o   ...n (mid-1972)
133 46 :      r PM    cable land
S7:UL DnETOS
1r4                 Bu    d    Jori        &To 
WP        CAITA U6S (AsiA BASIS) A                            370 L.        4,0 a           600  d        E 810 d g     70 LA
DDCGNAPmC
Crua    t   rate (per thousand)                              43            34 j            22 IA           1         29
orude death rate (per tusand)                                10             7                   d  7. 19 7a.
Infant mortality rate (per thoubas   live birth)             b9 L          36              3     d       2 26
Ltfe eRfotanoy at birth (years)                              61            66              71            70  as       69
Oross reProducticn rateo                                                  2.7 I           1.6           2.24 L       1.8 it
Popelation growth rate                                      3.1           2.4 f02              f        1.6 t1           If
Poplation growth rteo - urban                                .             10             6:i  .          6eLL
Age atrwoturo (porcent)
0-1h4                                                     46            4               37           46           41 48&b
1.5-&1                                                    51             53             55           2La           56  Ai
65 end aver                                                3             3               8             6            4  L
Age depndancy et. t   4                                     1 0           0.9             0.8           1.1          0.8
Foanoic dependency ratio ,                                 1.7           1.7             1.3           1.4          1.4
Urban population as peroent of total                         16 /          40 Lit          56  I         37 a         12 a
Famly plit,,      Na of acemptors ruvulative (tbn,.)
No. of users (mS   marrie o d  ) w n
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
Yoiiil hbr roroo  tbus no)175                              210              90          71 nD  ab3eC01
Porcontage eployed in agricultuis                          34            32              16            27 Ik        15 ii
Percentage uremployed                                       8            15               8         13-ll   h       I  i
IN0WU*l DTSThIBUTZCB
rcent Of national income roeivec[ by hbsest 5S               19 /n o       .               20 ,a.ak
Percnt of national inoom receidec by highest 20%            246           .               2424 ^  ak
Porcent of national inoom  raeeivec by lncst 20              4                             77 o .ak
Percent of nt&ional income recaivee by looe6t 40%            14                            19 ,.  ..  1
lXBStIWU      0? LADC      n
RoM     0o7 odt l      ners                                 .                            93.3
Snoened by  nallast lco of omers                                                          1.2
DALIN AND NOITRTION
pulation per pdoian                                       8,7C ,o      24,300 4         1,6hO  c      2,520 4        2,380 13.
Population per nurosinag Person                                         1,0704          1,35         1.750S         200/N5i
P3oplation per bnuringta p                                  ilo /.a       210 &           109           250        2 230 jj
Per capita caorlar i pply en % of rsquirceonts             l 10            92              944f        103            97
PTr capita protein mpply, total (gira per daYT6              35           247              73 4          56           64
Of isich, animal and pulose                                              22 &            46 Li         29 Ls        34 Lu
Doeth rate 14 years .7                                                                    1.3 i                     1 .8
INDOATMIN
Ada  F    8 priary school enrollit ratio                   129 /dk        .              112 4t         86          no    x
Adjusted    secondary school enrollusot reLic               29            52               75  t        43           22 Zx
Tera  of a ooling provided, first and soond levl            13            13              13            12           1S
Vocational enrollmnt " S of sec. icol enMrolaont            14 / r         5 /Ia             /9                      la 1 t
Adult literacy rats e                                           a         83 M.:           97   a       86    t    I  90
Average No. of person  per roes (urban)                    1.7 a                         1. 0     c
Peroent of oepied unite withat p'ed wcater                                                60 .   60  :  78 Lit       68 4M4d
Acces to elactricity (as S af toti. population)                                           59 15b                     66 /e  d
Percent of ftral popnettion cnneot,d to el0ctrimit         .
Nedio receivers per 1000 popultion                          65           133 4d          456 4g.ae     376          287    ae
P"asngr cars per I1O population                            18            28 14            95 SLbL      245          75  dfl
flectric pouer cosmption (irw P.C.)                        161           477 d           812   f     1,031        1, 254  d
Neaprint oonsoeption p.c. kg per yr                        1.9           2.2             2.6 1     2 d 4.54         6.8 fd
Notesa    Figures refer either to the latsat perioda or to        account of   ocentl tver8re t        body 'cei0ta, Iand
the latest years. LLtest periods refer in pricdiple to            dirtribution by age aid en of cetisal popelatisae.
the years 1956.60 or 1966-701 the lateal years in prl-            Piretin ostendard  (requirsemets) fcr all pctrrids AO e caleb
cipia to 1960 ced 1910.                          ~~~~liabsi by WM Becacoi Research Barrios p-roide for a minime
A   Ths Per Capita GNP setizta ti at rket pricen for              ellopence of tO grra ott   al protb e0 grda o aould be rani  o
years other than 1960,calculated tb the case  mavarelon                                 anriceln  se pote   o whicrh   lr   th1n tcae of 75
technique as the 1972 World Sank Atl3as,                      protein. Thnca  standards easce        oete       hs    f7
4   Average Mumber of daughters per wn     of reproductive        pace of total       d proteinL end 23 p 1n of a potein so em
_age. -                                                         average for the world, popwaed by' PAO in the Third Monld Food
4   Pepuletion growth rates ae for the decedes ending in          soadr.
1960  mdcodr 1end65                                      SC= B   atodiee have eugeae td. that Crude death rates of children
& Ratio of population                                              ags 1 through 4 sy be use as a first aPPrFMeatton tindex of
tion of aece 15-64 for age depaendsnly ratio and to labor   d    leatritimoi.
force of maes 15-64 for economic depedencY rato            d   Pamentags enrolled of sornrepeing population of school Ag
4   PAO reference atmderda represent pgedoloaical i                as defined for each c-ntry.
quiracAnts for normal activity end rlth, tang
/a   Clativated wree    A     1971;  S  Co mputed tb applying to the 1970 figure tho growth rato of the WP Par Capita in
rel term   from 1960 to 1970;   J{  19721   a   1968)    4  1960-72j   L     Definition rot available;  4    ingeton
metropolitan  ams and selected _in tans;)     4 City of (Gorgetown and tel    of Ka Ametardam     4    Bridgetown,
St. Michael, Christ Church;    4  Part of Spain, Andra bomgb and San yerrn    o toss;    4   Those 15 peers or older who
either worked or cudght jobs actirely iunng4ths twelve emoths preceding ceanus;     4  1973;   La 1955-56J
/r o Nomeheblds;    4 &   Incudes  elf-eqplqd permors;   la  Nuber o the ragiater, not all wnrkingiL the Counitty;
Personnel in govornment goricoo  -1y;   I     19671  t 1969;   &     1964-66i  4&  1966;      19611;  L     oent
sintaned end aided scools ocly;       &  including data n in-servisa training of teacherej       1iS yan ed over;
E    197T0-75^  Lit Data rater to liring quarten;     /    T Sotal;  Lt4 Rier to dwflin           a   mber of receivers in uMO
at  Including midwivas;     g  3ncluding pr     iOMnt vI' cc;I    a    tia" tei       le;           1989-70l  4k    lncom
reacipiet,   Lal  1963;   j      inmcites overage students.
*  Trinidad and Tobago is selected as en objective cOUntrJ oinco it is ons of the developed countries of the Caribbean
Conon Karet, nd it ohares Dielar problems and devalopent objectives as OYnAe
aR Septeaber 24, 1975



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 10
SELECTED ECOWTAMC DI1V.IA)PHENT DATA
Averag     Actual    Eat.          Prol.ctions             Av.rnee An....l Growth Rates              As % of CDY
1967-69    1974"     1-9751   1976     1978     1980     1965-70     1970-74    1974-80     1974     1976     1978      1980
NATIONAL ACCOUINT                                                  Canstant 1974 US$ I1lioe
CDP                                       374.0     431.6    455      480       535      595        4.4        1.5        5.5       100.0    104.3    103.5    103.5
Cains from terms of trade                  -1.8       0.0     46      -20       -18      -22         -          -          -          -
Cross Dorcstic Income                     372.2     431.6    501      460       517      573        5.6        1.2        4.8       100.0    100.0    100.     100.0
Imports (incl.WS)                        271.9      278.4    319      322      345       385        3.2       -1.2        5.5        64.5     70.0     6b.8     67.2
Export. (import capacity)                270%5      294.8    341      297      345       383        4.4       -0.2        4.5        68.3     64.6     66.8     66.8
Consuopti on                             285.6      323.0    366      364      385       425        5.6        0.1        4.7        74.8     79.1     74.5     74.2
lnv.sta,ent                               85.7       91.9    113      122       132      147        4.7        0.2        8.1        21.3     26.5     25.5     25.7
National Savinga                          83.6       89.6    116       70       109      125       10.5        0.5        5.7        20.8     15.2     21.1     21.8
Doc,estic Savings                        104.4      108.4    135       97       132      149        7.5       -0.5        5.5        25.1     21.1  . 25.5      26.0
MERCHANDISE T.9AD1                                                  Annual Date at Current P.1cm                                              As % of Total
Inports
rood                                    14.5       23.9     27       28       33       43          -        12.0       10.3        9.4       8.2      7.9      8.0
Other consumer goods                     28.5      49.1     62       66        77       97        3.7       12.1        12.0       19.4     19.2     18.3     18.1
Pttrolc,en                              10.0       46.2     56       65       78      103         3.4       41.6       14.3       18.2      19.0     18.6     19.3
Other Intermediate Goods                 24.9      69.1     79       81       110      142        3.2       26.4       12.6        27.3     23.6     26.2     26.6
Ca~,it.1 Goods                           38.2      65.2     98      103       122      150        8.9        7.7       14.9        25.7     30.0     29.0     28.0
Total "erchandisa imports (cif)        116.3      253.5    322      343      420       535        4.8       17.5       13.3       100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Exports
Minerals                                 52.8      88.7     96      120       170      215        9.2        5.7        15.9       33.2     37.6     40.7     40.4
Acrice.lt.ral Products                   52.0     161.8    229       176      213      265        1.7       30.2         8.6       60.6     55.2     50.9     49.8
other                                    16.4      16.7     21       23        35       52       -1.4       30.8       20.8         6.2      7.2      8.4       9.8
7C'al !:,rch.ndise Exports (fob)        12.        6.       4        19      418       5732       4.9       190          2.       100      100      100      100
Merch-d-dI T-ads Indices
Import price index                      41.8      100.0    107      II8       13.4     155        1.2       19.0        7.6
Expert 'rice index                      47.2      100.0    125      110       127      146        3.4       17.5        8.8
Tems. of trade Index                    113.0     100.0    117       95        95       94        2.1        0.5        -1.0
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                                        Annual Data at 1971 Price. and Excisnee Rates
Agriculture                                41.6      46.3      50.0       .                 .       1.5         1.8         .        19.2
Minieg                                     39.2      37.2     38.3        .                         3.2       -1I.0                  15.6
M.nuf.et-uSin  and Processing              26.5      31.3     32.9        .                 .       1.5        4.0          .        13.0
S.e  --,~.  od Other                       92.6     126.1    132.9        .        .        .-      5.5        5.3          .        52.4
Total                          ~~~~~~~199.7  240.9  254.1   268.1    298.4    332.1       3.7        2.7        5.5       100.0
PUI2SIC TINJ..CE                                                         Constant 1974 C $ il1ios                                            As 7.of MDT
(Cretta1 Coveronent)
C.rrc.t receipts                        104.5     315      382      294       325      365        8.0        8.6         2.5       32.8     28.8     28.3      28.7
Correct expenditures                     92.2     246      266       270      275      298        5.3         5.0        3.3       25.6     26.4     23.9      23.4
B.o:VeCary saving                        12.3      69      116       24        50       67        .         30.5       -0.4         7.2      2.4      4.4       5.3
Other nuhlit savingLI                     7.0      39       60        63       50       50o       .          2.9         5.8        4.1      4.2      6.4       3.9
Total p-ilec sectoer savings             19.3     108      156        67      100      117        .         16.6        -4.9       11.3      6.6      8.8       9.2
Public sector investne,est               37.8     167      215      234      254       286        3.5        9.6        4.9        17.4     22.9     22.1     22.5
Ou-.ol deficit    -                     -18.5     -59      -59     -167      -154     .169        .          3.0        19.1       -6.1    -16.3    -13.3     -13.3
Centr.l Gcvrn-,t                                  Est.                                                                                               let.
CIUPP'.r '-f.rr      DETAILS               1973      1974     1975                         DETAIL 0O1 PUBLIC SECTOR INViESTMENT PROGRAMI      1973     1974      1975
(A. 4. of f[.t.1 C-rrent Expenditures)                                                     (As % of Total Capital Expenditures) 
General Adnintscrationt                  34.9      32.2     29.7                                                         Agriculture        26.1     21.9      24.0
S,,c!a1 and Co-nianty Services          43.7       46.3     43.3                                                        Mining              12.5     14.4     15.2
tEonoslc Sectors                          6.7       8.5      8.7                                                         Infrastructure     36.6     35.2     35.2
Other                                    14.7      13.0     18.3                                                        Social Services     11.9     16.7     15.2
Other               12.9     13.9     10.4
SEILErIFf) INDICATORS                     1965-      1970-    1975-                        FINANCING Of PUBLIC SECTOR IVEsTMENT pROGRAJE
(Calc-lated from 3-year averaged data)    1970       1975     1980                         (As % of Total Capito,l Expenditures)
Average ICOR                             5.08       6.73     4.50                                    Public Sector Savins8s                -17.7     64.5     66.2
In.p-r  t1.vstitity                      1.33       0.81     1.00                                    Domeostic norrwi.lg (-ct)              78.8     -1.9    -19.5
MarginoI D-sette Savings Rate            0.41       0.32     0.43                                    Foreign Beoreaving (net)               25.8     29.6     49.6
Margi-aI \at,onal Saving. Rote           0.34       0.38     0.36                                    Other                                  13.1      7.8      3.7
IABOR POlIrE AOl)                          Total Labor Force                                   Value-Added per Worker (1972 Prices end Exchange Rates)
OUTPLT PER WJORKER             Thousands                I of Total       1960-70 Growth           US$                7. of Averante      1960-70 Crowthl
1960       1970           1960       1970       (Percent)         1980      1970         1960      1970        (Percent)
Agriculture               59.8        57.4          37.1        32.2       -0.4           975.1      893.5        64.4       61.8         -0.9
Industry                  32.4       35.9           20.1       19.1        0.5          2.221.)    2.482.6       146.6     171.7           1.1
Service                   69.0       .86.7          42-.8      48.7         2.3         1.651.0 *  1.406.6       109.9       97.3          1.6
Total or Averags  ~161.2      178.0          100.0      Ilm5"         Fi          l..6.7      i.46 2       lot) 0    1t00.         .0.9
jjIncludes savings of other general government and nonfinancial public enmcaxriesa.
Cousntry Pro8rama b-pertment it
Latin America and CariUbean Begionet Office



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 10
GUYANA
BALANCE OF PAYHENTS EXTERKAL ASSISTANCE AND DElT
(Current US$ millions)
Average      Actahl    hat.
1967-69       1974     1975     1976      1977     1978    1979     1980
Irportm (inel. NFS)                                                      (-139)      (-278)    (-357)   (-380)   (-410)    (-462)  (-528)  (-589)
Exports (incl. NS)                                                        (138)       (295)     (371)    (352)    (408)     (463)   (533)   (591)
Balance of Goods & NFS                                                      -I          17        14      -28       -2         1       5       2
Factor Services-total                                                      -18         -27       -20      -32      -30       -32     -35     -36
a. Interest on Public Debt                                                -3         (-8)      (-9)    (-20)    (-17)     (-18)   (-20)   (-21)
b. Interest on Other Debt)                                               -15        (-19)     (-11)    (-12)    (-13)     (-14)   (-15)   (-15)
c. Other Factor Services )
fNan 'N-.mft--e (tet)
Current Account Balance                                                    -19         -10        -6      -60      -32       -31     -30     -34
Private Direct Investment                                                   16          11        -6        5        7         a       9      10
Public M & LT Loans
a. Disbursements                                                          (8)        (32)      (69)     (53)     (46)      (53)    (57)    (62)'
b. Repayments                                                             (2)        (-7)      (-8)    (-17)    (-21)     (-24)   (-29)   (-26)
c. Net Difburseents                                                        6          25       61        36       25        29      28      36
Capital Account Balanee                                                     22          36        55       41       32        37      37      46
Other Short-term                                                             I           0             -                      -        _       _
Use of Reserves                                                             -4         -26       -49       19        0        -6      -7     -12
UDcovered Gap                                                                      -          -
GRANT END LOAN OOMMITMENaS 12t9. 5                                                 DEBT AND DEBT SEHVICE                    1973    1974 1.75
Woffireti  Gr at ond    Dt-lik sloans      5.1         1.0         1.0             Public debt outstanding               166.9   192.4   268.2
bnd diabure d
ftblic N =Ad LT Lu n                                                                 Interest on public debt                 6.1     S.0     8.6
UIRD'                                      6.0        12.9        8.0              Repayments on public debt               3.1     6.6     7.8
IDA                                          -           -        4.0              Total public debt *ervice               9.2    14.6    16.4
Other Multilateral                           .                     3.0
Covermente                                13.6        45.2        16.0             Burden on export *rnings
Suppliers                                    -           -           -
Finafcil IatitutiLna                     16.7         5.2        55.0             Public debt service                     5.5     5.1     4.5
Tbtafl Public   and LT Loans                36.4        63.3        86.0             Total debt service
Actual debt outstandina oan Dec. 31. 1974    Average Terms of public debt
M(TERNAL DEBT                                 Diabursed onlv             Pereent     ln. as 7. prior year DO & 0            3.9     4.8      4.5
Anert. as . prior year DO and D         2.0     4.0     4.1
IBRID                                               10.1                   5.2
IDA                                                  4.2                   2.2     IBRD debt outs. & disbursed            6.5     10.1    16.2
Other Multilateral                                     _                     -     IBRD as % public debt 0 & D            3.9      5.2     6,0
Cpvpiernts                                         100.2                  52.1     IBRD as % public debt service          5.4      4.7     5.9
Finncial Institutions                              20.8                  10.8     IDA debt outs. & disbursed             2.2      4.2     5.5
Bonds                                                6.3                   3.3     IDA aa 7 public debt 0 & D             1.3      2.2     2.1
Public Debts a e i                                  50.8                  26.4     IDA as 7 public debt sarvice           0.1     0.1      0.1
Total Public N and LT Debt                           192.4                 100I 0
1/ 1971 ALCAN nationalization.
Cointry Programs Depattment II
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office



l o ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-i
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 J- 
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
4 MlQwdd4t "                           ix vS
|~~~~~~~1 R        m ^  4=  ::M  -  -^  es 3S :I -Ia%Xq  3 |g% |S 
gi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ai I I .,jliXii.7
X n': gZ ' ,j '' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t  r,!j. i{



2~~~~~~~~' 1! .^|x"  ~z "w>;  t           A RA . |w  t t_ g &w 
8~~~~~1 .0 .1A cA 1.a   I $  1.1e-         oO     o
^~~. .          I _  a a; *; - 4      ;je&Xil     |sa 
^            -0_^rg    c^           i 0 X 
i It t igi $  t   t 3 ;   tp :4 3: t-  -t 2sRi !nj| i  ^*
i~ ~ ~ ~~~'o 'A f  fi:  02 ,QR  n j aq   , _    $ 
ill~~~~~i     4.     oe11 ^- i
i i in to!  iR  -t 14  3! It R  I i  Hit  4 11iS :  #  fIts 13 oe 1  |  i R
|~ -i 1} 4t oo   Si S  ,t  n 0i I -il'i  mv s  , vr spl   nltl



ANNEX I
wjczovPAHETS crrt0,,w  AISS!TANCE ANDW                                                                     Page     6   of    10
A.Sg. A ....l
Act.ot                            Euti".td                                 Prolteted                                  C-eth Rare
1970        19 71       1972       1973        1974        19 75            1976       1 9 77      1978        19 79      1980          1970.71        147-80
lb=octe (mel. 38)                               21.6      54.3.0      983. 3      631.6       963. 2     1027.0           5119.0     1338.0      1561.0      1778.0     2021.0           14. 5          13. 5
1a31UJ.Jfr~~~~~~~~JJ!~~~~)        3~90.0      651 6       677. 8      92!L6     1063.8       1246.0          1219.0     1644.0      1701.0      1996.0     2110.0            15.8           11.1
IiUOuttes  aliatiT-10                        -76.4      .09.8        .94. 5    -141.0      -100.6       . 219.0         .180.0     - 10-4.0     14-0. 0    .1I63..0    -89.0             S.7         .19. 7
Isteesat (net)                                -9. 5       -9.6       -11.9      .17.4       .33.0        -42.0           .50.0       -63.0      -70.0       .79.0      -80.0            34.6           15.9
K ret Iwo* t.et tIccam.                     -105.0      .106.3      -130.6      -50.8       - 58.35        6.0           -61.0       -63.0      -79.0       -91.0     .109.0
Ur.,e I..eittomee0                         16.'        13.1        11I.9      19.1I       19.0         22.0            2'..0       M6.        20.0        29.0        32.0            6.0            7.8
=AVtfl 11631re" (et)                          28.1        20.6        23. 3      26.4        20.1         30.0-           33.0        36.0       30 0        65.0       6 5.0            6.3            0.4
k1it  nCurT:mt ~Aceouv.                -152.4      - 172.0    -1 9-1.8     1T2.7      -14-4.2      -'03.0          -161.0     -160.0     -.219. 0     .217.0     -209. -0           5.9           0. 5
ph"it. Direct tnreetuv (net)                 194.1       101.9 *      17.9       33.7        17 4         20 0            20.0       40.0        76.0        90.0       105.0          -50. 1          39.53
Official capital Create 
ftb64 JUL? Lwwn
vialmacempato                              18.0        28.4        49.3      148.3       201.7        161.0           158.0       204.0      I99.        251.0       300.0           54.9           13.3
10   -10.9       -17.8      -616 8      .316         -.0-42.0                    -67.0      -83.0       -95.0     -100.0            17.            24.1
17. 5    *31.5                    17.1         127.            116.0       1I. T             ~    i3~          0.             1.               .
Saplal ?v3at~a301                              65         96.6        9i6s5 85                           -5.0             25.0        23.0                     --
Obacs Is Not b.efverwa    increase)          -21.2       4.          4.          2.          6.           660               8       -20          2.           90         9.
"  e9ARON  ol.51.  Crinl-Ilh. Lee".            6.2        0.7         3.0          .                               OD?R AND DlOT SERVICE
lout =S %,amms                                                                                         Pub71.5ic93  .6.  0311  DeSt Ou.t. & llub.rued  129.0  147.9  177.0   506.0       473.9        600.5
tm          3.7        t3.5                    9.3        A6,3                      I-t-r"t on M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ubli  Debt1  9.5  9.6        11.9       17.4        33.0         43.6
TM ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~~       ~~~~.-                              -Repayments an Public Debt                               15.0        10.9       17.8        16.8       31.6         34.4
Oth er                                                         -                     ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tot.1 Public Debt Service  24.5  20.5  29.7  34.2      64.6         80.0
Other 08.ltilatorsl                          -          2.1          -         7.9        19.0                     Other Debt Servi.e (net)           .           ..
GO  rmete                                  17.9        36.3        14.2       27.8        10.9                     Total Debt Service (net)           .           ..
Supplier.                                              13.6        t0.         2.2
WminanlI loetitutioaoe                                 30.         50.,       99.6       138.4                  Burden 0 Eaprt Earning. 1
PBoncds                                                            to 0. .4.0              2 -4                    Pubic. Debt Service               4.7         3.8        5.1         5.4         6.7         7.8
Total Public KbLT LAean                       "A         17          105.1                  217.2                     Totai Debt Service                .
TD84.Direct 2160.1. Inc.         24.8        23.3       20.8        13.5        19.5         7.2
Average eT. oPbIt. Debt
So. %  L. rIr Yeor 9065       6.7         7.4        6.0         9.6        10.8          9.6
Actual 0-bt0-totE!LiMan Oft, 31  1974        i    , ;. As  Prfior Year 960     6.7         8.4       12.0         9.5        10.3         7.3
_____AL____538                                                                                                              Debt Out. & bi.b.r.ed          29.8       33.7        34.8       36.6        37.8         48.5
tTIO:A                                                         17. ST                                                    as  Pubict Debt 060           23.1        20.8        18.5       11.4         7.9          8.'2
IDA                                                                                                                     a. % Public Debt Service       11.7        13.2        11.3       12.0         7.0          5.7
Other NwItilateral                                              3.5                          0.7
Goverm,ent.                                                    98.8                         20.6
Suppliers                                                      11.7                          4.6
ftwtPInanca  ntittoins                                       259.5                         54.7
BondOs                                                         35.5                          7.6
PubicDebtn25.j7.                                               16.9                          3.6
Total Publlc HU.T LoanS                                       473.9                        100.0
nwt applicable.                         - Ol of negligible.                                                                                                              Country P'rogrlae  DO.i.cr.t 11
Mot evajLible.                                                                                                                                                     Latin Anerica end C-rIbbean RegiLnal Office
North 9. 1976



ANNEX I
Plage 7 of IC) pages
TABLE 3*
TRINIDAD AND TO8AGD- SOC IAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA ITHOtu KN21                    --____
--------------                         ~~~~~TRINIOAD AND TOBAGO              REFERENCE COUNTRIES (19701
TOTAL          5.1                                         MOST RECENT
ARABLE          .                         1960       1910    ESTIMATE           JAMAICA         CYPRUS          U. K. 
GNP PER CAPITA IUSA)                        680.0       1060.0      1310.0               690.0       1010.0      2450.0
POPULAiTION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATInN (MID-YR. MILLION)                0.8          1.0         1.1                  1.9         0.6        55.4
POPULAT ION DE-NS ITY
PER SQUARE KM.                          156.0       196.0        216.0               165.0        69.0        228.0
PER SQUARE KM. ARABLF LAND
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND            39.0        25.0         29.0                34.0         23.3        16.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND             8.0         7.0          7.0                 8.0          7.8        11.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE I/THOU)            45.0        34.0         26.0                32.0        26.0         18.4
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)           63.0        61.0         70.0                68.0         71.0        71.6
GROSS REPRO(IiCTION RATE                   .           2.2         2.0                 2.7          1.5         1.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (t)
TOTAL                                     2.8         2.1          1.7                 1.6          1.1         0.6
URBAN                                      ...                       .6. 2                          1.9         0.5
URBAN POPULATION I% OF TOTAL)              18.0         12.0          .                 37.0         39.0        78.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 16 YEARS                           42.4        41.2         40.3                45.9        31.8         23.6
15 TO 64 YEARS                           53.5        54.8         55.8                48.5        60.6         63.4
65 YEARS AND OVER                         4.1         4.0          3.9                 5.6          7.6        13.0
AGE DEPENOENCY RAT IC                       0.9          0.8         o.8                  1.1         0.7         0.6
ECONOMIC nEPENDENCY RATIn                   1.4          1.3         1.3 La              1.7          0.9 /a      0.8 /s,
FAMTILY PLANNING-
ACCFPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)                ..                    40.3                120.9
UISERS ft OF MARRIED WOMEN)                 ....
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUJSAND)             280.0       350.0 /a     380.0               600.0       265.0      25600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%I             20.0         22.0        L5.0                33.u         36.0          3.0 /b
UNFMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)                 ..        12.5        14.0                 14.0         1.1         3.0 77
INCOME niSTRFBUJTION
t OF PRIVATE INCOME RECID BY-
HIGHEST   5% OF POPULATION                  .....                                                  12.1/b      13.7 /
HIGHEST 20! (F POPULIATION                 ..                        ..                           39:.17w      40.3
LOWEST   20: OF POPULATION                 .                         ..                             7.797       6.6
LOWEST   40! OF POPULATION                 .                         ..                            i9. 67F     18.5 /
nISTRIRUUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
! OWNED BY TOp lot OP OwNERS                 .             ..
% OWNEn BY SMALLEST 10! OWNER5......
HEALTH AND NUITRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                 2600.0 /a   2320.0       2380.0              2630.0       1280.0       820.0
POE'(LATION PER NURSING PERSON            150.0 /a b  3 60.0 /b    200.0              1720.0 /a    610.0        310.0 /e
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL SF0               280. 0 __    230.0          ..240.0                       190.0       110.0 __
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES I! OF REQUIPEMENTS)             98.0        97.0         98.0               103.0         99.0       125.0
PROTEIN (GRAM4S PER DAY)                 64.0        64.0         64.0                56.0         78.0        90.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL.AND PUJLSE              ..        34.0/S         .                 29.0 lb     33. 0/c      57.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                  ..          1.8          ...                               .0.7
EDUICAT ION
ADJUJSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                          112.0       It10.  /4       .                  6.0         83.0 d     It 10.
SECONDARY SCHOOL                         22.0/.      220o           ..                43.0         58.0 /4      2.0
YEARS OP SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL I                15.0        15.0         15.0                12.0        12.0 /d      13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLM4ENT
I! OP SECONDARY)                          1.0          5            ..                 9.0        t2.0 /d       5.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                    88.0           ..        90.0o                86.0        85.0        97.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PFR ROOM (AVERAGE)                  1.6 /d         ..                              ..                     0.6/b
OCCUPIEn DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER It                           80.0 /.e_   68.0 /e.f      ..78.0 /4
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
I( OF ALL DWELLINGS)                     38.0 /d     66.0/ La
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY IX                        30.0 /4        ..d
CCNSUMPT I ON
RADIO RECEIVERtS (PER THOU POP)            86.0       216.0           ..376.0                      264.0        623.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)              44.0         75.0        75.0                38.0         89.0       210.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)              560.0       1173.0      1254.0               825.0        962.0      4473.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/yR PER CAP)                   5.8          5.5         6.9                 4.3          2.7        27.7
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REUiERSE



ANNEX I
Po-ge8 of 0) pages
NOTES
Un less otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to sany year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Recent Entinate between 1971
and 1973.
*0The United Kingdo   baa been selected aa an objacties coutry nin.e It is a high incomne couptry where the economic and social aelfate Philosophy of the
gowe.n.t in simsilar to that of Trinidad and Tobago, particularly with reapect to the prominent position of the public sector. In addition, the long
historical ass ociation between the two            h.nria .a resulted in a simsilar st-worsen of Political and economic institationn.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO     1960    /s   1962;    lb  Inolading nidwivea,    /.  Govenmet naintatned sod sided achoola only,       Id  1957-58,   /I   Ionside only.
1970    /a  15-64 years,    lb  1noluding nidwi-e;     /c  1964-66;    /d  c-ve .ne   naintoined and sided schools only;     /.  1966,
If Inside only.
MOOT RECENT ESITD4ATE:    Ia  Ratio of population ,order 15 sod 65 and wovr to total labor forr..
JAMAICA                 1970    I   Personne   in goversnment onrioe. only;    /b  1964-66;    /o  Isolde only.
CYPRUS                  1970    /   Ratio of .poplation under 15 and 65 and over to total labor Leone;      /6  1966, urban houoholds;     /c  1964-66;
______           -      ~~~7id Rocluding Turkish shos
UNITED KINGDiM          1970    Ia  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 snd over to total labor force,      lb  1966;    Ic  Regitoterd snenployed;    /d  HOosO-
__  _holds,     /e  Personnel is governmet services only;      /f  Government hospital ectablichoeeto only.
K5, March 10, 1976
MPINITTThNS OP SOCIAL IRDICASORS
t__       o   c   raosrangln            esediln          ees                     PV    t"'Poininpr nursng. peon.Ft -  PoplaIo  divded by cbe of" peac-
A__   ~~a c. a... -mprisi~~~~~g lend aring andsodnfmale wtduntenur,                                    s, "trained" Or "Certified" curses,
Arabi  - Mont recent estinate of land area used temporarily or permanently              and auxiliary personnel With training ort experience.
for cultivatinn, pastursa, market end bitchen gardens or to lie fallow.             Pouato'      er hospital bed-    oplaio    divided by somber of hoapital
beso    valalui pblctn         Privaste gene.ral and epectalioed hospital
ON  cpta            GNP)-  1 Per capita eattaatns at market prices, calco-          and rehabilitation centers: excludes nursing hones and nstablishmonnts
1lR     onRAiEEieraion nethod as World Rank Atlas (197P7-i basis),             for cuistodial and prevention ocre.
Per cnpita supply of calories (1' Orfesrnco           COmputed from
?pp74ptiop~~~~~4 vital statistics                                 an~~~~~ergy equivalent of net rood auphe  avthl    In country per
'd_A.o                          July first; if not available, average             capita per day; available supplies comprise donnotic production,
oriiSleaeiiAii.imports less exports, and changes in stack; not supplies exlude
POPu  i&llensi't          p    ula                                a~~~~~~~~~~~nio,l feed, seda, quantities use d in food processing and lances
PaploondesiY  s-p  qr usareIo- Mid-year popultion per square kilo-                  in distribution, requirements were estinated by FA0 based on physi-
nete  (10 hetars)  f total ae.ological needs for nornal activity snd health conoidering environ-
Popultio   density- Der squar kon of arable lad - Gcoputad an above for                 mentel teopernture, bodv weights, age and sex distributions of POPo--
oroble land only,                                                lo~~~~~~~~~~1tion, and allowing 10% for weste at household leve.
Vital statistics                                               ~~~~~~         ~~~~~~~Per osit  upplyifor rotein (croo  oedy  - terin content of per
VItal statIstics                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cajpit net suppl  of odpeda;ntspply of fod to~ dfind as
Crude birth rate pe   huad - Annwal live births per thousand of mid-                     above; requirements for all coUntries establioked by USIA Economic
Year population; usull    five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and                  Rnsearch Services provide for a mnimtum allowance Of 60 grams of total
1.975 for developing countries.                                                       protein per day, and 20 gras   of acimal and pulse protnin, of witch 10
Crude death rate per thousand -Annual deaths per thousand of old-year                    grams should be annea  protein; these standards are lower than th-os
population; usually ria-ya     averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                  of 75 grass of total prote.in and 23 grooms of pnimal protein as an ave r-
for developing countries.                                                             age for the world, proposed by PAl on the Third World Food Survey.
Infant m      ateorthu) -Annual deaths of infants under one year                  Pe1aiapoenspl               rnaia cad pulse - Protein supply of focd
hge       llptbihs                                                            d   vivod fro  ails andEpulssin groom, per day.
t~ ~  ~   ~   ~~-Average numsber nf years of life remain-                Death rate C/thou) ages 1-1. - Annual deaths poe thousand in age group i-4.
fh,       nua                     avrags      ding to 1960, 1970 and 1975              yearn, tc ch ildren In this age group; suggested as an indicator Of nob-
Groan ronoduction rste - Average number of live daughters a women will                   ntiin
boor in her normal reproductiv'e period if she experiences present ags-             Educaticon
specific fertility coins; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                5.dsuated enrolmLent ratio   primary   chool - Enrolimnet of all   gneso
1970 and 1975 for developing countries,                                               pecntg      ofp    ayshlae population; includes children aged
Populaiongoth rat   () - total - Compound annual growth rates of aid-                6-11 Years hot adiusted for different lengths of prinary oducation,
year ppaton ror 1950-bU, 1960-70, and 1960 to mast recect year.                        for countries with universal education, enrollment nay ex,ceed 100%
Populaticn gchrate (I) - uban - Computed like growth cete of total                       sicce none popils ace below or above the official school age.
poplaton;diferet dfin=tcc    of urba   areas nay affect coorasr-              Adjust:ederollnent ratio - necondgr~ygshool - Computed no nbove; second-
bility cf data amng countries.                                                        ar   euation requires at least for        ear  of approved promey inotruc-
TUrban pecuatio  (% of toa) - Ratio of urban to tatal population;                        lion; provides general , vcantio...l or teseher trsining instruction for
different definitions orboio saems MoY affect cocparability of data                   pupils of 12 to 17 years Of age; co0reopondence coursen ace generally
unng countrieso.                                                                      excluded.
Ageatptwep,(pe-o     nt) - Children (0-lb years), sucking age (15-64 Years),          Tears of scoolin    provided (first and cec-nd levels) - Total Years of
and retiredylI y65/lr  and ove) as percentages of old-year papulatlan.                schooling; aseodary level, vocational instruction nay be partially
Anngepednc       atio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 ad over to                  oc copletely excuded.
thos e  ndaesc 19 athrug  Ratio-                                                 Voctionale enolet (%of "enodary) - Vocational instituticon include
Roccnic  epenennyrail  -  Rtio  f poulaton uder15 and 65 and over         tehia       nusra     ro ts     progrmam  which operate independently
to the lbor force in ago group of 15-64 Years.                                        or aso departnentn of secondary institutions.
Pasmily planning - ccpors (cunsltive ;thcu)        Cumulative n,mrber of              Adult litecac   rlate  %) - Literate sdults (shin to read and wr-ite) 00
acceptors of birhcntodeis un                 s upices of national family              "rc                  adault Ppuplaticn sged 15 years and Over.
planning program since ioception.
Family plann ing - users (%of carried wanen) - Percentages of nacied                  Rousing
women of chilA-harin    ag  (li-hI years)7who use birth-control devices             Pernons per. coon (average) - Average number of peroono Pe,rcoon in occupied
to all carried woen in same ups group.                                                conventiomal dwellings in urban areas; dwelliug. exclude non-pernaneni
&TlOyment                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~structures and unoccupied ports.
Tot.1 labor fme (th~~ d)  Eop..ic.llyactive perscc, iieduciegllngs wthutn rpined wat0ert(%) - Occupied conentional dwell-
amd forcesn  thousad) -t unolcdy hUactive prus,        inldigtgs in urban adral                             m   wthou    inside or outside piped  twae
foce    an   moaeedbtecuig             oswvs        tudents, etc.;               facilitiesa   porcentage of all occupied dwellings.
definitions to various countries are not comparsble.                                Access to Qelec'tricily (% of all dwellings ) - Conventional dwellings with
lbrforce to a   iculture  %) - Agricultural labor force (to farming,                 electricity in liv'ing quarters as percent of total dwellings in urban
forestryFXhK3itingndfish)ing) as percentage of total labor force,                      ond rural areas.
U= yd  %of lao   frc)-Unemployed are usually defined as poerson                Rua   Zwelns connected to sleotricity (%) - Computed as above for rural
ableo      ad wTito   to take a job, out of a job on a given day,               R   .dfelings only.
snmainead out of a Joh and seeking work for c specified mininun
period not exceeding one week; nay not be comparable between countries              Cons    uio
due to different definitions of ueneployed and source of data, e.g.,                Nude recivesa (perMthou po.p) - All types of receivero for radio broad-
ompoyent office statistics, sample surveys, compulsory unemploynent                cost       eea     ulcprtosn            fpplto;ecue              s
insuance,                                                                             licensed rcenivers in countries and to years when registration of
Income distribti  - Percentage of pr                             ~~~~radio sets ens in effect; data f or rennt years may not be conparable
inan distribution-Pretg           afpivate income (both in cash and                     since nost countries abolished licensing.
kind) freneived by richest 5%, richent 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest                Psegrcs(pr thou pop) - P-assenger care comprise motoc cars seat-
4s0% ofPopulation.                                                                    inZgless cthan eight pernons; eXCludes anbulonono, hearses and
military vehicles.
Dintributimo of land ownasrhip - Percentages of land owned by wealth-                 Esl-trcity kh/o(       erLpo ) - Annual consumption of industiral, commer-
last 10% and poorest 10% of land   -owrs.                                              i.,Pbi        o   r  eo.-r~t          in kilowtt hear    per capita;
generally bas ed on production data, without allowanoce for looses in
Nealth and Nutrition                                                                    grids but sllowing for imports and exports of electricity.
Po~t onprp    icia  - Population divided by nomber of practicing                Nw7us k/y          a     ca) - Per capita annual consumption in kilograms
pipsicas quaified fOn a modical school at university level.                         estimated. fro. domestic production plus net imports of newsprint.
March 11, 1976.



ANNEX I
(Aon     %        WPEN     DATA  aH                                            Page 9 of 10 Pages
Ac tual                 mated     jected                        1965 -   19 70 -    19 75 -   19 70    19 75   198 0
~~~~~                      1~~~~~~~9 72  1973   !224        1975      j.9-8                        19 70     19Z 75    1980                        __
Annual datge      9674L-169 Prices &RachargeRates                 Average Alnnual Growth Rates         As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product               i3T      S975                                                            TV~53 ~   .        1. .4    102.0     824      82.1
Gains from Terms of Tade ()          -24.7     415.1     -225.1      201         293                           .        .                  -2.0     17.5     17.8
Gross Domestic Incom                 1.W3      9W.2     lfl!8        1145      TW3                            1.5      8.1       7.5      100.0    100.0    100foO.0
Import (incl. NFS)                   349.5     307.5     346.9       381         643                         -1.0      5.2     11.0        38.3     33.3     39.1
EZports    1   (import capecity)    .286.3    -.360.6   -588.1       -524       .663                         .3.6     12.8       5.4      -37.1    -45.8    -41.6
Resource Gap                          63.2     -53.1    -241.2      .143       7~.                                      .         .         1.1    =T5       -2.4
Consumption Expenditures             702.8  ~548.9       742.5        805      -1233                          4.5      5.4       8.9       79.9     70.3     75.0
investment     1(incl. stocks)       194.8     L58.2     149.1       197         370                        -3.4       3.6     13.5        21.3     17.2     22.5
Domestic Savings                     131.6     Z11.3     390.3       340        410                          -7.9     16.8       3.8       20.1     29.7     24.9
National Savings                      79.5      L49.6    315.3        260        310                         -9.3     20.5       3.6       13.2     22.7     58.9
MERCHANDISE TRADE -                             nnual Data at Current Pr-ices'                                                            As Percent of Total
IMports
Capital goods                      139       i.18      161         336         ..3.6                               29.4        ..        33.1     30.7
Intermediate goods (wmlfuels)       67-       81       118         125         ..-2.5                              22.5        ..        21.0     28.0
F'uels and related materials        24        13        13            6        ...                                    .         .         4.1      2.7
of which:   Petroleum             22        11        11           3         .                                                          3.6      2.4
Cons    tion goods                 182       183       238         283                                      7.4     18.3                 41.8     38.7
ToaMec. Dorts (eif)           412       19       530           5         30                            4.8    22.1     25.2        100.0    100.0   100.0
Exports
Primary prodc=ts    sm.fuels)       35        28        53           70        110                         -2.0      7.0       9.5       11.4      7.3      4.9
Petroleum, crude and
refined                          148       225       663         730       1250                          2.3     45.1      11.4       60.3     76.0     55.5
Manufactured goods                  89        96       145          160        890                          6.0     23.1      41.0       28.3     16.7     39.6
Total March. Exports (fob)         27       13        7CI          **w       "3b                            3.8     33.6      18.6      100.0    100.0    100.0
Tourism and Border, Trade           51        59        63          75        170                          9.2     13.8      17.8        11.3      7.8      7.6
Merchandise Trade Indices                        Average 1967- 69- 100
Export Price Index                 119     iS          387         450         753.6                               34.3       10.3
Import Price Index                 135       162       195         241        403                          6.3     16.6      10.9
Terms of Trade Index                88        93       198          186        182.                                   .
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                An3nual Data at 1967-69 Prices and                              Average Annual Growth Rates          As Percent of Total
Ex-.hange Rates
Agriculture                         41         34       35           28        ..3.0                                 -5.8      ..         4.6      2.1
Industry and Mining                452       433       506         544         ..1.7                                 4.6       ..        55.3     58.0
Service                            366       358       36           72g    .......                          2.3      4.0                40 .T..A  I 9...J.
Tota.l                             859       815       908         944       1350                           2.2       3.6      7.4      100.0    100.0    100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE -&                                                                                                                            As Percent of GDP
(~Central G~overnment)
Current Receipts                   167       1VF5      371          396        ..5.4                                 22.3      ..        23.4     41.9
Crreent  Expenditures              172       1I,2      202         210       ...                           3.1      10.1       ..        21.2     22.2
Bogtr  avings                 -5        13       169         186         ..49.6                               66.5       ..        2.2     19 .7
Other Pablic Sector..                          .         ..                    ..                                     .
Central Government Investment       51        :18       83          81         ..5.6                                12.0 O                6.0      8.6
US $ million
CURRENET EXPENDITURE DETAILS                                                                     DETAIL ON                      At end 1972 Prices andT Exchange Rates
As % Total Current Excpen.PUIBLIC SECTOPR                                                                                                          7ofotal
Education                            18.6      17.1      13.9       13.0                       INVESTMENT PR00RAM 2!                  1970 /75      1970 /75
OIther Social Services               21.6    ~1. 7       16.1       14.0                       Social Rectors                           97             32.1
Agriculture                           6.1       3.8       4.5        4.0                       Agriculture                               41            13.7
Other Economic Services               5.2       2.2       6.6       10.0                       Industry and Mining                       14             4.7
Administration and Defense           23.8      27.5      28.7       30.0                       Power                                      1             6.4
Other                                24.7      27.7      30 2       26                         Transport and communications              11             3.7
Total Current Expenditures          100.0     100.0     100.0      100.0                       Other                                  1i2-             45.
Total Expenditures                      302            100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                                              1965-     1970-    1975-
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)                           1970      1975     1980
Average ICOR                                                     7WT        3.9      =5
Import Elasticity                                                 0.8       1.1      1.4
M&rginal Domestic Savings Rate                                   11.2      57.0     18.3
Marginal National Savings Rate                                   23.2      57.3     21.3
LABOR FORCE AND                                    rotal Labor Force                                   Value Added Per ,Worle    (97 -9       Prices    Racx. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                   in thousands         %of Total            1970 - 73          In U.S.Dollars        PretoAverag6e              19/-    7
1970        1973     1970       1973      Growth Rate           1970       1973        197        1973       Growth Rate
Agriculture                        86.8       61.2     25.5       22.3         -10.1              504       555            17         21          3.3
Industry                          51.9       48.5     20.8        19.9         - 1.6             8625      9959           243        369          4.9
Service                          181.7      21.       53.7        57.8           6.0             1631      1670            88         62          0.8
Total                            S~T67 4    TA- T    107         16670.                           7ff       07T           No-'      -rod          3.1
not aLpplicabl          -ilonegligible
not available         --lees than half the
smallest unit sbasel
1/    Exclude,; petroleum under petroleum processing agreaemet.
F,    Deflated by retail price index.'
March 11, 1976.



ANNEX I
Page to of lo pagne
BALANCE OF P     rESX B     7AL ASSSThANCB AND DB3T
(ancantB in eilieS, of u.S. dollare at current prices)
Actual                         Eetimated                                    Projected
1971        1972         1973        1J74          19!75         1976         197         1978         12Z1        1930
SUMKARY BIAINCE OF PADtMBTS
Erporta (incl. NFS) 1/                    358-         416         567         1095         1230           1400       1580          1820        2250         2690
7tscoarta (incl. NFS) I/                  430          500          502         673           910          1130       1500          1830        2210         2590
D5brces Baac      iN                       7          *.                        ~ F        ~             ~              i-         -T                         too
Interest (net)                                          -2           -7         -10            -9
DIrect Invetent Incme                      -60         -67         -80         -113         -140           -165       -180          -200        -220         .250
Workera' Remittance                                                  .
Currfnt Tranefere -n t)                ~     5          -4            9          11           -I            -20        -22           -25         -28          -30
OalanceonCurrent80000nte        =  a         r         Ts7T     -    31         5SF          1S5          *i          -102          -235       -152          -120
Priate Direct    nv"eternt (net)           103          86           66          40           130            90         120          170          190         200
Official Capital Oranta                      2           1            1           -            -             -           -
Public NIT Loane
Disbursemento                             19          31           37          57            37            45         110          138         180          205
-Repaynente                                -6          -5          -9          -31           -20           -15        -18           -22         -42          -65
Not Disbursements             Z1                                                           -- 3 0  9         5S          82          116         138       1   40
Otier X&LT Loam 2
Disbursements                                                                 -3       5                  -50         -30          -20         -20          -20
-            -           -                                         S         10           15           20
Net Mabursemente                                                                                                       2 3  ~*1~ -20  ..s          - 
Capital Transactions n.e.i.                 46           15         -72         -15            42                                        197_1      2972ct    173        94
Change in Net Reserved (- iecresae)        -26           29           8        -304          -340         15bT AND DOBT SBRVICE
Public Debt Out. & tisbursed
Official Orants I Grant-73xe                -           1.2          -           -                          Interest en Public Debt        4.6      6.4        8.4       15.3
Repayments on Public Debt      6.7       5.3       8.8       30.8
Public YkLT Loans                                                                                           Total Public Debt Service     11.2     11.7       17.2       46.0
ISiR                                     3.0        11.3         12.0        23.0                        Other Debt Service (net)       -         -         -
LDA                                                                           -                          Total Debt Service (net)      11.2      11.7      17.2        40.0
Other                                     -          1.3          1.0         5.9
other Multilateral                        -            -           -          -                         Burden on Poport aernings  CE
Oovernmesta                              2.0          5.4         2.3          8.7
Suppliee                                  -            -          3.0          -                          Public Debt Service            3.1      2.8       3.0         4.2
Financial Institutione                  10.6         23.3        32.0         36.3                       Total Debt Service              ..
Bonds                                                                         -                          fS-Direct DTvst. Inc.          19.8     18.9      17.1        14.5
Pablic Loane n.e.i. i-
Total Pubic i  LT L~ois o .15.6                       41.3         50.3         73.9                     Average Terms of Public Debt
Actual Debt Oatetanding on Ds. 3l. 1974                       Lnt. as % Prior Year D5&D      6.0       8.1      9.2         12.8
EZTErNAl  DBT Bak                                                             P   enr                         Amort. as % Prior Year DD&D    8.8       6.8      9.6         25.8
World bank                                           7
IDA                                                                                                      LSR OnD Debt Out. & Disbursed
Other Multilateral                                 0.6                        0 4                              a as % Public Debt 04D     29.8      31.5     26.9        24.8
Oovernments                                       31.4                       18.3                              as % Public Debt Service   15.7      28.4     22.2         9.3
Suppliers                                          7.0                        4.1
Financial Institutions                            82.6                       48.2
Bonds                                              9.5                        5.5
Public Lebts n.e.i
Total Public MlLT Debt                           171.3                      100.0
not applicable                                                    e ataff eatimbte
not available .- nil or negligible
... not available separately                                              l       ngb   lt the                                                               rch 11. 1976
but included in total                                               lagalet    it shov
1/ Eacluder petroleum under petroleum pro-as-ing ag-eaent.
T/ GOovenmeot lending abroad.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 11
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUYANA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of January 31, 1976)
Loan or
Credit                                                               (US$ million)
No.     Year       Borrower            Purpose              Amount (less cancellation)
Undis-
Bank     IDA    bursed
285 /2    1961    British Guiana      Agricultural Credit      0.9      _
559 72    1968     Guyana             Sea Defense I             4.7      --
583 r     1969     Guyana             Education I              2.9       -      0.8
139) L2                                                         -       2.9      -
221       1970    Guyana              Livestock                 -       2.2     1.9
765       1971    Guyana              Sea Defense II           5.4      -       1.2
301       1972    Guyana              Highway                   -       4.4     3.1
875       1973     Guyana Electricity
Corporation      Power                     6.0      -      1.4
1016       1974     Guyana             Irrigation              12.9       -     12.7
1106 )     1975     Guyana             Education II              8.0             8.0
554 )4.0                                                                        4.0
Total i(net of cancellations)                O      135     33.1
of which has been repaid                     1.2      -
Total now outstanding                       39.6    13.5
Amount sold                       0.8
of which has been repaid          0.8
Total now held by Bank and IA-              39.6    13.5
Total tndisbursed                           24.1     9.0    33.1
/1 Prior to exchange ratei adjustmants.
7T  Loan fully disbursed.
/3  Credit fully disbursedc.
B.  Statement of IFC Investments (as of January 31, 1976)
There have been no IFC investments in Guyana.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
GUYANA
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 583   Education Project;  US$2.9 Million Loan and US$2.9 Million
Cr. No. 139   Credit of January 31, 1969;  Effective Date:  July 23, 1969;
Closing Date: June 30, 1976
The new premises for the primary teacher training college are in the
third year of utilization and all project schools are virtually completed and
being used. Delays in project execution resulted principally from delays in
appointing consultant architects and in awarding civil works' contracts follow-
ing opening of bids. Project implementation has since proceeded according to
the revised schedule. The delay has resulted in about a 34% increase in esti-
mated project costs, which is borne by the Borrower. Procurement of furniture
and equipment is progressing satisfactorily and in accordance with the revised
construction schedule. The Closing Date was extended to December 31, 1975 and
subsequently to June 30, 1976.
Ln. No. 106   Second Education Project; US$8.0 Million and US$4.0 Million
Cr. No. 544   Credit of May 9, 1975; Effective Date:   August 6. 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Second Education Project is 12 months behind the appraisal sche-
dule. Lack of progress is due to continuing delays in agreeing fees and ap-
ppintment of consultant architects, engineers, and quantity surveyors; preli-
minary cost estimates for the Caribbean Animal Health Technician's Training
Center are three times the appraisal estimate, reflecting the government's
desire to expand facilities not included in the project. Alternative design
proposals have been requested by the Bank.
r. No. 221 Livestock Project; US$ 2.2 Million Credit of November 27, 1970;
Effective Date: April 15, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Progress on the execution of this project has been slower than esti-
mated at appraisal, due largely to various institutional deficiencies and slow
response by farmers and to difficulties in surveying and leasing land to poten-
tial sub-borrowers. Some progress has been achieved, however, and continued
improvement can be expected. Lending for dairy livestock has been included in
the project and this component should have a significant impact by the second
half of 1976. The Agricultural Cooperative Development Bank became a partici-
pating bank in November 1975, and this also should expedite loan processing.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they
do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses
in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
Ln. No. 765   Second Sea Defense Project;  US$5.4 Million Loan of June 24, 1971;
Effective Date: August 19, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The project is over two years behind schedule. The project costs were
estimated at 66% above the appraisal estimate as of February 1976. A number of
factors have affected costs: devaluation, a lag of 1.5 years between appraisal
and bid opening, construction difficulties with the cofferdam on the first sea
defense project (Ln. No. 599), and accelerated erosion of the foreshore. The
lowest bid for the civil works was almost double the appraisal estimate. The
government proposed to construct the sea wall by force account since it believed
that contractors' assessment of the risks involved was an important cause of these
high bids. After a detailed examination of this proposal by consultants and Bank
staff, the proposal was accepted by the Bank. At the time of appraisal, the eco-
nomic rate of return on thie project was estimated at 31%; even with a 66% increase
in estimated costs, however, the project's rate of return should not be signifi-
cantly altered because of the increase in the value of benefits. Although the
project as a whole is now progressing satisfactorily, past delays in reaching
agreement between the government and the consultants on the rehabilitation of
sluice outfalls and delays in the construction of the Georgetown seawall may
necessitate an extension of the present closing date to December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 301   Highway Project; US$4.4 Million Credit of April 26, 1972; Effective
Date: November 15, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The start of construction work was delayed until July 1973, and pro-
gress has since been slow due primarily to the contractor's lack of experience.
The government terminated, with Bank approval, the contractor's contract and
the Bank approved a program to complete the project largely by force account.
About 70% of the work still remains to be done and an extension of the closing
date to December 31, 1977 will be necessary.
Ln. No. 875   Power Project; us$6.0 Million Loan of January 12, 1973; Effective
Date: May 8. 1973; Closirig Date: June 30, 1977
Because of delays in project engineering and other difficulties, the
execution of the project has been delayed by about one year and overall costs
increased by about 31% duae to inflation and other factors. The increase in
engineering cost is in excess of 87% and may increase further. Discussions
were held with the government, the Guyana Electricity Corporation (GEC) and
the other external financing agencies (ODM and CIDA) on the measures necessary
to strengthen the financegs, management and technical expertise of GBC to ensure
the successful completionri of the project, The Bank reallocated its loan to
meet the increased enginesering costs; and to absorb part of the increased pro-
ject costs, the existing arrangements for the financing of the project by ODM
and CIDA were amended with a view to ODMI and CIDA bearing a larger share of
the equipment and construction costs. The government will bear any additional
costs necessary to complete the projecto The rate of return on GEC investment
has remained below the lavel (10%) originally agreed with the Bank. The govern-
ment and GEC have agreed that GEC should consider raising tariffs by mid-1976
or at the time of the next general wage/salary increase in the public sector,
whichever occurs first.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
Ln. No. 1016 Tapakuma Irrigation Project: US$12.9 Million Loan of June 25,
1974; Effective Date: May 27, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project will increase agricultural production, mainly rice, in an
area of 41,750 acres along the northwest Essequibo coast through rehabilitation,
improvement and extension of irrigation and drainage systems. About 23,000 acres
are presently irrigated but need improved drainage and roads. The remaining area
will benefit from double cropping with new irrigation and drainage systems and
roads. The project is about one year behind schedule due to the delay in sign-
ing (May 16, 1975) a contract for consultant services for final design and super-
vision of construction and agricultural development. At present the project is
in the initial stage of organization and mobilization of staff and services.
Tbpographic surveys have been initiated in the project area and prelimninary
studies on general planning, hydraulic design and implementation of the agricul-
tural development phase are underway. A problem at this time is the recruitment
of local professional staff and Government is giving this matter urgent attention.



ANNEX II
STATUS OF BAhK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA            Page 5 of 11
A.   Statement of Bank Loanm (as- at January 3t. 19-6)
Loan   Fiscal                                                         (US$ million)
No.     Year             Bo:rrower              Purpose           Amount (less cancellation)
Bank           Undisjbursed
3 loans fully disbursed (4083, 454 and 468)                       35.8
598     1969    The Water Commission
Kingston, Jamaica               Water Sapply       5.0              0.3
690     1970    Jamaica                         Population         2.0              0.9
719     1970    Jamaica Development Bank        Agriculture        3.7              o.6
727     1971    Jamaica                        Education          13.5             11.2
899     1973    Jamaica                         Highways           9.3              5.6
1003     1974    Jamaica                         Sites and Services 15.0            15.0
1004     1974    Jamaica Devllopment Bank        Agriculture        5.5              4.0
1032     1975    Jamaica                         Highways          13.5             13.1
10432,   1975    Jamaica                        Airports           12.5             11.3
1146-    1975    The Water Commiasion
Kingston, Jamaica               Sewerage/Water    15.0             15.0
Total (net cancellati6n)                         130.8
of which has been repaid                            9.0
Total now outstanding                            1.21.8
Amount sold                     1. 6
of which has been repaid        1.4                0.2P
Total now held by Bank                           121.6
Total undisbursed                                                  77.0
B.   Statement of IFC Investments (as at January 31, 1976)
Year      Obligor                                Type of              (US$ million)
Business         Loan    Equity    Total
1961      Jamaica Pre-Mix Ltd.                   Pre-mix concrete  0.2              0.2
1968      Pegasus Hotel of Jamaica Ltd.          Tourism          2.2     0.7       2.9
Total gross commitments                                 2.4     0.7       3.1
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                    1.1               1.1
Total commitments now held by IFC                       1.3     0.7       2.0
Total undisbursed                                         -      -         -
1/   The telecommunications loan (481-JM) was made in 1967 to the Jamaica Telephone
Company and was caicelled by the Borrower durihg 1967.
This loan has not yet been made effective.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
JAMAICA
C. Pro.jects in Execution 1/
In. No. 727 Second Education Project; US$13.5 million of March 25. 1971;
Effective Date: July 30, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project is about 30 months behind appraisal schedule. Progress
since the last superwision mission in May 1975 has been encouraging. The newly
established project implementation machinery is functioning well and the perform-
ance of the project implementation units in the Ministry of Education and the
National Development Agency has, so far, been satisfactory. A competent project
manager was appointed to the project unit in the Ministry of Education in June
1975. The project was expected to be completed by the end of 1976. However,
because of initial delays in getting the physical aspects of the project under
way and more recent delays in the award of a number of contracts, the construc-
tion of schools will not be completed before August 1977. Thus, the closing
date, originally December 31, 1975, has been extended to December 31, 1977.
The project cost overrun due to sharp increases in prices and wages is presently
estimated between $10 to $15 million and will be met by the government.
Ln. No. 719   Agricultural Credit Project-  US$3.7 million of December 28, 1970
Effective Date: June 1, 197{; Closing Date: June 30, 1976
After a slow start the project picked up momentum and the Bank
loan is now fully committed and slowly approaching full disbursement. The present
closing date of June 30, 1976, may have to be postponed to December 31, 1976.
Ln. No. 1004 Second Agricultural Credit Project, US$5.5 million of June 13, 1974
Effective Date: October_3, 197; Closing Date: December_31, 1_977
Commitments are progressing satisfactorily, but disbursements are
behind appraisal sche4ule.  The Borrower, however, expects to step up operations
shortly and a proposed third Bank project is being appraised in March 1976. In-
creased efforts are required in terms of improved management staffing and train-
ing to ensure the project's effectiveness, the more so as the Borrower's agri-
cultural lending operations have increased sharply by taking over small farmers'
lending programs from other agencies.
Ln. No. 690   Population Project, US$2.0 million of June 18, 1970
Effective Date: November 2, 1970; Closing Date: March 31,1977
There have been delays in the design/construction programs for
the Victoria Jubilee Hospital (VJH) and ten rural maternity centers (RMCs),
due primarily to problems of coordination and management. However, more recently
improved progress has been made in implementing some of the principal aspects
of the program. Construction of all ten RMCs has been physically completed
and are in operation. There are indications that some of the RMC's are under-
utilized and it is planned to broaden the range of services they provide by
including primary health care and nutrition activities. Construction of the
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems which
are encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them. They should be read
in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not purport to present a
balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 11
VJH expansion is near]y completed although there have been delays largely due
to unsatisfactory perlormance by the main contractor; the contractor's insurance
company is assisting in contract supervision. The loan closing date, originally
March 31, 1975, has beien postponed to YArch 31, 1977. Progress has been slow in
implementing the training and home encouragement aspects of the family planning
program, but intensified efforts are being made in these areas through the use
of community health aides. The family planning services have been integrated
into the Ministry of Hlealth.
Ln. No. 598   Kingston Water Sup y Project; US$5.0 million of May 14 1969
Effective   te:    e   , 1969  Closing   te:   ptember 30, 1976
After initial delays over the acquisition of land rights and in
the award of contracts, implementation of the physical aspects of the project
has improved and the works are now almost entirely in operation. The loan
closing date, originally June 30, 1972, has been postponed to September 30,
1976. After a period of weak financial performance during which the Borrower,
the Kingston Water Commission, was not able to obtain the 8% rate of return
required in the Loan Agreement, the situation has improved following a 60%
average increase in water rates in December 1974 followed by a 50% increase in
sewerage rates in June 1975.  It is expected that the Borrower will meet the
financial covenant in the current financial year established in the new loan
(v:. 1146).  The Commission is also taking masures to strengthen its manage-
ment, operating procedures and to reduce costs.
In. No. 1146 K     L   Sewerage and  ter Supply Project; US$15.0 million of
(Not yeteffective); Closing Date: September 30, 1979
Implementation of the physical aspects of this project have not
begun due to delay by the Borrower in appointing engineering consultants.
However, consultants to supervise the sewerage construction works will shortly
be appointed. A Project Manager has been appointed and the Commission has selec-
ted a qualified General Mnager designate who is scheduled to take up duties on
April 1, 1976. The terminal date for effectiveness of this loan, originally
October 21, 1975, and postponed to January 31, 1976, has been postponed to April 1,
1976, to allow time for the General Manager to take up his appointment.
Ln. No. 899   Road Improvement and Maintenance Project:  US$9.3 million of
June T  _197
=Efective   te: August 31, 1973 . Closing Date: December 31, 1978
After some initial delays and quality control problems, the reseal-
ing program is progressing satisfactorily and is nearly completed. Contracts
for resurfacing 200 miles of arterial road have been awarded and work has com-
menced although it is behind schedule due to problems in contract management by
local firms. Total project costs are estimated at about 50% above the appraisal
estimate due to increased costs of asphaltic overlay; nevertheless, the project
is estimated to have a rate of return of about 30%.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
Ln. No. 1003   Sites and Services Project;  US$15.0 million of June 13, 1974
Effective Date: September 9   1974;  Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Progress on the project during the past four months has been slow
partly due to political violence in Kingston which has brought work to a halt
on the Marcus Garvey site. The first site at Spanish Town should be ready for
occupancy in March 1976. Overall, the project is nearly one year behind schedule.
The Sites and Services Unit in the Ministry of Housing is short of staff at man-
agerial level and in the finance section. This has resulted in no loan funds
being disbursed to date. Steps are being taken to correct the situation. Two
out of three project-related studies are under way; cnsutants for the third
one are being appointed. Project costs are currently estimated at US$ 41.4 million
compared to the appraisal estimate of US$34.9 million.
In. No. 1032   Third Highway Project;  US$13.5 million of July 26, 1974
Effective Date: September 27, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Work has commenced on the Bog 1Walk to Linstead arterial road section,
which is being undertaken on force account. Bid prices for the two May Pen bypass
sections were up to 43% higher than appraisal estimates; negotiations with con-
tractors were successful in reducing prices to 24% above appraisal estimates as
a result of the location of construction materials with improved engineering
characteristics. Construction on the by-passes has started. No acceptable bids
were received for the Williamsfield to Greenvale arterial section and the govern-
ment is now considering what course of action to take and will consult with the
Bank. Even with these increased costs the project is still economically feasible.
The UNDP financed oomponent of the project for assistance to the local construc-
tion industry, for which the Bank is the Executing Agent, has been delayed due
to UNDP cash flow problems.
Ln. No. 1043   Airport Development Project; US$12.5 million of October 2, 1974
Effective Date: March 14. 1975; Closing Date: June 30. 1977
Delays were incurred in appointing the engineering consultants and
establishing the project team and therefore in getting the initial design and
procurement work under way. However, design and planning for project execution
is now progressing and most of the major contracts will be going to tender.
The Airports Authority of Jamaica (AAJ) is now well established and the orga-
nizational work largely complete. However, due to increased operational costs
and lower traffic receipts than forecast, the AAJ will be unable to make its
US$4.5 million contribution to the project financirg plan. Government will
make good the shortfall from other sources. Management consultants have com-
pleted their assistance to the AAJ in preparing training programs and manage-
ment and information systems. Consultants have been appointed to assist the
Civil Aviation Department in improving its organization and management
techniques and have issued their first report.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
THEr STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
A,. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(as at January 31, 1976)
US$ millions
Loan      Year         Borrower                Purpose          Amount (less cancellations)
No.       -                                                   Bank          Uhdisbursed
Four   loans fully disbursed (293, 486, 497 and 601)           37.0
564       1968     Trinidad and Tobago     Education            9.4              0.6
743       1971     Trinidad and Tobago    Family Planning       3.0              2.3
81 9      1 972    Trinidad and Tobago
Development Finance
Company (guaranteed
by Trinidad and Tobago)   DFC                2.0              0.1
862       1972     Trinidad and Tobago    Education             9.3              8.9
888       1973     Caroni Ltd. (guaran-
teed by Trinidad and
Tobago)               Agriculture         12.0               4.4
1015      1974     Trinidad and Tobago
Telephone Co. (guaran-
teed by Trinidad and
Tobago)               Telecommunications  18.0              17-3
1056      1974     Trinida.d and Tobago
Development Finance
Company (guaranteed
by Trinidad and Tobago)   DFC               5.0               4-4
Total                                95.7             38.0
Of which has been repaid            13.8
'rotal now outstanding               81.9
Amount sold                 1 740
Of which has been repaid     7.7 9?3
Tbtal now held by Bank-              72.6
Total undisbursed                                     38.0
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
B. Projects in Execution1'/
Loan 564-TR - Education; US$9.h million Loan of October 16, 1968- Effective
Date:  March 26, 1969;  Closing Date: June 30, 1976 
Loan 862-TR - Second Edilcation; US$9.3 million Loan of October 25,'1972;
Effective Date: Februcary 1   1973; Closing Date:   June 30, 1979
Project implementation of the first education project (Ln. 564-mT) is
about two years behind schedule mainly due to problems with one contractor. The
only remaining school under construction, in Tobago, is now expected to be comr-
pleted by the end of April 1976. The furnishing and equipping of all project
institutions are now expected to be completed by April 30, 1976.   The closing
date has been extended by one year, to June 30, 1976, to allow the completio,n of
equipping of this school and closing of accounts.  Initial delays in implementa-
tion of the second education project (Ln. 862-TR) have been compensated by recent
progress and the project is now almost on schedule. However, recent price increases
are particularly affecting construction costs, which are likely to cause a subs-
tantial cost overrun in total project cost.
Loan 819-TR - Development Finance Cprpany; US$2.0 million Loan of May 15, 1972;
Effective Data:  July 3, 197Z'; Closing Date: March 31, 1976--
Loan 1056-TR - Second Development Finance Company Project; US$5.0 million Loan of
December5, 41974; Effective Date: February 7,1975; Closing Date: June 30, 19Th
The first loan is fully-committed and almost completely disbursed. Due
to a delay in one of the subprojects, however, the closing date has been postponed
to March 31, 1976 to allow disbursement-of approximately $58,000. The loan was
utilized for a total ot 17 subprojects, two of them for tourism accounting for
less than 3% of the 16on, afndthe rest for industry.   To date, $2.0 million of
the second loan has been com itted for a total of 10 subprojects. While all of
the subprojects approved so far have been for industry, one for $200,000 still
awaiting approval is for tourism. The loan is expected to be fully committed by
June 1977. The quality of TTDFC's portfolio appears to have improved with the
percentage of portfolio in-arrears apparently down to about 25%, compared to over
40% as of year-end 1974.
Loan 888-TP. - Varoni Sugar; US$12.0 million Loan of April 18, 1973; Effective
Datei Agust 16, i973; Closing Date:    June 30, 1976
Progress on the mechanization of the company's field operations and
rehabilitation of the company's plant is proceeding as envisaged, but delays were
initially experienced in contracting the consultants required to carry out:   (a)
a hydrological/irrigatio4 survey of North Caroni, (b) a study of all aspects of
Caroni operations, including fiold and factory operations, cost ccntrol and
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the progress
of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems which are encoun-
tered, and the action being taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense,
and with the understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
management procedures, and (c) a study of the possibilities and implications of
subdividing the hilly company-owned lands in the South for occupation by small-
scale cane farmers. The company has suffered badly from a series of mishaps,
including exceptionally heavy rains in 1972, the worst drought in 50 years in
1973, and acute labor troubles in 1974. Whereas normal production is around
200,000 tons of sugar a year, the 1973 and 1974 crops were in the order of 165,000
tons and further fell to 145,000 .tons in 1975.  The financial impact, however, has
been completely offset by the much higher sugar prices.
Loan 1015-TR -Telecommunications; US$18.0 million Loan of June 24, 1974;
Effective Date: August 22, 1974 ; Closing Date: -December 31. 1-T7 f
Contracts for goods valued at about US$3.03 million (out of a total of
US$16.2 million to be contracted under the project) have been signed. Evafuation
of bids for goods estimated to cost about tVS$12.7 million is;in progress. The
-Borrower and the Bank have not yet reached agreement on the award of a contract
for certain telephone exchange and related equipment for which US$7.9 million is
allocated in the Bank 'loan.
Loan 743-TR J opiulation; US$3.0 million Loan of Nlay 28, 1971; Effective
DL   January     i, 1972;  Closing Date:  June 30, 1976
The project is making steady progress. Construction of three health
centers is comple'ted, out of which one is already in full operation. According to
present estimates the :remaining four.. health centers and a delivery unit will be
completed during the first halt of 1976. and all other new buildings in 1977. The
recommendations of the management study have been approved by the Cabinet. The
Evaluation Adviser and a shozt-terw famil.y life education adviser have completed
their assignments and Ithe Nurse Training Adviser is on the jobo However, a slow
increase in numbers of famnry planning acceptors, a feature of most countries with
substantial declines in fertility in the past, is being observed resulting in
almost constant fertiLty since 1970.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
CARIBBEAN DEVEIDPMENT BANK (CDB) PROJECT
WAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Caribbean Development Bank.
Guarantors:        The Bahamas, Barbados, Guyana, Grenada, Jamaica, Trinidad
and Tobago, United Kingdom.
Amount:            $20.0 million in two loans; a loan of $3.0 million on
Third Window terms and a conventional Bank loan of
$17.0 million.
Terms:             For the conventional Bank loan, amortization will conform to
the aggregate of amortization of sub-loans, with interest at
8&%.  For the Third W&ndow loan, amortization will be over 25
years, including seven years of grace, with interest at 4j%.
Relending Terms:   The proceeds of the conventional Bank loan may be relent by
CDB for sub-projects in eligible countries; the amortization
of sub-loans would be subject to a maximum of 25 years includ-
ing up to 10 years of grace and will be determined in individual
cases within this maximum by the CDB on project grounds, with
the exception of public sector projects in the less developed
countries (LDCs), where country considerations may also be
taken into account. CDB's present interest rate structure
would apply to the sub-loans, i.e. 8.5% to governments, 8.0%
to government financial intermediaries, 10% to private non-
agricultural borrowers and 9% to private agricultural borrowers.
The proceeds of the Third Window loan will be relent by CDB to
governments of eligible LDCs at an interest rate of 4W4 per
annum plus a 1% per annum statutory commission; CDB sub-loans
to governments would have an amortization period of up to 25
years including up to 7 years of grace; governments may relend
the proceeds of the CDB sub-loans in which case government
sub-loans would have amortization and grace periods appropriate
to the sub-projects and would bear interest rates in line with
CDB's interest rate charges.
Project
Descriptimn:       To assist CDB in financing public and private sector projects
in eligible CDB and Bank member countries for agriculture,
agro-industry, manufacturing industry, tourism, transportaticn,
public utilities, sites and services and technical and vocational
education and training.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Estimated
Disbursements:                                   FY76    FY77   FY78    FY79
(a) Conventional Bank Loan
Annual               5.5     3.8    6.2     1.5
Cumulative          5.5      9.3   15.5    17.0
(b) Third Window Loan
Annual              0.3      0.7    0.9     1.1
Cumulative          0.3      1.0    1.9     3.0
Procurement
Arrangements:       The usual procurement rules for loans to development finance
companies will be used; for civil works estimated to cost $2
million or more procurement will be advertised internationally
and notification of bidding will be given to local representa-
tives of the Bank member countries and Switzerland; with respect
to equipment estimated to cost $50,000 or more there will be
regional as well as local advertising and notification to
representatives aforementioned.
Balance Sheets
(millions of US$)
(Year-end)                   1970      1971     1972      1973       1974
Ordinary Operations
Cash and investments              4.5      6.3      9.4      11.2        14.5
Capital subs. notes               0.9      3.0      5.3       9.8        9.8
Loans disbursed                    -        -       0.4       1.6        3.4
Other                             0.1      0.7      0.5       0.5         1.0
Total Assets                   7       10.0     15.6      22.2       28.7
Borrowings                              -        -             -           -
Capital and reserves                      10.0     156       22.2       28.z
Total Liab. and Capital        5.5     10.)     15.6      22.;        28.7
SDF Operations
Cash and investments                       1.0      1.2       3.2        11.5
Loans disbursed                             -        -        0.5         2.4
Other                                       -        -          -         0.2
Total Assets                            1.0      1.2       3.7        1.1
Contributions                              1.0      1.2       3.1        10.9
Borrowings                                  -        -        0.4         2.7
Reserves                                    --                0.2         0.5
Total Liab. and Contributions           1.0      1.2       3.7        14.1
Source: Appraisal Report No. 935a.






IBRD- 10611
9008                               C.0     80                                         7                                                             AUGUST 1974
, GRAND                                                  THE CARIBBEAN AREA
\\O  t   GGRE ETATACOI.                         Caribbean Free Trade Association Members/Caribbean
(0                                 - v   _Community Members
GIU L      F     O F     M   FAEX /C O                    <       \ PR0V!NCEAELEUTHERAI.        --                 ANTIGUA CaribbeOn Development Bank Members
G ZJ F                      \;?              - -. -CInternational Boundaries
ANDROS 1. A      e 0CA   , S. SALVADOR '%
OR WATLINGS                                 100 50  0      100    200    300    400d
ROaRED                                               MILES
K V-<__  MV  I   AYAGUANA 1.  100  0   100 200 300 400 500 600
ACKLINSL .     c,_CAICOS 5.            KILOMETERS
f   yN   k GRATINAGUA  0  + DTURKS IS.
200                                                                                                                                                                             / 200-
U                                                                                                      C     4 A  TIZ A      N             C T  c
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A M A CAUN IS.WF~
-AYMAN IS"- |_  .XS  -HAITI/ DOMINICAN                                                   VIRGIN ISU.K.)    0    C    F  A    N
REPUBLICf-.-.-----.----r  ~   ANGUILLA
(7                   r                    [        u , ) ST MARTIN C  BARBUDA
ZJAMAIC                                                    PUERTO RICO  ST. KITTS,.-  IANTIGUA
.f.      L _ LZE                                                                                                           tL']   IMONTSERRAT
rGUADELOUPE
\   /GUATEMALA,."                                                                                                                                    5 DOMINICA
S' MARTINIQUE
HONDUR                   -   (                         A    A'    I    q B  B         A      N     S   E     A
C     A    R   !     B     B r.A          N       SEA                                    ST. LUCIA
.40                                                                                               ST. VINCENTj3     BARBADDE
ARUBA
P A C    / F /                                                                                                CURACAO
5 JBONAIRE                           aGRENADA
O     C E A    N        \-                                                                                                            MARGARITA       aTOBAGO
-10 7 4 y ! SC L -X S V f S= , --- j r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7                                                               RINIDAD 1
-00  r     . XCANAL ZONE _/                                                                                        <
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _/ E                                           N      E                             A
CARIFTA/CARICOM DISTANCES IN AIR ROUTE MILES
z R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-
ANTIGUA   454 293 202  63  35 991. 891 355 135 1749 3 2                                                                   -U
BARBADOS  214 126 115 383 357 1020| 570 258 254 1778
BELIZE   2171 1889 1847,1716 1742 _758 1252 2133 1913-                                                                       r-                                                   7
DOMINICA  358 179  97 176 150 1100 715 213
GRENADA   110  74 120 429 391 230                                              C 6        L OM
GUYANA    353 534 587 895 857 2177
JAMAICA  1413 1031 1089 958 984                                                                                                               (
MONTSERRAT  490 329 268  51
ST. KITTS  517 355 294 _B                                                                                                                             R  A    Z   I
ST. LUCIA  230  4            Th. b    Aoimro - o. h, om   ,oop do no1  ,_                                         r 
_              fmrl~~iWy     -p-smeto ecraw by lh     5| 
ST. VINCENT 177              WoTM RdMkrT.00l -d i 0-f 0 by _0                                                                                                     6D
T ~    ~~~~Wrd okod i ff 00800                                                                                    **.*~,~7                           0



