CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1233 CRG
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(Caribbean Development Bank Project)
between
JAMAICA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 27, 1977


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 27, 1977, between JAMAICA (herein-
after called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRU-
CTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) By the Loan Agreement dated April 20, 1976
between the Bank and Caribbean Development Bank (hereinafter
called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower
a loan in various currencies equivalent to seventeen million
dollars ($17,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, the proceeds whereof are to be used for sub-
loans to finance Investment Projects located in the states and
territories of the Borrower's regional members;
(B) The Loan Agreement provides, inter alia, that no pro-
ceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn in respect of a sub-loan un-
less there shall have been provided to the Bank a guarantee sat-
isfactory to the Bank for repayment by the Borrower to the Bank
of the part of the Loan equivalent to the full amount of such
sub-loan together with all interest and other charges thereon;
(C) The Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed for such
purposes to provide a guarantee in respect of all sub-loans to
the Guarantor or to any agencies or instrumentalities thereof.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 19T4, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule 2 to
the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being here-
in after called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the con-
text otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreements have the re-
spective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. The Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees,
as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan all as
set forth in the Loan Agreement, provided that the liability of the
Guarantor hereunder shall be limited to the aggregate of the amounts
of the Loan withdrawn for sub-loans to the Guarantor or to any agen-
cies or instrumentalities thereof, and not repaid to the Bank, to-
gether with any interest, other charges or premium outstanding
thereon.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any ex-
ternal debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the obligation of the
Guarantor to the Bank under Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and
the Guarantor, in creating or permitting the creation of such
lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided, how-
ever, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on
assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions,
the Guarantor shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan
by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to
the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿-5-
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will not take,
or cause or permit any of its political subdivisions or any of
its agencies or any agency of any such political subdivisions to
take, any action which would prevent or interfere with the perfor-
mance by the Borrower of its obligations contained in the Loan
Agreement and will take or cause to be taken all reasonable action
necessary or appropriate to enable the Borrower to perform such
obligations.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister responsible for Finance of the
Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of Finance
Kingston, Jamaica
Cable address:
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Kingston
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
JAMAICA
By /s/ D. Coore
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


