CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1234 T-CRG
LOAN AGREEMENT (I)
(Caribbean Development Bank Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
Dated April 20, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 20, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (hereinafter called the Borrower),
a regional development bank established by and operating under
an agreement entered into at Kingston, Jamaica, on October'18,
1969 by the governments of the several States and Territories
which were signatories thereto.
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Section 3.01(a) of this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Bank has determined that the Borrower is eligible
to receive this Loan as an intermediate term loan, as that term
is defined in Resolution No. 75.111 of the Executive Directors of
the Bank concerning the Interest Subsidy Fund (hereinafter called
the Fund) and upon the terms and conditions set forth in such
Resolution; and
(C) The Administrator of the Fund (herein called the Admin-
istrator), subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the
Resolution referred to in (B) above, is obligated to pay to the
Bank semiannually from the resources of the Fund an amount
equal to four per cent (h%) per annum of the outstanding amounts
of principal on intermediate loans, of which this Loan is one;
and


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿3
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being herein-
after called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in the Loan Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to
be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to the
government of an Eligible Country or the governments of Eligible
Countries for relending to or investmen, in an Investment Enter-
prise, for an Investment Project.
(b) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
the proceeds of a sub-loan have been or are proposed to be made
available.
(c) "Investment Project" means a specific development proj-
ect, within an Approved Sector and located in an Eligible Country
01


﻿-4-
or Eligible Countries, to be carried out by an Investment Enter-
prise utilizing the proceeds of a sub-loan.
(d) "Approved Sector" means a sector of the economy which
shall have been approved by the Borrower and the Bank for the pur-
poses of the Project, and shall include agriculture, agro-industry,
manufacturing industry, tourism, transportation, public utilities,
sites and services, and technical and vocational education and
training.
(e) "Eligible Country" means any state or territory listed
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as such schedule may be amended
from time to time by the Bank, and "Eligible Countries" means any
two or more of such states or territories.
(f) "Charter" means the agreement of October 18, 1969 estab-
lishing the Borrower, referred to in the preamble to this Agree-
ment, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(g) "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending
and investments policy approved by the Directors of the Borrower
on December 18, 1970, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(h) "foreign currency", for the purposes of any Investment
Project, means any currency other than the currency of the state
or territory in which such Investment Project is located.
(i) "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is


﻿-5-
owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one or
more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or
more of its subsidiaries.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to three
million dollars ($3,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs
(b) and (c) of this Section 2.02, the Borrower shall be entitled
to withdraw from the Loan Account, to finance the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Investment Project in re-
spect of which the withdrawal is requested:
(i)       if such Investment Project is within the
public sector, then the equivalent of
eighty per cent (80%) (or such other per-
centage as may be determined by the Bank
from time to time) of the total amounts
paid for such goods and services; or
(ii)      in any other case, as the Borrower shall
elect, either: (A) the equivalent of sixty-
five per cent (65%) (or such other percen-
tage as may be determined by the Bank from
time to time as an estimate of the foreign
exchange component) of the total amounts


﻿97
paid for such goods and services; or (B)
the amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall
so agree, as shall be required to meet
payments to be made) in foreign currency
for goods produced or services rendered
from outside the state or territory in
which such Investment Project is locaLed,
such election to be made and the Bank to
be so informed prior to the first appli-
cation for withdrawal from the Loan Ac-
count in respect thereof.
(b) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawal shall be made in respect of a sub-loan unless:
(i)       the state or territory in which the In-
vestment Project is located, or where
the Investment Project is located in two
or more states or territories then all
of such states or territories, was or
were at the time when the Borrower agreed
to make a sub-loan for such Investment
Project an Eligible Country or Eligible
Countries; and
(ii)      there shall have been provided to the
Bank a guarantee or guarantees satisfac-
tory to the Bank for repayment by the
Borrower to the Bank of the amount of
the proceeds of the Loan made available
01


﻿-8-
for the sub-loan, together with all in-
terest and other charges thereon, and
such guarantee or guarantees shall have
been provided at or prior to the time
when the Borrower agreed to make a sub-
loan for such Investment Project; and
(iii)     the Bank shall have authorized withdraw-
als from the Loan Account for such In-
vestment Project pursuant to the provi-
sions of Section 2.03(a) of this Agree-
ment.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures
made by an Investment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan if such
expenditures shall have been made before the date of this Agree-
ment or more than one hundred and eighty days prior to the date
on which the Bank shall have received in respect of such sub-loan
the request and information required by Section 2.03(a) of this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Each request by the Borrower for authori-
zation to make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a
sub-loan shall contain a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds


﻿-9-
of the Loan) and the terms and conditions of such sub-loan, (in-
cluding the schedule of amortization therefor).
(b) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, requests made pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section 2.03 shall be presented to the Bank on or before
December 31, 1978.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979 or
such other date as shall be determined by the Bank.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
four and one-half per cent (4-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount
of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time; provided,
however, that if the Administrator shall at any time determine
that the resources of the Fund shall not be sufficient to pay to
the Bank at the next succeeding semi-annual interest payment date
of the Loan the amount scheduled to be paid by the Administrator
at that interest payment date as specified in paragraph (C) of
the Preamble to this Agreement, the Borrower shall, upon notifi-
cation by the Administrator of such determination and the amount
of the resulting short-fall, pay additional interest on such
principal amount of the Loan equal to such short-fall.


﻿- 10 -
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) The interest rate in respect of sub-loans made by the
Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be the same as that
payable by the Borrower under Section 2.06 of this Agreement, in
addition to the Borrower's statutory commission of one per cent
(1%) per annum on the outstanding balance of each sub-loan, and
the amortization schedule applicable to each such sub-loan shall
provide for approximately equal semi-annual aggregate payments of
principal and interest on January 15 and July 15 in each year,
commencing on January 15, 1983 and terminating on January 15,
2001.
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree:
(a) If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to
the Borrower in advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or any part
thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed
of for value by the Borrower, the Borrower shall promptly notify
the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the next following inter-
est payment date, the amount withdrawn from the Loan Account in


﻿- 11 -
respect of such sub-loan or part thereof and not theretofore re-
paid to the Bank, together with the premiums specified in Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank to the maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts
corresponding to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or matu-
rities of the sub-loan so repaid or disposed of.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of this
Section.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) Thr purpose of the Project is to assist
the Borrower in financing such productive facilities and resources
in the states and territories of its less developed Caribbean re-
gional members as will contribute to the economic and social de-
velopment thereof. The Project consists in the financing of spe-
cific development projects located in the said states and terri-
tories, in furtherance of the corporate purposes of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial
standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel,
and in accordance with the Charter and Statement of Policy.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan will be made on terms
whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written contract with the
Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower,
including the right to: (i) require the Investment Enterprise to
carry out and operate the Investment Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial
and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii)
require that (1) the goods and services to be financed out of the


﻿-13 -
proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price,
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time
of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and avail-
ability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and,
in the case of services, of their quality and the competence of
the parties rendering them and (2) such goods and services shall
be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Proj-
ect; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Proj-
ect, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and docu-
ments; (iv) require that: (1) the Investment Enterprise shall
take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance,
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent
with sound business practice; and (2) without any limitation upon
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover marine, transit and
other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and de-
livery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be
made payable in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enter-
prise to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such infor-
mation as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably request re-
lating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) sus-
pend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the
use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Investment
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract with
the Borrower.


﻿-14-
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to
each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the in-
terests of the Bank and the Borrower, (ii) comply with its obli-
gations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes of
the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the In-
vestment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, and the sub-loans.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obli-
gations under agreements under which funds have been lent or oth-
erwise put at the disposal of the Borrower for relending, invest-
ment or management. The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank
of any action which would have the effect of assigning, or of
amending, abrogating or waiving any material provision of, any
such agreement.
Section 3.05. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any
subsidiary, the Borrower shall cause such subsidiary to observe
and perform the obligations of the Borrower hereunder to the ex-
tent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable thereto,
as though such obligations were binding upon such subsidiary.


﻿-15
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project and of each Investment Proj-
ect (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited in
*      accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later than
three months after the end of each such year, (A) certified cop-
ies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt, except as otherwise currently reported or disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank.


﻿(16)
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower or any subsidiary as security for any debt, such
lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on the Loan and that in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien
shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any subsidi-
ary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at no
cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to
secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing provi-
sions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien created
on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (B)
any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions
and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in
advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of the
Borrower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfac-
tory to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against
risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange be-
tween the currencies used in its lending and borrowing operations.


﻿- 17 -
Section 4.06. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Borrower and its subsidiaries, and the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the
Bank shall reasonably request concerning the administration, op-
erations and financial condition of the Borrower and subsidiaries.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's represen-
tatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of
this Agreement and any relevant documents.


﻿- 18 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gener-
al Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the Bor-
rower having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in
accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance
of maturity as provided in the relative contractual instruments,
or any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Charter or State-
ment of Policy which will materially and adversely affect the
financial condition or operations of the Borrower;
(c) a default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tion on the part of the Borrower or the Guarantor under any other
loan or guarantee agreement between the Bank and the Borrower or
the Guarantor and the Bank or under any bond or similar instru-
ment delivered pursuant to any such agreement; and
(d) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been cre-
ated or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of
the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial situation or
the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel or the
carrying out of the Project.


﻿(119
- 19 -
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gener-
al Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b)
or paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 shall occur; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.


﻿- 20                                     e
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. The date of July 20, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145  (wUI)
For the Borrower:
Caribbean Development Bank
P.O. Box 408
Wildey
St. Michael, Barbados, W.I.
Cable address:                     Telex:
CARIBANK                           WB 287
Barbados


﻿- 21 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names at Wildey, St. Michael,
Barbados, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
By /s/ William G. Demas
President


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)
January 15, 1983                                  55,000
July 15, 1983                                     55,000
January 15, 1984                                  55,000
July 15, 1984                                     55,000
January 15, 1985                                  6o,000
July 15, 1985                                     6o,000
January 15, 1986                                  60,000
July 15, 1986                                     60,000
January 15, 1987                                  65,000
July 15, 1987                                     65,000
January 15, 1988                                  65,000
July 15, 1988                                     65,000
January 15, 1989                                  70,000
July 15, 1989                                     70,000
January 15, 1990                                  70,000
July 15, 1990                                     75,000
January 15, 1991                                  75,000
July 15, 1991                                     75,000
January 15, 1992                                  80,000
July 15, 1992                                     80,000
January 15, 1993                                  80,000
July 15, 1993                                     85,000
January 15, 1994                                  85,000
July 15, 1994                                     0,000
January 15, 1995                                  90,000
July 15, 1995                                     90,000
January 15, 1996                                  95,000
July 15, 1996                                     95,000
January 15, 1997                                 100,000
July 15, 1997                                    100,000
January 15, 1998                                 105,000
July 15, 1998                                    105,000
0


﻿- 23 -
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)
January 15, 1999                                 110,000
July 15, 1999                                    110,000
January 15, 2000                                 110,000
July 15, 2000                                    115,000
January 15, 2001                                 120,000


﻿-1240
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specifi.d as the premiuas pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions or to Section 2.09 (a) of the Loan Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                          Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1%
More than three years but
not more than six
years before maturity                    2-1/4%
More than six years but
not more than eleven
years before maturity                       4%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                    5-1/2%
More than sixteen years
but not more than
twenty-one years
before maturity                         7-1/4%
More than twenty-one years
but not more than
twenty-three years
before maturity                             8%
More than twenty-three
years before maturity                    8-1/2%


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) Wherever the words "Guarantor" and "Guarantee Agreement"
appear (except in those Sections modified in this Schedule or as
the context shall otherwise require), the words "Guarantors" and
"Guarantee Agreements" are substituted therefor, respectively,
and all such grammatical changes as the context shall require as
a consequence of such substitutions are made.
(2) Paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is deleted and replaced by
the following new paragraph:
"5. The term 'Guarantee Agreement', means an agreement
between a member of the Bank and the Bank providing for the
guarantee of the portion of the Loan which may be made avail-
able for a sub-loan or certain sub-loans, or of all portions
of the Loan which may be made available for sub-loans for
Investment Projects located in a state or territory or cer-
tain states and territories; and such term includes these
General Conditions as thus made applicable, all agreements
supplemental to the Guarantee Agreement and all schedules
to the Guarantee Agreement; and the term 'Guarantee Agree-
ments' means all such agreements."


﻿- 26 -
(3) Paragraph 7 of Section 2.01 is deleted and replaced by
the following new paragraph:
"T. The term 'Guarantor' means the member of the Bank
which is a party to a Guarantee Agreement, and the term
'Guarantors' means all members of the Bank which are parties
to Guarantee Agreements."
(4) Paragraph 12 of Section 2.01 is deleted, and paragraphs
13 through 18 are renumbered as paragraphs 12 through 1T.
(5) The following new paragraph (d) is added to Section
3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for repayment of the Loan and the
application of such repayment in addition to, or in substi-
tution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of Section
3.05."
(6) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(7) Subparagraph (f) of Section 6.02 is deleted and replaced
by the following new subparagraph:
"(f) Any one or more of the Guarantors: (i) shall have
been suspended from membership in or ceased to be a member
of the Bank, or (ii) shall have ceased to be a member of
the International Monetary Fund."


﻿-27-
(8) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any
amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty
days, or (b) by the date specified in paragraph (b) of
Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement no requests permitted
under paragraph (a) of such Section shall have been re-
ceived by the Bank in respect of any portion of the Loan,
or having been so received, shall have been denied, or
(c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall
remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (df the Bank
shall have received notice from the Guarantors  e";suant
to Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan,
the Bank may by notice to the Borrower terminate the
right of the Borrower to submit such applications or re-
quests or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as
the case may be, with respect to such amount or portion
of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice such amount
or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."
(9) All references in Article XII (and in paragraph 13 of
Section 2.01) to the effectiveness of the Guarantee Agreement
are hereby deleted.


﻿-28-
SCHEDULE 3
Eligible Countries
Grenada
St. Vincent
St. Lucia
Dominica
Antigua
St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla
Montserrat
British Virgin Islands
Cayman Islands
Turks and Caicos Islands


