CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1233 CRG
LOAN AGREEMENT (II)
(Caribbean Development Bank Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
Dated April 20, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 20, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and CARIBBEAN DEVLOPMENT BANK (hereinafter called the Borrower),
a regional development bank established by and operating under
an agreement entered into at Kingston, Jamaica, on October- 18,
1969 by the governments of the several States and Territories
which were signatories thereto.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Si,ction 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provis 'ons of the General Conditions Applicable to Loen and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being herein-
after called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in the Loan Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings;
(a) "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to
be made by the Borrower (i) directly to an Investment Enterprise
or (ii) to a national development bank or other suitable financial
intermediary of an Eligible Country for re-lending to an Invest-
ment Enterprise or Investment Enterprises or (iii) to the govern-
ment of an Eligible Country or the governments of Eligible Coun-
tries, or any agency or instrumentality thereof, for re-lending
to or investment in an Investment Enterprise or Investment Enter-,
prises, for an Investment Project or Investment Projects.
(b) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which the
proceeds of a sub-loan have been or are proposed to be made avail-
able.


﻿-3-
(c) "Investment Project" means a specific development proj-
ect, within an Approved Sector and located in an Eligible Country
or Eligible Countries, to be carried out by an Investment Enter-
prise utilizing the proceeds of a sub-loan.
(d) "Approved Sector" means a sector of the economy which
shall have been approved by the Borrower and the Bank for the pur-
poses of the Project, and shall include agriculture, agro-industry,
manufacturing industry, tourism, transportation, public utilities,
sites and services, and technical and vocational education and
training.
(e) "Eligible Country" means any state or territory listed
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as such schedule may be amended
from time to time by the Bank, and "Eligible Countries" means any
two or more of such states or territories.
(f) "LDC" means a state or territory listed as a less devel-
oped country in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as such schedule
may be amended from time to time by the Bank.
(g) "Charter" means the agreement of October 18, 1969 estab-
lishing the Borrower, referred to in the preamble to this Agree-
ment, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(h) "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending and
investments policy approved by the Directors of the Borrower on
December 18, 1970, as amended to the date of this Agreement.


﻿-41-                                    0
(i) "Foreign currency", for the purposes of any Investment
Project, means any currency other than the currency of the state
or territory in which such Investment Project is located.
(j) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one or
more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or
more of its subsidiaries.


﻿S5
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen mil-
lion dollars ($17,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b)
and (c) of this Section 2.02, the Borrower shall be entitled to
withdraw from the Loan Account, to finance the reasonable cost of
goods and servIces required for the Investment Project in respect
of which the withdrawal is requested:
(i)       if such Investment Project is located wholly
in an LDC and is within the public sector, then
the equivalent of eighty per cent (80%) (or such
other percentage as may be determined by the Bank
from time to time) of the total amounts paid for
such goods and services; or
(ii)      if such Investment Project is located in more
than one state or territory, then such amounts
as shall be determined by agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank; or
(iii)     in any other case, as the Borrower shall elect,
either: (A) the equivalent of sixty-five per
cent (65%) (or such other percentage as may be


﻿-6-
determined by the Bank from time to time as an
estimate of the foreign exchange component) of
the total amounts paid for such goods and serv-
ices; or (B) the amounts paid (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, as shall be required to meet
payments to be made) in foreign currency for
goods produced or services rendered from out-
side the state or territory in which such In-
vestment Project is located, such election to
be made and the Bank to be so informed prior
to the first application for withdrawal from
the Loan Account in respect thereof.
(b) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawal shall be made in respect of a sub-loan unless:
(i)       the state or territory in which the Investment
Project is located, or where the Investment
Project is located in two or more states or
territories then all of such states or terri-
tories, was or were at the time when the Bor-
rower agreed to make a sub-loan for such In-
vestment Project an Eligible Country or Eli-
gible Countries; and
(ii)      there shall have been provided to the Bank a
guarantee or guarantees satisfactory to the
Bank for repayment by the Borrower to the Bank
of the amount of the proceeds of the Loan made
available for the sub-loan, together with all


﻿07
interest and other charges thereon, and such
guarantee or guarantees shall, except with re-
spect to expenditures made prior to the date
of this Agreement, have been provided at or
prior to the time when the Borrower agreed to
make a sub-loan for such Investment Project;
and
(iii)     the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals
from tl,e Loan Account for such Investment
Project pursuant to the provisions of Sec-
tion 2.03 (a) of this Agreement.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures
made by an Investment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan if such
expenditures shall have been made before the date of this Agree-
ment or more than one hundred and eighty days prior to the date
on which the Bank shall have received in respect of such sub-loan
the request and information required by Section 2.03 (a) of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not ex-
ceeding the equivalent of four million dollars ($4,000,000) may
be made on account of expenditures made after October 27, 1975
and approved by the Bank.
Section 2.03. (a) Each request by the Borrower for authori-
zation to make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a
sub-loan shall contain a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of


﻿- 8 -
the Loan) and the terms and conditions of such sub-loan, (includ-
ing the schedule of amortization therefor).
(b) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, requests made pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section 2.03 shall be presented to the Bank on or before
Decerber 31, 1978.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979 or
such other date as shall be determined by the Bank.
Section 2.05. The Borrowe-.r shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule shall
be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required
to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate of


﻿-9-
the amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan which have been authorized for withdrawals from
the Loan Account under Section 2.02 of this Agreement and (ii)
take into account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the
General Conditions and any repayments of the Loan made by the
Borrower under Section 2.09 of this Agreement; provided that
repayments due hereunder shall be made on February 1 and August 1
in each year. Such amendments of said Schedule 1 shall include
amendments to the table of premiums on prepayment, if necessary.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall provide for an appropriate
period of grace not exceeding 10 years, and, unless the Bank and
the Borrower shall otherwise agree (i) shall not extend beyond
25 years from the date of authorization by the Bank to make with-
drawals from the Loan Account in respect thereof, and (ii) shall
provide for approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent,
aggregate payments of principal and interest or approximately equal
semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(c) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the Bor-
rower in respect of the repayment provisions of any sub-loan.
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
(a) If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to the
Borrower in advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or any part there-
of shall be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed of


﻿-10 -
for value by the Borrower, the Borrower shall promptly notify the
Bank and shall repay to the Bank, on the next following interest
payment date, the amount withdrawn from the Loan Account in re-
spect of such sub-loan or part thereof and not theretofore repaid
to the Bank, together with the premiums specified in Schedule 1
to this Agreement or in any amendment thereof under Section 2.08
(a) of this Agreement.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied by
the Bank to the maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts cor-
responding to the outstanding amounts of' the maturity or maturities
of the sub-loan so repaid or disposed of.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of this
Section.


﻿0- 11 -
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist the
Borrower in financing such productive facilities and resources in
the states and territories of its Caribbean regional members listed
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement as will contribute to the economic
and social development thereof. The Project consists in the fi-
nancing of specific development projects located in the said states
and territories, in furtherance of the corporate purposes of the
Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct its
operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial standards
and practices, with qualified management and personnel, and in
accordance with the Charter and Statement of Policy.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan will be made on terms
whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written contract with the
Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower,
including the right to: (i) require the Investment Enterprise to
carry out and operate the Investment Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial
and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii)
require that (1) the goods and services to be financed out of the


﻿-12 -
proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price,
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of
delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and availabil-
ity of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the
case of services, of their quality and the competence of the parties
rendering them and (2) such goods and services shall be used exclu-
sively in the carrying out of the Investment Project; (iii) inspect,
by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the Bank
shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and con-
struction included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof,
and any relevant records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the
Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts,
as shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (2) with-
out any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover
marine, transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to the place of use or installation, ary indemnity
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the
Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain
all-such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, opera-
tions and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise; and
(vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise
to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Invest-
ment Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract with
the Borrower.


﻿-13-
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to
each Investment Project in sv.ch manner as to: (i) protect the in-
terests of the Bank and the Borrower, (ii) comply with its obliga-
tions under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes of the
Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the Invest-
ment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, and the sub-loans.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under agreements under which funds have been lent or other-
wise put at the disposal of the Borro ,.r for relending, investment
or management. The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any
action which would have the effect of assigning, or of amending,
abrogating or waiving any material provision of, any such agreement.
Section 3.05. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any
subsidiary, the Borrower shall cause such subsidiary to observe
and perform the obligations of the Borrower hereunder to the extent
to which such obligations shall or can be applicable thereto, as
though such obligations were binding upon such subsidiary.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project and of each InveEtment Project
(including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later than three
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) fur-
nish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of
this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security for
any debt, except as otherwise currently reported or disclosed in
writing by the Borrower to the Bank.


﻿*                            -15 -
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets of
the Borrower or any subsidiary as security for any debt, such lien
will equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on the Loan and that in the creation
of any such lien express provision will be made to that effict at
no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created
on any assets of the Borrower or of any subsidiary as security for
any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an
equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of
the principal of, and interest and other charges on the Loan; pro-
vided, however, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time
of purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the
purchase price of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the
ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing
not more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in
advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of the Bor-
rower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially affect
the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the currencies used in its lending and borrowing operations.


﻿Section 4.06. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Borrower and its subsidiaries, and the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the administration, operations
and financial condition of the Borrower and subsidiaries.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representa-
tives to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this
Agreement and any relevant documents.


﻿-17-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gener-
al Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in ad-
vance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual instru-
ments, or any security for any such loan shall have become en-
forceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Charter or State-
ment of Policy which will materially and adversely affect the fi-
nancial condition or operations of the Borrower;
(c) a default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tion on the part of the Borrower or the Guarantor under any other
loan or guarantee agreement between the Bank and the Borrower or
the Guarantor and the Bank or under any bond or similar instrument
delivered pursuant to any such agreement; and
(d) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation, ac-
quisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of
the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial situation or
the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel or the
carrying out of the Project.


﻿-18                                          0
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gener-
al Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b)
or paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 shall occur; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
0


﻿-19 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. The date of July 20, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)
For the Borrower:
Caribbean Development Bank
P.O. Box 408
Wildey
St. Michael, Barbados, W.I.
Cable address:                     Telex:
CARIBANK                          WB 287
Barbados


﻿-20                                         0
z    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names at Wildey, St. Michael,
Barbados, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
By /s/ William G. Demas
President


﻿-21-
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date_    ent Due                          (expressed in dollars)**
August 1, 1979                                       260,000
February 1, 1980                                     270,000
August 1, 1980                                       280,000
February 1, 1981                                     295,000
August 1, 1981                                       305,000
February 1, 1982                                     320,000
August 1, 1982                                       335,000
February 1, 1983                                     345,000
August 1, 1983                                       360,000
February 1, 1984                                     375,000
August 1, 1984                                       395,000
February 1, 1985                                     410,000
August 1, 1985                                       425,000
February 1, 1986                                     445,000
August 1, 1986                                       465,000
February 1, 1987                                     485,000
August 1, 1987                                        505,000
February 1, 1988                                     525,000
August 1, 1988                                        550,000
February 1, 1989                                     570,000
August 1, 1989                                       595,000
February 1, 1990                                     620,000
August 1, 1990                                       645s,ooo
February 1, 1991                                     675,000
August 1, 1991                                       705,000
February 1, 1992                                     735,000
August 1, 1992                                       765,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
** To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Sec-
tion 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 22-
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
February 1, 1993                                    795,000
August 1, 1993                                      830,000
February 1, 1994                                    865,000
August 1, 1994                                      905,000
February 1, 1995                                    945,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
** To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Sec-
tion 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-23-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the
General Conditions or to Section 2.09(a) of the Loan Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                          Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1-1/4%
More than three years but
not more than six
years before maturity                    2-1/2%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          4-1/2%
More than eleven years but
not more than fourteen
years before maturity                    6-3/4%
More than fourteen years but
not more than seventeen
years before maturity                    7-1/2%
More than seventeen years
before maturity                          8-1/2%


﻿SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) Wherever the words "Guarantor" and "Guarantee Agree-
ment" appear (except in those Sections modified in this Schedule
or as the context shall otherwise require), the words "Guarantors"
and "Guarantee Agreements" are substituted therefor, respectively,
and all such grammatical changes as the context shall require as
a consequence of such substitutions are made.
(2) Paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is deleted and replaced by
the following new paragraph:
"5. The term 'Guarantee Agreement', means an
agreement between a member of the Bank and the Bank
providing for the guarantee of the portion of the
Loan which may be made available for a sub-loan or
certain sub-loans, or of all portions of the Lo.an
which may be made available for sub-loans for In-
vestment Projects located in a state or territory
or certain states and territories; and such term in-
cludes these General Conditions as thus made applica-
ble, all agreements supplemental to the Guarantee
Agreement and all schedules to the Guarantee Agree-
ment; and the term 'Guarantee Agreements' means all
such agreements."


﻿- 25 -
(3) Paragraph 7 of Section 2.01 is deleted and replaced by
the following new paragraph:
"7. The term 'Guarantor' means the member of
the Bank which is a party to a Guarantee Agreement,
and the term 'Guarantors' means all members of the
Bank which are parties to Guarantee Agreements."
(4) Paragraph 12 of Section 2.01 is deleted, and paragraphs
13 through 18 are renumbered as paragraphs 12 through 17.
(5) The following new paragraph (d) is added to Section
3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time
to time agree upon arrangements for repayment of
the Loan and the application of such repayment in
addition to, or in substitution for, those set forth
in paragraph (b) of Section 3.05."
(6) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(7) Subparagraph (f) of Section 6.02 is deleted and replaced
by the following new subparagraph:
"(f) Any one or more of the Guarantors: (i)
shall have been suspended from membership in or
ceased to be a member of the Bank, or (ii) shall
have ceased to be a member of the International
Monetary Fund."


﻿-26                                       0
(8) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If
(a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account shall have been suspended
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a con-
tinuous period of thirty days, or (b) by the date
specified in paragraph (b) of Section 2.03 of the
Loan Agreement no requests permitted under para-
graph (a) of such Section shall have been received
by the Bank in respect of any portion of the Loan,
or having been so received, shall have been denied,
or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the
Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account,
or (d) the Bank shall have received notice from the
Guarantors pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to
an amount of the Loan, the Bank may by notice to
the Borrower terminate the right of the Borrower to
submit such applications or requests or to make with-
drawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be,
with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan.
Upon the giving of such notice such amount or por-
tion of the Loan shall be cancelled."
(9) All references in Article XII (and in paragraph 13 of
Sect.on 2.01) to the effectiveness of the Guarantee Agreement are
hereby deleted.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 3
Eligible Countries
Jamaica
Trinidad and Tobago
Guyana
Barbados
The Bahamas
LDCs (Less Developed Countries)
Belize
Grenada
St. Vincent
St. Lucia
Dominica
Antigua
St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla
Montserrat
British Virgin Islands
Cayman Islands
Turks and Caicos Islands


