CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1233 CRG
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(Caribbean Development Bank Project)
between
GUYANA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 11, 1977


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   May 11, 1977,            between GUYANA (here-
inafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) By the Loan Agreement dated April 20, 1976 between the
Bank and Caribbean Development Bank (hereinafter called the Borrower) the
Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in various currencies equiv-
alent to seventeen million dollars ($17,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds whereof are to be used for
sub-loans to finance Investment Projects located in the states and terri-
tories of the Borrower's regional members;
(B) The Loan Agreement provides, inter alia, that no proceeds of the
Loan may be withdrawn in respect of a sub-loan unless there shall have been
provided to the Bank a guarantee satisfactory to the Bank for repayment by
the Borrower to the Bank of the part of the Loan equivalent to the full
amount of such sub-loan together with all interest and other charges thereon;
(C) The Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed for such purposes to provide
a guarantee in respect of all sub-loans to the Guarantor or to any agencies
or instrumentalities thereof, and, additionally, all sub-loans for the
Investment Project or Investment Projects described in the Schedule to


﻿-2-
this Agreement, as such schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Guarantor and the Bank.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule 2 to
the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being hereinafter called
the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. The Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees,
as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan all as
set forth in the Loan Agreement, provided that the liability of the
Guarantor hereunder shall be limited to the aggregate of the amounts
of the Loan withdrawn for sub-loans to the Guarantor or to any agencies
or instrumentalities thereof, and, additionally, all sub-loans for the
Investment Project or Investment Projects described in the Schedule to
this Agreement, as such schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Guarantor and the Bank, and not repaid to the
Bank, together with any interest, other charges or premium outstand-
ing thereon.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans
to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal cir-
cumstances, special security from the member concerned but to ensure
that no other external debt shall have priority over its loans in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange held under
the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end, if any
lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined),
as security for any external debt, which will or might result in a
priority for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the obligation of the
Guarantor to the Bank under Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and the
Guarantor, in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall
make express provision to that effect provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be made
with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its political or
administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at no
cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory
to the Bank.


﻿- 6 -
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any such
suvdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will not take,
or cause or permit any of its political subdivisions or any of its
agencies or any agency of any such political subdivisions to take,
any action which would prevent or interfere with the performance
by the Borrower of its obligations contained in the Loan Agreement
and will take or cause to be taken all reasonable action necessary
or appropriate to enable the Borrower to perform such obligations.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Minister of Finance
Main Street
Georgetown, Guyana
Cable address:
MINFIN
Georgetown, Guyana
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
GUYANA
'By /s/ F.E. HoDe
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Krieger
Authorized Representative


