Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo: 20611
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-36580; SCL-3658A; SCPD-3658S; TF-20405)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 56.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR
NATIONAL WATERSHED MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
June 23, 2000
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective As of November 1999)
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp.)
Rp. 1 million = US$ 142.86
US$ 1.00 = Rp. 7,000
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AARD         Agency for Agricultural Research and   LBDS (NGO) Lembaga Bangun Desa Sejahtera (an NGO)
Development                           LKMD          Lembaga Ketahanan Masyarakat Desa
AD           Areal Dampak (Impact Area)             MMD           Model Mikro DAS
BAPPENAS   National Development Planning Agency                   (Model Micro-Watershed)
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy            MOF           Ministry of Finance
DG BANGDA Directorate General for Regional          MOFr          Ministry of Forestry
Development                           MOHA          Ministry of Home Affairs
DG RRL       Directorate General Reboisasi dan      MTR           Mid-Term Review
Rehabilitasi Lahan (DG Reforestation and  NIS       National Institutional Strengthening
Land Rehabilitation)                  PRA           Participatory Rural Appraisal
DPKT         Dinas Perhutanan dan Konservasi Tanah   R&R          Regreening and Reforestation Program
(District Agency for Social Forestry and    RefMIS  Reforestation Management Infonnation System
Soil Conservation)                    RefRIS        Reforestation Resources Information System
ERR          Economic Rate of Return                RegMIS        Regreening Management Infornation System
FAO/CP       FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program     RegRIS        Regreening Resources Information System
FORDA        Forestry Research and Development      REPELITA    Indonesia National Five-Year Development
Agency                                RKTD          Plan
Rencana Konservasi Tanah Desa (Village Soil
FRR          Financial Rate of Return                             Conservation Plan)
GIS          Geographical Information System        SALT          Sloping Agricultural Land Technology
GOI          Government of Indonesia                SPABP         Regional Development Assistance Budget
INPRES R&R  Presidential Instruction for Regreening  TOT          Training of Trainers
and Reforestation Program
ISS          Information Support System             UCWCD         Upper Cimanuk Watershed Conservation and
KFTD         Key Farmers Technology Display                       Development
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:    Mark Baird, EACIF
Sector Manager/Director:    Geoffrey B. Fox, EASRD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Sumaryo Soemardjo, EACIF



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 8
6. Sustainability                                                                    10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     10
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                    12
9. Partner Comments                                                                  13
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                33
Appendix A: Economic and Financial Analysis                                  34
Appendix B: Research and Training and Extension Sub-Component                37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P003985                                       Project Name: WTRSHED CONSERVATION
Team Leader: Sumaxyo Soemardjo                            TL Unit: EACIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 23, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: WTRSHED CONSERVATION                           L/CITFNumber: CPL-36580;
SCL-3658A;
SCPD-3658S;
TF-20405
Country/Department: INDONESIA                                            Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: VM - Natural Resources Management
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  12/13/89                                Effective: 03/29/94            05/05/94
Appraisal:  02/22/93                                  MTR: 03/31/96              11/19/96
Approval:  11/09/93                                Closing: 09/30/2000           12/31/99
Borrower/lmplementingAgency:  GOI/DG Bangda (MOHA); DG RRL (MoFr); AARD (MOA); BAPPENAS
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      J. Kassum                                  Gautam Kaji
CountryManager:      Mark Baird                                 M. Haug
Sector Manager:      Geoffrey B. Fox                            A. Cole
Team Leader at ICR:   S.Soemardjo                               B. van de Poll
ICR PrimarvAuthor:   R.Suppa (FAO)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL="Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainabilitv: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at En"ry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The main objectives of the NWMCP were to: (i) raise the living standards of poor upland farmers, and to
(ii) enhance watershed environmental quality, and prtect downstream watershed resources. The project



was designed to support the implementation of the GOI's Regreening and Reforestation Program (R&R),
giving emphasis to the introduction of more productive and environmentally benign farning systems
amongst poor farmers in fragile upland non-irrigated agro-ecological zones. While the initial development
focus of the project was intended to be on the Upper Cimanuk watershed in West Java, the NWMCP was
also expected to cover selected critical watersheds all over the country, applying the method initially tested
in Upper Cimanuk.
Project objectives were clear and very much in line with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS).
Investment in natural resources and agriculture was considered to be an important aspect of the Bank's
assistance strategy in Indonesia, given the sector's role in employment generation, poverty reduction,
sustainable natural resource management and protection of the environment. The Bank's support for the
NWMCP was therefore justified as a response to the GOI's commitment and efforts to reduce ecological
degradation, alleviate poverty in the uplands, and foster a coherent institutional watershed management
approach throughout the country. The technical assistance provided under the NWMCP was reasonably
targeted to support the institutional strengthening orientation of the project.
Two primary risks were recognized at entry: (i) finding a long-term resolution of institutional responsibility
within government for upland/watershed development; and (ii) identifying effective participatory
approaches at the community and farmers level. Intensive Bank supervision, along with the international
technical assistance proposed for the Regreening Secretariat, was foreseen at appraisal to ensure effective
implementation.
3.2 Revised Objective:
A MTR was carried out in November 1996 (see para 3.4) and after two years of indecisiveness, finally,
the Investment Support for INPRES R&R program was cancelled. However, the original project objectives
were maintained, as they were still considered relevant and achievable, but within the geographic area of
the Upper Cimanuk pilot. Project activities were confined within the Upper Cimanuk Watershed,
comprising the districts of Garut and Sumedang, and on the basis of a pilot operation.
3.3 Original Components:
The NWMCP was designed to include the following components: (i) National Institutional Strengthening
(NIS) (Component A), (ii) Upper Cimanuk Watershed Conservation and Development (UCWCD)
(Component B); and (iii) Investment Support for INPRES R&R program (Component C). The original
components fitted well with the objectives of the project and were within the administrative and financial
management capacities of the major implementing agencies, i.e. Ministry of Home Affairs (MOHA) and
Ministry of Forestry (MOFr). In addition, the project design incorporated the main lessons from the five
previous Bank projects in watershed management and conservation in Indonesia.
3.4 Revised Components.
The MTR in 1996 rated the project as unsatisfactory, mainly because of delays in the implementation of
Component C, confirming the ratings given in previous supervisions. As a result of the review, an action
plan was agreed to substantially strengthen Components A and B, and to cancel Component C.
Unfortunately, the NIS component, which was to provide guidelines and manuals for implementing and
managing the R&R program, started at the same time as the Upper Cimanuk component, and therefore too
late in the project period to be used as foreseen (see 3.5 para 2). Similarly, nearly three years had elapsed
before the lessons of Upper Cimanuk could be incorporated in appropriate guidelines and manuals. Only in
1998 was it possible for the consultants working on the NIS to provide the improved procedures and
manuals for planning and implementing the R&R Programme. The Cimanuk component obtained some
very positive results in developing new institutional tools for participatory planning and implementation of
- 2 -



watershed development programs in small watersheds, but some unresolved problems continue to plague
this component until the end of the project. These include lack of mechanisms for monitoring of financial
and economic project impacts, lack of cost recovery and maintenance arrangements, and delay in land
titling.
3.5 Qualitv at Entry:
The quality at entry in general is considered to have been partially satisfactory. At design stage, all
objectives and activities programs scheduled under the project responded to the priorities of GOI of
promoting sustainable land use systems as indicated in the Five-year Development Plan (REPELITA) for
the period 1989/1990 - 1993/1994. Lessons from previous Bank operations (see para 3.3), were taken into
account at appraisal focusing on the need to shift from high cost, structural conservation technologies to
biological, vegetative watershed management treatments that actively involve farmers' participation.
However, in selecting the Upper Cimanuk watershed as a pilot, the farmers' motivation to be involved in
the project activities was inadequately assessed. The soils in the Upper Cimanuk Watershed in general are
thick and rich and many farmers are not motivated enough to put additional investments for soil
conservation. As stated in the CAS, the Bank was, and remains, a strong supporter of the ambitious
objectives of promoting economic growth with stability, reducing poverty and promoting sound
management of natural resources and environment.
The project design also failed to foresee the disruption and delays that would result from the impending
devolution of extension to local governments and consequent reorganization of the forestry extension
services. The newly established district levelsocial forestry and soil conservationservice (DPKT) was not
able to immediately take up the task of project implementation as expected. Another design factor
contributing to difficulties in project implementation lay in the sequencing and timing of the different
project interventions. The assumptions regarding the time required for completion of the NIS were too
optimistic and the Investment Support to R&R was never able to get off the ground. In regard to technical
aspects, although the project design adopted a pragmatic approach to watershed management, the on-farm
treatments did not adequately take into account the constraints imposed by the small size of holdings and
the difficulty of regularizing tenancy arrangements with absentee owners.
The project's institutional and technical risks (see para 3.1) were supposed to be minimized by the project's
efforts in training and use of technical assistance. In addition, it was planned to monitor risks by allocating
double the supervision staff weeks during the first three years of project implementation and a MTR was
envisaged to take into account initial experiences of project implementation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project as a whole is rated unsatisfactory. The overall rating reflects the fact that the project's major
component, the Investment Support for the INPRES R&R Program, was not implemented. This indicates
that at design stage, the foreseen GOI's commitment was in fact unrealistic in view of the heavy investment
(US$ 418 million) required to support the R&R program, and the difficulty to systematically change from
supply driven to result oriented, demand driven and more focused approach to soil conservationHowever,
the other two components, NIS and UCWCD, are rated partially satisfactory.
The project had some positive outcomes, especially with respect to farmer participation and transparency
of funding. A number of improved methodologies and approaches developed under the project are already
being applied or will be incorporated in all future national regreening activities. These include use of the
manuals and guidelines for improved watershed management planning, participatory extension methods, the
-3 -



employment of computer-based management information systems for natural resources development, the
application of PRA methodology to promote community participation and ownership, the provision of an
enhanced role for women, and community management of development funds and activities, especially for
rural infrastructure works. However, socio-economic aspects, including cost-benefit analysisnd off-farm
economic impacts of investments in soil conservation activities, have not yet been adequately addressed in
the guidelines and manuals, to determine the types of scope of soil conservation intervention to be
undertaken.
Taking into account the final outcome of the UCWCD component of the project, in particular the progress
so far achieved under both the Model Micro-watershed (MMD) and Impact Area (AD) programs, it is
estimated that some 20,000 small farmers in the 146 participating villages have directly benefited from the
project. Project benefits include increased on-farm productivity and environmental quality in the upland
areas. However, in terns of final global project benefits, only about 60% of the original SAR's target has
actually been achieved, negatively affecting the project's overall economic performance (see para 4.3).
Monitoring and Evaluation was not carried out in a satisfactory manner, making it necessary to limit the
final economic evaluation only to the UCWCD component.
In August 1998 it was decided to close the NWMCP on 30 September 1999, or one year before its official
closing date. However, as requested by the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the Bank, in October 1999, agreed
to advance the project closing date by only nine months to 31 December 1999 so as to permit the
completion of agreed project activities currently under implementation.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The evaluation of how each of the project components contrbuted to the general outcome is presented
below.
A.    National Institutional Strengthening. The main problem encountered in implementing the NIS
component was that it started at the same time as the Upper Cimanuk Watershed Development. As a result,
project managers did not have the benefit of new institutional guidelines developed under this component
for nearly three years. The implementation of the different sub-components of NIS is evaluated as follows.
(i)   Information Support System (ISS). The main outputs of ISS include software modules for a
Regreening Resources Information System (RegRIS), Reforestation Resources Information System
(RefRIS), a Regreening Management Information System (RegMIS), a Reforestation Management
Information System (RefMIS), a project evaluation methodology and a database for regreening and
reforestation activities. These have been piloted at the Provincial and District Government Offices (DPKT)
level in Garut and Sumedang and are now largely fimctional, but the operators at Garut were still not fully
conversant with the Geographical Information System (GIS) and ISS systems. Expansionof the ISS to
other R&R areas has not taken place yet. Only 6 ISS units having been established so far (two each in
Jakarta and Garut, and one each in Sumedang and Bandung). Some of the reasons for the limited expansion
of ISS were the lack of trained personnel, the transfer of trained personnel to other jobs, the inadequate
funding for equipment and software, and the insufficient office space suitable to establish GIS units at
other sites. The implementation of ISS is classed as partially satisfactory.
(ii)    Land Use/Watershed Planning. The implementation of this sub-component was also partially
satisfactory. Criteria for the selection and prioritization of "critical agricultural land" for R&R programs
have been developed. Manuals have been written for formulation of regreening plans for Kabupaten level
("the 18 steps"), for preparation of village soil conservation plans (RKTD) using a participatory approach,
for district RTL and for rapid assessments of watershed problems and preparation of development plans
-4 -



based on these. However, the procedures were still quite complex and unless they are simplified, there will
be little potential to be replicated in the nation wide program Monitoring and evaluation and the definition
of indicators for regreening activities have tended to be neglected till the closing stages of the project.
Consequently, little data are available from the Cimanuk component on which conclusions can be drawn
about the effectiveness of the project's approach in achieving its main objectives, particularly those of
increasing farmers' incomes and reducing soil erosion.
(iii)   Upland Research and Technology Development. The Research sub-component (see Appendix B)
was only partially able to meet its objectives. All seven activities identified at appraisal were implemented
with varying degrees of success. The assessment of research needs was done with inputs from a wide
spectrum of stakeholders. The actual research work was implemented by the Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development (AARD), the Forestry Research and Development Agency (FORDA) research
stations and partly by Universities. However, by the end of the project, some of the issues identified at
appraisal and by the research needs assessment remained to be addressed.
Research results were disseminated through publications, workshops, seminars and direct communication
with farmers and extension staff. However, the dissemination methods and material were not fully adapted
to the technical capacity of extension workers and farmers. Although five members of the R&R Secretariat
went on overseas study tours, the overseas training should have been allocated more widely to include the
outposted research staff. Finally, a review of the R&R program, watershed management technology centers
and the conservation work done by FORDA and AARD was successfully conducted by a consultant and
the results were presented in a report, which was widely disseminated and discussed.
(iv)   Training of Project Staff. The outcome of the training activities is rated satisfactory and its
physical implementation was in line with the planned program. Overall, about 12,000 participants,
including local government staff, extension workers, technical staff of implementing agencies as well as
village leaders and women groups, took part in the program. However, its impact on execution of related
project activities such as ISS, MMD and AD developments, and extension is yet to be felt since more than
70% of the participants only received their training in the last two years of the project (see Appendix B).
(v)    Extension. The coverage of extension services was generally limited by the budget and number of
staff, even though a farner-to-farmer extension approach was used. Farmer group leaders participated in
the training programmes for extension staff, which covered subjects like Participatory Rural Appraisal
(PRA), Training of Trainers (TOT) and extension management. In addition to training, manuals were
supposed to be provided to extension staff from the technical assistance and research activities but they
were not immediately ready for use. These manuals were later simplified for adoption to the targeted users'
circumstances. Mechanisms to support the R&R extension through improved dissemination tools were
developed as planned at appraisal. Additional extension materials were also produced and used, such as
leaflets, posters, visual and audio recordings produced by the training and extension working group,
technical assistance consultants and the LBDS (NGO) within the Cimanuk component. It is still too early
to precisely evaluate the final outcome of the extension sub-component which, at project completion, is
rated partially satisfactory.
B.    Upper Cimanuk Watershed Conservation and Development. As this component was designed
as a pilot activity, there should have been more close monitoring, review and frequent evaluation of the
approached strategies and techniques being tested, in order to make in-course changes and corrections.
However, the overall outcome of the UCWCD is considered partially satisfactory. A brief description of
the various sub-components and relevant ratings are given as follows.
- 5-



(i)    Upland Conservation Management. The implementation of this sub-component has been
partially satisfactory in terms of the physical targets achieved. In terms of the original SAR targets, 100%
of the sub-districts and villages participated in the project, and 63% of the MMDs and ADs were
completed. Of the planned village nurseries, 88% were established. However, the actual implementation of
these activities is in line with the reduced program as recommended by the Bank Supervision Mission in
1998, and related outcome is rated satisfactory.
(ii)   Sloping Lands Agricultural Technology (SALT). In deference to the wishes of farmers, elicited
in the course of PRA exercises, some departures had to be made from the treatments originally suggested in
the SAR In the absence of monitoring data, there is some doubt about the efficacy of some of the other soil
conservation measures implemented, particularly structural measures such as gully plugs, as well as the
scattered planting of trees. MMDs have tended initially to actually increase soil erosion due to disturbance
of the soil caused by re-shaping terraces. However, the experience of older MMDs and ADs indicate that
the system stabilizes after a few years, and that vetiver grass hedges proved to be a good practical solution
to soil conservation.
(iii)   Nurseries. Village nurseries established under the project contributed to the availability of planting
materials during the initial years. However, in many cases, after project funding ceased, they closed down.
Those that continued operations suffer from the lack of good mother trees from which to obtain planting
materials, lack of quality seeds, lack of training and poor management. The two larger district nurseries
proposed in the SAR were not established under the project but one was set up from GOI funds. The
outcome of these activities is rated unsatisfactory.
(iv)   Roads and Upland Erosion Control. At project completion, a total of about 110 km of access
village roads were improved representing 87% of the SAR target of 126 km. Associated drains were also
improved for a total of 62 km representing one third of the original programme of 188 km. Initially, this
sub-component was contracted to the private sector but, from 1996/97, road improvement operations were
gradually given to farmer groups (LKMD) for direct execution with assistance of field engineers. As a
consequence, concems on accountability and transparency in how private contracts were handled, and the
insufficient expert supervision of the works for quality assurance were overcome. Similar to the roads, the
implementation of the upland erosion control measures through LKMDs indicated increased transparency,
flexibility, community ownership and cost effective and is therefore considered satisfactory. However,
there has been a small flaw that in some locations, there was inadequate coordination mechanism to achieve
improvement along the entire length of the road which reduces the economic gains to passenger or product
transport.
(v)    Upland Support Services. This activity was highly satisfactory. The LBDS NGO and district
staff provided training on PRA and TOT to the extension workers and village leaders, which had a
highly beneficial impact on their capacity for planning and extension. Establishment of the on-farm Key
Farmers Technology Display (KFTD) was successfully implemented having 214 of the planned 292
plots put in place by the MMDs, and some benefited from direct research advice. At the time of the ICR
mission, the implementation rate for the granting of land titles was only 16%, although many
applications were being processed. The village grants program was not put into operation on a
recommendation from the Bank, because potential beneficiaries could not possibly fulfill the conditions
for receiving the grant within the remaining project life.
- 6 -



Activities to encourage women involvement were added to this sub-component. Farmer groups that
established women sections have substantially higher numbers of female members (30-50%) as compared
to those that did not (5-20%). As most of its major objectives were achieved, the outcome of this
sub-component is to be considered satisfactory.
(vi)   Project Management and Institutional Strengthening. This sub-component financed technical
assistance, special studies and NGO services. AlthoughNCB procedures for procurement of NGO services
was completed and the award made in March 1995, the selected NGO (LBDS) had to wait till the TA
personnel were in place before they could start work. In the end, 92% of the international TA and 77% of
the local TA (including NGO services) were utilized by the project. Apart from the problems of their
mobilization, the quality of the TA services provided up to MTR was generally considered to be
unsatisfactory in respect of technical expertise and commitment, however, it improved towards the end of
their assignment. The performance of the NGO (LBDS) was considered as satisfactory. The special
studies comprised a baseline study, a study on the role of women on upland agriculture, and a land
utilization study. These were delayed because of the administrative requirement of waiting for a No
Objection Letter from the Bank. Overall, the implementation of this sub-component is considered
unsatisfactory since the procedural delays resulted in late take-off of most of the other components and
sub-components of the project.
C.    Investment Support for Regreening and Reforestation. The NIS component, which was to
provide guidelines and manuals for implementing and managing the R&R programme, started at the same
time as the Upper Cimanuk component. Consequently, nearly three years elapsed before the lessons of
Upper Cimanuk could be incorporated in these guidelines and manuals. The Cimanuk component itself got
off to a slow start and progressed at a slower pace than expected due mainly to the participatory
approaches being employed. The ultimate result was that the outputs of the NIS component came too late
in the project period to be used in the investment support to R&R component. Both GOI and the Bank
concluded that it would be unwise to try to scale up the activities in the R&R component at that late stage.
After the MTR, a decision was taken accordingly and the project was restructured by canceling this
component.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
As at appraisal, the economic analysis was carried out for the UCWCD component of the project which,
together with Component A, accounted for about 14% of total project costs. Details on the analysis are
presented in Appendix A of Annex 7, and results are given in Annex 3. As indicated in Appendix A, Table
1, the total area actually developed under the project reached a total of about 10,000 ha of which, about
1,400 ha in MMD and 8,600 ha in AD. Total project output in MMD and AD zones has been estimated on
the basis of a survey over 580 respondents chosen randomly in the project area within the districts of Garut
and Sumedang. No benefits in downstream areas have been included in the analysis. The economic
importance of downstream benefits appears to be overstated. Firstly, there is considerable doubt as to
whether these benefits actually materialize. Secondly, benefits that do arise will accme for enough into the
future so as to be negligible in present value terms. In the absence of specific data regarding livestock
activities, relative project impact has been estimated taking into consideration the number of sheep
distributed under the project and production parameters collected in the field by the ICR mission. Total
project costs included in the analysis amounted to about US$ 16.2 million and included a share of 20% of
the total research and TA costs to avoid underestimating the economic performance of the Upper Cimanuk
component. On these basis, the economic rate of retum (ERR) of the project is estimated at about 8% well
below the ERR of 17.3% estimated at appraisal. The main factor that has negatively affected the economic
impact of the project is the high investment cost of the operation, which is estimated at about US$ 1,600/ha
or about 60% above appraisal estimates. Implementation experience confirms that future investments in
- 7 -



watershed management and conservation should be continued provided that simple and cost-effective
on-farm soil and moisture conservation technology and improved fanning practices are applied.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
On the basis of the assumptions given in Annex 7, Appendix A, and taking into consideration an average
farm size of 0.5 ha, to be in line with SAR approach, the net incremental farm income by zone would range
from Rp. 363,000 (Zone III) to 496,000 (Zone II) and returns to family labor, with project, would range
from Rp. 54,300/day (Zone I) to Rp. 58,700/day (Zone II) with increases over the without project situation
ranging from 20% (Zone I) to 83% (Zone I1). The financial rate of return (FRR) analysis, also presented in
detail in Annex 7, Appendix A, has been carried out on the basis of an average investment cost per farm of
Rp. 2,020,000 including Rp. 1,928,000 per ha for civil works and inputs as detailed in Annex 7, Appendix
A, Table 24 and Rp. 92,000 to cover the average livestock investment cost per farm on the basis of the
total number of sheep distributed under the project and benefiting about 20,000 farm families. On these
bases, the FRRs over the on-farm investments undertaken under the project would range from 13.7% (Zone
III) to 18.4% (Zone II). These values, although still considered satisfactory, are well below SARs estimates
because of the actual high level of on-farm investments.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has considerably improved the country's ability to plan and execute watershed
management projects under its national regreening and reforestation program. Of particular interest
is the increased capacity of staff (i) to use PRA approaches in implementing project activities such
as soil conservation and extension, (ii) to mobilize village level institutions and farmer organizations
for implementing civil works and other project activities, and (iii) to ensure transparency, flexibility
in implementation and increased ownership by transferring funds for soil conservation, village
nurseries, etc. directly to accounts established by farmer groups. While the ability to carry out
watershed planning has been built up at central level, insufficient progress has been achieved in the
development of a watershed strategy based on economic assessments to guide priority setting for
ftture investments.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
3. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
(i)    Economic Crisis. Indonesia's economic crisis occurred towards the end of the project period and
did not significantly affect its implementation. Savings due to Rupiah depreciation made up for cutbacks in
counterpart funds caused by the squeeze on fiscal resources. However, in the longer term, prolonged fiscal
and economic instability would adversely affect GOI's capacity to finance the incremental recurrent
expenditure needed to maintain the services to farmers at the level reached at the end of the project. It is
also likely that, at national as well as district level, emergency safety net programs would take precedence
over investments in resources management.
(ii)    Drought. Another extraneous factor affecting the performance of the project was the severe
drought of 1997/98, which destroyed many of the seedlings that had been planted in the regreening area.
(iii)   Small Size of Land Holdings and Absentee Owners. The small size of most land holdings (0.2 to
0.3 ha) in the project area imposed a major constraint on the options available for promoting watershed
protection at farm level. Unless the farmers have other holdings elsewhere, they use most of their land to
plant subsistence crops (maize, upland rice, cassava) or cash crops (vegetables, groundnut) and are left
with little or no land on which to plant trees or grass.Another constraint was that there are absentee land
- 8 -



owners who live outside the project area, and their lands are cultivated by tenantsFarmers in the project
area were thus reluctant to accept soil conservation treatments involving tree planting.
(iv)   Design Problems. Expansion of the NIS, especially its ISS and Watershed Planning
sub-components, to more watersheds in the country was hampered towards the end of the project due to
inadequate provision of funds for equipment and training. The magnitude of the investment required for
expanding this component was not foreseen at project formulation/ appraisal. Other design problems which
affected project implementation were institutional arrangements for implementing the project that were
over-optimistic scheduling of project activities.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
(i)    Implementation Plan. The failure to prepare a detailed project implementation plan before the
project effectiveness resulted in the first year of the project being largely used for this purpose.
(ii)    Funding Procedure. Funds for project activities were released by GOI and the Bank by
authorization letters from the Regional Development Assistance Budget (SPABP). As these letters were
generally issued only in the second quarter of the fiscal year. From 1 April - 31 March., all project
activities had to be crammed into the latter part of the year. Since 1998, howeverthe situation had
improved and funds have been released in the first quarter.
(iii)   Administrative Constraints. The long tender process for recruiting technical assistance and
launching the studies and training activities caused major delays in the commencement of field activities by
the NGO and the staff of the DPKTs as well as in the commencement of the NIS component. This was a
major contributory factor to delays in implementation. There was also a serious lack of co-ordination
among the different ministries and agencies involved in project implementation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implenienting agency control:
Monitoring and Evaluation. Irregular reporting of the results of monitoring and evaluation as well as the
results of supervision missions to field managers was an important constraint to proper implementation of
the project. The weakness in monitoring and evaluation in this project, especially with regard to
socio-economic aspects, is also to be regarded as a lost opportunity to adequately assess the effectiveness
of project interventions and draw lessons for future projects under the R&R program.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
At the end, the total cost of the project amounted to some US$ 26.2 million, of which the Bank Loan
3658-IND after two cancellations for a total of US$ 40.2 million, contributed close to US$ 16.3 million, or
about 29% of the original amount of US$ 56.5 million. Other project costs were covered by GOI's funds of
US$ 9.1 million and farmers' contribution of US$ 0.8 million. Details on project expenditures and financing
are given in Annex 2.
-9-



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The two components of the project which were implemented, are likely to be sustainable and the overall
sustainability rating is based on this. There appears to be continued government commitment at national
level to using the improved methodologies developed under the NWMCP. Development of a strategy for
priority setting in the R&R program, however, will need further work on the economic retums to
investments in such projects. Since GOI, as well as major donors, will continue to emphasize
environmental management and poverty alleviation, the national R&R program is likely to continue over
the next 25 years given the backlog in degraded areas in need of treatment. The diversion of limited
financial resources at district level to other more visible and politically popular infrastnicture
development will probably not happen as R&R funds provided by the central government are usually
designated for use in that program. Demand driven and results oriented program together with farmer
contribution to the investment will contribute to greater sustainability.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The participatory approach adopted in project implementation has sensitized farmers to the need for
protecting their land against degradation and would make the maintenance of the treatments, as well as the
demand for their extension to the remaining areas, more likely. Farmers could also put pressure on the
Bupatis to expand the extension services to the new areas. The soil conservation treatments promoted under
the project have been readily adopted by farmers in part due to the increased yields obtained through the
use of fertilizers and other inputs provided on a grant basis under the project. It is possible that farmers will
drop out of the conservation activities when such subsidies are no longer forthcoming. However, with the
fiscal decentralization that is underway, it is likely that special grants from central government will
continue or that local government will see R&R program activities as priority use of non-earmarked funds.
A possible draw back is that the funds may be inadequate to provide NGO assistance for expansion of the
project into adjacent areas. Experience on older MMDs and ADs indicates that many of them continue with
the improved farming systems on account of the perceived benefits.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation assistance and appraisal of the project was
partially satisfactory. The project was consistent with GOI and Bank development priorities and the Bank's
country assistance strategy. The technical approach proposed for watershed management and conservation
was sound. A good deal of flexibility as well as a strong supervision program were worked into the design.
A major design flaw, however, was over-optimism in the capabilities of the implementing agencies,
particularly in view of the complex organizational arrangements of the national R&R program to be used
for implementing the projectand some other responsibilities to new institutions at the local government
levels. The institutional complexity of the implementing arrangements compounded the problem. This
resulted in the unrealistic expectation that project implementation would take off immediately the project
became effective and that the groundwork for implementing the component on investment in the R&R
programme would be laid by the third year of the project. The phasing of activities under the different
components did not allow them to dovetail into each other properly, e.g. some of the activities of the NIS
component were implemented simultaneously with those of the UCWCD component that were prerequisites
for implementation of the NIS. These drawbacks were unfortunately not recognized at appraisal. Giving
scrutiny by the Bank to procurement processes because of indications of shortcomings has caused delays
- 10 -



in issuing the necessaryNo Objection Letters, resulting delays in recruitment of consultants, the selection
of the NGO and award of the special studies contract.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance with respect to supervision was unsatisfactory, especially in view of the strong emphasis
given in the SAR to a strong supervision presence in the initial years of the project. The supervision
missions were not adequate in frequency, staffing and output. The SAR supervision plan had recommended
15 supervision missions during implementation; however, only 8 Bank supervision missions, including the
MTR mission, had been carried out up to February 1999 (Annex 4a). The missions were also not
adequately staffed. There wereinadequate inputs from institutional and soil conservation specialists and
necessary corrective measures were not undertaken even when project activities were getting delayed and
adjustments were needed. For example, more than 2 years elapsed between the first recommendation by
MTR for cancellation of Component C and the restructuring of the project, before the cancellation actually
took place.
7.3 Overall Bank perfornance:
Adequate supervision of implementation, for which there was provision in the design, could have resulted in
a much more satisfactory outcome of the project. Therefore, the overall Bank performance is rated
unsatisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparalion:
Borrower participation in preparation was limited. Consequently, the borrower failed to follow up the
preparation and appraisal with a detailed project implementation plan and a training program to prepare the
implementing agencies for the roles that were expected of them. The implementing agencies at national and
regional level were not properly linked to the existing structures of government and, therefore, ended up as
ad hoc working groups rather than implementing agencies.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Macro-economic and sector policies did not directly affect implementation of the project. However, there
was insufficient emphasis on the importance of the project as a means of developing mechanisms for
economic evaluation of regreening and reforestation projects for priority setting of investments in watershed
management. The timely provision of counterpart funds was hampered by GOI's budgetary procedures
until late in the project.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The major problems of project implementation arose from delays in start up of project activities,
particularly the recruitment of technical assistance and the NGO. There was also inadequate linkage
between the Upper Cimanuk Watershed Development component, which was meant to be a pilot project for
developing methodologies to be applied in the R&R program, and the NIS component to strengthen the
planning and implementation of the national R&R program. This was mainly due to lack of co-ordination
between the central and district level implementing agencies. As a result, close monitoring and frequent
evaluation of the UCWCD component was not carried out with a view to developing strategies and
techniques that could be extended to the national programs. The use of technical assistance was
unsatisfactory as far as timing was concerned, since delays in their recruitment resulted in late start up of
key project activities, but was generally satisfactory in relation to their outputs. On the positive side, a
number of useful approaches - beneficiary participation, transparency in funding, women' participation,
watershed planning, district and village level conservation planning - have been developed and are already
being adopted by GOI in its national R&R program.
- 11 -



7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the borrower in this project was unsatisfactory. The main reasons for this were
due to inadequate interest in the objectives of the project as a whole and failure in reforming the R&R
program by developing a strategy for watershed planning based on economic evaluation of the watershed
management and conservation methodology developed under the UCWCD, resulting in cancellation of the
major component (Component C) of the project.
8. Lessons Learned
The main lessons learned from the project, in order of importance, are as follows:
(i)    Adequate interest in the objectives of the project as a whole and full commitment from the
government for results oriented, demand driven and high quality soil conservation program would result in
satisfactory implementation performance.
(ii)    Direct Involvement of Primary Stakeholders in planning, implementation and management of key
activities, e.g. conservation and village infrastructure works is important for realizing sustainable project
development. Direct funding of farmer groups, with transparency in all transactions, is welcomed by
farmers and is more cost-effective than hiring contractors. Demonstrated demand from the farmers is the
key for successful implementation of the project.
(iii)   Correct Sequencing of Project Interventions especially design, organization and construction, both
in the planning and implementation stages is critical for achieving development objectives. Pre-project
activities including the preparation of the detailed project implementation plan, and the bidding process for
selecting consultants should be started without waiting for the loan to become effective.
(iv)   Formal Long-term Tenancy Agreementsbetween landlords and tenants encourage tenants to invest
time and capital and help to ensure high standards of land management.
(v)    Simple Institutional Arrangements involving few organizations is important for project
implementation. Under the project, some of the institutions such as DPKT were new and staff had little
experience of Bank projects. Such institutional constraints need to be taken into account in order to avoid
overly optimistic targets, especially at project appraisal and in the early years of implementation.
(vi)   The participation of NGO in the project implementation has proved to be a successful initiative and
has been rated as very satisfactory by all concemed including direct project beneficiaries and women'
groups.
(vii)   Adequate Monitoring and Evaluation is essential in case of pilot operations, which are to be
replicated throughout the country. The weakness in monitoring and evaluation in this project, especially
with regard to socio-economic aspects, is to be regarded as a lost opportunity to adequately assess the
effectiveness of project interventions and draw lessons for future projects under the R&R program.
(viii)  Promoting both On and Off-farm activities should be given high priority for increasing incomes
of primary stakeholders. Livestock production provides an effective complement to crop production.
- 12-



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
Introduction
1. Two and a half decades of regreening and reforestation projects have failed to substantially
control soil erosion on about 8.5 million hectares of non-irrigated agricultural uplands in the major
watersheds of Indonesia. Unchecked watershed degradation and soil erosion could endanger the
welfare of the population and the ecological stability of these upland areas as well as irrigated crop
production in linked lowland areas.
2. Recognizing the impact of soil erosion and watershed degradation on the country's food
security, the Government of Indonesia (GOI) requested World Bank assistance for a National
Watershed Management and Conservation Project (NWMCP). The primary emphasis of the project
was on the introduction of more productive, environmentally benign, sustainable farming systems to
poor farmers in fragile non-irrigated upland areas and rehabilitation of degraded forest areas in the
Upper Cimanuk Watershed. The NWMCP was to also develop the technology and methodology
needed to extend these sustainable farming and soil conservation practices with modifications in 39
identified critical watersheds (63 million ha).
3. In response to GOI's request, the Bank sent an appraisal mission to Indonesia in February
1993 consisting of Messrs. B. van de Poll, W. Magrath, A. Sahulata and. Ms. S. Bettencourt
(Bank) and Dalton (consultant). 'he loan agreement for NWMCP , Loan No. 3658-IND, was
signed between by the Bank and GOI on December 10, 1993 and became effective on May 5, 1994.
Objectives and Components of the Project
4. Objectives The major objectives of the project were:(a) to raise the living standards of poor
upland farmers by improving and restoring the productive potential of their resource base; and (b)
to enhance the environmental quality in critical watersheds and protect downstream watershed
resources.
5. Components. The project included three components:
Component A: National Institutional Strengthening (NIS) aimed at improvement of planning,
management and natural resource information systems (RIS), creation of a multi-disciplinary
upland research program and strengthening of training and extension. The NIS component
consisted of 4 sub-components: (i) Information Support System; (ii) Land Use Planning; (iii)
Upland Research; and (iv) Training and Extension.
Component B: The Upper Cimanuk Watershed Conservation and Development (UCWD)
component was designed to stabilize critical areas in the Upper Cimanuk watershed (West Java) by
supporting the introduction of improved farming systems combined with soil conservation
practices, road upgrading and drainage rehabilitation. UCWD consisted of4 sub-conponents: i.
Upland Conservation Management, ii. Road and Upland Erosion Control, iii. Upland Support
Services, and iv. Project management and Institutional Strengthening.
- 13-



Component C: The Investment Support for R & R Program which was to finance the inputs for
farm system improvements and nursery development for GOI's ongoing R & R program.
6. Scope of the Project. The initial development focus was the Upper Cimanuk watershed in
West Java (see map). The Cimanuk component would serve as a pilot project to determine the
procedural changes and technical approaches that need to be introduced by the project in the
national R & Rprogram in 39 priority watersheds covering 193 kabupatens across the country.
Project Organization
7. Institutional Frame Work. The project was to be implemented under the existing
organizational arrangement of the national INPRES R & R program (Chart 1), which linked central
policy and budgeting with localized implementation and planning. BAPPENAS and BAPPEDA
were involved in the project for coordinating the work of the technical agencies involved in
planning, budgeting and resolving inter-agency issues.
8. Project Organization. The highest decision-making body in the national level project
organization was the Inter-ministerial Steering Committee (Tim Pengarah) with members from the
involved Departments (Chart 1). The Steering Committee, supported by the Guidance Team (Tim
Pengendali) and the Secretariat, provided direction to project operations, including overall
coordination and monitoring. The Secretariat established four specific subcommittees / working
groups to assist in the direction and implementation of (I) ISS and Reporting; (ii) Upland Research
and Development; (iii) Training and Extension; and (iv) Planning. Implementation of the Upper
Cimanuk Watershed and R & R Investment Support components of the project was assigned to
different agencies according to GOI's existing organizational and management structure and
funding mechanisms of the R & R program.
9. Coordination Group. At the central level the R & R program was coordinated by a national
Steering Committee made up of eight representative ministries / agencies. The Ministry of Home
Affairs (MOHA) was the lead agency; Ministry of Forestry (MOF) was responsible for planning;
BAPPENAS was responsible for the allocation of funds; Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and
Ministry of Public Work (MOPW) provided technical support The other members were the
Ministry of Finance (MOFi), State Ministry of Environment and State Ministry of National Land
Board (BPN). The executive secretary of the committee was the Chief of Bureau of Spatial
Planning and Environment (BAPPENAS). The Steering Committee was assisted by a Central
Guidance Team (Tim Pengendali) with its Secretariat providing the day-to-day data management,
including planning, funding and reporting (Chart 1). At the provincial level the program was
implemented by a Management Team (Tim Pembina), including a secretariat, appointed by
govemor. The main control for the Reforestation program was under the Head of the Provincial
Forest Service. At the district level the Regreening program is under the authority of the Bupati
with support of district guidance team (Tim Pembina) and the secretariat. While the INPRES
program vested major responsibility for project execution with the provincial and district
governments, it was the Directorate General of Reforestation and Land Rehabilitation (DG-LRR)
of MOF that assumed the main development role of this program through its nationwide network of
offices for watershed management and soil conservation. The Directorate General for Regional
Development in MOHA (BANGDA) was responsible for administrative control of the program.
- 14-



Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
10. Project Period. The project commenced in FY 1994 / 1995, three months after Loan
Agreement was signed, and was to finish on September 30, 1999 or one year earlier than the
agreement (September 2000) but has been extended till December 1999.
11. Project Expenditure. The project expenditure by component and source of funding up to
September 1999 is presented in the table below:
Component        Total (Rp.)            GOI (Rp.)            LOAN (Rp.)
A           39,137,548,193.00      14,578,756,700.00     24,558,791,493.00
B           44,707,389,125.00      13,684,803,344.00     31,022,585,781.00
C                       0.00                   0.00                  0.00
Tot a l        83,844,937,318.00     28,263,560,400.00      55,581,377,274.00
12. Annual Expenditures (Indonesian Fiscal Year) are shown below (in Rp. million):
Total           94/95     95/96     96/97      97/98     98/99      99/00
Annual Project Cost     11,259    15,045   205,669   232,996   260,652   285,020
Annual Expenditure       7,159    10,949     16,233    15,929    19,463     13,958
13. Amendment of Loan. At appraisal, the project cost was estimated at US $ 487.8 million
comprising US $ 431.3 million from GOI and US $ 56.5 million from the Bank loan. However,
during project implementation, GOI requested the Bank to cancel some project costs, US $ 33.9
million on August 26, 1998 and US $ 6,342,372 on December 18, 1999. The cancellations were for
Component C only. Therefore, the project financing available from the loan was only
US $ 16,257,628.
14. Disbursement of Loan reached US $ 12,29 million by October 1999 and is likely to reach US
$ 16,20 million by the of end of March, 2000. Annual disbursement (Bank fiscal year) progress is
summarized below:
Disbursement          94/95    95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99    99/00
SAR Schedule (US $ million)      3.8     5.4    12.0    12.4    11.9    11.0
Actual                           3.1     2.6      3.9      3.5     1.3      1.4
-15 -



15. Major Factors Affecting the Project. The effect on the project of Indonesia's monetary crisis
is not very significant. However, uncertainty and prolonged national financial /economic instability
could have negative impacts, particularly on prices of agricultural inputs, which could have
unfavorable effects on agricultural production.
16. Factors under Government Control. Due to limited field staff numbers and uneven target
distribution, too low at the beginning and too high at the middle of the project period, the capacity
of existing field staff was exceeded and project activities accumulated towards the end of the
project period. Therefore the targets of Component B (UCWD) could not be achieved fully.
17. The delay in commencement of the project, the long administrative tender process and the long
procedure for financial administration are the main factors that delayed project implementation.
Coordination that did not run smoothly, implementation arrangements that lacked accountability
and poor supervision, monitoring and evaluation are other factors that affected project
implementation.
18. Factors under the control of the relevant Institutions. NWMCP worked with many Ad Hoc
Teams such as Tim Pengendali, Tim Pembina and Working Groups. The members of an Ad hoc
Team were generally occupied with regular functions in their own institutions. It was very difficult
to get them to devote substantial amounts of their time to the project and to be based at the project
office. This adversely affected inter-agency coordination and the discipline of Ad Hoc Team
members, thus ultimately affecting project performance.
Achievement of Project Objectives
19. Overall Progress (estimate) The average of overall project progress (estimate) at the end of
September 1999 was 5.4%. Accounting for the average of Component A 77.8%, Component B
30.5% ( Upland Conservation Management 85.10%, Road and Upland Erosion Control 40.75%,
Upland Support Services 32.97%) and Component C 0%.
20. Achievements of key components are summarized in Table I and described by components in
the following paragraphs.
21. Information Support System (ISS). Activities carried out under this component included the
following: (i) On the Job Training. On the job training or direct training was conducted in the
application of GIS instruments, mapping and RegRIS database program; (ii) Documentation. Two
volumes of RegRIS and PlanRIS have been prepared and each volume consists of two parts, a User
Guide for the RIS computer operators and Technical Reference Manual for use by Programmer and
Database Designer; (iii) Planning System for Land and Water Management (PPLA). The progress
at CIMANUK SBRLKT was mainly achieved by the staff themselves; (iv) Regreening Activity
Management System (RegRIS). Version 1.2. of this software has been installed at DPKT
Sumedang and Garut. As an improvement, the printing program for reporting of Regreening Areas
and Farmers Groups has been added. A review of version 1.2. of the RegRIS by ISS-WG resulted
in production of version 2.0. DPKT Sumedang has largely completed the work to produce a " Peta
Kegiatan " showing location of all regreening sites in the Cimanuk Watershed, by using the RegRIS
software; (v) Planning Resource Information System (PlanRIS). The system is now mature and the
consultant has also had several discussions with the head of SBRLKT concerning modification of"
RTL" for the production of "Peta Arahan". The SBRLKT want to be able to develop their own
- 16-



plarning process and to evaluate them with GIS overlay analysis; (vi) Demonstration of GIS
Capability. The SBRLKT Cimanuk has conducted a number of demonstrations of GIS for staff of
the entire SBRLKT of Java, and DPKT of Java; (vii) Developing of Institutional Information
System. Project has developed software of Information Support System (ISS) and some modules of
Regreening MIS & Reforestation MIS, project evaluation and database of regreening and
reforestation activities.
22. Land Use Planning. Some activities conducted by the project under this subcomponent are:(i)
definition of Critical Land; (ii) development of Five-Year Technical Plan of Land Rehabilitation
(RTLlRencana Teknik Lapangan Limatahunan) (iii) formulating a "Manual for Preparation of a
Village Soil Conservation Plan (RKTD)", (iv) preparation of guidelines for an "Arahan RLKT
Kabupaten"; and (v) a survey of soil erosion in the Palu and BilaWatersheds.
25. Upland Research and Technology Development. Research was conducted jointly by
researchers from Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD) and Forestry
Research and Development Agency (FORDA) under the coordination of the Center for Soil and
Agroclimate Research and technical assistance from DHV. For several locations research was
conducted by local research agencies as described in the Table below.
Watershed                          Implementing agency
Upper Cimanuk, West Java         AARD and FORDA
Toba Catchment, North Sumatra     FORDA with assistance of AARD
Lembah Palu, Central Sulewesi    Univ. Tadulako
Billa Walanae, South Sulawesi    Univ. Hasanuddin
Upper Kapuas, West Kalimantan    Univ. Tanjung Pura
Kambaneroe, East Nusa Tenggara    Naibonat Assessment Institute for Agricultural
Technology (BPTP) and Univ. Nusa Cendana
Research results were discussed in Seminars attended by staff implementing all components of
NWMCP. Dissemination of research results took the forn of publications of Proceedings,
Technical Manuals, and Leaflets, regular field visits and interaction with farmers, and field days in
coordination with Extension Working Group. Besides research papers, the proceedings also contain
review papers written by Central Secretariat of Central Guidance Team of R&R.
26. Training and Extension. The training programncomprised: (i) Training Management
consisting of planning, implementation and monitoring and evaluation; four training management
manuals were produce; (ii) Training Needs Assessment with competence based approach;
guidelines for conducting a training needs assessment were formulated; project staff were trained to
conduct training needs assessment and to try training needs assessments in four "BLK(Balai
Latihan Kehutanan / Forestry Training Center)Bogor, Kadipaten, Ujung Pandang and Pematang
Siantar. (iii) Development of Curriculum and Training Material (iv) Farmer Groups Training
Development. The extension program consisted of four main activities: (i) Development of
- 17-



Extension Institution through improving several extension manuals-, (ii) Development of Methods
and Techniques of Extension, which was oriented towards developing participatory extension for
programs such as the regreening campaign, farmer to farmer extension and cross visits(iii)
Strengthening of Project Staff Capacity in managing extension; and(iv) Development of Extension
Materials. Collaboration between the Training & Extension Working Group and Upland Research
and Technology Development Working Group has resulted in extension material such as booklets,
leaflets, and flipcharts. Electronical media such as "radio drama", documentary film and story film
or cinetron (cinema electronic) were also developed.
27. Upland Conservation Management. This sub-component dealt with the critical land by
promoting land conservation fanning systems. The activities consisted of establishing Model Micro
Watersheds (MMDs), impact areas and Village Nurseries (KBD). Evaluation conducted by Sub -
Center for Land Rehabilitation and Soil Conservation (SBRLKT) of Cimanuk in December 1997
and 1999 (Table 3), show that target achievement of MMD, AD and KFTD from the beginning of
the project activities (1994/1995) to 1997 is quite high both in Garut and Sumedang Districts.
However, the progress from 1997 to 1999 was slow. Furthermore, the terracing in MMDs both in
Garut and Sumedang district show negative progress. The cropping pattem indicator shows no
significant change from the beginning of the project to 1997 and from 1997 to 1999, both in Garut
and Sumedang. Some activities have made a little progress for instance AD/Impact Area in Garut
and MMD & AD in Sumedang. During project implementation 49.7 units of KBD were established
in Garut district, while the project target was 52 units, so the project realization is about 95.6%. In
the Sumedang District 15.5 units of KBD have been established while the project target was 23
units, so the project realization is 67.4%.
28. Roads and Upland Erosion Control. This component was aimed at controlling erosion due to
surface water flow from residential areas and drainage channels on the sides of village roads (Off
Farm Treatment). The activities comprised Land Stabilization, Residential Drainage, Drainage of
Roadsides and Restoration of Roads, particularly Village Roads. The following performance is
obtained from evaluation using the criteria: good (no damage), lightly damage (<20% damage) and
heavily damaged (20 - 40% damage):
District        Total          Good         Lightly Damaged    Heavily Damaged
(km)           (%/O)            (%)                 (%/0)
Garut          60.58          42.50             31.00               26.50
Sumedang         48.98          86.90             9.70                3.40
It can be concluded that the condition of village roads in the Sumedang District is better maintained
than in the Garut District.
29. Upland Support Services. Services in this sub-component were aimed at improving the
project's capability and the capability of regional institutions in planning, extension and
development of rainfed technology/upland farining systems. Project activities comprised: planning,
training and extension for farmers and training for officers/apparatus, establishment of "Key
Farmers Technology Display", land titling and awarding village grants. The project adopted a
participatory planning (Participatory Rural Appraisal) approach. All project staff were trained in
PRA methods, which was used in participatory extension. No village grant were given, even though
project staff had encouraged farmers to request the grant.
-18-



30. Project Management and Institutional Strengthening. As mentioned in the SAR (Staff
Appraisal Report), the main target of the Project Management Unit of Upper Cimanuk Watershed
Component was to provide the following consultant and NGO services and Special Studies:(i)
Baseline Information Study; this study was conducted by Research Institute of IPB for 8 months;
(ii) Study of Role of Women in Upland Agriculture this study was conducted by the Research
Institute of IPB for 5 months, but as some additional data were required through Participatory
Rural Appraisal Method, the time was extended to 10 months;(iii) Land Utilization Studythis
study was conducted by Research Institute of IPB for 10 months;(iv) consultant services; based on
the technical and financial proposal, the winner was DHV Consultant (the Netherlands) associates
with PT.Tricon Jaya Consultant (Indonesia); the consultant services were for 36 months, from June
1995 to June 1998. Local consultants extended from March 1999 to September 1999,(v)
Non-Government Organizations (NGO) Services;based on the final evaluation of the bids the
winner was NGO-Lembaga Bangun Desa Sejahtera (LBDS). The NGO Services for 54 Months
start from April 1995 to September 1999.
31. Investment Support for Regreening and Reforestation. Following the midterm evaluation of
the project, Component C was canceled. On the other hand, the Model of Upper Cimanuk
Watershed conservation and development management will be used as a reference to manage other
critical watersheds. Until the second year of implementation, the project still could not achieve the
targets. The cancellation mentioned above can be explained as follows:(i) The preparation of
project implementation According to the SAR, the project must be carried out immediately in the
middle of June 1993, so that by the fiscal year 1994/95, the action plan could have been prepared
(starting from April 1, 1994). However, during the first year of project implementation (1994/95)
the project staff was still working on project preparation. This was particularly caused by
non-similarity in the perceptions among the members of Tim Pengarah / Tim Pengendali in the
Central Level and members of Tim Pembina at West Java Province;(ii) Bidding process of NGO
and consultant. The winning bidder is decided by Govemor and announced through a Letter of
Decision, the preparation of which usually takes some time. Beside that for each of tender phase
GOI must obtain a 'letter of no objection" (NOL) from the World Bank (the Bank Factor), which
process also takes time. This bureaucratic procedure delayed mobilization of the consultants.
Therefore, project implementation did not run well in the first and second year(iii) Funding
Procedure through SPABP. Funding activities financed from APBN and IBRD are mentioned in an
Authorization Letter of Regional Development Assistance Budget (SPABP). SPABP was mostly
issued in Quarter II (month of June-July). This means that all of the activities must be
automatically adjusted to the available budget. Consequently, the project implementation will be
accumulated at the end of fiscal year;(iv) Recommendations of Aide-Memoire. The Aide-Memoire
issued by a supervision mission team is influenced by the background of each expert who is
member of the team. So there are often inconsistencies among recommendations made by
successive supervision missions. On the other hand, the Aide-Memoire is regarded as a reference
document that must be obeyed by the Government of Indonesia. The issues raised were one of
causes of the cancellation of component C. Although the implementation of the component of
Investment Support for the R & R Program (component C) is canceled, many documents that have
resulted from NWMCP could be used to support the implementation of the R & R Program. The
documents are as follows: (1) Written documents from NIS including: reports, guidelines, training
modules and extension materials, Letters of Decision of the Government and preparation of
complete and integral documents on Regreening Process including planning and implementation in
the district and village level. (2) Written documents prepared by Cimanuk consultants and NGO -
LBDS.
-19-



Assessment of Project Outcome
32. At Central Level. There has been a suggestion that the use of "ad hoc" institutions has had an
adverse impact on project perfornance. Appropriate methods and techniques have been developed
in NWMCP for the strengthening of the community based approach to programs. Also the
application of the Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) method in all program phases, namely:
planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation have been able to increase public participation
in the regreening activities.
33. At Local Level. Farmers' incomes have been increased through absorption of labor, during the
period of project, growth of livestock production along with the establishment of MMD,
improvement of land coverage and increasedestablishment of forage, timber trees and fruit trees,
supported by the increased accessibilityto smooth transportation of agricultural inputs and
products and to decreased transportation costs.
34. The involvement of the NGO in project activities to facilitate farmers' participation caused the
growth and development of 216 Regreening Farmers Group (RFG) in Garut. The NGO also
encouraged the self-management and transparent fund management system by RFG and LKMD to
carry out independent activities, through the implementation of PRA.
35. With the support of Consultant services and the NGO and the "Transfer of Knowledge" either
through participation or training, the knowledge of the project management and the community has
been increasing.
36. The rehabilitation and soil conservation measures conducted on critical areas in the Upper
Cimanuk Watershed during the project, has decreased the critical land area from 28,500 hectare in
1994/1995 to 5,315 hectare in 1999/2000. Or in other words, a decrease of 23,185 hectare in
District Garut, While in Sumedang the critical land has decreased from 5,279 hectare in 1994/1995
to 723.5 hectare in 1999/2000, or in other word a decrease of 4,55,5 hectare. Through the project,
land certification / titling has been conducted in the project locations. In total of 1,996 plots were
completed and 2,500 are under process in 1999/2000 for Garut District and for Sumedang 308
plots have been completed and 1,300 plots are being processed. Furthermore, GOI has allocated
adequate budget for completion of land titling in the project area in Garut and Sumedang
amounting to Rp 80 million and Rp 100 million respectively for fiscal year 1999/2000.
37. Project Benefit to the Farmers. The result of a simple survey to the 580 respondents chosen
randomly from Garut and Sumedang district show that: (i) Yield of farming activity in the MMD is
higher than that of AD and non-projectin the first planting season, but lower in the second planting
season. In the first planting season, the surface of MMD land had not been shaded yet by trees (still
small) but in the second planting season the MMD land has been shaded by tree crops. It causes the
decrease of yield of annual crops planted under the tree crop. In AD and Non Project areas, the
land is not shaded yet by tree crops and the yield is not affected; (ii) The existence of Regreening
Farmer Groups (Kelompok Tani Penghijauan/KTP) was recognized by the project and beneficiary
groups were offered the responsibility of managing project funds for regreening activities resulting
in improved participation of group members; (iii) The RFG recognize the value of, and benefit
from, extension activities. According to RFGs' opinion, methods and materials of extension are
- 20 -



appropriate; (iv) There has been a significant change in farmers' knowledge, attitude and skills
within MMDs and Ads as well as Non Project areas.MMD farmers and AD farmers, however,
have better knowledge, attitude and skills of conservation techniques than non-project farmers.
Project Sustainability
38. Legal Aspect. The issuance of the Law No. 22 Year 1999 of Local Government, and theLaw
No. 25 Year 1999 on Financial Balance between Central and Local Government will enable local
governments themselves to decide on priorities for the allocation of the regional development fund
(including for regreening and continuation of R&R activities). The governments of Garut and
Sumedang districts are also expected to be able to continue the management of the rest (about 90%/6)
of Upper Cimanuk Watershed area. Together with other related services at District level, the
DPKTs of Garut and Sumedang should coordinate the preparation of R & R Program budgets to
manage the Upper Cimanuk Watershed. And as the service that is functionally responsible for
regreening and soil conservation, the head of DPKT Garut and Sumedang services should be able
to convince the respective Bupati and head of BAPPEDA of the urgency of providing funds for
management of Upper Cimanuk Watershed. The advantages of giving priority to this program
would include the regional advantage of improving the living standards of upland farners in the
watershed area, supporting the national program on food security and maintaining the sustainable
irrigation water supply to the linked lowland area.
39. Institutional Aspect. Three factors: (i)development of RFG according to their profile, (ii)
continuously improving the community-based program approach to create a "revolving approach",
and (iii) the presence of PKL and PPL always on site, ready to guide the farmers using the
NWMCPs' results, would encourage the community to participate in the regreening program.
40. Central Government Role. The regreening of upper watershed areas usually also benefits the
lowland region linked with the upper watershed. This consideration does not always receive the
attention of upstream district authorities. Based on this experience, it is necessary that the central
government suggest to local governments (Bupatis) of upstream areas that they should prioritize
regreening and soil conservation activities also taking into account factors such as the supply of
sustainable irrigation to downstream areas in order to maintain national food stability, flood
control, etc. and the Central Govemment should continue the National R & R Program, giving
more support to the upstream areas. The central government provides funding support for
regreening and soil conservation programs in upstream districts through the budget transfer
mechanism of APBN to APBD as a general fund or special fund or other type of fund to the
Bupatis.
41.   Training and Extension. Training and Extension in regreening and soil conservation could
continue supporting the regreening and soil conservation program through: araluating and revising
the training and extension manuals based on experience gained after implementing them in several
areas; continuing to apply a participatory approach in training and extension programs;
strengthening the collaboration among researchers, extension workers and farmers in developing the
extension method, developing appropriate extension materials such as leaflets, posters, flipcharts,
video visuals and film.
- 21 -



Bank Performance
42. The Bank has provided a Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) which facilitated the preparation by
the borrower of the project implementation plan. The Bank consistently supported the
accomplishing of project objectives through Bank supervision missions which gave advice on
project implementation. However, some problems should be noted in relation to the performance of
the Bank:
- According to SAR, the project should have been supervised 13 times (until December 1999).
But until Februaty 1999, the Bank supervised the project 8 times only.
- While Aide-Memoire left by a supervision mission is regarded as a reference by the GOI, often
there are inconsistencies between recommendations of successive supervision missions. These
recommendations seem to vary depending on the particular expertise and background of the
members of the mission.
-  Although it is very important, the process of getting NOLs at every stage obstructs the
smoothness of project implementation. It is proposed that for similar projects in the future, the
Bank should only issue one NOL for both the Program and Fund Disbursement.
Borrower Performance
43. Factors Under the Government Control. Administrative aspects such as the lack of readiness of
GOI to begin the project, the long tender process and long procedures of financial administration,
are the main factors that delayed project implementation. Coordination among implementing
agencies was very difficult and is still limited. Monitoring & evaluation has been conducted
irregularly and sometimes the result is not followed up properly. Ad hoc teams were expected to
assure coordination among the agencies / institutions implementing the project. But in reality it was
very difficult to get team members who were able to devote most of their time to the program and
willing to be based at the project office.
Lesson Learned
44. Technical Aspect. Since the initiation of Regrening in 1976, the program has been faced with
problems of institutional complexity, long planning procedures and inappropriate field-level
selection of soil conservation measures. Options should not be limited to a very narrow range of
technologies, while a wide rangingbest-bet menu is available, which could be given to farmers
These include construction of small sized sedimentation pits, conventional mulching, vegetative
reinforcement of existing bench terraces, contour hedgerow planting, conservation tillage, strip
cropping with fodder grass or legumes, etc. A livestock production component in regreening
projects would open up opportunities to introduce vegetative conservation measures.
Recommendations to farmers must be followed up with thorough explanation of the advantages and
disadvantages and subsequently a demonstration should be carried out of how selected options
could be implemented. And the farmer should have the option to choose the technologies best suited
to his circumstances. Separation between production and environmental management objectives
makes the demonstration unpopular and unreplicable.It appears that in many situations low cost
vegetative conservation measures can be applied.
- 22-



45. A combination of (i) the Strategy for Watershed Management using the paricipatory method;
(ii) the Integrated Rehabilitation Pattem Approach in a Water Catchment Area (DTA) in the
Smallest Unit of Regreening Management (UTPP); and (iii) the Village Regreening Participatory
Rural Appraisal (P3D - Pengkajian Partisipatif Penghijauan Desa) as a bottom up planning
process, has been found to be very effective in implementing regreening programs.
46. Administrative Delays. The commencement of project is always delayed at Central level due
to lack of preparation of GOI to prepare a project implementing plan. At provincial and district
level the major factors that cause delays in project activities are: (i) the differing perceptions among
members of Tim Pembina on the position of consultant, NGO services and Special Studies; (ii) the
long tender process; (iii) the obligation to conduct the NOL-program for each phase of tender
activities and NOL-financial disbursement for the liquidation of budget; and (iv) the long
administrative funding procedure. The development of Management Information System (MIS)
prepared by consultant will be very helpful in the recording of activities; it was just introduced at
the end of the project Budget allocation should be justified based on local community-developed
rather than local government-developed proposals. However the weakness of understanding
financial administration at the level of the implementor (Farmers Group, LKMD), caused lag of
fund distribution (transparency system). In addition, improper budget allocation leads to excessive
and/or improper recommendations. Long-term and stepwise efforts must be taken to improve
institutional capability. The short-term solution is to conduct intensive field training for extension
workers starting in high priority watersheds.
47. Institutional Aspect. As a non-formal organization of farming communities, KTP is a group
of farmers that have a common interest in the same farming system / business. And therefore, KTPs
must be established by, from and for the interests of the farmers in critical regreening areas, with
the guidance of Field Officers. This would enhance the sense of belonging and sense of
participation of the members. Well developed KTPs, can be directed and developed further into
Cooperatives or joint businesses farmers. In order to economically achieve a business scale, the
working area of the Cooperative should comprise several adjacent KTPs.
48. Strengthening of KTPs with the establishment of Sections (including a Women Farmers'
Section) to implement regreening activities has given positive results with respect to accountability
of duties of each group. Women Farmers empower the KTP by helping to increase the income of
fanmer group members by engaging in the processing of agricultural products, handicrafts and
other business activities.
49. The involvement of LKMD as the institution responsible for bottom up planning and
implementation of village works through consultation at village level, is very suitable.
Strengthening of LKMD by selection of appropriate members (public figures) and training its
members to obtain a correct understanding of the importance of regreening in order to manage
critical land is still necessary.
-23-



Table 1: Achievement of Key Component, Upper Cimanuk Watershed Development Project
Unit       Garut Target            Sunedang Target            Total Target       % Achievemert
_________   _______   ______            ____I_I_to
SAR   Revised  Realized  SAR   Revised  Realized  SAR   Revised  Realized  SAR   Revised
UPLAND CONSERVATION
MANAGEMENT                    _     _                                                      .
(On Farm Treatment)
Participating Sub-district   No.      13       13       13 5             5        5     18       18       18 100         100
Participating Villages       No.    103       103      103    43        43       43    146      146      146    100      100
Total MMD                     ha   1,546        -      983   645          -     307  2,191        -    1,370   62.9         -
Unit   206         -      131    86         -       41   292         -      172   58.9        -
Total AD                      ha   9,570    9,540    6,060  3,990    4,020    2,520  13,56   13,530    8,580  63.27    63.41
______________________________ _                          _ O____ _  0
Unit   160         -      101    66         -       42   226                143   63.3         -
Village Based Nurseries      Unit    521                50    23                 16    75                 66   88.0
Kabupaten Based Nurseries    Unit      I                        1                        2                  -      -
Average Achievement (%)                                                                                        85.08    85.10
ROAD & UPLAND EROSION
CONTROL                                                               _                 _
(Off Farm Treatment)                                                      _             _
Village Access Road          km   88.60    88.60    60.58   37.0      37.0      49.0  125.6    125.6    109.6  87.3      87.3
Inprovement                                                                                                         I
Roadside Drainage            km    132.9   132.9      24.0  55.5      55.5     38.2  188.4   188.4    62.1   33.0        33.0
Vegetative & Structural      Rp.  4,170    4,170         - 1,974    1,974          - 6,684    6,884         -      -        -
Treatments                   mill
Average Achievement (%/o)           _O-40.75    40.75
UPLAND SUPPORT
SERVICES                                                                              _                          _
Land Titles t                Unit 24,675   24,675    4,496  10,32              1,300  35,00             5,796  16.56    16.47
__5                           0       _                 _
Village Funds (Grants)       Rp.    591       591         -   248
mill
On Farm Technology Display    Unit   206      205      136    86        87       78   292       292      214   73.3      73.3
(Key Farmers Tech. Display)   l         l                                      _
Research Plot                Unit      2                        I                        3                         -
Average Achievement (%)       =                                                               =               32.97    32.97
- 24 -



Table - 2. The Tendency of Average Physical performance of MMD, AD and KFTD
Garut and Sumedang District.
Activity                                               Phvsical Performanee
Terrace Stabilization           TeIraces                Fixed Vegetative           Croppin  attern
Begin. 1997     1999    Bein.   1997       1999    Bein.   1997        1999    Begin.   1997    1999
Gart- _ t_                                                           _
MMD            6.39    32.72    38.83    25.49    52.59    53.70    40.57    64.70    62.07    49.48    52.07    52.07
AD        _    4.12    20.62    32.31    27.91    51.08    54.55    28.35    55.56    63.93    45.00    45.00    45.00
KFTD           9.06    52.42    56.27    25.58    64.82    66.48    31.51    62.26    70.00    49.08    55.31    55.31
Sumedang                      _ ___                                  ___
MMD            5.73    39.57    43.70    30.00    60.30    61.70    30.45    56.23    54.80    55.50    55.50    55.50
AD             6.33    33.50    37.50    30.00    50.83    50.85      18.26    40.96    43.50    68.33    68.33    68.33
KFTD           5.55    48.89    62.25    32.22    62.50    62.98    15.57    51.12    58.00    77.77    77.77    87.50
Source: Final Report National Watershed Management and Conservation - Component B, Gamt and
Sumnedang District
Note:
MMD: Model Mikro DAS                 AD: Areal Dampak            KFTD: Key farmer Technology Display
(Micro Watershed Model)            (Lmpact Area)
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
- 25 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Imeact Indicators:
- Project objectives                  - Raise the living standards of poor upland
farmers.
- Improve and restore the productive  Satisfactory outcome within the Upper
potential of the resource base.      Cimanuk project area.
- Protect downstream watershed
resources.
- Institutional impact                Address problems of the national watershed  Outcome rated partially satisfactory since the
management and conservation program.    procedural delays resulted in late take-off of
most of the other components of the project
and, ultimately, in forcing the cancellation of
Component C.
- Environmental impact                Introduce a more appropriate farming system  Project benefits include increased on-farm
and farming practices and improvement in   productivity and environmental quality in the
treatments for off-farm sedimentation control. upand areas due to improved retention of
soil nutrients.
- Impact on women                     Reduce labour for farm cultivation but  Satisfactory outcome of the role of women in
increase the work load for processing and   the regreening programme within UCWCD.
other activitis traditionally performed by
women.
- Impact on indigenous people         Negative impact not envisaged.         No displacement impact on contested land
has actually taken place.
Output Indicators:
Upland conservation management
(On farm treatment)
Participating sub-district     (No.)                   18                                    18
Participating villages       (No.)                    146                                   146
Model Micro-Watershed (MMD)  (No.)                    292                                   172
(ha)                  2,191                                1,378
Impact Area (AD)              (ha)                 13,560                                 8,590
(No.)                   226                                   143
Village (Desa) Based Nurseries   (No.)                 75                                    66
District (Kabupaten) Based Nursery (No.)                2
Road and upland erosion control
(Off farm treatment)
Village access road improvement  (Km)                 125.6                                  109.6
Roadside drainage             (Km)                    188.4                                   62.1
Upland support services
Land titles                   (No.)                35,000                                  5,796
On farm technology display    (No.)                   292                                    214
(Key farmers technology display)
Research plot                (No.)                      3
End of project
- 26 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Pro ect Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
National Insfitution Strengthening                    22.00            16.90          76.8
Upper Cimanuk Watershed                               31.10             9.30          29.9
Investment Support Regreening & Reforestation (R & R)  305.20           0.00             0
Total Baseline Cost                                  358.30            26.20
Physical Contingencies                               18.10             0.00
Price Contingencies                                 111.40             0.00
Total Project Costs              487.80
Total Financing Required              487.80            26.20    .
Proect Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (USS million equivalent)
. . . ...... ..T NO                      Cos
.   ... .....
1. Works                     0.00         0.30         7.50         0,00          7.80
(0.00)       (0.20)       (4.50)       (0.00)       (4.70)
2. Goods                     2.80         1.20          1.00         3.20         8.20
(2.10)       (0.90)       (0.80)       (0.00)       (3.80)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         10.60         0.00         10.60
(T.A and Studies)          (0.00)        (0.00)      (9.10)        (0.00)       (9.10)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         116.70       324.30       441.00
(Farm Treatments and       (0.00)        (0.00)      (27.40)       (0.00)       (27.40)
Village Grants)
5. Training, Research &      0.00         0.00         12.30         0.00         12.30
Extension Material Dev.    (0.00)      (0.00)       (10.50)      (0.00)       (10.50)
6. Support and Project       0.00         0.00          1.90         6.00         7.90
Management Cost          (0.00)       (0.00)        (1.00)      (0.00)        (1.00)
Total                     2.80          1.50        150.00       333.50       487.80
(2.10)       (1.10)       (53.30)      (0.00)       (56.50)
- 27 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                         0.00           0.00           3.60           0.00            3.60
(0.00)         (0.00)         (2.30)         (0.00)         (2.30)
2. Goods                         0.40           0.20           0.10           0.10            0.80
(0.20)         (0. 10)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.30)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           9.30           0.00            9.30
(T.A and Studies)              (0.00)         (0.00)         (9.30)         (0.00)          (9.30)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           9.40           0.00            9.40
(Farm Treatments and           (0.00)         (0.00)         (1.70)          (0.00)         (1.70)
Village Grants)
5. Training, Research &          0.00           0.00           3.00           0.00            3.00
Extension Material Dev.      (0.00)          (0.00)         (2.70)         (0.00)         (2.70)
6. Support and Project           0.00           0.00           0.10           0.00            0.10
Management Cost              (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         0.40           0.20           25.50          0.10           26.20
(0.20)         (0. 10)       (16.00)         (0.00)         (16.30)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
"Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govermnent units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                  4.70      3.10                 2.30       1.30               48.9   41.9   0.0
2. Goods                  3.80      4.40                 0.30       0.50               7.9    11.4   0.0
3. Services               9.10       1.50                9.30                          102.2   0.0    0.0
4. Farm treatments and   27.40     344.60     69.00      1.70       6.90      0.80     6.2    2.0    1.2
Village Grants
S. Training, Research &  10.50      1.80                 2.70       0.40               25.7   22.2   0.0
Extension Material Dev.
6. Support and Project   1.00       6.90                                               0.0    0.0    0.0
Management Costs
TOTAL                    56.50     362.30     69.00      16.30      9.10      0.80     28.8   2.5    1.2
Note: CoF is farmers' contribution for farm treatments.
- 28 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Cost Benefit Analysis
(Indicate currency, units and base year)
Present Value of Flows
Economic Analysis              Financial Analysis
Appraisal    Latest Estimate    Appraisal   Latest Estimate
No. of Beneficiaries                  31,500          20,000         31,500          20,000
Area Developed (ha)                   15,750          9,970          15,750           9,970
Incremental Agricultumal Production:
- Paddy (tons)                      n.a            1,600                       .       -
- Maize (tons)                      n.a            3,700
- Vegetables (tons)                 n.a            7,800       _
- Cassava (tons)                    n.a             600
Incremental Livestock Production       n.a              124
(tons LW)
ERR (%)                                17.3            7.9
FRR (%)    -___X_-__
MMvIDIAD
- Zone I                     _                                   31.8            15.7
- Zone II                                                        27.5            18.4
- Zone III                                                       17.8            13.7
Note:  Details of the analysis are in Appendix A of Annex 7.
- 29-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
.g .f .roject .ycle              No........... .f .ersons and S:Nciaelo Panfo m .. . P
(e.g- 2q Economists I MS, t.      Impmnatri          NIpm
Identification/Preparation
Identification - 10/89       3   E,A,Ev,Ne
Pre-Preparation - 05/90      2   Ev,A
Pre-Preparation                   Ev,A
Woikshop - 10/90             2
Preparation - 02/92          8   E,Ev,A,Ib,Ao,M,Nr,A
Pre-Appraisal - 07/92        8   E,Ev,A,Ib,Ao,M,Nr,A
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appraisal - 02/93            5   A,Ev,Ao,Ne,M
Supervision
1. (02/94)                    4  A,Nr,M,Ne                            S                 S
2. (11/94)                    5  A,Ne,Nr,A,Ao                         S                 S
3. (02/96)                    5  A,Nc,A,Nr,M                          U                 S
4. (Follow-up) (05/96)        1  A                                    U                 S
5. (MTR) (1196)              4  Ao,Ib,Nr,Cd                          U                 U
6. (06/97)                    3  Ao,Cd,Ib                             U                 U
7. (06/98)                    3  Ib,Ao,Nr                             U                 U
8. (02/99)                    2  E,Ao                                 U                 U
ICR
11/99                       4   E,A,A, Ao                           U                 U
1/ lb = Institutional Specialist; Ev  Environmental Specialist; A  Agriculturist; Ao = Agricultural Officer;
E=Economist/Agric.Economist; Ne = Natural Resources Economist; M = MIS Specialist; Nr = Nahtonal
Resource Specialist;
Cd = Community Development Specialist.
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle        ~~~ActuablLats E sftimate:
No. StSffWC~~~~~~    U SS (000) i
Identification/Prepamtion              105.8                       328.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                  102.9                       318.7
Supervision                            132.3                       380.1
ICR                                     12.1                        45.3
Total                                  353.1                      1,072.1
- 30 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
0 Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Sector Policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
N Physical                                O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
Z Financial                               O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
Z Institutional Development               0 H  O SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
Z PovertyReduction                 0 H  O SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
Z Gender                           OH OSUOM ON ONA
r Other (Please specify)
Z Private sector development              0 H  O SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)
- 31 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactoly, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
*. Lending                                          OHS OS OU OHU
* Supervision                                       OHS OS  *U  OHU
J Overall                                           OHS Os   * u  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
2 Preparation                                       OHS OS  * u  O HU
X Government implementation performance             O HS 0 S  0 U  0 HU
Z Implementation agencyperformance                  O HS Os  0 U  0 HU
ZX Overall                                          OHS OS  * U  O HU
- 32-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Economic and Financial Analysis (Appendix A).
2. Research and Training and Extension Sub-Component (Appendix B)
3. Ministry of Home Affairs, DG for Regional Development, Secretariat Central Guidance Team for Regreening
and Reforestation,October 1999: Draft 3 - Project Completion Report.
4. World Bank, Oct. 1993: Staff Appraisal Report: Indonesia - National Watershed Management and
Conservation Project.
- Dec. 1993: Loan Agreement: NWMCP. Washington, D.C
- Feb .1994: NWMCP - Full Supervision Report. Washington, D.C
- Nov. 1994: NWMCP - Full Supervision Report. Washington, D.C
- Feb. 1996: NWMCP - Full Supervision Report. Washington, D.C
- Nov. 1996: NWMCP - Mid Term Review Mission Report. Washington, D.C
- Jun. 1997: NWMCP - Full Supervision Report. Washington, D.C
- Jun. 1998: NWMCP - Full Supervision Report. Washington, D.C
- Feb. 1999: NWMCP - Full Supervision Report. Washington, D.C
- Nov. 1999: NWMCP - ICR Mission Report (incl. aide-memoire). Washington, D.C
- 33 -



Appendix A
Economic and Financial Analysis
Financial Benefits
An ex-post financial analysis has been carried out to assess the achievement of the stated objectives of the
project. At appraisal, the financial analysis was carried out on the basis of three indicative scenarios, taking
into account the major agro-ecological zones of the Upper Cimanuk Watershed. At project completion, for
both Model Micro-Watersheds (MMD) and Expansion Areas (AD), the three different agro-ecological
zones remained classified as follows: (i) a highly sloped vegetable growing area, characterized by large
nutrient losses (Zone I); (ii) a medium to high-sloped area with poorly built or no terraces (Zone II); and
(iii) a moderately sloped area with well built terraces (Zone III). The total project area of about 15,750 ha
corresponding to 2,190 ha in MMDs and 13,560 ha in ADs, has been taken into account. However, as
indicated in Table 1, the total area actually developed under the project reached a total of about 10,000 ha
of which, about 1,400 ha in MMD and 8,600 ha in AD. Project benefits were derived from the different
agro-ecological zone indicated above and included both incremental agricultural and livestock productions.
Total project output in MMD and AD zones has been estimated on the basis of data derived from a survey
recently carried out by the Project Management Unit (PMU), over 580 respondents chosen randomly in the
project area within the districts of Garut and Sumedang. The survey was considered appropriate as far as
land use, crop yields and crop production, crops which gave the basic data to estimate the incremental
value of the agricultural production. In the absence of specific data regarding livestock activities, relative
project impact has been estimated taking into account the number of sheep distributed under the project and
production parameters collected in the field by the ICR mission.
Based on production parameters, land use and production costs as given in details in Tables 1 to 17, the
incremental net value of agricultural production by zone with relative values per ha, are schematically
given below:
Estimated Net Value of Agricultural Production
........ (Rp.' million) .
Zone I                    Zone II                     Zone III
Without       With         Without         With        Without        With
Project      Project        Project       Project       Project      Project
Total Gross Value of Production  14,842    19,287        18,043        24,306         6,013         8,077
Total Production Costs'      10,409        12,600        14,400        16,546         4,124         4,977
Total Net Value of Agricultural    4,433   6,687         3,643         7,760          1,889         3,100
Production
Total Area (ha)'              3,258        3,258         4,729         4,729          1,981         1,981
Average Net Value of Production  1,360     2,052          770           1,641         954           1,565
(Rp.'000/ha)
Incremental Net Value          -            692             -           871             -            611
of Production (Rp.'000/ha)                      I_I                                                          I
1/ Based on data given in Tables 12, 14 and 16 and using financial prices as given in Table 7.
2/ Based on data given in Table 13, 15 and 17, and converting values in financial tenns.
3/ As given in Table 2.
- 34-



In the absence of specific data regarding livestock activities, relative project impact has been estimated
taking into consideration the number of sheep distributed under the project and production parameters
collected in the field by the ICR mission. A total of 3,682 sheep was actually distributed during the project
(2,082 in Garut and 1,600 in Sumedang). The total number of lambs born every year is estimated at 4,125
and the total annual incremental production is estimated at 123,750 kg LW on the basis of 30 kg/hd LW.
The net incremental value of livestock production is therefore estimated at Rp. 1.2 billion per year
assuming a net income of Rp. 10,000/kg LW.
On the basis of the above and assuming an average farm size of 0.5 ha to be in line with SAR approach,
although it is believed that it is currently smaller, the net incremental farm income by zone would range
from Rp. 363,000 (Zone III) to 496,000 (Zone II) and returns to family labor, with project, would range
from Rp. 54,300/day (Zone I) to Rp. 58,700/day (Zone II) with increases over the without project situation
ranging from 20% (Zone I) to 83% (Zone II) as indicated in the table below.
Estimated Farm Income (0.5 ha/farm)
............. .(Rp.'000) .
________________ Zone IZone HI                                             Zoine III
Without Project With  Project  Without Project With  Project Without Project With Project
Average Net Value       680            1,026          385           821           477            783
of Agricultural Production
Average Net Value                       60                           60                           60
of Livestock Production
Total                   680           1,086           385           881            477           840
Family Labor Input (pd)   15             20            12             15             12           15
Rettun to Family Labor (Rp./pd) 45,300  54,300      32,080         58,700         39,750        56,000
Increase (%)                            20                             83                          41
Financial Rates of Return
The financial rate of return (FRR) analysis has been carried out on the basis of an average investment cost
per farm of Rp. 2,020,000 including Rp. 1,928,000 per ha for civil works and inputs as detailed in Table
24 and Rp. 92,000 to cover the average livestock investment cost per farm on the basis of the total number
of sheep distributed under the project as indicated above and benefiting about 20,000 farm families. On
these bases, the FRRs over the on-farm investments undertaken under the project would range from 13.7%
(Zone III) to 18.4% (Zone II) (Table 25). These values, although still considered satisfactory, are well
below SARs estimates because of the actual high level of on-farm investments.
- 35 -



Economic Re-evaluation
As at appraisal, the economic analysis is carried out for the Upper Cimanuk component of the project. The
main assumptions underlying the ex-post analysis and the methodology followed are described below:
(i)    Benefits. The main project benefits materialized in an annual incremental agricultural production,
including about 1,600 tons of paddy, 3,700 tons of maize, 7,800 tons of vegetables including cabbages and
chilies and 600 tons of cassava (Tables 12, 14 and 16). The total estimated net value of annual incremental
agricultural production in economic terms is given in Table 22. The incremental annual livestock
production is estimated at about 124,000 kg LW taking into account that some 3,682 sheep were
distributed by the project in both Garut and Sumedang districts.
(ii)   Standard Conversion Factor. Following the approach used at appraisal, a SCF of 0.9 has been
used to convert local financial costs of non-traded items into border price terms, in order to reflect the
prevailing distortions in the economy.
(iii)  Investment Costs. The investment costs of Components A and B (Table 20), were included in the
overall project Economic Rate of Return (ERR) calculation. However, it was assumed that only 20% of
the TA and research and training costs would be attributable to the Upper Cimanuk component. The local
costs were adjusted by applying a SCF of 0.9.
(iv)   Prices. A list of economic prices of main project outputs is given in Table 7. Specifically, detailed
calculation to estimate the economic prices for rice, maize, groundnuts and cassava are given in Tables 8 to
10. In line with the assumptions used at appraisal, an average import and export parity prices for rice,
maize and groundnuts, and an export parity price for cassava have been used. For other project output,
considered non tradable, financial prices have been adjusted by using the SCF of 0.9.
(v)    Operating Costs. Operating costs including labor have been estimated on the basis of financial
costs as presented in Tables 5, 6 and 7 and multiplied by the SCF of 0.9.
On the basis of the above assumptions, the ERR for the Upper Cimanuk component of the project is
estimated at 7.9 (Table 23), which is well below the ERR of 17.3% assessed at appraisal. Major factors
that have negatively affected the economic impact of the project include the high investment cost of the
operation, which is estimated at about US$ 1,600/ha or about 60% above appraisal estimates. No separate
economic analysis has been carried out for the road component because of lack of data.
Note: The complete tables (1 - 25) are available together with other supporting documents.
- 36-



Appendix B
Research and Training and Extension Sub-Component
INTRODUCTION
The National Watershed Management and Conservation project aimed at building up the technical and
institutional ability of the GOI's Regreening and Reforestation Programme (R&R) to promote community
based management of upland resources. The Research and Training-and-Extension sub-components were
pivotal for the project's success as they provided technical inputs, enhanced communication with farmers
and were essential for implementing the other sub-components. The research working group and associated
technical assistance provided inputs that were used for training and extension mainly in the form of
guidelines, manuals and extension materials. Although training for Information Support Systems (ISS) was
to be the responsibility of the training-and-extension working group as designed at appraisal it was actually
administered by the ISS working group and therefore required close collaboration between the ISS and
Training and Extension working groups. The execution of farmer level operations under the Upper
Cimanuk sub-component was also very much dependent on a well-trained extension service.
This annex describes the experience and results of these two sub-components in more details.
RESEARCH SUB-COMPONENT
The research sub-component aimed at providing a continuous flow of new technologies and alternatives to
policy makers, planners, extension agents and farmers to promote soil conservation and upland resource
development.
This objective was to be achieved by institutionalizing support for a decentralized, multi-disciplinary
program of upland research; integrating new research findings and technical improvements into the field
level investments of the national R&R program; and continuously incorporating into research, problems
that were identified during implementation.
Seven activities were planned at appraisal to be overseen by a subcommittee of the central secretariat and
the research working group, and contracted out to individuals and groups of researchers. The planned
activities were; a) needs assessment, b) development of improved planting material, c) a research grant to
find solutions to project-identified research needs, d) dissemination of results, e) literature review, f) study
tours of research institutions abroad and, g) development of strategic plans for Watershed Management
Technology Centre(s) (WMTC) and the Soil Conservation research program of the AFRD. Emphasis was
to be placed on conducting research in an interdisciplinary manner encompassing a wide range of land use
systems and developing linkages to the Agriculture, Forestry and Public Works Ministries.
- 37-



Implementation Experience
All seven activities identified at appraisal were implemented with varying degrees of success. The
assessment of research needs was done by first consulting farmers, extension workers, local government
units and local NGOs. The outcome from this was then reviewed at a seminar involving the central
Secretariat and the research working group. Three priority fields of interest were identified, namely: locally
adapted vegetative soil conservation measures; constraints faced by farmers in adopting recommendations
of improved land use; and ways to incorporate economic benefits to farmers' conservation practices.
The actual research work was implemented partly by the Agency for Agricultural Research and
Development (AARD) and/or by the Forestry Research and Development Agency (FORDA) research
stations and partly by Universities. At the end project, some of the issues identified at appraisal and by the
research needs assessment still remained to be addressed. Several factors limited the progress of research:
Firstly, for research work to begin a No Objection Letter was required from the Bank who would only issue
this once the technical assistance was in place. Secondly, qualified interdisciplinary research staff was
limited and no additional research staff could be recruited for the project's work. Thirdly, there was a
strong bias, at least in the initial stages, towards academic solutions, particularly by the Universities.
Finally, the research that was done resulted in blanket recommendations that were not necessarily suited to
site-specific requirements.
Research results from the activities that were to develop of improved planting material and use the research
grant were disseminated through publications, workshops, seminars, and field level interaction with farmers
and extension staff No figures were provided on the number of farmers who adopted the recommended and
disseminated technologies. However, the impact of research recommendation could have been greater if the
dissemination methods and material were better adapted to the technical capacity of the target groups -
extension workers and farmers. Simplification of these materials was later done by Extension Centres, as
mentioned in the Extension section below.
The literature review was well integrated into the research and dissemination processes of this project as
well as other completed or on-going projects in the country. It also resulted in some publications. Five
members of the R&R Secretariat went on overseas study tours. The benefits of the overseas training could
have been greater if the tours were more widely allocated to include the outposted research staff. Finally, a
review of the R&R program and watershed management technology centres and of the conservation work
done by FORDA and AARD was successfully conducted by consultants with facilitation from the research
working group and the results were presented in a report.
Results and Impact on Overall Project
Five of the seven planned activities were well executed. The sub-component's impact, however, was very
much dependent on the findings from the other two features which were to develop improved planting
material and utilize the research grants to find solutions to project-identified research needs, and report on
the findings. These two items accounted for the largest proportion of costs within the sub-component. They
were meant to provide findings on, among other things, ways to integrate annual and perennial crops in
existing farming systems; vegetative soil and water conservation measures; socio-economic and marketing
aspects of conservation; effects of soil and climate on potential crops; proposals for series of improved soil
and moisture conservation techniques; and, assessment of the availability of quality planting material (fruit
trees, timber trees, grass) for which there was a farmer demand and which were suited to local conditions.
Some positive results emerged on these themes, but work remained weak on the socio-economic benefits
- 38 -



both from the government and the farmers' perspective. For example, ways to overcome constraints and
improve the economic returns of farmers adopting recommended conservation measures were not
sufficiently addressed by the research programme. The recommended technologies tended to focus
exclusively on soil conservation, while farmers frequently did not see erosion as a problem and therefore
would only adopt recommended measures when incentives were provided.
The research component was essentially meant to use MMD and AD project farmers to demonstrate
research findings through the extension workers, so as to encourage voluntary adoption of conservation
practices in the surrounding areas. Little or no voluntary adoption took place and often, after initial works,
maintenance did not continue. The measures proposed were generally not sufficiently site specific, and
sometimes inappropriate for existing farming systems. These weaknesses were recognized in FY 95196 and
the research approach was changed the following year to increase farmer consultation. Great strides were
taken to involve farmers in research and valuable lessons, particularly from Sumedang, were incorporated
into the manuals and guidelines. For example, in one village visited, farmers were facing the problem that
their regular crops were unable to grow under shade as the trees they had planted as a conservation
measure grew taller. Research recommended changing to shade resistant crops like ginger, turmeric and
chilli, which were also easily marketable in the area. Some progress has been made in acknowledging the
importance of incorporating field level experience into research. Researchers have started involving farmers
in research work to develop several "best bet" practices from which they can select what suits their
situation. One such initiative that took place to a limited extent was to have tripartite meetings between
researchers, extension workers and farmers to exchange information. However, weak linkages between
research and extension continued to impede implementation. Planning for research under the project did not
adequately take into account the limited resources available, especially inter-disciplinary research staff and
given the current economic crisis in the country it is unlikely that funds would be made available for hiring
additional staff under the national R&R programme. To achieve the goal of providing site specific
recommendations the extension services would need to be much stronger and provide feedback to research
on local farmer problems.
Lessons
The division of responsibilities between the various agencies involved in soil and water conservation
research needs to be clearly defined to avoid gaps and overlaps.
To increase the likelihood of adoption, research needs to be re-oriented away from the existing top-down
approach by consulting farmers not only in defming the annual work plans but also in the process of
implementing the research. Advantage should be taken of known technologies, both local and international,
and these should be adapted to local circumstances through field trials at farmer level in different
agro-ecological zones. Efforts should also be made to include indigenous technologies to the menu of
recommended technologies.
- 39 -



TRAINING AND EXTENSION SUB-COMPONENT
The objective of the training and extension sub-component was to strengthen GOI's ability to effectively
implement the R&R program by increasing awareness of the need for improved watershed management,
enhancing capabilities for planning, promoting project participation at the district and farmer levels, and
advocating the utilization of improved, site specific farm production and conservation technology.
The training and extension working group was composed of representatives from MOHA, MOFr and
MOA, where MOHA was responsible for managing the funds and general administration, and MOFr and
MOA provided the technical inputs. Funds for training and extension were roughly 55% and 45 %,
respectively, of the total and were channeled either through the MOHA project leader in the working group
or the Ministry of Finance at the local government level.
Cost and Number of Participants for Training Courses
National Watershed Management Conservation
1994/1995 - 1999/2000
No.              Training                 Number of             Budget
Participant           (Rp.)
1    ISS                                      152            1,395,000,000
2    Conservation Technology                 5,166           6,558,029,855
3    Project Management                       420            1,681,900,000
4    Extension                               6,564           6,473,185,965
TOTAL                      12,302           16,108,115,820
Source: BANGDA, December 1999.
Training
In order to more effectively implement GOI's national soil conservation and R&R program, the training
and extension working group was assigned the task of developing a taining program concentrating on the
fields of ISS; land use and participatory planning; improved site-specific conservation technology and
production and marketing.
Three categories of training were conducted under three different sub-components. Besides extension
workers, participants in the training programmes included local government staff, technical staff of
implementing agencies as well as village leaders and women's groups. The first category was managed by
the working group under the ISS sub-component. The ISS training was provided to government staff from
the district (60% of participants) and central (MOHA -20% and MOFr - 20%) levels through resource
persons from Universities and the private sector. The second category of training fell under the Upper
-40-



Cimanuk component, where extension workers and village leaders were trained by the LBDS - NGO on
ways to facilitate their communication with farmers using Participatory Rural Appraisals (PRA) and
Training of Trainers (TOT). Under the third category, the national training centres provided courses on
conservation technology, extension and project management to project staff using inputs from research and
the technical assistance. This was conducted nation wide under the training and extension sub-component.
Implementation Experience
Among the training programmes foreseen at appraisal only the overseas visits were not carried out due to
Central Secretariat's decision to reduce costs given the ongoing regional economic crisis. This led to a large
reduction in costs and, combined with savings made from a higher exchange rate, it resulted in only 20 %
of the allocated training funds being utilized. An assessment of training needs was done only in 1998
because the two pre-requisites needed were not in place at the right time. The first related to the timely
availability of the training modules supposed to be provided under technical assistance, which started with
a two year delay. The other was linked to an independent decentralization in which forestry extension
workers were moved from the local level MOFr offices to a unit under the local government
(Bupati/MOHA) where extension workers from other fields were also located. With this move, the role of
forestry extension workers changed radically from one of managing activities in a top-down association
with farmers to one solely of extension to be conducted in a participatory manner. Thus, implementation of
training was slowed down by late issuance of the new job descriptions, becoming available only in 1996,
and by the time needed for forestry extension workers to adjust-to their new functions. Although the
majority of extension staff was from MOFr, the others were recruited from diverse backgrounds and had
widely varying skill gaps. These gaps had to be identified for the competence-based approach to be adopted
for the training activities.
Training was conducted on the following topics:
(i)    Conservation technology: land rehabilitation and soil conservation; planning of regreening and
rehabilitation activities; planning for soil conservation; village nursery development.
(ii)   Extension: management of forestry extension; basics of forestry extension; planning and organizing
extension activity.
(iii)   Project Management: project management for project managers; project management for project
treasurers; administration of loan project management.
The majority of participants came from the district government offices (90%/6) and the rest were farmer
leaders or government staff from the central and provincial levels (MOHA/MOFr) depending on the course.
Sixty percent of participants were from Java, which accounts for the same percentage of the country's
population and the largest number of critical watersheds identified in the regreening programme. There is
about 5,000 extension workers nation-wide, with roughly one per 20 villages. Overall, the programme is
recorded as having had more than twelve thousand participants for training, most of whom were extension
workers who attended more than one course.
Different training centres within the country were used, depending on the programme. Ninety five percent
of participants were trained on conservation technology and extension, which were carried out by the
Ministry of Forestry regional training centres. This was done over a 2-week period for about 20
participants per session. Three trainers were needed for a training session to effectively run the courses,
particularly field trials where classes were divided into smaller groups of six or seven per trainer. Each
session had 4 days of initial classroom lectures & group work; one week of field practice on topics such as
semi-structured interviews, cropping calendars, sketch map or crop analysis; then 3 final days were devoted
- 41 -



to presenting reflections and recommend improvements. Since participants were trained in regional centres
of the areas they worked in, their feedback on applicability of conservation methods advocated was
constructive. This first evaluation is to be followed by a second one, after a year of testing the skills learnt
in their home environment Through this evaluative process the participants were expected to give their
views on the usefulness and gaps of the skills acquired. They were also required to contribute to the
inclusion of the local level perspective in manuals/guidelines developed for use at the national level plus
give advice on new trends in farmer attitudes at their home villages.
Project management courses were provided by the Ministries of Finance, Home Affairs or Forestry
depending on the specialization required in the programme.
Extension
Extension was to assist in the transfer technical knowledge on upland conservation practices from research
and the technical assistance to farmers in the project sites. Dissemination was to be enhanced by
strengthening extension workers' capacity through training and by adapting materials received from
research, technical assistance and the training sub-components into forms usable at the fanner level.
Additional support was to be given in (i) improving extension programs to the general public (e.g. radio
and television); (ii) undertaking special R&R campaigns; (iii) field workshops for farming groups, NGOs,
LKMDs, women groups, and (iv) study tours for technicians at Kabupaten level.
Implementation Experience
At the beginning of the project, the role of extension and its distinction from training was unclear to the
project managers until the technical report (No. 1) of November 1995 provided an explanation. Extension
was conducted at two levels, at the central level by the Extension Centres and at the district level by
extension workers. The former were responsible for providing manuals and guidelines on ways of
communicating with farners, and for explicating other manuals/guidelines into simpler language that could
be used for training farmers. The Centres' other roles included dissemination activities such as the
campaigns and media communication under this and the research sub-component, as well as the
introduction of innovative ways to facilitate inter-district exchange of experiences.
The two levels of extension are not related administratively, even more so now, since the forestry extension
workers were transferred to the local government offices under the Bupati. Information on changing
requirements at the field level with on-going implementation was obtained through independent regular
meetings held between Bupati and heads of line ministries where district needs are presented. For instance
marketing of surpluses and access to credit were brought up as constraints facing farmers in response to
which the Extension Centres provided guidelines explaining the processes involved in both and also
contacted headquarters of companies in the centre and provinces to raise awareness to these constraints and
work out possible solutions.
The large majority of the extension workers were from the Ministry of Forestry (PPL) and, as explained in
the training section above, their transfer to the local governnent also meant a significant change in their
role, which required some time to adjust to. The extension workers' role as advanced under this project
introduced new methods of communicating with farmers and within the Cimanuk component it closely
liaised with the LBDS-NGO under the technical assistance. The approach adopted had the flexibility to
respond to the needs and priorities of beneficiaries with special emphasis on community participation and
ownership, albeit more time consuming. The Government's decision to permanently assign extension
workers to a given area allowed for continuity and improved relations with beneficiaries. The restricted
- 42 -



budget and number of staff generally limited the coverage of extension services, even though a
farmer-to-farmer extension approach was used. Farmer group leaders participated in the training
programmes for extension staff, which covered subjects like Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA), Training
of Trainers (TOT) and extension management. In addition to training, manuals were supposed to be
provided to extension staff from the technical assistance and research activities but they were not
immediately ready for use. These manuals needed to be simplified further for adoption to the targeted users'
circumstances, thus slowing down the extension process. The simplification was being done by the
Extension Centres and was still ongoing at the time of the mission. On the basis of the above, it is yet too
early to precisely evaluate the final outcome of the extension sub-component which, at project completion,
is rated partially satisfactory.
Mechanisms to support the R&R extension through improved dissemination tools were developed as
planned at appraisal. This was planned to take place in four stages, that is; a trial in Cimanuk; evaluation
by a consultant team; nation-wide promotion; and, final evaluation. Within the trial stage extension
materials such as leaflets, posters, visual and audio recordings were produced and used through workshops
and field meetings within the Cimanuk component. This stage also included campaigns as well as two types
of village to village study tours, a demonstrative type for three days and another with a leam by doing
orientation over a two week period. These were positively evaluated by a consultant team who
recommended that the materials needed to be further simplified prior to national promotion.
Funds for extension services from the Centres was provided through the project leader within the training
and extension working group, while those at the field level were received through the Ministry of Finance
and the local government. Most of the funds were used to meet the cost for improved dissemination
methods and equipment. Under the Cimanuk components provisions were made for extra incentive to
extension staff and six new extension workers were recruited for the first three years out of which two were
retained up to the end of the project.
Results and Impact of Training and Extension on the Overall Project
The project created a critical mass of trained staff at the extension level and support functions at higher levels at
the centre and provinces as well as assisted the forestay extension staff as they redefined their role. The planned
activities were reasonably related to achieving the project objectives and to improving management and
implementation capacity of the extension services at the central and district levels. The training feature of this
sub-component was able to reach all districts and the approach was changed from the one previously used of
lectures only, to include more interactive group discussions and field practice.
The adoption of participatory planning and implementation methods for development activities in the Upper
Cimanuk Watershed Development component involved farmer group formation and more intensive extension
efforts and consequently were more time consuming though much more effective than traditional approaches. This
participatory approach to extension was not envisaged at the time of project appraisal, but on the other hand is one
of the lasting contributions made by the project to the whole R&R programme. The project has illustrated that the
GOI, in particular the MOFr, can evolve from one concemed mainly with policing and promoting tree planting to
one that supports local communities to manage forests and promotes upland conservation practices. The
reorientation to the community forestry concept and the bottom-up approach was critical for implementation of this
project. The change in institutional culture was accelerated by investing heavily in training to build
implementation capacity at district levels and supporting functions at the central and provincial levels as well as by
the involvement of an NGO to facilitate communication with farmers.
With the exception of the change in institutional culture, the impact of training on execution of related
project activities is not yet discernible since more than 70% of the participants only received their training
- 43 -



in the last two years of the project. This is particularly true of the performance of MMD and AD
operations where a better trained extension service was not established long enough for any beneficial
effects to become evident.
The government's decision to permanently assign individual extension workers to one district helped to
build trust and long-term relations with local communities. It is hoped that the R&R will follow-up on the
collection and analysis of observations from extension workers after one year of tryout and that efforts
taken to improve linkages between research-extension-farmers are extended even further. The mission was
informed that an evaluation of the extension programme is planned for year 2000, but a source of funding
had not yet been identified.
Some external factors that impeded implementation and adoption of recommended technologies were:
The fact that institutional and social changes take time regardless of the extent of commitment from all
stakeholders was one factor. Watershed development is greatly dependent on community commitment,
participation, benefit and maintenance of assets created. The project helped create a general acceptance on
the importance of expanding the level of community involvement.
A second factor was a drought in 1997-98, which not only reduced farmers' yields but also killed some of
the trees planted in the Upper Cimanuk districts, Garut and Sumedang. New seedlings were obtained from
the project nurseries for re-planting.
The small size of most of the land holdings (0.2 to 0.3 ha) in the project area was a third factor. Generally
in upland areas of West Java, small land holdings impose a major constraint to farmers adoption of
recommended soil conservation treatments, particularly those involving tree planting. The government
could benefit from looking at how other Asian governments are handling the same situation, for example
the Philippines.
Finally, the uncertainty of land ownership inhibits farmers' adoption of conservation measures, especially
when these require a long-term investment like in planting of trees and perennial crops. Since 1998, this
land tenure problem is being properly addressed through the redistribution of available state land, the
introduction of simplified procedures for the issuance of land title certificates and the promotion of
medium-term agreements between tenants and absentee landowners.
Recommendations/Lessons
For participatory projects there is a need for a pre-construction phase before the actual physical works are
started to develop fully operational groups and during which process communities can be fully involved and
consulted. Building consensus in a village is a time consuming process and "social engineering" requires a
longer time to implement than physical works financed by the project.
The experience of beneficiary empowerment through increased involvement in project management starting
from the planning stages to the actual management of funds was taken very positively by farmers, project
managers and policy makers. Positive effects that were especially appreciated were the incorporation of
farmers' priorities at planning stage and farmer administration of funds, with the ensuing reduced costs and
enhanced ownership.
- 44 -



