Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12094-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
NATIONAL WATERSHED MANAGEMENT
AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
OCTOBER 19, 1993
MvICR>FOGR:APHIC'S
Report No. 1.i9.IN4    D
1 /De : C5-1R
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Region
-~1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 1, 1993)
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00 = Rp 2,074
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1- March 31
ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS, AND INDONESIAN TERMINOLOGY
AARD               - Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
AFRD               - Agency for Forestry Research and Development
AMDAL              - Ervironmental Impact Analysis
BANGDA             - Directorate General for Regional Development (MOHA)
BAPPEDA            - Provincial Development Planning Agency
BAPPENAS           - National Development Planning Agency
BIMAS              - Mass Guideance (Rice Intensification Program)
BPKP               - Financial and Development Advisory Board
BPN                - National Land Agency
BUPATI             - District (Kabupaten) Chief
DINAS              - Provincial and District Government Offices
GOI                - Government of Indonesia
INPRES             - Presidential Instruction
ISS                - Information Support System
KPFS               - Kapubaten Level Financial Statement
LCO                - Local Community Organization
MIS                - Management Information System
MOA                - Ministry of Agriculture
MOFr               - Ministry of Forestry
MORA               - Ministry of Home Affairs
MOPW               - Ministry of Public Works
MTR                - Mid-Term-Review
NPFS               - National Project Financial Statement
PIL                - Preliminary Environmental Impact Assessment
PIMPRO             - Pimpinan Proyek (Project leader)
PMU                - Project Management Unit
POLA RLKT DAS   - Watershed Plan (25 years)
PPFS               - Provincial Level Financial Statement
PUOPR              - General Planning and Operation of the Central R&R Program
REPELITA           - Indonesia National Five-Year Development Plan
REPPROT            - Regional Physical Planning for Transmigration
RIS                - Resource Information System
RLKT               - Rehabilitasi Lahan Dan Konservasi Tanah (Land Rehabilitation
and Soil Conservation)
RLR                - DG of Reforestation and Land Rehabilitation, Ministry of Forestry
R&R                - Regreening and Reforestation Program
RTL RLKT Sb-DAS - Watershed Plan (5 years)
RTr                - Watershed Plan (annual plan)
SALT               - Sloping Agriculture Land Stabilization
SPABP              - Local INPRES R&R Budget
SOEs               - Statement of Expenditures
TIM PEMBINA        - Provincial and District Guidance Teams
TIM PENGARAH    - Steering Comrnittee of the Regreening and Reforestation Progran
TIM PENGENDALI - Central Guidance Team of the Regreening and Reforestatdon
Program
UPM                - Sedentary Farming Demonstration Unit (20 ha) of the Regreening
Program
UPSA               - Soil Conservation Demonstration Unit (10 ha) of the Regreening
Program
USAID              - United States Agency for Inernational Developmert



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
NATIONAL WATERSHED MANAGEMENT AND
CONSERVATION PROJECT
LOAN AND tojEr SumMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Indonesia
Amount:             US$56.5 million equivalent
Terms:              Standard variable interest rate for a term of 20 years, including 5
years of grace.
Project Description: The main goals of the project would be to improve the living
standards of poor upland farmers by improving and restoring the
productive potential of their resource base and to improve watershed
environnental quality and protect downstream watershed resources.
The project would inter alia support:
(i) Institutional strengthening to improve the National Watershed
Development Program (Regreening and Reforestation) guidelines
and policies, overall coordination and operational support;
(ii) Development of the Upper Cimanuk watershed; and
(iii) Investment support for the Regreening and Reforestat1on Program.
The National Instional Strengthening component would provie'.
support for improvement of planning, management and natural
resource information systems, the creation of a multi-disciplinary
upland research program and training and extension. The Upper
Cimanuk Watershed Conservation and Development component
would stabilize critical areas in the Upper Cimanuk watershed (West
Java) by supporting the introduction of improved farming systems
on 15,750 ha of arable land, combined with soil conservation
practices, road upgrading and drainage rehabilitation. The Cimanuk
component would serve as the initial implementation area for the
procedural changes and technical approaches promoted by the
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanc    i
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatilna.



- i -
project under the niational R&R program.  Contingent upon
satisfactory progress in the first two years of the project, the Bank's
contribution to the Investmen Support component would finance
inputs for farm system improvements and nursery development for
GOI's ongoing R&R program in 39 priority water3heds covering
193 Kabupaten across the country.
Benefts:           Benefits of the project include increased fann production and
improved productivity in the upland areas, and improved
environmental qrality both on-site and downstream as well as
improved development opportunities for local participation, farm
employment and income.
Risks:             The main risks would be related to GOI's sustainable efforts in
making appropriate institutional and policy changes in the
Regreen;ng and Reforestation program (R&R). Another risk relates
to the development of productive farming systems for the diverse
ecological conditions found in the watersheds. Bank support for the
R&R progran would only be disbursed following an initial period
of institutio..al improvements in conjunction wiffi project assistance
m training, extension and use of technical assistance.
Fstimated Costs La                         Local       Foreig        Total
=====-=== {US$ million  -
Project Components:
National Institutional Strengthening        14.8          7.2        22.0
Total Investment Support for Regreening
and Reforesttion                         288.8          16.4       305.2
Upper Cimamuk Watershed                     27.3          3.8        31.1
Total Base Costs                           330.9         27.4       358.3
Physical Contingencies                      16.7          1.4        18.1
Price Contingencies                        107.6          3.8        111.4
Total Project Costs
LA Including taxes and duties of about US$14.9 million equivalent.



iii -
Financng Plab:                           Local       Foreign      Total
US$ million
Government                               339.8        22.5        362.3
Fanmers                                   69.0          -         69.0
IBRD                                      46.4         10.1       56.5
Tota       g                         ,4SS.2        NA         4
Esdmated Dibursements:
Bank FY            FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98       FY99    FY200
USS million--
Anral               3.8      5.4    12.0    12.4       11.9     11.0
Cumulative          3.8      9.2    21.2    33.6      45.5      56.5
Economic Rate of Return: 17% (for Cimanuk Component)
Poverty Category:    Program of tageted iterventions. The project would improve
living standards of predominantly poor upland fanners through
elioration of the productive potential of prority wDathds.
MAP: IBRD 24775/6



- iv -
CONTENTS
1 SECTOR AND PROJECTBACKGROUND                        ......................  1
A. Introduction  ........................................  1
B. The Agricultural Sector                 .................................  1
C. TheNon-IrrigatedSubsectorand UplandAgricultr  ...............  3
D. Watershed Management and Conservation Programs and Strategy  ..... ..  4
2 BANKINVOLVEMENT ANDLESSONSLEARNED  ................   6
A. Bank Involvement in Watershed Management andCb       na¢on  ........  6
B. Issues and LessonsLamd ear ...........................  8
C. Proposed Strategy and Rationale for Future Bank Involvement ........  10
3 THIEPROJECT                          ........... . 11
A. Project Concept and Objecdves  ..............     I ............   11
B. Deiled Features ......................... ......  ..  .  12
4 PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ..............                  ...........   18
A. Project Costs      .......................................  18
B. Financing .........................................   19
C. Procurement........................................  20
D. Disbursements          ...................... .                    ...  22
E. Accounts andAudkt                 .............. .  24
5 PROJECT ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION  26
A. Project Organization and Mangement .......................  26
B. Inplementadon Arngements ............................  28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Indonesia in Februa 1993.
The mission consisted of Messrs. B. van de Poll, W. Msgrath, A. Sahulat and
Ms. S. Bettencourt (Bank) and Mr. 1. Dalton (consutant).  Assisanc  by Mes.
W. Luswmbe, R.Crooks, R. Ng, M. Hasan (Bank), a wel as Ms. C. Brown (Bank) and
Ms. L. Jellinek (consultant) is acknowledged. Peer reiewr wer Mem. R. Grlmshaw
and T. Wiens. Ms. M. Haug, Director, EA3 and Mr. A. Cole, Chif, EA3AG have
endorsed the project.



6  PROJECr MPACT  .....................................   31
A. Benefits and Justiflcation              ...............................   31
B. Institutional andEnvironmentalImnpact .......................   37
C. Sustainability and Risks  ................................   38
7 AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..                                       ......... 40
TABLES IN TEXT
2.1 Bank Supported Projects                   .....................                             7
4.1  Project Cost Summary          .................             ..................   18
4.2  Project Financin  Flan ...................................   19
4.3  Procurement Plan    ..................                  ....................   21
6.1  Farm FamilyBenefits ...................................  33
6.2  SensitivityAnalysis    ..................                 ...................   36
ANNEXES
1.   Watershed Management and Regreening and Reforesation Program  ..... .    42
2.   UpperCChnanukWaterbed Component  .........                   ..      ............    48
3.   Infornation Support System and Land Use Planning  ..... ..                 ........    60
4.   UplandResearch and TechnologyDevelopment  ..................    65
5.   Trainn  and Extension           ................            .................    69
6.   Techn;cal Assistance        .................             ..................    72
7.   Pojet Splemetaion SedWule  .......................................                   8
7.   Project Li  lmnaioSi l.85
8.   Economic Analysis of the Upper Chnanuk Componet ....m..                    ........    90
9.   Project Cost Estimates        ................11..................   i
10. Schedule of Disbursements .................                                              115
11.  ProcurementofMajorGoodsandCivilWorks ...................   116
12.  ProjectSupervisionPlan ..........................  .....   119
13.  SelecteddocunentsinProjectile  .........................   120
CHART: Organization of the Regreening and Reforestation Prorm
MAPS:  BRD No: 24775/6



1
SECTOR AND PROJECT BACKGROUND
A. INTRODUCTION
1.1         While the Government of Indonesia (GOI) has been very successful over the
pat decades in reducing poverty, much of this gain has occurred in lowland areas t-hrough
large investments in irrigated food crops. These have, to a large extent, bypassed thb
rainfed upland areas where the incidence of poverty among smallholders remains high.
Rising agriculture conversion in the upland areas, due to growing populations, in
combination with accelerated timber harvesting and other developments, are increasing soil
erosion, loss of productivity of agricultural land and other forms of enviromnental and
economic degradation.
1.2         GOI has responded to the above challenges through a national program
seeking to promote sustainable and replhcable frming and soil conservation systems in 39
identified watersheds (63 million ha) which require priority rehabilitation treatent. The
proposed project is designed to support GOI's effort to expand this program and particularly
to strengthen its technological base and insutional capabilities.
B. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Sector Overview
1.3         Agriculture remains a key sector of the Indonesian economy, contributing
21 percent of GDP, providing employment to some 55 percent of the labor force, and
generating 26 percent of non-oil exports. Of some 24.0 million ha under permanent
culivation, about 16.0 million ha is under food and tree crops, of which about 5.5 million
ha Is irrigated. With the exception of estate crops, nearly all agricultural production is
undertaen by 18 million smallholders, a majority of whom farm less than 1 ha. Farm
incomes are increasingly supplemented by earnings from off-farm employment, which can
contribute 30 percent or more of net farm incomes. In areas near the larger cities, where
there are expanding opporunities, especially for the employment of young males, women
are playing an increasingly important role in farming. Rapid urbanization is also inducing,
in certain areas of Java, a shift towards less labor-intensIve farning practices.



-2 -
Performance
1.4         The agricultural sector grew at 3.8 percent per annum between 1969-89,
compared with a population growth of 2.1 percent. Food crops, which account for
60 percent of agricultural GDP, grew at 4.2 percent per annum during the same period.
Significant yield increases in maize, cassava and soybean nave been realized, albeit at a
slower rate than rice. Rice, the single largest component of the food crops subsector, grew
at an even faster rate, 4.8 percent per annum, particularly during the 1979-89 period. The
achievement of self-sufficiency in rice, attained in 1984, was not only efficient, given
Indonesia's comparative advantage in labor-intensive production, but was equally effective
in alleviating poverty, because rice production was the main ea7nomic activity and source
of income of the rural poor. Most of the growth in agricuLural prcducticn has occurred on
irrigated land, which represents only 25 percent of the area under permanent cultivation.
In areas where soils are not suitable for rice and other food crop production, tree crops have
contributed to employment and income generation for smallholders. Tree crops are
especially important for small farmers in the outer islands, where they are ideally suited to
the climate and soil conditions. Given the past focus of Government on paddy development
in the lowlands, rural poverty continues to be most severe in the upiand areas.
Objectives and Future Strategies
1.5         The Govermnent's major objectives for the agricultural sector have included
food security, low and stable food prices, and the generation of employment and foreign
exchange earnings. These have been largely achieved. Over the next 5-year plan period
(Repelita VI, 1994/5-1998/99), it is expected that there will be a shift in policy away fron
production targets and control of marketing towards farm income generation and
deregulation. This will foster diversification towards products with high income elasticities
of demand and higher land-use intensity. There wil' also be a greater focus on the
promotion of sustainable growth that emphasizes both increasea productivity and
conservation of the underlying natural resource base.
1.6         A recent Bank report 1/ estimates that as the patterns of demand and
structure of production transform during economic growth, the growth of agricultural GDP
is l;lcely to stabilize at around 3 percent. Although agriculture will continue to contract as
a proportion of total output as well as total employment, the latter will tend to lag. More
importantly, successful agricultral development is needed to generate rural prosperity
which, in turn, generates off-farm employment. The issue is one of devising approaches
which do not deplete the fragile resource base and which generate development linkages to
local economies.
1.7         The sector will thus require greater economic e%fficiency, a less interventionist
role for Government in setting cropping targets, pricing, nuTketing and trade, ar.d instead
/ "Indonesia  Agrlcawal Tranfomxion: ChaUenges and C,eponwWas, Septm   1M992,
No. 10504-IND.



-3 -
an increasing role for the Government in regulating and managing the environment. The
proposed project fits well with the development strategy of tie sector.
C. THE NON-JIUUGATED SUBSECOR AND UPLAND AGICULTE
1.8        The importance of the non-irrigated production is reflected by the fact that of
the 42 million ha of agricultural land about 80 percent is still non irrigated contributing to
aU tree crop production and providing 50 percent of food crops and most of the country's
fodder. Most of the non irrigated production takes place in upland areas (estimated at about
15 to 25 mit1ion ha) and since these areas have largely been bypassed by development
efforts, they continue to be characterized by high levels of poverty. Of an estimated 18
million rural people with hnvomes below the official poverty line some 65 percent or about
12 million people live or work in upland areas, with Java displaying the largest concentration
of the poor.
1.9         Because of the steep slopes involved, the problems and constraints of upland
agriculture differ significantly from the lowlands. Ia view of the impact of the intense
tropical rains typical of Indonesia, the threat of soil erosion and soil degradation is far more
severe in the upland&l, which is exacerbated by the generally poor, shallow soils, particularly
those of non-volcanic origins. Upland agriculture is dependent on rainfall which restricts
cropping options, shortens the safe growing season, particularly in drier areas (e.g., Nusa
Tenggara), and increases risk. Land use consist mainly of forests, shifting cultivation,
dryland food crops and tree crop production. Because of the inherent ecological constraints
of these areas, combined with the increasing population which has to subsist on a declining
naturl resource base, pressure is being placed on both private and public (State Forest)
land, leading to an increasing rate of resource degradation, mainly through deforestaion and
soil erosion. Disruption of traditional tenure systems and land speculation has also played
a role.
1.10        As the land pressure has increased in the upland areas, the extent of poverty
and environmental degradation has grown and farmers have moved into unsustainable
farming systems. Large numbers of permanent farmers at or below the poverty line can be
found in the southern part of Java, Lampung and South Sumatra, South Sulawesi and Nusa
TengSara, whereas farmers practicing unsustainable shifting cultivation are found in many
areas of Kalimantan and Sumatra. Recognizing the extent of poverty and the impending
environment problems of these areas, GOI is placing increased emphasis on promoting
sustainable land use patterns. Under the past and current Repelitas, GOI has introduced
programs focussing on structural and vegetative soil and moisture conservation activities, in
combination with sustainable food and tree crop and forestry production with the watershed
as the basic physical-biological and socio-economic unit for planning and management. With
the great diversity of ecological situations in the rainfed areas, the main challenge for GOI
is to ensure that investment resources are focused on locally suitable, and economically
viable land uses and farming systems that are derived from a participation decision making
process.



- 4-
D. WATzERs     MANAGEMENT AND CONSVAON PROGRAM  AND STRATEGY
1.11        Watershed management and conservation has been pursued in Indonesia using
a number of mechanisms by several agencies. The most visible, costly and ambitious efforts
have been externally funded projects aimed at specific river basins on Java, beginning with
the FAO-funded Upper Solo Project in the early 70s. With some variations, these area
speciflc projects (e.g., Citanduy River Basin Project (USAID), Yogyakarta Rural
Development Project (IDA), see para. 2.3) have been built around an approach developed
by the Solo project which involves helping farmers to build bench terraces, the provision of
agro-technology packages of seed and fertilizer, reforestation of government land, and
construction of structural works such as check dams and gully plugs. These projects have
been tnanaged by the Ministry of Forestry (MOFr) or by local governments with some
technical involvement of the Ministries of Agriculture (MOA) and Public Work (MOPW).
Provincial and District Governments, including to some extent the Regional Planning Boards
(BAPPEDA), have been closely involved in project implementation.
1.12        The main GOI progm  In wtrshed management and soil conservation is,
howe"er, the National Watershed Development Program in Regreening and Reforestation
(R&R), channeling awnualy about US$50 million for watershed activities to local
governments (Annex 1). This Presidential Instruction Program (INPRES) was started in
1976 with the objectives of: (i) controlling erosion and floods; (ii) improving land
productivity and farmer's income; and (iil) increasing people's participation in preserving
the narl resources of land, water and forests. Initially, it was a program consisting
mainly of the supply of seedlings for planting on private land (Regreening) and on public
land (Reforestation). The present approach taken by GOI involves demonstrations on
famers' land in soil conservation and technological packages through Soil Conservation
Demonstrton Units (UPSA) and Sedentary Farming Demonstration Units for shifting
cultivation reas (UPM), village nurseries to provide tree and tree crop seedlings,
constucion of roads, check dams and gully plugs, and reforestation on Goverwnent land.
In this INPRES program the central Government regulates funding, directs planning and is
responsible for the overall management of the program, while implementation is the
responsibility of the local government. The Regreening program is carried out at tie district
(Kabupaten) level, while the Reforestation program is managed at the provincial level. Over
the last five years the annual budgety outlay for this program has increased six-fold. The
Regreening and Reforestation program covers presently 39 priority watersheds in 193
Kabupaten and 26 provinces which have been selected from a total of 81 watersheds
identified at the national level. The priority watersheds, including 104 subwatersheds,
comprise a totl area of 63 million ha of which some 13 million ha are critically degraded
and In need of rehabilitation.
1.13        At the central level the R&R program is coordinated by a national Steering
Comnittee (Tim Pengarah, para. 5.1) made up of eight representative ministries/agencies.
Among the central ministries, MuHA is the lead agency; MOFr is responsible for planning
and monitoring; BAPPENAS is responsible for the allocation of funds; and MOA and



-  -
MOPW provide technical support,l/ while the executive secretary of the conmittee is the
Chief, Bureau of Spatial Planning and Environment (BAPPENAS). The Steering Conmmittee
Is assisted by a Central Guidance Team with its Secretariat providing the day-to-day data
management, including planning, funding and reporting (Chrt 1). Both the Guidance Team
and its Secretariat also draw member re.ifilbiiives from the National Land Agency (BPN),
the Bank Rakyat Indonesia, Bank Dagang Negara and Bank Export Import Indonesia. At
the provincaia 'el the pr,,igam is implemented by a management team (Tim Pembina),
including a secretariat, appointed by the governor. The main control for the Reforestation
program is carried cut by the Head of the Provincial Forest Service. At the district level
the Regreening program lies with the Bupati with support of a district guidance team (Tim
Pembina) and secretariat. The INPRES program has vested major project responsibility for
implementation to the provincial and district level local governments, but the administrative
control of the program is carried out by the Directorate General for Regional l)evelopment
in MOHA (BANGDA) through the regional government agencies. However, it is the central
Directorate General of Reforestation and Land Rehabilitation of MOFr that has basically
assumed the development role of this program through its nationwide network of watershed
management and soil conservation centers-Balai, Sub Balai and Cabang Rehabilitasi Lahan
dan Konservasi Tanah (RLKT).
1.14        The issues related to the implementation of the watershed program in
Indonesia are discussed in the next chapter. GOI reviews of experience on the R&R
INPRES have begun to identify areas in need of strengthening and reform (para. 2.7).
These studies have emphasized the need for greater popular participation and a better
matching of technologies to local conditions, but have not formulated a specific action plan
for the strengthening of the program.  Due to the fragmentation of plaing and
imlemenxation between agencies at both central and local levels, transfer of responsibility
and accountability for program performance has been incomplete. One of the major
challenges that lie ahead for GOI is to shift ownership of the national watershed and soil
conservation program from the center to the provinces and district governments. The
proposed project will meet some of this challenge by working towards a fuller integration
of the R&R program into regional plans, as well as improving the flexibility and
responsiveness of the program guidelines to the local specific conditions and community
needs.
1 Olher ageocieslminmstries involved m the INPRBS R&R program are Ministy of Fmance, Ministry
for nimt and the Centmal Bimas Contol Agency.



-6-
2
BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED
A. BANK INVOLVEMENT IN WATERSHED MANAGIwENT AND CONSERVATION
2.1         The kind of conservation and watershed management projects which the Bank
seeks to support are all programs with multi-purpose undertakings such as protection of land
and water resources, the enhancement of their productivity, the alleviation of rural poverty
and the efficient delivery of government services to remote areas. The Bank has had
significant experience with watershed management projects in Asia since 1980. Some of the
earlier projects (e.g. Philippines-Central Visayas Regional Project, Ln. 2360-PH),
recognized the need to provide for farmer participation and mechanisms of technology
transfer that fell outside of the usual extension channels. These mechanisms included the
use of 'key farmer' approaches, farmer-to-farner training, project-specific publications
promoting locally adapted technologies, and training aimed at mid-level government
officials. Results demonstrated that there is effective demand for conservation technologies
at the farm level which are production oriented and income generating.
2.2         Under the same generation of projects (including also India-Integrated
Watershed Development (Plains) Project, Ln. 3197-IN and Cr. 2131-IN, and India-
Itegrated Watershed Development (Hills) Project, Ln. 3175-IN and Cr. 2100-IN), a change
of focus occurred from engineered, structurally-based conservation treatments to more
vegetative approaches that placed conservation focus back at the farm level. The logistics
of implementing these activities across dispersed small farms with heterogenous soil and
micro-climadc conditions required a change from traditional extension and centrally-
controlled implementation towards more emphasis on farmers' control over the choice of
technology, and the need to provide farmers with adequate assistance and support. These
lessons, which have been incorporated in the latest generation of Bank financed projects
(e.g. Philippines-Environment and Natural Resources Sector Adjustment Program Projects,
Ln. 3360-PH, and Cr. 2277-PH), are showing good promise towards establishing better
resource management practices at the community level, and have promoted new directions
for conservation that are being adopted in projects under preparation, namely in China (Red
Soils II Project and Loess Plateau Conservation and Land Development Project).
2.3         Bank's lending to watershed management and soil conservation in Indonesia
dates back nearly 15 years ago and has comprised about US$86 million for a total of 5
projects (Table 1). Of the these five projects Cr. 946-IND and Ln. 2638-IND were typical
multi-sectoral ural development projects sWhile the other three were more focussed on
warshed development per se and in promoting sustainable land use systems in upland
areas. The area development projects were part of the Bank's strategy of testing the



-7-
Table 2.1: BANK-SUPPORTED PRoJECTs
Original
Loan/Credit
Credit/Loan No.   Dates       Project                         Amount (US$ M)
Cr. 946          1979-1989    Yogyakarta Rural Development         12.0
Ln. 2474 /a      1985-        Upland Agriculture and Conservation  11.3
Ln. 2638         1986-        Nusa Tenggara Agric. Support Serv.   33.0
In. 2930         1986-        Forestry Institutions and Conservation  34.0,&
Lu. 3305         1991-        Yogyakarta Upland Area Development   15.5
/a  Cofinanced with USAID and closed on September 1993.
Lk Wonogiri watershed component comprises about US$14.3 million of Loan amount.
replicability of area-specific approaches prior to investing in more global, nationwide
programs. The three "watershed" projects are all located on Java and their initiatives are
aimed at testing and proving the technical and institutional underpinnings in specific upland
districts (Kabupaten) to raise farm productivity in combination with soil conservation
practices. The Performance Audit Report (June 15, 1993) evaluated the overall assessment
of the first project (Cr. 946-IND) as unsatisfactory. The project design was found to have
been overanbitious and the underlying technical assumptions faulty. The main agricultural
investment (hill terracing) was considered to be neither replicable nor sustainable. Ln.
3305-IND came as a follow-up project to investigate and test alternative conservation and
production concepts. Despite a slow start-up due to budgetary and contracting delays, the
Yogyakarta Upland Area project has picked up momentum and is focusing on consolidating
the management of project implementation at the local and district level.
2.4         Both the Upland Agriculture and Conservation project (Ln. 2474-IND) and
the Wonogiri subproject (Ln. 2930-IND) appear to be generating sustainable site-specific
upland farming technologies and demonstrate the importance of linking research, extension
and farmer's knowledge/participation. The nearly completed Upland Agriculture and
Conservation project has put increasing emphasis on evaluation and impact studies to extract
lessons learned and technology inventories for wider dissemination, particularly for projects
in Java. The technological packages developed under the project appear to have been
successful in promoting soil conservation. Similarly, the Wonogiri subproject has succeeded
in curbing the practice of erosive farning systems, improving crop yields and raising
farmers' income. There are also indications that the improved technologies are being
adopted by farmers outside the project area.a/
2/ FAO CP 1992. -Indonwia. Foresny Institutions and Conseruation Project: Wonogiri Watershed
Component Mid-Term Evaluation . Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
Investment Centre.



- 8 -
2.5         Apart from some work on farming system research and demonstrations with
conservation farning systems in the Nusa Tenggara project (Ln. 2638-IND), the bulk of the
Bank's involvement, as well as GOI and its major donors, has been carried out on Java.
Consequently fanming system research and site-specific conservation technologies are lagging
behind for the uplands in the outer islands despite some recent developments in soil
conservation, among which the successful programs undertaken by CARE Indonesia in
Sumbawa and Lombok, West Nusa Tenggara.
2.6         In addition to experiences from the Bank's support for watershed management
and related projects, there are a number of Bank reports which provide guidance on how
Bank operations should approach some of the challenges of upland agriculture. These
reports, including (i) Indonesia-Forest Land and Water:  Issues in Sustainable
Development; (ii) Watershed Development in Asia, Strategies and Technologies;
(iii) Indonesia-Poverty Assessment and Strategy Report and (iv) Draft, Indonesia-
Environment Report, provide useful guidance on rural development approaches as well as
on-7farming systems and conservation technologies. community participation and institutional
requirements.
B.    E  AND LESSONS LEARNED
2.7         A review of conservation and watershed projects in Indonesia, including
stdies commissioned by GOI,4/ both in area specific projects and in the national
Regreening and Reforestation program, shows three consistent weaknesses:
(a)   the use of poor quality and inappropriate technology;
(b)   uncoordinated and non-participatory planning; and
(c)   implementation arrangements that are unaccountable and poorly supervised.
These projects therefore lack efficiency and impact and waste limited resources on an
already fragile resource base.
2.8         Technology. While some progress has been made in developing sustainable
farming systems for uplands, land treatments for soil stabilization are generally costly, e.g.,
terracing at a cost of about US$900 per ha. In comparison with either the initial or the after
treatment productivity of most rainfed uplands, which might be in the order of US$600 per
ha per year, investment costs of these levels are clearly unsustainable and uneconomic.
High maintenance requirements of most structural conservation measures, the need for
exacdng design and construction, quality and the often excessive labor demands on farmers
run counter to the reality of smallholder agriculture. It appears that in many situations low
cost vegetative soil and moisture conservation practices can be applied, such as the new
technology of v-ditching and vetiver grass hedges. These practices, in addition to their own
merits, demonstrate the potental for alternatives to the expensive and restricted practices on
I/ 'AssA awo iplementation on INPRES R&R Replia n-V (progress), and Rep. W (prospects)', by
Hirry Santoso, Dijen RRL- MOFr, July 1992; and 'Evaluation of INPRES R&R', by Dijen RRL and
Resarch Institute of Bogor (Inst. of Agric. Science), 1992.



-9-
which most of the conservation efforts in Indonesia have relied. Other experiences have
highlighted the real possibility to generate technology for sustainable upland farming system
demonstrations and their expansion areas, but these have to be developed through a process
of linking research with extension and farmers practices and needs and be based on site-
specific conditions. Generally, however, there is a need and scope to more fully integrate
perennial tree crops and livestock with food crop production within the farming system.
Another area which could be significantly improved is the privately and public operated tree
and fruit nurseries as there is not only a need to have more diversity but also to have a much
higher quality of available seedlings. Lastly, there is considerable scope for introducing
vegetative reinforcements to structural investments such as roads and drainage works.
2.9         Planning and Implementation. An important lesson from the waeshed and
upland development experience is the compartmentalization of the overall waershed
development process. Much of the budgetary control and the policy guidelines are in the
hands of a designated lead agency and/or BAPPENAS at the central level, whereas much
of the physical planning is carried out by the regional office of the central Forest
Department, leaving implementation mainly to the provincial and district governments and
their technical offices (Dinas). As a result, planning and implemenion are not linked or
pulled together in an overall, long term regional and provincial development strategy and
bring in doubt the ownership of the R&R program at the local level. The planning process
also tends to exclude farmers' and other watershed users' consultation and participation
thereby reducing the chances for sustainability. One result of the neglect of farmers
perspectives is a high element of subsidy which limits the progrm replicability and
compounds problems with technology as discussed above. In addition, none of the programs
have an effective resource and management information system in place, so that little
information is available to support strategic planning that affects management decisions
concerning adjustments in annual project operations. Finally, constraints have emerged in
te lack of appropriate skills of staff in both planning and implementation of programs with
a multi-sectoral development focus.
2.10        Institutions. All watershed or related projects in Indonesia have suffered
from lack of coordination and problems of accountability. A range of organizational
arrangements have been tried to implement watershed and conservation programs, but all
projects have struggled with institutional coordination. In general, the Forestry Department
has played too dominant a role in setting the technical standards and has not engendered an
environment which motivates sustained participation by farmers and communities. While
this is understandable given the fact that the soil conservation mandate lies with the Forestry
Deparunent, it is nevertheless clear that this dominance has relegated the much needed input
of the Agriculture Department in proposing conservation efforts based on benefits to upland
farmers and comnunity organizations. These institutional problems are present at both the
national and provincial level and result in weak policy development, rigid technical
guidelines, ineffective planning and poor implementation. The conclusion from the Bank's
and other donor involvement in watershed management and soil conservation seens to
indicate that institutional strengthening through area-specific projects has not made
widespread impact and that a more sustainable approach could be achieved through
improvements of the national Regreening and Reforestation Watershed and Soil Conservation
Program. The proposed project would attempt to address this problem.



- 10-
C. ftoPosmD STRATEGY AND RATIONALE FOR FruT           BANK INvOLvEmENT
2.11        The key objectives of Bank's country assistance strategy for Indonesia are:
D promotion of economic growth with stability; ii) reduction of poverty; and iii) promotion
of sound management of natural resources and environment. Agriculture remains central
to the Government's growth and poverty reduction strategy, as poverty is still heavily
concentrated in agriculture, particularly the uplands and non irrigated areas. Accordingly,
investment in agriculture continues to be important to the Bank's assistance strategy in
Indonesia, given the sector's role in employment generation, poverty reduction, sustainable
naural resource management and protection of the environment.
2.12        Much of the thrust in slowing down and reversing the ecological degradation
of the upland areas is the need to have a poverty-reduction and natural resource management
strategy which makes use of the critical role that agriculture can play in providing better
income opporhtnities to the upland farmers. This can be done by offering small farmers the
technology to expand their productivity and income and introducing farming systems which
promote non irrigated rice crops, smallholder tree crops and animal production support,
combined with low cost vegetative soil and moisture conservation practices and supported
with appropriate agricultural services in research, extension, credit and marketing. To
sustain these programs it is also inportant that permanent access to land should be facilitated
e.g through land titling, to encourage spontaneous investments in sustainable practices.
2.13        Ultimately, as economic development proceeds in Indonesia, upland watershed
areas will not be economically or environmentally suited to the types of agriculture now
practiced. Rising wage rates, opporunities to diversify away from staple crop production
and urban migration will reduce over-use of the resource base and favor the proliferation of
perennial cover. In the short term, however, resource degradation in the uplands could
severely retard economic and social progress in these areas as well as undermine the
environmental stability on which downstream areas depend. It is therefore envisaged that
Regreening and Reforestation Programs will be needed over the next 25-30 years to enable
these transitional processes to take hold and to conserve the resource base in the interim.
2.14        The Bank's support to the national Regreening and Reforestation Watershed
and Soil Conservation program would help Government's effort in reducing ecological
degradation both by improving technical quality and cost effectiveness. Furthermore, the
INPRES R&R, as an active instrument in stimulating income-generating activities and
creating employment opportunities in poorer areas would also help to reduce poverty and
contribute to regional development. In supporting this program the Bank would help GOI
over the medium term to develop sustainable technologies which can be applied throughout
Indonesia's most critical upland watersheds, including those on the outer islands. It would
also help to foster a more coherent institutional watershed management approach throughout
the country.



- 11 -
3
TH PROJECT
A. PRojr CONCEPT A   OUJECE
3.1        Project Concept. The proposed project would support implementation of
GOI's Regreening and Reforestation Program by strengthening its technological and
institutional underpinnings. The primary emphasis would be on the introduction of more
productive and environmentally benign farming systems to poor farmers in fragile upland
non-irrigated agro-ecological zones, including the rehabilitation of degraded forest areas in
the same target watersheds. While the initial development focus would take place in
Cimanuk on West Java (map 24776), the proposed project would cover selected critical
watersheds throughout the country (map 24775).
3.2         Project Objectives and Description. The main project objectives are to raise
the living standards of poor upland farmers by improving and restoring the productive
potential of their resource base, and to enhance watershed environmental quality and protect
downsteam watershed resources. In support of these objectives the project would include
the following components:
(a)   Instituional Strengthening to improve R&R program guidelines and policies,
overall coordination and operational support;
(b)   Development of a critical watershed in a location-specific area on West Java
(Upper Cimanuk); and
(c)   Investment Support for INPRES Regreening and Reforestation Program.
3.3         The Nationa Insdthuonal Strengthening component would provide support for
improvement of planning, management and natural resource information systems, the
creation of a multi-disciplinary upland research program, and training and extension. The
Upper C*nanuk Watershed Conservadon and Development component would seek to
stabilize critical areas in the Upper Cimanuk watershed (West Java) by supporting the
introduction of improved farming systems on 15,750 ha of arable land, combined with soil
conservation practices, road upgrading and drainage rehabilitation. The Cimanuk component
would serve as the initial implementation area for the procedural changes and tethnical
approaches promoted by the project under the national R&R program. Contingent upon
satisfactory progress in the first two years of the project (para. 3.18), the Bank's
contribution to the Investment Support component would fnance inputs for farm system
improvements and nursery development for GOI's ongoing R&R program in 39 priority
watersheds covering 193 Kabupaten across the country.



- 12 -
B. DErAED FEATES
National Institutional Strengthening - (US$22.0 million or 6 percent of total base costs)
3.4         This component would consist of three subcomponents: Information Support
System Development and Land Use Planning; Upland Research and Technology
Development; and Training and Extension Development. The overall responsibility for this
component would lie with the Central Guidance Team (Tim Pengendali) through its
respective subcommittees or working groups (paras. 1.13; 5.1-2).  GOI confmed at
negotiations that a project manager (PIMPRO) had been appointed to facilitate project
management coordination and process budgetary requirements.
3.5        Information Support System (ISS) - (US$9.7 million). The project will
assist in the development of an ISS to strengthen the government's capacity to plan and
manage the R&R program. There are two basic kinds of information required: (i) resource-
based data to support strategic planning, project preparation, and day-to-day management
operations, and (ii) reporting and monitoring iLformation for evaluating the progress and
effectiveness of management activities and for steering decisions about program planning.
Since the R&R program is natioi d in scope, information systems would be strengthened at
the center, the provincial and district levels.
3.6         The ISS would comprise two subsystems that would be developed and
implemented separately-a Resource Inforinon System  ORIS) and a Management
Informton System (MIS). The RIS would deal with geographic and physical information
about the status and condition of resources, together with information about the economic
and cultural landscapes. The MIS would deal with information about planning, budgeting,
monitoring, and evaluation activities. The project would implement the ISS in two phases.
The ISS would be developed first in the Cimanuk watershed in a form compatible with
revised procedures at the provincial and central levels, and would during the second half of
the project be extended to the entire R&R program.
3.7         Land Use Planning. Support would also be provided to strengthen the
existing land use planning procedures utilized by MOFr in the R&R program and to ensure
fuller integration of watershed plans into long term regional development plans. The project
would review the current watershed planning procedures and specifically review the roles
of the various central government agencies such as MOFr, MOA, BAPPENAS, MOHA,
MOPW, BPN, as well as those of the local government agencies. It would also examine
the integration and efficiency of the various planning instruments such as the POLA RLKT
DAS (macro plan, 25 years), RTL RLKT Sub-DAS (5 years), the RlT's (annual plans) as
well as the local government plans.5/ The revised planning process would seek deeper
involvement of BAPPEDA and MOA, greater user participation and fuller recognition of
realistic area development considerations, including marketing prospects. In this review
Si The POLA plan contains directions on land use, rehbiliation and conservation and specifies the ordea
in which ech subwatershed is to be included in the R&R pmgram.



- 13 -
process the project would provide hands-on training to improve the capability of staff at all
levels, and complete relevant plans for a number of priority watersheds. By January 1,
1996, in time for the Mid-Term-Review (MTR) the various plans, including the POLA,
would have been reviewed with time bound recommendations for improvements in technical
and institutional matters. Assurances to this effect were obtained from GOI at negotiations.
The review would specifically address the need for the POLA to be used as an integral part
of BAPPEDA's regional plan and ensure that the POLAs, RTLs and RTTs are appropriately
endorsed by respectively the Governor and Bupati so that central and district agencies are
cognizant of conservation needs and priorities in their provincial and district development
planning and implementation.
3.8         For the improvement and development of the ISS and land use planning, the
project would provide support for technical assistance, training, workshops, data collection,
computer equipment and system software and database development. Systems and training
would be provided to planning, monitoring, and evaluation staff at the Sub Balai RLKT,
Balai RLKT, Kabupaten and provincial BAPPEDA, as well as central level agencies (MOFr,
MOA, MOHA and BAPPENAS). The project would also support data collection activities,
including acquiring socio-economic baseline data from both treated and untreated watershed
areas and information about land use, farming practices, soils, vegetation, topograplly,
sediment loads, etc. This information would be collected from sample surveys of farms and
from other standard sources such as maps, aerial photography, and satellite imagery.
Detailed information on the component is given in Annex 3.
3.9         Upland Research and Technology Development - (US$5.3 million). To
improve the field level investments of the R&R program, particularly with respect to
sustainable farming systems, nursery development and soil and moisture conservation, the
project would under the guidance of the Agency for Agricultural Research and Developr,ient
(AARD) and the Agency for Forestry Research and Development (AFRD), institutionalize
support for a decentralized multidisciplinary program of upland research and development
of improved planting material. As a first step, the project would review the current
technology used by the R&R program in the major agro-ecological zones of the 39
watersheds, including the availability of quality planting stock, and make recommendations
on what technological packages could initially be applied. These recommendations would
serve as revised but still tentative guidelines to the district governments on the type of
improved farm treatments which should be applied. The underlying recommendations of the
project would be, however, to promote farming systems that integrate perennial cash crops
and annual food crops and using vetiver grass and other vegetative hedges to stabilize the
lands.
3.10        As a priority, the project would also address deficiencies in seed source
harvesting and handling, plant propagation and nursery practices and development to ensure
that quality fruit and timber tree species with strong local demand would be available to
support the program. Based on the review of the baseline information of each of the
watersheds and the research capability in each region, the need for a project farming system
research program and supporting nursery developir.ent for each of these zones would be
determined and relevant research programs would be initiated through contracts with local
institutions and/or national research centers. In addition to the Cimanuk watershed, five



- 14 -
critical regions outside Java would be targeted as a first priority, including North and South
Sumatra, South and Central Sulawesi, West Kalimantan and East Nusa Tenggara.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations. Nursery improvements would be
introduced in the watershed areas by promoting village and private nursery development with
technical assistance initially provided under the project. The project would also provide
study tours, publications and dissemination in support of the development of new technical
approaches to soil conservation. The subcomponent would also include technical assistance
for the development of a strategic plan for soil conservation research by AFRD and for the
Watershed Management Technology Centers. By MTR a detailed review would be made
of the upland research program with the view to disseminate to the watersheds any of the
results obtained so far, including nursery development (para. 5.8). A detailed description
of the subcomponent is given in Annex 4.
3.11        Training and Extension - (US$6.1 million). To more effectively implement
GOI's national soil conservation and R&R program the project would provide a training
program focussing on the fields of ISS, land use and participatory planning, improved site-
specific production and marketing and conservation technology. The target groups would
be mainly local government staff and extension workers as well as technical staff of line
agencies involved in the implementation of the R&R program, including farmers and women
groups. Most training would comprise on the job training and short term courses, including
workshops and seminars, but overseas visits would also be promoted, particularly in
conjunction with the technology development subcomponent. The four ministries involved
(MOHA, MOFr, MOA, MOPW) have sufficient training centers in the country to
accommodate the proposed training activities. The subcomponent is further described in
Annex 5.
Upper Cinanuk Watershed Conservation and Development - (US$31.1 million or
9 percent of base costs).
3.12        This component would be carried out in the Upper Cimanuk watershed
(eastern part of West Java). Administrative boundaries would be used to facilitate local
governments' participation in project implementation. The component would be carried out
in two districts (Garut and Sumedang) and involve 17 Kecamatan in an area of about
110,000 ha. Overall responsibility for the component would fall under the district chiefs
(Bupati) of Garut and Sumedang (para. 5.4). Four subcomponents would be implemented:
(i) Upland Conservation Management; (ii) Roads and Upland Erosion Control; (iii) Upland
Support Services; and (iv) Project Management and Institutional Strengthening. The
component is described in detail in Annex 2.
3.13        Upland Conservation Management - (US$15.9 million). This subcomponent
would be implemented over an area of 15,750 ha and would benefit some 31,500 upland
fanning families. The proposed on-farm treatments would seek to combine soil and
moisture conservation with short-term income generating goals suitable to the small size of
the average land holdings (under 0.5 ha per farm family). The range of interventions would
incorporate elements of Sloping Agricultural Land Technology (SALT) by encouraging the
planting of leguminous shrubs, grasses (including vetiver), and tree crops along the bunds
of existing terraces, or along contours in unterraced lands. These soil stabilization and



- 15 -
moisture retention treatments would complement mixed farming systems of food crops, fruit
and timber trees, and estate crops. The introduction of stall-fed small livestock, such as
sheep, would also be promoted to provide farmers with an incentive to grow grass for soil
stabilization and forage. The treatments would be developed jointly by farmers and project
support staff in model micro-watersheds of 5-10 ha each, which would serve as local models
for farmers in surrounding expansion areas, the activities of which would commence on the
third year of the project. Farmers would be provided with in-kind grants averaging about
Rp 670,000 per ha for the model micro-watersheds, and Rp 430,000 per ha for the
expansion areas.6/ This would be supplemented by farmer's contributions in labor and
other costs.
3.14        To ensure the provision of high quality planting materials, as well as to
diminish transportation problems and to disseminate technical expertise in horticultural and
nursery practices, the project would also support the development of some 75 village-based
nurseries, at an average cost of Rp 7.2 million each. All efforts would be made to ensure
that these nurseries, once established, would constitute the major supplier of seedlings to the
on-farm treatments and that the seedlings would be purchased by the project at competitive
market rates based on pre-determined standards. Two larger sized model nurseries (one per
Kabupaten) would also be established on the third year of the project, with the objective of
testing the suitability of advanced nursery technology (e.g., the use of overhead irrigation
and root trainers) to the local conditions. Given the assurances of the State Forest
Corporation (Perum Perhutani) that the extent of degraded State Forest Land is presently
small, no reforestation activities on forest land are anticipated. However, the extent of
forest degradation and encroachment would be reviewed prior to the MTR, and a decision
would be reached at MTR on whether to initiate reforestation activities in the watershed
during the later part of project implementation.
3.15        Roads and Upland Erosion Control - (US$5.6 million). This subcomponent
would serve the dual purpose of controlling settlement run-off by stabilizing land and
managing and diverting settlement drainage, and provide better vehicular access to remote
upland villages through the upgrading of village access roads. About 126 kmn of village
access roads presently displaying access constraints would be upgraded under the project
with the objective of facilitating the transportation of farm products and inputs, as well as
improve access to remote upland areas. The project would, in addition, finance some
190 km of roadside drainage control and promote road bank stabilization through vegetative
techniques. The roads would be constructed according to guidelines prepared under the
project. The project would provide assistance in maintaining the upgraded roads for a
period of three years following the initial works, with the objective of developing local
capacity and ensuring community participation in further maintenance activities. It was
agreed at negotiations that the roads would be constructed following project guidelines
(para. 6.15), and that evidence of good maintenance after April 1, 1997 would be a
condition for further road disbursement under the loan. The project would also support
veg_tative and structural land stabilization treatments as their need became identified during
61 In base costs. This represents a reduction of over 15 percent of the normal INPRES R&R subsidy
for demplots in such areas.



- 16 -
field observations and reflected in the project management's annual plans. Vegetative
treatments (e.g., vetiver grass) would be strongly promoted, but the project would also
support, as needed, the financing of such structural treatments as drop structures, graded
drains, village soakways, and low-cost gully plugs. These structures would, however, be
reinforced with appropriate vegetative measures. Standards for land stabilization treatments
would be developed under TA assistance.
3.16        Upland Support Services - (US$4.3 million). This subcomponent would
provide long-term support to land stabilization and soil and moisture conservation treatments
by improving planning, extension, and technology development in upland farming systems.
The services included are: (i) planning, extension and training, involving farmers, village
groups, agriculture and forestry extension workers and local government officials. These
linked activities would focus on improving key areas of deficiency in the R&R program with
the express purpose of improving and institutionalizing participatory planning procedures and
interagency coordination at the lower levels; they would also support the dissemination of
information on existing credit schemes and marketing channels; (ii) farming system research
would involve the development of three research plots located in representative agro-
ecological zones, and the establishment of small on-farm technology displays of about 0.1 ha
each, which would be developed by farmers in each of the 292 model micro-watersheds at
a cost of about Rp 300,000 per unit. Farming systems research in the Upper Cimanuk
Watershed would be closely coordinated with the national upland research development
subcomponent (para. 3.9); (iii) granting of an estimated 35,000 land tiles (sertifikat tanah hak
milik) designed both as an incentive for farmers to invest in more sustainable farming practices,
and as a reward to farmers who successfully adopted soil and moisture conservation
technologies. This would be the responsibility of BPN and its local (provincial and district)
offices; and (iv) a limited number of vilage grants up to a maximum of Rp 40 million per grant,
would be attributed to communities demonstrating considerable initiatives in undertaking soil
conservation activities. These could be used to finance such schemes as village clean water
supplies, vocational training centers, the development of agri-businesses, and other village
services. It was agreed at negotiations that the use of village grants would be subject to the
submission of specific project proposals and in turn would have to be approved by the Bank.
3.17        Project Management and Institutional Strengthening - (US$5.3 million). The
Upper Cimanuk Watershed component would be administered based on existing stuctur
arrangements at the provincial and district level, with responsibility for implementation falling
under the Bupati of Garut and Sumedang (para. 5.4). In addition to strengthening the inter-
agency coordination in the implem.-ntation of regreening activities, the subcomponent would
include (i) technical assistance (TA) (para. 4.4 and Annex 6); (Hi) special studies, including a
baseline information survey, a study on the role of women in upland farming systems, and a land
utdlization survey (Annex 2, para. 20). A qualified NGO, linked with suitable local community
organizations (LCO) would be subcontracted by the project to serve as a facilitator between local
government and upland farming communities in the development of participatory planning and
implementation procedures. Their findings and recommendations on this subject would be
reviewed at MTR, and incorporated into the ISS and Land Use Planning component. Finally,
(iii) an MIS and RIS System would be established in Cimanuk in coordination with, and under
the responsibility of, the National Information Support System subcomponent (paras. 3.5-6).



- 17 -
Investment Support for Regreening and Reforestation - (US$305.2 million or 85 percent of
total base costs)
3.18        This component would provide some direct support to the ongoing natior.4d
INPRES R&R program. The Bank loan would finance some farm inputs for the improved
farming systems, promoted under the Regreening Program, namely on UPSA, UPM and
community nurseries in the 39 critical watersheds (para. 1.12). Bank support would consist of
promotion of vegetative conservation measures, introduction of improved seeds and agronomic
practices, and ensuring the availability of high quality timber and fruit tree planting material.
To ensure the soundness of the on-farm treatments, particularly in the Outer Islands, the upland
research and development subcomponent would review the R&R technical guidelines (para. 3.9).
It was agreed during negotiations that as condition of disbursement against financing part of the
R&R program, satisfactory evidence would be provided to the Bank that: (i) guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank outlining the revised on-farm treatments for the watersheds participating
In the R&R program would have been distributed to the implementing agencies; (ii) the
institutional strengthening component (para. 3.4) would be fully operational and that appropriate
reviews of key project activities would have been carried out (see below); and (iii) the
availability of appropriate planting material according to established quality standards, as well
as Its timely distribution, would be guaranteed. To improve the efficiency and the long term
strategy of the R&R program, experiences from the key project's activities relating to ISS, land
use and participatory planning, training and extension and research would be reviewed prior to
the MTR with the view to make appropriate institutional adjustments to the R&R program at the
central, provincial and district level according to an action plan and time table for
implementation satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.8). This review would take particularly note
of the experiences obtained from the activities carried out by R&R technical committee and
secretariat t the central level, the Cimanuk component and selected watersheds of the R&R
program i.e., the five watersheds listed in para. 3.10.



- 18 -
4
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. PRojEr CosTs
4.1           Total project costs are estimated at US$487.8 million (Rp 1,012 billion) with
a foreign exchange component of US$32.6 million (Rp 67.5 billion) or 6.7 percent.
Estimaed duties and taxes amount to US$14.9 million and total project costs net of taxes
are therefore US$472.9 million. Project costs are summarized in Table 4.1 and detailed in
Table 4.1: PROJECr Cosr SummARY
Local   Foreign   Total           %     Total
Poreign     Ba
ProjectComponet                     (USS million)        Exchange      Cost
A. Nao/ ISt*Wbionl S*reagh
1. Project Management                     0.3     0.6      0.9          64         0
2. ISS and Land Use Pnning Subcomponent    5.7    4.0       9.7         41         3
3. Upland Research and Development
Subcomponent                           3.9      1.4      5.3         26         1
4. Training and  tension Subcomponent     4.9     1.2      6.1          20         2
Subtotal National Instiutional Strengthening  14.8  7.2    22.0         33         6
B. inves*Men Suppoetfor RereenlAg and     288.8    16.4    305.2          5         85
Rforesaton
C. Upper Cmanak WateiWd
1. Upland Conservation Management        15.4     0.6     15.9           3         4
2. Roads and Upland Esion Control         4.5     1.1       5.6         19         2
3. Upland Support Services                3.6     0.7       4.3         17         1
4. Project Management st Institutional
Strengthening                          3.8      1.4      5.3         27         1
Subtotal Upper Cimanulc Watenhed         27.3     3.8     31.1          12         9
Total Baseline Costs:                   330.9    27.4    3583            8       100
Physical Confingencies                   16.7      1.4     18.1          8         S
Price Contingencies                     107.6     3.8    111.4           3        31
Totll Project Costs                     45.2    32.6    487.8           7       136
Note: Numbers may not add up to the total duoe to rounding.



.19 -
Annex 9. Base costs have been calculated with unit prices prevailing as of February 1993,
except for farm inputs which have been costed at and-1992 prices. Costs are based on
appraisal estimates as well as preparation documents re-evaluated at appraisal. Physical
contingencies of S percent have been applied to all expenditure accounts except for livestock
and land stabilization treatments, for which a contingency of 10 percent has been allowed.
Price contingencies are based on expected increases of 5.5 percent per annum for local
currency costs and 2.8 percent per anuum for foreign exchange costs throughout the project
period. Unit prices have been adjusted for the change in exchange rate occurring between
appraisal and negotiations. Project costs were derived from detailed cost tables prepared
individually for each project activity. These are available in the project files. Total project
costs include incremental investment and recurrent expenditures incurred by farmers under
the project. It also includes the total costs of the national R&R program from project year
3 onwards, as derived from preliminary Repelita VI estimaes.
B. FNANCING
4.2          Ihe proposed Bank loan of US$56.5 million equivalent would finance
31.0 percent of the foreign exchange costs and 10.5 percent of the local currency costs of
the project. This represents 11.6 percent of total project costs, and 12.0 percent of total
costs exclusive of taxes and duties (US$14.9 million), and reserved procurement of vehicles,
fertilizers, and computer equipment (valued at US$3.7 million, net of taxes). The farmer
fimilies' contribution would total US$69.0 million, or 14.1 percent of the total project costs.
The Government of Indonesia would finance the remaining project costs, estimated at
US$362.3 million, or 74.3 percent of the total. This includes all taxes and duties, reserved
procurement items, project management costs, and most recurrent costs, as well as the
totality of the national R&R program's budgetary allocations for FY96/97 to FY99/00 other
than the share of investments on UPSA, UPM  and nurseries financed through the loan.
Farners contribution has been estimated based on expected contributions and incremental
expenses incurred during the project, and, with the exception of the Cimanuk component,
excludes emne'ditures incurred in expansion areas. The loan would be at the Bank's variable
interest raw for a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace. The financing plan Is
summarized below.
Table 4.2: PROJEcr FNANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
001            Bank       Fam Families      Tota
Amount    %     Amount         Amount   %    Amount   %
Forign              22.5   68.9LI    10.1  31.0     -      -      32.6  6.7
Local (Exci. Taxes)    324.9   73.8  46.4  10.5    69.0  15.7   440.3 90.3
Taxes               14.9  100.0       -    -        -      -      14.9  3.1
Total Projed     362.3   74.3      56.5  11.6    69.0  14.1    487. 100.0
&  Includes foreign excban shar of vehiclos, computer equipment, and fiiers, which ase considered
reserved procrement, as wel as foreign exchange component of the R&R prograa, incurrd for the most
pl in sutura and stabliahtion tratm.



- 20 -
C. PROCUREMENT
4.3         The share of farm treatments financed by the loan (US$27.2 milion) would
consist of planting mateials for on-farm tatments (UPSA and UPM) and planting
materials, labor ad small tools and materials for nurseries Initiated under the R&R
program, as well as agricultural inputs (e.g., planting materials, livestock, small farm tools,
and non-recurrent labor costs) for the Cimanuk watershed component. Farm treatments
under the national R&R program would be scattered over 26 provinces and a large number
of selected watersds spread over more than 190 kabupatens. The size of each input
packge would be too small (on average less than US$20,000) to attract international or local
competitive bidders. IThey would, therefore, be procured under local procedures acceptable
to the Bank, mosty through direct contracts with qualified suppliers, and, when appropriate,
local shopping. Villg access roads, roadside drainage and land stbilization treatments
under the Cimanuk component (US$7.5 mion), would be carried out, to the extent
possible, by the district Public Works offices and Sub-Balai RLKT Cimanuk, through force
account and with te participation of local communities; Other Civil Works (US$0.3
milion) comprising mainly small offices and laboratory facilities would involve small local
contat distributed over scaered areas which would not attract foreign bidders. lhese
works would therefore be procured following local competitive bidding procedures (LCB)
acceptable to the Bank; Vehicles (US$0.7 mMion) are considered reserved procurement,
and would not be financed by the Loan; Equipment, Mateials and Furnire (USS7.5
million) would be procured as follows: equipment related to the ISS system (US$2.8
milion) would be procured under inernational competitive bidding (ICB) procedures, except
for satllite imagery (US$1.0 million) which can only be obtained from either Spot or
LIndst and would be procured by direct contracting. Other equipment and furnitre valued
at US$1.3 million wuld be required in small batches by different agencies, and would be
procured under LCB procehr  acoptble to the Bank. For small items that cannot be
conveniently packaged under LCB In amounts not exceeding US$20,000 per contract and
up to an aggregate of US$50,000, local shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank would
be used. Procurement of computers (US$2.5 million) and related equipment (printers and
plotters), which can only be procured through specific local suppliers under GOI regulations,
would fall under renved pro ment and would not be eligible for Loan financing. At
negotiaions, GOI agred to procure the vehicles and computer equipment required for the
project in accordance with a schedule agreed with the Bank.
4.4         Training, Research and Development of Extension Materis (US$12.3
million) would be carried out by direct contractig, or by force account in the case of small
training progms. Consultancy Services, including Stadies (US$10.6 million), would be
procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Use of Consultants. An under-
standing was reached with G0 at negodadons that the project's TA requirements would be
brought under three sepate contas, the first regarding the implementation of the ISS
subcomponent, the second including the TA requirements for the research, and training and
extension subcomponents of the National Institutional Strengthening, and the third including
all the technical assistance for the Upper Cimanuk component. The latter should include
subcontracting arrangements with a suitable NGO to implement participatory planning
procedures (par 3.17). All relted docments and evaluation reports would be retained by
the imple       units for Inspection on a sampling basis by anmual Bank review missions.



- 21 -
Table 4.3: PROCUREMT PLAN
(US$ milllon)
ICU         LCB    O{her        N.B.F.  Totel
A. Farm Treatments
UPSA, UPM and Nurseries                 -           -      111.1         -       111.1
(R&R program)                                             (24.!)&               (24.19
On-farm Treatments (Cimanuk)            -           -        5.2         -         5.
Other R&R Expenses                      -           -        -.1A      255.3     AT3
Fanmers Contribution                    -           -        -          69.0      69.0
Total                                   -           -                            440.6
27.2)
B. CivU Works and Laud Stabilization Treatments
Roads, Drainage, and Land               -           -        7.5         -         7.5
Stabizlizon Structures                                     (4.5)                 (4.
other Civil Works                       -          0.3       -           -         0.3
(0.2)     - 
Total                                                                              7.8
(4.7J
C. Vehile LC                                                       ,           0.7       0.7
D. Equipment and Furnitre
Computers L/                            -           -        -           2.5       2.5
Other Equipment                        2.8          1.3      1.0         -.0
-                       .~~~~~~~~~2.1r  0..q    (V.8r     -DA.
Total                                                                              7.5
(L8)
E. Trainig, Research and                      -           -       12.3         -        12.3
ExtFesion Mateial Dew. Lk                                  (105)         -       (a05)
F. Technical Asstance and
Studies Li                              -           -       10.6         -        10.6
-                                      ~~~~     ~      ~     ~~~~~(9.1)  (9.1
g. Vlage Grant                                -           -        04          -         0.4
(0.2)                (0.2)
H. Support and Seconded Staff Costs           -           -        1.9         -         1.9
01.O)/j(1
L. Misedlaneous /k                            -           -        -           6.0       6.0
TOTAL                                   2                   1S0.      3          48
1n)    1n)    7J-0-.3                (75a)
NOTE: Fus in patenthsis are the respecive amounts financed by IBRD. Numbers may not add up due
to roundin.
NBP - Non-Bank inanced.
Ia   Excludes ferdlizers which is rserve procurement. Assumes that tems will not excoed US$20 000 at
any one time, and will be purchased  through Government procedures acb    to the  R
dMosly through force account. Includes aiho vegcative land stab1= %on tr ='mnes.
To be supplied by borrower, because of te nature of erve procurement.
Includes peripherals such au printers and plotters, to be supplied by borrower.
Por MIS equipment (except computers which are reserved procurement).
Por items of more than   20,0 and less than US$200,000 per contract; excludes computer and
LB       tems US$20,000 or 'ess per contract procurment would be through local sho    ; i1d  also
tLie image   rourd through direct conta  Excludes computers and
Mostly through   icontract. Can also use force account trainnmg requiremtents are emall
Poment done according to Bank gudeline for the use of consuants.
Excludcintes t- * fpld icemtal salaries.
ZiIncludes land titling, project managmet costs, and O&M expenses.



- 22 -
The balance of project costs (US$8.3 million) would consist of (a) village grants for the
Cimanuk component (US$0.4 million) and staff honoraria (e.g., travel and per diem) and
support staff costs (US$1.9 million), where eligible expenditures would be reimbursed by
the loan, and (b) miscellaneous expenses (US$6.0 million), consisting of land titling,
project management costs, and operation and maintenance expenses, will be financed from
Government sources.
4.5         Review of Procurement. GOI would use and conform to the Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents for the ICB of Goods, Standard Form of Contract for Consultants, and
the proposed Standard Bidding Documents for the LCB for Civil Works and Goods which
would facilitate the tender and contract preparation by the various agencies involved. Goods
manufactured in Indonesia may be given a margin of preference of 15 percent according to
the provisions of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. All tender documents and contracts
for equipment, including satellite imagery, estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000
or more, as well as consultant and technical assistance contracts, except those for individual
consultants whose contract would cost US$100,000 or less, would be reviewed by the Bank.
The prior review by the Bank would cover about 2.9 percent of project procurement. This
is relatively low as a large percentage of project procurement relates to farm treatments and
other R&R program costs not financed by the loan. All other contracts, including SOEs
related to farm treatments, would be subject to a post-review by the Bank on a sample basis.
This review would concentrate, among others, on the competitiveness of prices paid and on
physical inspection of the inputs provided. At negotiations assurances were obtained that
these procurement arrangements would be followed. The procurement arrangements are
summarized in Table 4.3, and procurement responsibilities for major goods and civil worics
are outlined in Annex 11.
D. DISBURSEmET
4.6         Disbursements of the Bank loan would be made as follows:
Category              Amount                Disbursement Rate
(US$ million)
Civil Works                     4.4          60%
Equipment,  furniture  and      3.6          100% of foreign expenditures, 100%
materials  (excl.  computer                  of local expenditures (ex-factory
equipment and vehicles)                      costs), and 65% of local expendi-
tures for other items procured locally
Agricultura inputs (Cimanuk)    2.9          80%
Village Grants (Cimanuk)        0.2          60%
Training                        6.9          100% jg of expenditures for National
Component, and 70% of expendi-
tures for Cimanuk Component



- 23 -
Seconded Staff costs            1.0          60% /b
Research activities, studies and  11.7       100% La
consultants' services
Planting  materials  (R&R       7.1          100%
Program)
Nursery  establishment  and     15.9         20% ls
maintenance inputs (R&R
program)
Unallocated                     2.8
Total                     56.S
La Net of taxes.
lb Excludmig regular and incremental staff salaries.
/c  Excluding the cost of fertilizers.
4.7         The project would follow the conditions for disbursement outlined under
paras. 3.15, 3.18, 5.3 and 6.15. Disbursements against force account works and equipment,
furniture and materials (excluding vehicles), contracts costing less than US$200,000 each,
staff expenditures, research and development of extension materials costing less than
US$100,000 equivalent per contract, and training and expenditures on farm treatments and
agricultural inputs (excluding fertilizers) would be disbursed against SOE, under such terms
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. In the case of roads,
drainage and land stabilization treatments under the Cimanuk component, disbursements
would be made against measurable units of outputs (e.g., km of roads) at agreed rates. Ihis
would be included on the SOE statement. Disbursement for all other expenditures would
be fully documented. All bidding documents, evaluation reports and related documents
would be retained by the implementing agencies for possible inspection by Bank review
missions, including supporting documentation for SOEs which would not be submitted to the
Bank. The proceeds of the loan are expected to be disbursed over six years, which is less
than the disbursement profile for agricultural projects in Indonesia (Annex 10). However,
the implementing agencies at the central and district level have shown a much improved
implementation rate of the R&R progratn during Repelita V. Provided that staffing and TA
for the institutional strengthening component can be mobilized promptly, targets should be
achieved in the project period. The project completion date would be March 31, 2000 and
the loan closing date would be September 30, 2000.
4.8        In order to expedite disbursements, a Special Account would be opened by
the Ministry of Finance (DG Budget) in Bank Indonesia or a state commercial bank
acceptable to the Bank for the purpose of the project. The Special Account would be used
for eligible foreign and local currency expenditures. The account would be maintained in



- 24 -
US dollars and an initial deposit of US$3.0 million would be made. At the initiative of the
Govermnent, replenishment of the Special Account would be made at a monthly basis or
when the balance reaches 50 percent of the initial deposit, whichever occurs first.
E. Accouwis Am AuDrr
4.9         Separate detailed accounts would be kept by the head of the central General
Planming Operational Assistance of R&R Assistance and Implementation (PUOPR) (para.
5.9) and the provincial and district project and program offices, for each budget under their
charge by project and budget year. Project accounts are subject to two audits by: (a) the
Inspector General of concerned ministries; and (b) the Financial and Development
Supervisory Board (BPKP). The work of both auditors has been generally found satisfactory
on Bank-assisted projects. Accounting procedures currently in use and institutional
capabilities are adequate to support SOE applications.
4.10        Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the project records and accounts,
including the Special Account, would be audited for each fiscal year and furnished to the
Bank not later than December 31, after the end of such year. Such audit would also contain
a separate opinion on the SOEs. In addition, all project-related contracts, documents related
to the SOEs, and orders and receipts, would be kept for at least one year after the Bank has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the loan
account was made.
4.11        The following understandings with GOI were obtained at negotiations:
(a)  the implementing agencies would establish and maintain adequate and separate
accunts from the beginning of project implementation and such accounts
would be maintained in accordance with sound and generally accepted
recognized accounting principles and practices satisfactory to the Bank, so as
to enable these agencies to provide annual financial statements to reflect the
financial performance and status of project components and expenditures in
a format in line with the Bank's Guidelines on Financial Reporting and
Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank for East Asia and the
Pacific Region and the South Asia Region;
(b)   at the Kabupaten level, the PIMPRO would be responsible for maintaining
complete and accurate records of all project related expenditures financed by
all sources of funds, based on which Kabupaten level project financial
statements (KPFS) would be prepared. On semi-annual basis the 'rm
Pembina at the provincial level would prepare a consolidated provincial level
project fnancial statement (PPFS) based on the KPFS;
(c)   at the central level, the PIMPRO (para. 3.4) would prepare the project
fnancial statements for the National Institutional Strengthening component
and would be responsible for consolidating semi-amnual PPFS into a
consolidated national level project financial statements (NPFS) and submitting
them annually for consolidated audit purposes to the BPKP Central Office;



-25S
(d)  the PIMPRO for the National Institutional Strengthening component would
also coordinae the SOEs and special account audit with the Directorate
General of Budget and the BPKP Central Office.



- 26 -
5
PROJECT ORGANIZATION,
MANAGEMENT AND IMLEMENTATION
A. PMoJECr ORGANTION AND MANAGEMENT
5.1         National Level Organization and Management. The project would use the
organizional arrangements of the national INPRES Regreening and Reforestation Program
(paras. 1.12/3; Chart 1), which currently links central policy and budgeting with localized
implementtion and planning. The highest decision-making body for the project would
contnue to be the inter-ministerial Steerig Committee (Tim Pengarah). The Steeirng
Committee, supported by the Guidance Team (Tim Pengendali) and the Secretariat
(para. 1.13), would provide direction to project operations, including overall coordination
and monitoring. It would issue implementation guidelines and act as the approving authority
for budgets of the amual Regreening and Reforestation programs in the priority watersheds,
including Upper Cimanuk. It would also be responsible for approval of contracts relating
to the national institutional strengthening component.
5.2        Specific directions for the institutional develoPment component would be
provided by the Secretariat to the Tim Pengendali. The Secretariat would establish four
specific subcommittees/working groups to assist in the direction and implementation of
(i) ISS and Reporting; (ii) Upland Research and Development; (iii) Training and Extension;
and (iv) Planning. Within the structure and guidelines established by the Secretariat, the
lead role in the technical coordination and supervision of the implementation and operation
of ISS and reporting, upland research and technology development, training and extension,
and planning would be the responsibility of MOFR/MOHA, AARD/AFRD, MOHA and
MOFR, respectively. The subcommittees would be responsible for contracting these
activities to government agencies and/or universities, consultants, and NGOs, for site
specific activities. To ensure adequate control and availability of resources for these
activities, an understanding was reached at negotiations that the control of expenditures for
the institutional Strengthening component (para. 3.4), including technical assistance, would
be carried out through the central Guidance Team and the respective subcommittees in the
Secretariat (para. 5.9). Responsibility for budgeting processing and reporting would fall
under the PIMPRO appointed for the National Institutional Strengthening component (para.
3.4).
5.3        In recognition of the major role that appropriate land use systems, including
soil conservation, would play in combatting land degradation and of the need to mobilize
agricultural expertise, GOI should expand the representation and input of MOA in the



- 27 -
Regreening and Reforestation Tim Pengendali and Secretariat. The Tim Pengendali, subject
to approval by the Steering Committee, and in conjunction with the DGs of BANGDA,
RLR, BAPPENAS and Bureau of Planning of MOA, should identify appropriate
representatives of MOA and would review and revise the terms of reference of the chair-
persons (MORA, MOA and MOFR) of the Tim Pengendali Secretariat, including the four
working gro, ps and their leaders, and the PIMPRO of the PUOPR. It was agreed at
negotiations that this review and the submission of the TORs to the Board would be a
condition for loan effectiveness. This review, should, apart from the preparation of terms
of reference for the working groups, also identify the appropriate key staff for these
subcommittees. Appropriate members should be identified and appointments made prior to
March 31, 1994. The subcommittees or working groups at the Secretariat would be headed
by appropriate full time representatives of the lead agencies and given adequate support staff,
including technical assistance with outside membership as needed, to provide the specific
guidance and direction to the institutional strengthening subcomponents. It was also agreed
that the appointment of the appropriate full time seconded staff for the ISS, land use
planning, upland research and nursery development and training and extension
subcommittees or working groups would be a condition for disbursement of the institutional
strengthening component.
5.4        Local Organiization and Management.  Implementation of the Upper
Cimanuk and R&R investment support components of the project would be carried out
according to GOI's existing organizational and management structure and funding
mechanism of the R&R program. While policy guidance and overall coordination would be
carried out through Tim Pengendali (Chart I) actual implementation of the R&R watershed
program in the various districts would be the responsibility of the Bupati for the Regreening
program and the Head of the Provincial Forest Service for Reforestation. Each of these
programs would be carried out by a project manager (PIMPRO) with support from the inter-
agency guidance teams (Tim Pembina) at TK 1 (provincial) and Tk II (district) level
(Chart 1). In Upper Cimnanuk, the PIMPRO of each Kabupaten nominated by the respective
Bupati, would be assisted by a small project management unit (PMU), which would operate
from either the Setwilda or the Bappeda Tk II office. The need and effectiveness of these
PMUs would be reviewed at MTR with the view to make organizational adjustments, if
required, to Cimanuk and the R&R program. Technical planning, implementation and
supervision of the Regreening program at the field level would be carried out by staff and
extension workers from agriculture, forestry, and public works under the overall guidance
of the project manager (PIMPRO), and in consultation with the farmers and local community
organizations. In Cimanuk, an NGO would be subcontracted by the project to facilitate
farmers and community involvement in planning and implementation. Specific inter-agency
responsibilities for implementation of the Cimanuk componient are detailed in Annex 2,
Appendix 1.
5.5         Through the Upper Cimanuk component the project would initially attempt
to strengthen some of the organizational shortcomings of the R&R program (para. 5.8).
First, at the provincial and district level, the watershed development plans (POLA RLKT
DAS, RTL RLKT Sub-DAS, and RTI) would be fully integrated with the regional plans of
the BAPPEDA and would also become a reference point for every agency and land user
(para. 3.7). Second, following a successfui impiementation of a prototype of the ISS in



- 28 -
Cimanuk, the ISS program would be expanded to a national coverage, the modalities of
which, including an action plan for implementation, would be available at MTR. Third,
recommendations would also be completed at MTR to improve the effectiveness of extension
in the R&R program both in terms of a wider extension focus (emphasizing sustainability
of the entire farming system, including the need for adequate support services) and in
enhancing inter-agency contributions and accountability. Lastly, the effectiveness of the
existing provincial and district guidance teams and the role of the PIMPRO in the R&R
program would be reviewed not only in Cimanuk but also in the five other selected
watersheds outside Java targeted under the upland research development subcomponent
(para. 3.10). This review would focus on the effectiveness of these bodies in providing
planning and technical advice, procurement reviews and monitoring and evaluation.
Consideration in this review would be given to the need to transfer any of these functions
to the BAPPEDA (Tk I&II) and Setwilda Tk II (regime secretariat) and whether the latter
should also take on more responsibility in operational control of the Regreening program.
Furthermore the role of the Cabang RLKT, presently operating under the central MOFr,
should be reviewed and consideration should be given to decentralize their soil and water
conservation functions, including the placement of the forestry extension workers, to the
district governments by creating a Dinas Kehutanan at the Kabupaten level.
B. IMPLEmENTATiON ARRANGEMENTs
5.6        Implementation Schedule. The implementation schedule in Annex 7 shows
the key events of project implementation, while Annex 12 gives an indication of the
Project's Supervision requirements.  The start-up of the institutional strengthening
component would depend on the timeliness of appointment of staff heading the
subcommittees or technical working groups assisting the Tim Pengendali (para. 5.2) and the
additional direction and support from the technical assistance provided under the project
(para. 5.10). The actual operation of this component, including the completion of the
reviews outlined in para. 3.18, and the realization of satisfactory progress in making
available the appropriate technological treatment menus for the various R&R watersheds
would be a condition for Bank disbursement against the R&R program (para. 3.18). With
respect to the timely start of the implementation of the Upper Cimanuk component,
PIMPRO's for the districts of Garut and Sumedang would be appointed immediately
following Loan negotiations, so that the start-up planning, training, staff secondment and
appointment of technical assistance can commence promptly. Implementation of the
component would follow immediately after the mobilization of the TA and NGO teams.
5.7        Reporting and Review. An annual work program outlining the proposed
activities and budget for the Institutional Strengthening and Upper Cimanuk components
would be submitted to the Bank by no later than August 15. The MIS developed under the
project would be reviewed and reporting mechanisms updated through to the national level,
as well as to the BAPPEDA offices at district and provincial levels. With respect to the
annual R&R INPRES program, GOI would submit by August 15 each year, commencing
August 15, 1995, a consoliated report of all activities to be funded by the R&R annual
budget in each watershed. Annual progress reports would be submitted to the Bank no later
than June 30 each year and would draw on information generated by the MIS to elaborate



- 29 -
on the constraints and problem solving aspects of the project. Assurances regarding the
above report and review requirements were obtained from GOI at negotiations.
5.8         A MTR would be carried out by about March 31, 1996 to evaluate the project
experiences obtained, with the view of making the necessary project adjustments as required.
Prior to the MTR, individual reviews would have to be carried out, concerning (i) the
institutional strengthening component (paras. 3.7; 3.10; 3.18); (ii) the Upper Cimanuk
component (para. 5.5); and (iii) the central guidelines for R&R investrnent activities (para.
5.9). At MTR, these reviews would form the basis for an action plan (including a time table
for implementation satisfactory to the Bank), for making appropriate technology and
institutional adjustments to the R&R program, as well as Cimanuk. A project completio
n report (PCR) would be prepared by the ISS working group in the secretariat on the basis
of Bank guidelines within six months of the closing date of the Loan. Assurances regarding
the above MTR and PCR requirements were obtained from GOI at negotiations.
5.9         Funding. The R&R INPRES consists of several budgets tied to field
activities, training, planning, staffing and management overheads. For implementation, the
annual technical plan (RTT, see Annex 3) of each watershed, which has to be consistent with
the POLA RLKT DAS and 5 year plans (RTL RLKT Sub-DAS), is formulated by the sub-
Balai RLKT and approved by the relevant regional planning agencies (BAPPEDA). This
plan, which depends heavily on restrictive guidelines of the Steering Committee, specifies
the activities and budget requirements and becomes the guide for watershed management
implementation. Once the R&R funds are committed and authorized at the central level,
funds for Regreening are sent in their entirety to the treasury of the district government,
and, in the case of Reforestation, to the treasury of the provincial government. Both funds
are held in transit i.e., need no furtier approval. Funds are disbursed by the Directorate
of the Budget, Department of Finance, and channelled through the State Treasury Office and
government banks. These mechanisms would be retained by the project. However, all
funding for the institutional strengthening component would be channeled through the
PUOPR budget, which is directly controlled by the Tim Pengendali. To encourage more
flexibility and ownership in implementation of the R&R program, efforts would be made to
make the central guidelines for project activities, targets and unit costs less standardized by
taking account of the local specificity of watersheds and by having local governments
allocate more of their own funds to complement budgetary requirements of the R&R
program. These issues would be reviewed before January 1, 1996, so that specific
recommendations for their improvement would be introduced by no later than the MTR.
5.10        Technical Assistance and NGOs. Because of the institutional strengthening
orientation of the project and the urgent need to promote more sustainable and replicable
production systems, emphasizing soil and moisture conservation technologies in the R&R
program, considerable local and foreign technical assistance would be required during the
initial phase of project implementation. Annex 6 includes the details of technical assistance
to be supported under the project. The project would provide 253 staff-months of
international consultancy and 382 months of national consultancy (excluding the NGO
subcontract and local secondments). For the strengthening of the overall R&R program
major areas of technical support would be for ISS development and planning, training and
upland farming system development and research. The two management contracts for the



- 30 -
National Institutional Strengthening component (para. 4.4) would be managed by the Tim
Pengendali. Within the TA team, overall coordination responsibility would fall under the
Watershed Management Adviser as team leader (Anmex 6). Responsibility for the
management of the Cimanuk TA contract would be attributed to t}he provincial Bappeda on
behalf of the two district govermnents. For the implementation of the Upper Cimanuk
watershed additional assistance would be provided in some critical areas such as community
development and participation, nursery development and watershed planning and
management. Draft TORs for the key consultancies are shown in Annex 6 for the National
Institutional Strengthening component, and in an accompanying work paper for the Cimanuk
component. Assurances vere obtained at negotiations that key consultants as listed in Annex
6 would be employed by no later than August 31, 1994. Assurances were also obtained that
4aalified NGOs and local community organizations (LCOs) would participate in the R&R
program implementation to complement the roles of the extension staff, particularly with the
view to mobilize upland community participation in planning and facilitate implementing of
appropriate improvements to their farming systems, including soil and moisture
conservation. As a start, a qualified NGO in coordination with LCOs would be
subcontracted for the Upper Cimanuk watershed to carry out such a role and their
mobilization would be no later than August 31, 1994.
5.11        Environmental Management.   A  preliminary environmental impact
assessment (PIL) for the Upper Cimanuk component has been prepared in accordance with
GOI AMDAL requirements and has been processed by the responsible enviromnent
committee. The conclusion of the PIL is that the project will have no significant adverse
environmental impacts. The project includes substantial monitoring and evaluation activities
which would provide a means for periodically evaluating the limited environmental risks.
One of the main environmental concern is to ensure that a linkage is established between the
R&R program and the Director General of Nature Conservation and Forest Protection within
MOFr and to a lesser extent with the Ministry of Environment regarding land use
management issues. To this effect, a position for an environmentalist specialist will be
created at the Secretariat (see Annex 6).



- 31 -
6
PROJECT IMPACT
A. BENFS AND JUSTlFICATION
6.1         Project benefits relate to increased production, productivity and environmental
quality in the upland areas due to an improved retention of soil nutrients; institutional
strengthening of the public administration at central, provincial, and district levels dealing
with the R&R program; and development opportunities for local participation, employment
and income. Since regreening activities are carried out in private farmland, the project is
expected to have a significant effect on the income of upland farmers. Technological
improvements and related investments in human resource development are expected to
increase the quantity and diversity of agriculture and tree crop production, while enhancing
key environmental aspects such as soil and moisture conservation. The project is also
expected to have an effect on slowing down the pace of environmental degradation through
an improved fanning system approach, off-farm land treatments and protection and increase
of production of forests. Improved conservation of watersheds is, moreover, expected to
have important off-site benefits in the form of decreased sedimentation and amelioration of
water quality of rivers and streams, as well as a decrease in the risks associated with
flooding and land slides. The global value of soil conservation treatments is believed to be
substantial, as corroborated by past estimates which have placed the costs of soil erosion at
about US$400 million per annum in Java alone.2/
Benefits to Farmers
6.2         A detailed analysis of farm benefits was performed for the Upper Cimanuk
Watershed component of the project.l/ Benefits to farmers are expected to accrue as a
result of the introduction of new perennial crops and related activities (e.g., livestock);
savings in fertilizers' run-off as a result of land stabilization treatments; and increase in
yields of existing crops due to improved retention of soil nutrients. Off-farm benefits
I/ Magrath and Areas, 1989 'Land and Water Management in Indonesia-Methodologyfor Calculating
Costs to the Economy of Soil Erosion In Java' in 'Indonesia Forest, Land and Water. Issue in
Sumainabk Development', World Bank Report 7822-IND.
1/ Details on the derivation of financial and economic benefits of the farm models can be found in a
projecA backgrwund paper, 'E,tbnatlon of Financial and Economic Benfts of the Upper Cimanuk
Watershed Development Project'.



- 32 -
include improved training and extension; improved information on local credit and marketing
facilities; the granting of permanent land titling; and general economic benefits resulting
from improved vehicular access to upland villages, as well as improved drainage control.
The on-farm treatments envisaged under the component are expected to beneflt a total of
31,500 farm families in the Cimanuk Watershed alone, or an equivalent population of
145,000. The improved roads would benefit a population of nearly 120,000. All 146 target
upland villages would benefit through improved participation in local planning activities,
extension services, and training. Moreover, the development of 75 village-based nurseries
would improve farmers' control over seedling quality, diminish transportation problems, and
encourage free market pricing of perennial planting materials, currently only available in
selected locations.
6.3         To assess the project's on-farm benefits, three indicative farm models were
developed taking into account the major agro-ecological zones of the Upper Cimanuk
Watershed. These include: (.) a highly sloped vegetable growing area, characterized by
large nutrient losses (Zone 1); (ii) a medium to high-sloped area with poorly built or no
terraces (Zone 2); and (iii) a moderately sloped area with well built terraces (Zone 3).
These zones were estimated to comprise, respectively, 13 percent, 40 percent, and
47 percent of the areas requiring treatment in the upper watershed. The farm models were
based on average farm sizes of 0.5 ha.2/ Available family labor was estimated at 45
person-days per year, with and without the project. All inputs and outputs were costed at
farmgate prices prevalent as of November 1992. Existing farming practices were assessed
based on field observations and extensive consultation with local extension workers and
district officials. The new technologies proposed by the project included a combination of
fruit trees, small estate crops, multipurpose leguminous trees, and grass, as well as stall-fed
livestock. Similar mixed systems have already been introduced in the District of Garut on
a pilot basis, and found to be acceptable to farmers. The amount of the in-kind grants
provided under the project were estimated based on the investment cost of the new
interventions. Farmers were assumed to contribute with labor and all recurrent costs, in
addition to minor investment items readily available on location (e.g., grass slips). Benefits
were assumed to accrue over a period of 30 years. All benefit derived from other project
activities (e.g., nurseries, research plots, roads and drainage works), as well as off-farm
income for which information was not available, were excluded. The financial analysis of
the farm models is shown on Annex 8, Appendix 5.
6.4         Benefits of the new treatments were estimated conservatively, and were
assumed to be mostly derived from the incremental production of new crops and activities.
In addition, it was assumed that treatments in the highly sloped Zone 1 would reduce current
levels of fertilizer input by 10 percent. A conservative 10 percent increase in the yields of
existing crops was also allowed for Zone 2, owing to the effect of soil stabilization in
previously unterraced land. The estimated financial rate of return (FRR) of the proposed
interventions to farmers in the model micro-watersheds ranged between 33 percent in
Zone 1, to 18.5 percent in Zone 3. FRRs for expansion area farmers, who are expected to
21 Accordig to late 1980's project preparation data. The average fiam sizes are believed to be currently
smaller.



- 33 -
receive smaller grants, ranged between 31 percent in Zone 1 to 17 percent in Zone 3
(Table 6.1) Returns to family day of labor increased by 48 percent in Zone 2, to 23 percent
in Zone 3 with the introduction of the new technologies. Furthermore, returns to labor day
(both hired and non-hired) remained in the range of Rp 3,650 to Rp 5,800, well above the
prevailing wage rates for hired labor (about Rp 2,500 a day for male labor). The decrease
in the planting intensity of annual crops was found to be largely compensated by the
production of new perennial crops, and incremental benefits accrued only two years after
the Introduction of the new technologies. Short-term benefits from the introduction of small
ruminants are expected to provide an adequate incentive to grow and maintain fodder
producing perennials, while longer-yielding fruit and estate crops mature. Promotion of
crop varieties and activities that are well known to the area, but which require somewhat
large investnent costs, are also believed to minimize the risks of non-adoption by the
farmers.
Table 6.1: UpPER CIMANWU WATERSIED
COMPONENT-FARM FAMILY BENEFITS
Annual
Model                 FRR      NPV            RetuJDS to Family-DaY of Labor
(million Rp)                (RW)io
WUithout     With          Change
Project     Project
Model Micro-Watersheds:
Zone 1t               33.0      2.2       40,759         52,110      +27.8
Zone 21               28.3      2.7       25,331         37,553      +48.3
Zone 312              18.5      0.8       21,103         25,870      +22.6
Expansion Areas:
zone 1                30.6      2.1       40,759         52,110      +27.8
Zone 2                26.6      2.6       25,331         37,553      +48.3
Zone 3                17.0      0.7       21,103         25,870      +22.6
I Vegetable growing areaS, bily sloped, with substantial soil loss.
/b Unterraced Or poorly teraced land, medium to high slope.
/c  Teraed upland (to be preserved).
PRR - FiDancial rate of return (to the farm family).
6.5         In the Outer Islands, indicative farm models of soil and water conservation
treatments have demonstrated comparative rates of returns to farmers as the models shown
above.1l/ Compared to Java, soil and water conservation treatments in the relatively
drier Outer Islands should result in higher benefits. The poorer soils, on the other hand,
tend to restrict the choices of soil conservation technologies able to provide short-term
benefits to farmers. The project would seek to overcome this constraint by promoting the
10/ Contreras-Henmosilla, 1992. 'Indonesia OUter slands-Soil and Water Conservation Models',
project background doment.



- 34 -
introduction of mixed systems, rather than monoculture, and develop site-specific farm
research systems that would take into account profit maximizing goals.
6.6         Since the inputs would be provided in the form of grants, there would be no
cost recovery mechanisms. This is consistent with current practices in soil conservation, and
justifiable from a society's point of view, since the positive impact of improved soil
conservation practices would transcend the boundaries of the farm. The grants are further
justified as an incentive for farmers to offset the short-term losses that they might incur as
a result of the shift toward more perennial land uses, and in view of the small size of
average land holdings prevailing in the uplands.
6.7         Marketing. The improved farming systems introduced by the project would
emphasize multicrop systems as a way to minimize the market risks of monoculture. The
project would also emphasize the use of local crop varieties to reduce marketing problems.
The development of village-based nurseries is, moreover, expected to improve farmers'
quality control over the quality of perennial crop seedlings, and hence the resulting products,
improving marketing pfospects. Marketing of new crops could become a problem in isolated
upland villages, but investments in upland support services, emphasis on improved marketing
information, improved research on local-specific crop varieties, and removal of access
constraints (e.g., trough village road upgrading) are expected to overcome these risks. In
the Upper Cimanuk watershed, the emergence of the area as a prime vegetable supplier to
urban centers as far as Jakarta provides an assurance that marketing channels are well
established and that transportation of fresh produce will not be a problem.
Economic Analysis
6.8         A full economic analysis was performed for the Upper Cimanuk Watershed
component of the project. Economic costs exclude price contingencies, and all taxes and
duties. Economic prices for traded farm outputs and inputs (including most annual crops
and fertilizers) were estimated using export and import parity prices, forecasted in real terms
through 2005, and assumed constant thereafter (Annex 8, Appendix 2). All other farm
products were valued at their financial (end-1992) prices. A conversion factor of 0.9 was
used for unskilled farm labor. Other labor inputs were valued at their mark-et rate. The
costs of roads and drainage works were converted to economic values by a weighted
conversion factor of 0.91, taking into consideration the standard shares of materials and
labor utilized (Annex 8). A standard conversion factor of 1.0 was used for the domestic
component of all other project costs.
6.9         Benefits were derived for the farm treatments proposed (except nurseries) and
for the roads upgrading subcomponent. The net economic benefits of farm treatments were
derived from the three 0.5 ha farm models representing the different agro-ecological zones
of the watershed (para. 6.3), and extrapolated over a total area of 15,750 ha according to
the planned phasing of model micro-watersheds (2,190 ha) and expansion areas (13,560 ha).
Economic benefits were assumed to accrue over a period of 30 years. The aggregated
economic rate of return (ERR) for farm treatments was 35.2 percent (Annex 8, Appendix 6).



- 35 -
6.10        The project proposes upgrading 126 km of village access roads in the Upper
Cimanuk Watershed. A full economic analysis was performed on a representative sample
of the targeted road stretches, equivalent to all roads upgraded during the first two years of
the project (33.6 kIn; Annex 8, Box 1 and Appendix 4). The net benefits were then
extrapolated to the totality of the works. The benefits of road upgrading were computed
through a population model developed under the Indonesia Rural Roads II Project (Ln. 2881-
IND), and currently used by Kabupaten Roads officials for links exhibiting access constraints
and low motorized traffic (Annex 8, Box 1). In order to account for differences in quality
between village access roads and district links, which are generally fully sealed, the benefits
per km were reduced by a factor of 30 percent. Benefits were assumed to accrue for a
period of 10 years following the initial investment under conditions of adequate routine and
periodic maintenance. The costs of the latter were included in the analysis. The resulting
ERR for the subcomponent was 20.8 percent. The use of a population-based method to
compute road benefits tends to underestimate the real benefits of improving vehicular access
to remote and scarcely populated upland villages, since the per capita benefits in this latter
case are expected to be higher than the regional average for rural roads.
6.11        The final economic analysis took into account all subproject costs, including
research, technical assistance and training. In addition, all recurrent costs were assumed to
continue after the project in support of activities developed in the extension areas, as well
as other regreening activities. Allowances were also made for post-project recurrent costs
necessary to maintain structures built through the project (e.g., land stabilization treatments
and village funds). Recurrent costs were assumed to decrease gradually, attaining 10 percent
of the costs in the last project year 15 years after the start of implementation. The resulting
ERR for the subproject is 17.3 percent, with a net present value (at 10 percent) of Rp 35.5
billion (Table 6.2 and Annex 8, Appendix 6). Real benefits are considered to be somewhat
underestimated. For example, the analysis does not take into consideration the benefits of
structural and vegetative land stabilization treatments, both in-site and downstream. Among
those are the benefits of watershed management in flood and land slide control, the
normalization of downstream water flows, and water quality improvements with resulting
impact on downstream fisheries and water use activities. The analysis also omits the long-
term benefits of training, research, and technical assistance in area development. The ERR
of the subproject without research and technical assistance costs is 20.2 .ircent.
Sensitivity Analysis
6.12        The subproject is reasonably robust to changes in either the cost or benefit
stream (Table 6.2). A decrease in benefits of 10 percent and an equivalent rise in project
costs yields an ERR of 12.0, which is above the Indonesian opportunity cost of capital of
10 percent. The switching values for cost overrun and benefit shortfall are, respectively,
32.4 and 24.5 percent. The analysis is also relatively robust to project delays and decreases
in adoption rates: a one-year delay in on-farm benefit accrual, for example, yields an ERR
of 12.9 percent. Ihe subproject remains economically viable (ERR = 12.3) should half of
the target farmers revert to their traditional practices 5 years after being introduced to the
improved technologies.



- 36 -
Table 6.2: UPPER CIMANUK WATERSHED CoMPONENT-SENSvITIY ANALYSIS
Scenario                                                    Rate of Returm      NPV
(ftp million)
Base Case                                                        17.3          35,460
Base Case without TA, Research Costs                             20.2          41,972
20% Increase in Project Costs                                    12.5          13,562
20% Shortfall in Project Benefits/a                              11.5           6,469
10% Increase in Costs & 10% Shortfall in Benefits                12.0          10,015
One Year Delay in Benefit Accrual /b                             12.9          16,896
50% of Panners Revert to Traditional
Technologies within 5 Years of Introducdon                      12.3          8,194
Swithing value for Cost Overmn: 32.4 percent
Swithing value for Benefit Shortfail: 24.5 percent
/a Incretnental Benefits of Farm Interventions and Road Upgrading Wors.
/b For farm interventions only. Assumes investment costs are incurred during the expected year of
intervention.
6.13          A  sensitivity analysis was also performed to assess the robustness of the
proposed farm treatments in terms of their financial viability to the farm families (Annex 8,
Appendix 3). The farm models (para. 6.3) are relatively robust to changes in either benefits
or costs of the new crops and activities. All zone models remain viable with a 20 percent
increase in implementation costs, but farmers in Zone 3 no longer benefit from the proposed
model should the price of new outputs fall short by 20 percent, or if yields fell by 20
percent in relation to appraisal estimates. It should be considered, however, that t6
assumptons used in te  models regarding the yield of new  crops and activities were
conservative and are likely to underestimate the real benefits.1l/ For example, decreases
in yields without the project as a result of erosion were not taken into account, even thought
they are likely to be non-negligible. All ftree models remain viable under a one year delay
in benefit accrual, or if a larger loss in the area allocated to annual crops as a result of the
introduction of new farm activities (e.g., through shading) is assumed. Furthermore, the
models remain viable under the unlikely scenario where soil treatments are assumed to have
no positive impact on the yield of existing crops.
.1/ R      results form the Wonogin watershed (Ctald Java), suggest inceases in yields as a result of soil
conservation treatments of 30 percent for rice and 90 percent for cassava (FAO-CP, 1992, 'indonesia Foreshy
nstitutions and Conservation Project-Wonogiri Watershed Component, Mid-Term Evaluation).



- 37 -
B. INSmTUIONAL AND ENVIRONMTAL IMPACr
6.14        Institutional Impact. The project would build on existing organizational
structures both at the central and provincial levels, to address problems of the national
watershed management and conservation program. Full time staff in the Tim Pengendali
would implement an information support system across participating agencies leading to
improved guidelines for implementation, monitoring and evaluation, and decision making.
The changes the project aims to make are consistent with on-going practices, but will add
considerably to accountability and performance by promoting coordination and mobilization
of awareness, as well as participation. At the provincial and district level the project would
promote a move towards a stronger ownership on the part of the local government (Bupati
and agencies) by greater devolution of responsibility for conservation and watershed
management from the central government, particularly MOFr, to district and provincial
authorities.
6.15        Environmental Impact.  The project is strongly oriented towards
environmental improvements. Fundamental to this cause is the need for the project to
introduce, through the Regreening program, more appropriate farming systems and farming
practices and improvements in treatments for off-farm sedimentation control. Accordingly,
the development of technologies concerning on- and off-farm land treatments is one of the
main thrust of the project. The project is also focussing through the Reforestation program
on the protection and rehabilitation of degraded forest areas. Within the target areas,
treatment options under the project would be reviewed from different standpoints, including
silvi-cultural, socio-economic, soil and moisture conservation concerns. The only negative
impact envisaged on the physical environment could involve the realignment of village
tracks/roads in fragile upland areas under the Cimanuk watershed component (para. 3.15).
However safeguards against this risk would be taken by requiring that the road upgrading
works would conform to the environmental standards specified under the Third Kabupaten
Roads Project (Ln. 3490-IND), i.e., (i) that no roads be built on sections not previously
open to four-wheel drive traffic and those providing access to fragile areas as defined on the
basis of REPPROT maps,;2/ (ii) that the upgraded roads not be located in areas
providing access to conservation or state forest land; and (iii) that the road works be
designed, implemented and maintained in accordance with agreed environmental codes of
practice. To ensure (iii) above, the project would require the roads engineer, with assistance
from the soil and water conservation engineer hired under TA assistance, to complete a
manual on roads and drainage design and maintenance suitable to the environmental
conditions of the watershed. At negotiations, it was agreed that the completion of this
-anual would be a condition for road disbursement (para. 3.15).
6.16        Impact on Women. The project would have a positive impact on women.
With current urbanization trends promoting large seasonal out-migrations of male farm
labor, it appears that women participate more than men in the workload of upland farming
areas and are consequently expected to benefit from the proposed improvements in the
12/ These are maps prepared betweea 1982-1988 for Ihe planning of transmigration projects, and used
to define ftagile areas).



- 38 -
farming systems. The project's promotion towards a gradual shift to an increase in perennial
crops is expected to reduce labor for farm cultivation but increase the workload for
processing, an activity traditionally performed by women. In an attempt to maximize the
positive impact on women, they would be treated as equa! -artners in the development of
sustainable farming systems under the project. Accordingly, women would receive the same
training as men, and special efforts would be made to ensure that female-headed households
are not discriminated against in the provision of project services. In the proposed project
improvements of village needs' assessment and participatory land use planning activities,
greater representation of women is envisaged, particularly through the PKK women
organizations. Concerted efforts would also be made to remove gender specific barriers in
providing a wider role for women in specialized project activities such as village nursery and
extension activities, including their training, as well as in promoting the training of more
women extension workers. The project would also carry out a perspective study in Upper
Cimanuk to guide the component in ways to enhance the role of women, particularly relating
to marketing, processing and other specific project activities.
6.17        Impact on Indigenous People. Negative impacts on indigenous people are
not envisaged under the project. Since the project is for most part concerned with improving
soil conservation practices on farmers' private land (under the Regreening program) no
displacement impact on contested land is envisaged. In the watershed where indigenous
people are found to exist, the main problem likely to be encountered is the possible
reluctance of indigenous groups to take advantage of the R&R activities, despite equal access
to the program's benefits. The project would protect the interests of indigenous people by
ensuring that, in watersheds where they live: (a) indigenous people are involved in planning
activities through a process of informed participation; (b) that research on local farning
systems takes into account indigenous people's cultural, economic, and social conditions; and
(c) that regular monitoring and evaluation of indigenous people's participation in project
a( ivities takes place through the proje.t. Assurances to this effect were obtained from GOI
at negotiations.
C. SuSrAiNABIL  AND RISKS
6.18        Sustainablity. The long-term sustainability of the national watershed and soil
conservation program will depend to a large extent on the development of productive
farming systems that appeal to upland farmers in providing short-term benefits as well as the
commitment of local government district staff to the R&R program. In view of the large
backlog in degraded areas in need of treatment, the R&R program will need to be
maintained for perhaps 25 years or more. In addition, however, a centrally funded
conservation program should continue to be required due to the public goods nature of
watershed management and soil conservation, where optimal management cannot be ensured
by private solutions alone. While the central government has supported the R&R program
for some 18 years, future sustainability will also depend on the willingness of local
governments to complement funding requirements and making upland farming communities
more self supporting in some of the program's activities. At the central level the project's
sustainability will depend on some critical support in farming system research and training,
their willingness to make changes in their policies and regulations and remove constraints



- 39 -
to the effectiveness of the field level implementation, including organization and
management. The mid-term review will further determine the adjustments, if needed, to
ensure greater sustainability of the program.
6.19        Risks. The main risks facing the project are related to the willingness of
government in making the appropriate institutional and policy changes reflected in
Chapter S. Another risk is related to the fine tuning of appropriate upland farming systems
to the many diverse ecological and site-specific field conditions, depending on the critical
combination of farmer's needs and capabilities, research and extension inputs and people's
participation. Given the risks associated with the need for strong government commitment
to strengthening the policy and institutional framework of the R&R program, the project has
been designed to take a phased approach to the expansion of World Bank investment
support. Bank support for R&R program investments would only be disbursed following
an initial period of institutional investment and a successful MTR. The project's institutional
and technical risks would also be reduced by the project's efforts in training and use of
technical assistance. The risks would be monitored by allocating double the supervision staff
weeks during the first 3 years (including more specific support for farming system and soil
conservation, planning and ISS development, and environmental control, Annex 12). The
project could, in addition, be adjusted particularly once the initial experiences of project
implementation have been taken into account during the mid-term review.



- 40 -
7
AGREEME'NTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.1        At negotiations, the following assurances were obtained from Government:
(a)   The POLA, RTL and RTT plans would be reviewed, prior to the MTR, by
January 1, 1996, with time bound recommendations for improvement in
technical and institutional matters (para. 3.7);
(b)   nursery development and research activities to be started in Cimanuk and the
five provinces outlined in para. 3.10;
(c)   village grants would be subject to submissions of specific proposals subject.
to approval by the Bank (para. 3.16).
(d)   procurement arrangements would be followed as outlined in paras 4.3/5;
(e)  independent audits of project accounts, including the audits of SOEs and
special account, would be submitted to the Bank within nine months of the
closure of each Government fiscal year (para. 4.10);
(f)  reporting and review requirements would be as outlined in para. 5.7;
(g)   A MTR of the project would be undertaken by March 31, 1996 as outlined
in para. 5.8, with an action plan and time table satisfactory to the Bank for
making appropriate technological and institutional adjustments to the R&R
program, including Cimanuk (paras. 3.7; 3.10; 3.17; 3.18; 5.5; 5.8; 5.9);
(h)   key consultants would be employed no later than August 31, 1994 and a
qualified NGO linked up with LCOs would assist in community participatory
planning and implementation (para. 5.10);
(i)  the protection of interests of indigenous people in watershed development
would be ensured as outlined in para. 6.17.
7.2         At negotiations, the following conditions for Loan disbursements were agreed:
(a)   financing of inputs for the R&R program would be subject to: (i) institutional
strengthening component being fully operational and appropriate reviews of
key project activities having been carried out; and (ii) guidelines satisfactory



- 41 -
to the Bank outlining the revised on-farm treatments for participating R&R
watersheds having been distributed to implementing agencies, including
ensuring the availability of support of appropriate planting materials
(para. 3.18);
(b)   disbursement against the institutional strengthening component would be
subject to appointment of appropriate full time seconded staff to head the key
working groups (para. 5.3);
(c)   preparation of a rood manual and compliance with the manual guidelines for
design, location, and evidence of good maintenance would be a condition for
road disbursement under the Cimanuk component (paras. 3.15; 6.15).
7.3         The following would be a condition for loan effectiveness:
A review would be made of the TORs and submitted to the
Bank, of the staff outlined in para. 5.3 with a view to
strengthen the effectiveness of the Tim Pengendali's
Secretariat.
7.4         With the above agreements ane issurances, the project would be suitable for
a Bank Loan of US$56.5 million equivalent with a 20-year maturity at the Bank's variable
rate, including a grace period of 5 years. The Borrower would be the Republic of
nkdonesia.



- 42-                           ANNEX X
INDONESIA
NATIONAL WATERSHED MANAGEMNT AN
CONSERVATION PROJECT
WATESHE  MANAGEMENT AND REGREENG AND REFORESTATION PROGRAM
1.          Watershed Degradation. Upland and marginal areas in Indonesia constitute
a large portion of the watersheds, and are estimated at between 15 and 25 million ha.
Apart from being subject to intense tropical rains, many of these areas are rapidly degrading
due to serious soil erosion and moisture loss, due to inappropriate land use i.e. shifting
cultivation, deforestation and unsuitable farming systems. Most upland farmers are poor may
also own or have access to small parcels of lowland rice field, and can broadly be
categorized in three groups:
(a)   farmers who practice permanent cultivation on restricted areas of land owing
to land shortage;
(b) farmers who practice unsustainable shifting cultivation in forested areas; and
(c)   farmers who practice permanent or extensive forms of cultivation in semi-arid
areas.
It is difficult to estimate the incidence of poverty among upland farmers, as poverty data in
Indonesia do not correspond to land use or farming systems; however, it has been estimated
that some 10-12 million people are engaged in upland farming with incomes below the
poverty line.
2.          The unsustainable agricultural use of these uplands is deteriorating each year
due to the growing population pressures. While this holds true for the outer islands, it may
not be true for Java as the population pressure appears to be tapering off since the 80's, due
to transmigration, urbanization and industrialization processes. While in Java soil erosion
is largely caused by inappropriate farming systems which are market driven (e.g., vegetables
production on steep slopes), on the outer islands degradation appears to be caused rather by
a combination of shifting cultivation, overlogging and inappropriate cultivation practices.
Nevertheless, in most watersheds it is also clear that a large amount of erosion is also caused
by mass wasting and stream bank erosion, surface erosion from residential areas and from
roads. Therefore, there is not only a need to arrest erosion in upland farmers fields through
improved cultivation practices and some structural measures, but also by tackling the other
problem areas, such as road stabilization. A 1987 Bank study 1/ estimated that the costs
of soil erosion amounted to approximately US$400 million per year on Java alone. This
included nearly US$330 million in on-site costs related to lost fertility and productivity, and
1/ Magrath and Arems, 1989, 'and and Water Management in Indonesia. Methodology for calclating
costs to the Economy of Soil Erosion in Java in 'Indonesia: Forst, Land and Water. Issues in
Sustainable Developme-. World Bank Report, 7822-IND.



- 43-                          ANNEX 1
about US$65 million in off site cost such as irrigation system and reservoir sedimentation
and increased harbor dredging.
3.          Current Watershed Management Approaches. Watershed Management has
been pursued in Indonesia using a number of mechanisms by several agencies. The most
visible, costly and ambitious efforts have been externally funded projects aimed at specific
river basins on Java, beginning with the FAO-funded Upper Solo Project in the early 70's.
With some variations, these projects (Citanduy River Basin Project (USAID), Yogyakarta
Rural Development Project (IDA), Upland Agricultural and Conservation Project
(IBRD/USAID), Kali Korto (Dutch), Wonogiri Watershed Conservation (IBRD), Yogyakarta
Upland Project (IBRD)) have been built around an approach developed by the Solo project
which involves helping farmers to build bench terraces, provision of an agro-technology
package of seed and fertilizer, reforestation of government land, and construction of
structural works such as check dams and gully plugs. These projects have been managed
by MOFr (RRL) or the Ministry of Home Affairs (MOHA) (DG of regional Development -
BANGDA), with the involvement of the Ministries of Agriculture (MOA) and Public Work
(MOPW). Provincial and District Governments, particularly the Regional Planning Boards
(BAPPEDA) have been closely involved in project implementation.
4.          The Program  Bantuan Penghiuan dan Reboisasi, Regreening and
Reforesttion Program are two of the eight Presidential Instruction (INPRES) regional and
rural development assistance programs. This national soil and moisture conservation
program, which dates back to 1976, assists regional government and communities to
rehabilitate their degraded natural resources. The objective is to concentrate on a number
of critical watersheds to: (a) control erosion and floods; (b) improve land productivity,
thereby also improving farmer's income; and (c) increase people's participation in preserving
the natural resources of land, water and forests. As land use outside the forest lands
predominantly involves farming activities, the approach of the regreening program
component focusses on improving agricultural land use systems. The activities of the
Regreening program are carried out at the district (Kabupaten) level and are primarily
direed to private and communal lands, comprising: (i) demonstration plots (UPSA) of soil
conservation and improved land use in farmers' fields (the program core activity);
(ii) demonstration plots in shifting cultivation areas (UPM, mainly on outer islands);
(iii) village nurseries for fruit/timber trees and grasses; (iv) terrace rehabilitation; (v) check
dams, gully plugs and protection of river banks; and vi) social forestry. The demonstration
plots are carried out on a number of farms (demonstration farns, demplots), before the work
is extended to surrounding areas, or 'impact areas'. Except for labor, most cost are borne
by the Program. The Reforestation program is intended to restore damaged forests as well
as protect and increase their producdvity. It is directed at the provincial level and is carried
out on protected forest lands, consisting of: a. nursery development; and b. tree planting
(2,000/tree/ha) and maintenance. The Regreening and Reforestation program is planned
according to directions on land use, rehabilitation and conservation prepared by the RLKT
(para. 8). Funds that have been committed for Regreening are sent in its entirety to the
treasury of the district governments, while for the Reforestation they are sent to the
provincial governnent. Funds are disbursed by the Directorate of the Budget, Departnent
of Finance, and channelled through the State treasury Office and government banks. Data
maintained by the Regreening program do not provide a clear picture of the share of
spending.



- 44-                          ANNEX 1
5.          The Regreening and Reforestation program is a multisectoral program
involving six central government agencies:
Ministry of Home Affairs - Lead Agency
Ministry of Forestry - Planning and Monitoring
Ministry of Finance - Financial control
Ministry of Agriculture - Technical support
Ministry of Public Works - Technical support
National Development Planning Board (BAPPENAS)
At the central level GOI regulates the funding of this program, including planning direction
and general management.
6.          At the central level the Program is coordinated by a steering committee (Tim
Pengarah) that meets about 3 to 4 times year and comprise: DG Bangda, Dep. V, VI of
BAPPENAS, DG Foodcrops, DG RLR, Secretary of central BIMAS Control Agency, DG
budgeting, DG water Resources, ASS II of State Ministry for Environment. The steering
committee is in charge of formulating policy and the prioritization of the watersheds. The
executive secretary of the committee is the Chief, Bureau of Spatial Planning and
Environment (BAPPENAS). The steering committee is assisted by a Central Guidance
Team (Tim Pengendali), which provides guidance in implementation, monitors the program,
reviews the yearly plans and reviews and evaluate reports and use of funds. It meets about
six times year,and includes DG BANGDA (coordinator), and Dep. VI Bappenas (dep.
coordinator) which function as liaison with steering committee; Director PPLH (DG
BANGDA) and chairman, Secretary DG RLR and vice chairman; Sub director BANGDA
and secretary; director for planning and Programming; RLR and secretary; and 21 echelon
2 members from concerned DG's and the Bank Rakyat Indonesia, Bank Dagang Negara,
Bank Export Import Indonesia and the National Land Agency (BPN). The secretariat of the
central Guidance Team is involved in day-to-day data management, including funding,
reporting and planning and meet every two weeks. It is comprised of: Sub director
BANGDA (chairman), Director of Planning and Programming RLR (vice chairman), and
31 members of concerned DG's Agencies and Banks. Detailed Terms of Reference have
not been issued for the individual members of the three committees and the depth of
participation of individuals and the agencies they represent varies widely.
7.          At the provincial level the program is managed by a provincial management
team (Tim Pembina Tk.I), appointed by the Governor, with the Head of BAPPEDA,
Assistant SEKWILDA and Head of the Environment Bureau as vice chairmen. The
Reforestation program is implemented by a team appointed by the governor with the Head
of the Provincial Forest Service as supervisor. The Regreening program is implemented
under the control of the Bupati at the district level and guided by a district team (Tim
Pembina Tk.I) appointed by the Bupati, with the SEKWILDA or Head of BAPPEDA Tk.II
as chairman. For the Regreening program it is the Bupati who specifies the activities and
funds per village, which form the basis of the village operational plan. This plan is
formulated by the LKMD (village development council) and extension workers, and includes
the plans of farmers' group/regreening participants.



- 45 -                          ANNEX 1
8.          While the program has vested major responsibility for project execution with
the provincial and district level local governments, it is the DG RLR (MOFr) that has
assumed the main development role. RLR is responsible for the planning, guidance and
coordination of implementation, extension and monitoring and evaluation of the program,
via its nationwide network of offices for soil and water conservation and land rehabilitation
co,sisting of Centers, Subcenters Balai, Sub Balai and Cabang (Rehabilitasi lahan dan
konservasi Tahan [RLKTI) at provincial, district and watershed level, respectively.
9.          The program covers 39 priority watersheds in 26 provinces and in 193
kabupaten which have been selected from a total of 81 identified watersheds nationally. The
priority watersheds, consisting of 104 sub-watersheds, comprise a total area of 63.1 million
ha of which about 13 million ha are critically degraded and in need of rehabilitation
(Table 1).
Table 1: IDENTIED CRTCAL LANDs ('000 HA)
Islands             Areas outside forest     Inside forest        Total
Sumatera                  2,299                 1,406             3,705
Java+Bali                 1,263                   98              1,361
Nusa Tenggara             1,152                 1,025             2,177
Kalimantan                1,165                 1,789             2,954
Sulawesi                   965                  1,099             2,064
Maluku                     330                   305               635
Irian Jaya                  96                   187               283
Total                     7,270                 5,909            13,179
10.         Central funding of the program has increased annually, and over the last five
years the annual allocations to local governments has increased from about US$10 million
in 1988/99 to US$52 in 1992/93 (Table 2).
11.         While much has been learned through the INPRES Regreening and
Reforestation program and the numerous donor assisted projects, Indonesia's work in soil
conservation shares many of the same problems identified in other countries in the region
(Magrath 119931, Magrath and Doolette [19891). Donor assisted projects, such as the Kali
Konto project in East Java, and the UACP are the most well documented projects and in
many ways have been the most successful. However, by virtue of its size and coverage, the
INPRES program deserves the most attention from GOI and donors. In one year, INPRES
funding of soil conservation exceeds that of the total costs of all donor assisted soil
conservation projects now under implementation and the INPRES program reaches across
the country to far more Kabupaten than those which are covered by externally assisted
efforts. While the INPRES Program accounts for the largest portion of governments soil
and water conservation expenditures in support of soil and water conservation, these efforts,



- 46 -                          ANNEX 1
unfortunately, are not supported by a coherent institutional framework that provides adequate
technology accountability and management. Progress in these should thus be a first priority
requirement.
Table 2: INPRES REGREENING AND REFORESTATION 1988-92
(US$000)
Fiscal year    Soil Conserv.    Reforest.       Planning &         Total
Regreening                      training          support
1988/89           4,000           3,100          2,400             9,500
1989/90           3,965           2,938          2,447             9,350
1990191           9,461           5,340          4,138            18,939
1991/92          23,382           9,457          7,563            40,402
1992/93          31,791          11,621          8,698            52,110
TOTL         72.599          32.456          25.246           130.301
12.         Technology. An ongoing research program that provides a continuous flow
of new technologies and alternatives to policymakers, planners, extension agents and farmers
is essential to the success of GOIs efforts to promote soil conservation and upland resource
development. Currently, a wide range of government agencies, universities and private
groups, such as the Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD), the
Agency for Forestry Research and Development (AFRD), the Department of Soils of the
Bogor Agricultural Institute (IPB), and CARE Indonesia, are conducting research on soil and
moisture conservation technologies. Examples of the research underway include assessment
of vetiver grass hedges for soil conservation, farming systems research studies in East and
Central Java, and numerous erosion trials across the country.
13.         This work has, however, had limited impact on the design and implementation
of most investment under the INPRES Penghijuan and Reboisasi. Consequently, the bulk
of Regreening expenditures goes to support a limited range of high cost technologies
developed nearly twenty years ago for the special conditions of Central Java. Reasons for
this include the small size of the research effort, the dispersion of responsibility for research
across numerous agencies, a conventional and fragmented approach to conservation research,
limited flow of information on implementation experiences (both problems and successes)
to policymakers and planners, and the limited availability of skilled researchers and
technicians.
14.         For example, soil conservation research by AFRD is now conducted by fewer
than a dozen professional scientists (including only one PhD.) and is limited to only 10
projects with a total annual investment of only about US$125,000. Similarly, while
increasing emphasis is being placed on a farming systems approach by AARD, most



-47 -                           ANNEX 1
agricultural research is conducted with a commodity orientation that provides little focus on
soil and moisture conservation. In addition, because information on the impact and
sustainability of Regreening investments is not systematically collected or analyzed, there
is little realization on the part of policymakers of the needed or scope for technological
change in the conservation program.
15.         Accountability. An enormous amount of effort is expended through the
Regreening and Reforestation every year in Indonesia. While the system of planning,
budgeting and financing is often unclear, it is clear that GOI attaches considerable
importance to conservation and that annual physical targets are regularly met or exceeded.
Guidelines for the evaluation of Bupati, for example, include their effectiveness at managing
the implementation of Regreening in their Kabupaten.
16.         Unfortunately, while attention and accountability focus on annual physical
targets, the sustained impact of expenditure is neglected. For example, it appears that older
demonstration plots have fallen into disrepair because of lack of maintenance and neglect.
In using scarce domestic resources GOI needs to identify ways of shifting the burden of
responsibility from spending money to meet targets to investing for sustained impact.
Problems of accountability are compounded by the vague goals and targets of the R&R
programn. In addition, to general goals of assisting local government, R&R has the objective
of dealing with "critical land." However, since there is no single, or scientifically valid
definition of critical land, it is essentially impossible to gauge progress and thus no agency
or individuals can be held accountable for results.
17.         Management. Local government, with technical and fiancial assistance from
the central government, is responsible for implementation of Regreening and Reforestation.
In previous and ongoing Bank conservation projects, and those financed by other donors,
a range of organizational arrangements have been tried to link R&R efforts by local
government to lead agencies at the central level. The various technical plans prepared by
forestry personnel are, in the process of budget formulation and approval, jointly reviewed
and, at least in theory, reconciled to prevent overiap and to ensure smooth implementation.
In principle, this system should be able to take into account local needs and preferences and
the judgement of technically trained professionals. In reality, constraints on BAPPEDA staff
and limited availability of technical skills in local government, results in only cursory review
of the technical proposals and only marginal ownership of the plans by the agencies intended
to implement. Moreover, in donor assisted projects, the designation of a lead agency at the
central level has appeared to dilute local responsibility and, in addition, to have created
jealousy and competition among agencies at the central level.
18.         At the central level, a capacity to monitor and continuously assess progress
and problems in Regreening has yet to be developed. The capacity is there to monitor
expenditure and targets, and special studies are from time to time commissioned to attempt
to assess the program (para. 2.7). But, even these ad hoc studies are severely constrained
because data are not regularly collected in a form that can identify the actions that
policymakers need to take. In terms of day to day management, there is currently no single
data base that can supply decisiomnakers with a consolidated picture of physical and
financial progress in implementation and which reveals the different problems and successes
being experienced in different Kabupaten.



- 48 -                         ANNEX 2
IDONESIA
NATIONAL WATERSHED MANAGEMENT AND
CONSERVATION PROJECT
UPP   CIMANUK WATERSmD COMPONENT
1.         Implementation Arrangements. The institutional responsibilities for the
component are shown schematically in Appendix 1. The Bupati of Garut and Sumedang,
assisted by an appointed project manager (PIMPRO), and representatives of district-level
agencies coordinated by the Tim Pembina II, would be responsible for implementation of
the component. Exceptions to this would be land titling, implemented by BPN at the
provincial and district levels, MIS and RIS, which would be implemented by the respective
subcommittee at the central level (para. 5.2) and technical assistance, special studies, and
NGO contracts, which would be managed by Bappeda TK.I (West Java) on behalf of the
two Kabupaten (para. 5.10). The scope of project activities planned for each Kabupaten
is shown in Appendix 2, and the overall phasing of on- and off-farm interventions is
displayed in Appendix 3.
2.          Selection of Target Villages. The 146 target upland villages would be
selected according to the following criteria:
(a)  the village land must be located within one or more of the priority agro-
ecological zones (areas A, U, and Ut in Appendix 4), have visible land
stabilization and soil erosion problems, and be primarily engaged in
farming;
(b)  the villages should be representative of the respective subdistricts in terms
of socio-economic characteristics, land use patterns, and degree of soi!
degradation;
(c)   consultations on village-level action plans must have taken place with formal
and informnal village groups, including farmers' groups and women farmers,
to determine the existence of potentially negative environmental and/or
social impacts, as well as overall willingness to participate in the project.
3.          Key Farmer Displays in Model Micro-Watersheds. Key farmer display
plots would be initiated in approximately 292 representative model micro-watersheds
(micro-DAS) of 5-10 ha each, at a rate of two micro-DAS per target village phased in over
a period of two years. The improved farming system technologies would be developed
jointly by farmers and project facilitators. Alternatively, the project could help key
farmers develop their own plans for micro-watershed management after exposing them to
cross visits and study tours to areas where improved farming techtn %gies have been
implemented successfully. Farmers in model micro-DAS would receive in-kind grants
averaging about Rp 670,000 per ha, but would be expected to contribute with labor, a



- 49 -                         ANNEX 2
share of the inputs and recurrent costs. The precise composition of the grant would be
determined on a case-by-case basis, depending on local demand, the size of the farms, the
type of land tenure. and general socio-economic conditions. Typically, the grant would
consist of a mixture of grass and leguminous tree seeds/seedlings, estate and/or tree crop
seedlings (includi'ig fruit trees), fertilizers, and/or small ruminant livestock. The project
would also promote the establishment of revolving funds for livestock, whereby
beneficiaries would be required to provide an offspring for each adult head received under
the grant to a local farmers' group. The revolving funds could subsequently be used to
provide inputs for the expansion areas. The recommended on-farm treatments are as
follows:
(a)   Cool Moist Mountain Areas, of deep loam soils, steeply sloped and
primarily used for vegetable cultivation (Area A in Appendix 4):
contouring with vetiver and/or other grass, vegetable bed alignment, and
ridging for maximum drainage;
(b)   Unterraced or Poorly Terraced Upland Areas, usually of more than 40
percent slope, and currently used for extensive multiple cropping of annuals
(Area Ut in Appendix 4): for unterraced land, the recommended treatment
would be alternating contour hedgerows of vetiver and/or forage grass, and
multipurpose leguminous shrubs, with perennial crops (e.g. fruit and/or
estate crops) planted among annuals or among the leguminous shrub
hedgerows. This could be associated with stall-fed livestock units (e.g.
sheep, goats).
(c)   Terraced Uplands/Mxed Gardens, usually with slopes of less than 40
percent (Area U in Appendix 4): reinforcement of terraces with vetiver
and/or other grass on the terrace riser lips and multipurpose legumninous
shrubs on the riser base, with perennial estate/fruit trees planted along
terrace risers, in alternate inter-row spaces, and/or steeper slopes.
4.          Additional treatments could include the introduction of improved varieties
of annual crops, as well as mulching and composting. The project could also contemplate
supporting the development of such activities as agro-processing and small-scale fish pond
production as part of integrated management systems at the micro-watershed level.
5.          Expansion Areas. Activities in the expansion areas would be started on the
third year of the project, based on the treatments initiated in the model micro-DAS. It is
expected that a 60-ha expansion area be established around each model micro-DAS over
a period of two years, for a total expansion area of 13,560 ha. Farmers in these areas
would be provided with reduced in-kind grants averaging about Rp 430,000 per ha. In
addition to extension workers, key farmers would be used to expand the improved
treatments developed in model micro-DAS to expansion and impact areas.
6.          Nurseries. The project would finance the establishment of village-based
nurseries in about 75 target villages. The nurseries would produce a mixture of cover
crops, grasses, leguminous shrub seedlings, tree and estate crop seedlings, and high-yield



- 50 -                         ANNEX 2
food crop seeds, depending on local conditions and demand. The nurseries would be
managed either privately or by village groups, and preferably by women. It is anticipated
that during the initial two years, the project would need to procure certified seedlings from
existing commercial nurseries for the on-farm treatments. The viability of the new
nurseries would be ensured, however, by the provision of quality propagation materials
from recognized sources, the establishment of mother trees, and the requirement that, once
established, these nurseries become the principal providers of seedlings to the project at
competitive market prices. The project would cover the initial investment costs of
establishing the nurseries. In addition, to account for initial losses, the project would
provide a reduced in-kind grant in the second year of establishment, in the form of
replacement planting materials. Farmers would be required to contribute with land, labor
and all recurrent costs. Access to a reliable, year-round source of water would be a
precondition for nursery establishment. The costs to the project of installing the nurseries
are estimated at Rp 7.2 million per unit.
7.         In project year (PY) 3, the project would also finance the establishment of
two larger nurseries of 20,000 seedlings average capacity (one per Kabupaten), where the
viability of advanced nursery technology such as overhead irrigation, the use of shade
netting, root trainers, and organic pot mixture can be tested. The project would pay the
full costs of establishing and running these nurseries during the remainder of the project
life, after which they would be sold to suitable private operators. The establishment cost
of these nurseries is estimated at approximately Rp 150 million each. The installation of
project nurseries would be closely supervised by a nursery specialist and by six nursery
extension workers contracted by the project.
8.          Vldlage Access Roads and Roadside Drainage. The project would finance
approximately 126 km of village access road upgrading. The basic road design proposed
is a subbase (Telford) road with 3.5 m width and 1.0 m shoulder, with asphalt penetration
and base of 7.5 cm reserved for the steeper areas of slopes higher than 12 percent.
Asphalting is expected to be necessary in 27 percent of the road links. The estimated cost
is Rp 20.9 million per km for telford and Rp 51.5 million per km for asphalted links,
including the costs of roadside vegetative protection. The unit costs are outlined in
Appendix 5. In addition to the initial works, the project would pay inc'emental annual
routine maintenance expenditures for a period of three years (estimated at Rp 1.9 million
per km per annum), and, in the third year, a full periodic maintenance (at Rp 8.7 million
per kIn). The project would involve local beneficiary communities as much as possible
in road construction and maintenance works. To this end, cost sharing agreements with
beneficiary villages should be developed for road maintenance.
9.          All road upgrading works would be complemented by roadside drainage
control. The proposed structures are unlined canals of 0.5 m bed width, 0.7 m top, and
0.5 m depth in combination with masonry works for drop structures and linings at highly
eroded locations. Masonry works should be required in 30 percent of the drains.
Drainage work requirements are estimated at 1.5 times the length of the road works, or
188 km in total, at an expected cost of Rp 10.3 million per kn. Road and drainage works
would be procured, to the extent possible, through force account, by district level Public



-51-                          ANNEX 2
Works Offices and involve the hiring of unskilled workers from local beneficiary
communities.
10.        In order to be considered for fmancing, village access roads and roadside
drainage would have to meet the following conditions:
(a)   be consistent with the guidelines on design, construction, and location
developed by the soil and water conservation and roads engineers hired
under TA assistance (para. 6.15). In addition, all proposed roads and
drainage works would need to be approved by the project management units
(PMUs) as part of the annual project work plans;
(b)  the upgrading works must be based on existing original links, and not be
considered for fnancing under any other program (e.g. Kabupaten roads
program).
(c)  the road must constitute the only access to an upland village community
within the project area, serve more than 2,000 people, be over 1 kn in
length, and connect to an all-season road.
(d) the road and drainage works must obey the environmental requirements
specified on para. 6.15.
(e)  the road upgrading works must be justified in economic terms.
(f)   public consultation must be held with the beneficiary communities to agree
on the design, location and extent of the works.
11.         Land Stabilization Treatments.  Land stabilization treatments would
control erosion and sedimentation at source, caused by sediment runoff, gully formation,
and land instability. These treatments would be financed through lump sums equivalent
to Rp 33.8 million per target village, as their need became identified during field surveys
and through conmmnity consultation. Vegetative measures of land stabilization (e.g. the
use of vetiver grass) would be strongly encouraged over structural works. The latter,
however, would be considered for financing if sufficient justification can be found with
respect to anticipated benefits and maintenance capacity. Structural treatments could
include: (a) graded drains and drop strctres; (b) low-cost gully plugs; (c) earthen pit
soakways filled with boulder and filter materials; (d) above-ground water containers for
excess run-off control; (e) settlement control drains made of unlined trapezoidal channels
and limited masonry lining; and (t) gabion-type streambank stabilization structures.
Standards for these treatments would be developed under TA assistance.
12.         Similarly to the roads and roadside drainage works, land stabilization
teamnts would require prior approval by the PMUs. The proposed treatments would,
to the extent possible, be incorporated into local micro-DAS management plans, and be
implemented through force account with the participation of beneficiary communities.



-52 -                          ANNEX 2
Land stabilization treatments would be closely monitored by the soil and water
conservation engineer hired under TA assistance.
13.         Extension. The current number of extension workers operating in the
project area, 109 agriculture extension workers (PPL),l/ and 60 forestry extension
workers (PKL), is considered sufficient for project implementation, provided some
workers can be reallocated from their present assignments in irrigated lowlands. All PPL
and PKL operating under the project would be provided with incentive payments
equivalent to Rp 150,000 per month. A total of 48 field motorcycles would also be
procured by the project and distributed to PPL based on need and on past performance,
with the objective to improve productivity and visitation rates to isolated upland
communities. In addition, six full-time nursery extension workers would be hired for the
duration of the project period. The hiring of incremental extension staff could moreover
be contemplated during project implementation if found to be justified.
14.         Trining. Training in MIS and RIS would be arranged through the ISS
subcomponent at the national level. Participatory planning training would be the
responsibility of the NGO subcontracted under technical assistance (para. 5.10). Funds
for all other training activities would be channeled directly to the two Kabupaten and
subcontracted to qualified institutions. It is expected that, for the most part, training will
be provided by the agricultural in-service training centers of Cihea and Kayuambon, the
Cilampuyang training center of MOFr, and the regional training center of Public Works
in Bandung. With the exception of farmer and village-level training, training activities are
envisaged to take place during the first four years of the project at a target trainee phasing
of 25, 40, 25, and 10 percent, respectively, in PYI through PY4. In addition to training
targeted to the project's objectives, the project would also allocate a umpsum equivalent
of about Rp 565,000 per target village for taining and information dissemination in credit
and marketng. This training would be subcontracted to a local NGO.
1S.         Planning. Participatory planning would be assisted by a qualified NGO
subcontracted by the project to serve as a facilitator between farmers and the local
government (paras. 3.17, 5.10). Participatory planning would be initiated at the lowest
village level (dusun) through a consultative process that would result in the preparation of
implementation plans documenting the major physical features of the target area, the
participating farmers, the proposed work plans, and budgets. These implementation plans
would be integrated into village-level and Kecamatan-level implementation plans to form
the basis of the annual work plans prepared at the district level. The selected NGO, in
collaboradon with the project socio-economist, would be responsible for ensuring that
proper consulation of beneficiari  takes place on a continuous basis, and that poverty-
alleviation concerns are taken into consideration in the selection of farmers' and farmers'
grups.
1/ Includes PPL working in estate crops, food crops, and livestock, but excludes those working on
fisheries.



- 53 -                        ANNEX 2
16.         Research. Sustainable upland farming systems (SUFS) research would be
undertaken at two levels: (i) in small farmer-developed technology displays located in
each model micro-DAS; and (ii) in three 2-ha research sites developed in each of the major
agro-ecological zones (para. 3.16). While the former would be developed concomitantly
to the model micro-DAS and be implemented through the PMUs, the latter would be
coordinated with the Upland Research and Development subcommittee at the national level
(para. 3.9). SUFS iesearch in the Upper Cimanuk Watershed might include: (a) the
testing of highly profitable, low-cost soil conservation technologies; (b) testing of local
varieties of species for hedgerows; (c) the testing of non-odoriferous varieties of Vetiver
grass; (d) commodity tree intercropping, including contour intercropping of commercial-
value varieties with soil conservation crops; (e) uses of mulches and composting;
(f) development of optimal agroforestry cultivation patterns in terms of density, spacing,
shade density, and husbandry; and (g) development of under-storey crops suitable to be
grown underneath tree canopies. All funds for research would be channeled directly to
the Kabupatens and subcontracted as needed to qualified research institutions.
17.         Land Ttling. Permanent land titling ("sertifikat tanah hak milik") would
be granted to approximately 35,000 farmers in the project area, as a reward for the
adoption of the improved soil and water conservation technologies. In order to facilitate
land surveying and certification, control point and land parcel mapping would be initiated
in large block areas identified by the PMUs as including adjacent plots of farmers who
agree to participate in the project. The issuance of the certificate could then be
conditioned to verification of compliance with the adoption of the improved technologies.
This approach would avoid surveying of scattered land plots and associated delays in
processing the titles. Implementation of the land titling subcomponent would be the
responsibility of BPN at the provincial and district levels, and funds would be channeled
directly to the provincial office. The project would provide, in addition to surveying and
mapping costs, for incremental equipment, vehicles, and incremental operational costs, at
a total cost of Rp 71,500 per certified parcel. Land titling would be implemented through
force account and/or external contracting. The expected phasing of land titles is shown
on Appendix 3.
18.         Village Grants. Village grants would be attributed to communities which
have demonstrated considerable initiative in adopting soil and water conservation
treatments. The grants would be given in support of: (a) basic needs programs such as
clean water, health clinics, or rural electrification schemes; (b) agriculture-based income
generating goals, in both production and processing (e.g., development of home industries,
provision of field tractors); (c) and provision of technical training and information
dissemination (e.g., through support of village libraries, and vocation and technology
centers). The grants would complement village contributions ('swadaya'), and be
channeled to village funds through the district level Rural Development Agency
(BANGDES). The project proposals qualifying for the grants would have to be approved
by the PMUs and by the Bank, based on criteria of merit, long-term benefits, and need
(para. 3.16).
19.         Technical Assistance. Technical assistance for the component would be
included under a single consultant contract, with subcontracting arrangements extended to



- 54 -                         ANNEX 2
a qualified NGO (paras. 3.17; 5.10). The TA contract would be managed by BAPPEDA
Tlk. I (West Java), on behalf of the two district governments. The TA team would be
housed at the district level, and preferably in Garut, with responsibilities to assist both
district goverrnents as needed. Consultancy requirements are detailed in Annex 6,
Appendix 1. Terms of reference for the major consultancies (including the NGO) are
outlined in an accompanying paper.2/
20.         Special Studies. The project would finance a baseline information and a
land use survey covering the priority areas of the Upper Cimanuk watershed. These
surveys would yield information on the number of farmers, on- and off-farm activities,
seasonal farning practices, labor mobility, marketing and processing prospects, existing
forms of land utilization, and the extent of human pressure on fragile uplands, namely on
State Forest land. In addition, the project would commission a study on the role of
women in upland agriculture, aimed at envisaging strategies to enhance women farmers'
participation in project implementation. These studies are expected to be completed by
June 1994. Finally, a limited amount of funds would be available for post-project
activities, feasibility studies, or any other studies found to be necessary during
implementation. Similarly to the TA, contracting for the special studies would be managed
by BAPPEDA Tk. I. Terms of reference for the studies are outlined in an accompanying
paper._/
21.         Funding Mechanisms. Funding channels would follow usual INPRES
procedures. The components' annual plans would be prepared based on the POLA, the
Regional Pelita, the POLA RLKT DAS, the RTL RLKT Sub-DAS, the RTT, and the
village level implementation plans incorported at the Kabupaten level. The annual work
plans would be prepared by the PIMPRO at each Kabupaten, with assistance from other
Dinas representatives under coordination of Bappeda Tk.II, and presented to the Bupati for
approval. It would then be sent to BAPPEDA Tk. I, discussed with representatives of the
Sub Balai RLKT Cimanuk and other agencies at the provincial level, and incorporated into
the Regreening INPRES proposed budget for West Java. The proposal would be provided
to DG Bangda, DG RRL, BAPPENAS, and DG Budget, and discussed jointly between the
Secretariat of the Tim Pengendali and local-level agencies for incorporation into the
approved budget for R&R implementation activities (SPABP).a/ The proposed work
plan would also include provisions for land titling prepared by BPN at the district and
provincial levels. The annual work plan would need to be submitted to the Bank for
approval by August 15 each year (para. 5.7). The SPABP would subsequently be
presented to the Governor of West Java for incorporation into the regional budget (APBD)
of each Kabupaten. The approved budget would trigger the release of funds from the local
treasury (KPKN) to the PIMPRO at each Kabupaten. Financial auditing would follow the
guidelines specified in paras. 4.10-11. The estimated cost of the component can be found
in Annex 9. Detailed cost tables, including allocations of expenditures by implementing
agency, can be found in the Project Files.
I -Indonesia NxationalWatershed ManagementandConservationProjea-UpperCimanukWatershed,
Tecnical Assiitance Requirementsw, Septemer 1993.
I/ SPABP - Appoval for Project expenditures budget.



-55-                                ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
ALLOCATION OF REsPoNsLTEs FOR IMPLEN NTATION
UPPER CIMANU WATERSUED COMPONENT
Acvities                           Implementing Agency                 Assisting Ageocs
Model Micro-DAS Implementation                                         Kabupaten-level Dinas, Cabang
RLKT, SBRLKT Cianauk,
Kecamatan governments
Expansion Areas Inplementation
Village Nurseies Implementation
Road and Drainage Upgrading        Bupati Garut and Bupati Sumedang,
Implementation                     through PMUs and appointed
PIMPROs
Structual and Vegetative Land                                          Kabupaten-level Dinas, Cabang
Stabilization Tratments                                                RLKT, SBRLKT Cimanuk,
Implementation                                                         Kecamatan goverments, Cinanuk
River Basin Project
Planning and Extension                                                 Village organizations, Kecamatan
Implamentation                                                         governments, NGO (as facilitator)
Taining Implementation                                                 Kabupaten-level Dinas, Cabang
!- ___________________                                                  RLKT, SBRLKT Cimanuk
Village Funds Implementation                                           BANGDES
Farmers' Technology Displays (on                                       Kabupaten-level Dinas, Cabang
model micro-DAS) and SUPS                                              RLKT, SBRLKT Cimanuk,
Research Implementation                                                Kecamatan governments, contracted
Research Agencies
SUPS Research, Coordination and    AARDIAFPRD, through research        PMUs Garut and Sumedang
Guidance                           subcomponent
TA, Special Studies, NGO Contract    Bappeda Tk. I on behalf of the two  PMUs Garut and Sumedang
Management La                      Kabupaten
MISIRIS Implementation             MOFr, on behalf of fte two          PMUs Garut and Sumedang
Kabupaten, through ISS
subcomponent
Training, Coordination and Guidance   MOHA, on behalf of the two       PMUs Garut and Sumendang
Kabupaten, through training and
extension subcomponent
Land Titling Implementation        BPN Tk. I and Tk. II                PMUs Garut and Sumedang
Technical Planning                 SBRLKT Cimanuk, Cabang RLKT         PMUs Garut and Sumedang
Coordination of Spatial Planning and   Tim Pembina Tk. I and Tk. n
Gneaml Guidance                    (Bappeda)
Operational Control and Supervision    Setwilda Tk. H
/a Including NGO subcontract for participatory planning and for marketing and credit information dissemination.



- 56 -                          ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
EXPECTED DISTRIBuTIoN OF PRoJEcT AcTivTuS
UPPER CIMANU WATERSED COMPONENT
Project Activity                  PMU Garut    PMU Sumedang __Total
Participating Villages                103               43               146
Model Micro-DAS (ha)                 1,546             645              2,191
Expansion Areas (ha)                9,570              3,990            13,560
ViUage-Based Nurseries                52                23               75
Kabupaten Nurseries                    1                 1                2
Vilage Akcess Road                   88.6               37              125.6
bIprovement (kn)
Roadside Dnaage (in)                 132.9             55.5             188.4
Land Stabilization Treatments        4,710             1,974            6,684
(Million Rp) la
Land Titles (no.)                   24,675            10,325           35,000
On-Farm Technology Displays          206                86               292
(in model nico-)AS)
SUFS Research                   Dependent on optimal location of agroecological zones
Village Funds (Million Rp) La        591               248               839
Inrementa  Nursery Extension          4                  2                6
Workers
Existing Extension Workers            131               38               169
(PPLIPKL)                 I,I
/a Including physical and price contingencies.



Estimated Phasing of Project Activities - Upper Cimanuk Watershed Component
PROJErCT COVERAGE                                                                       PROJEC YEAR                                              TOTAL
1             2             3              4             S              6
On-Farm Trcatments:1
Participating Desa U                                         8              9            51             51            27             _                   146
Model Micro-DAS:
Frstand SecondYearDesaModel Micro-DAS21                  8              9             17                                  -                            34
TWird Year Desa Model Micro-DAS                          -              -             51            S1             -              -                   102
Fourth Ycar Desa Model Mcro-DAS                          -              -             -             51            51              -                   102
FikthYearDesaModelMkcro-DAS                              -              -             -              -            27             27                    54
Total Model Micro-DAS                                    8              9            68            102            78             27                   292
Total Area of Model Micro-DAS(in ha) 3/                 60             68           510            765           585            203                 2.191
Expansion Areas
Expansion of Frstand Socond Year Micro-DAS (ha) 4/       -              -           510            510             -             _                  10i20
Expansio of Third Year Micro-DAS (ha)                    -              -             -          2.040          2,040             -                 4,080
Expansion of Fourth Year Micro-DAS                       -              -             -              -          31060         3060                  6,120
Expansion of Fifth Year Micro-DAS                        -              -             -              -             -          2,340                 2,340
Total Exansion Area (ha)                                 -              -           510          2,550          5,100         5,400                13,560
Total Micro-DAS in Expansion Areas                       -              -            68            340           680            720                 11808
Total Area Covered (n ha)                               60             68          1020           3315          5685           5603                15,751             u
Village-BasedNurseries5/                                     4              5            26            26             14             -                    75
Kabupaten-Level Nurseries                                    -             -              2             -              -             -                     2
Off-FPM  c1ratm.em3
Vik3ge Access Road Improrement (in Kin)                  -           33.6            31             31            30             -            .    12886
Roadside  lnMage (m K)(e                                 -           SOA            46.5          46 5            4S             _                  1884
Vegetative and Strutural llreatments (milion Rp.) 7/   321            379          2,258         2,373           685            668                 6,684
Other Activities:
Imnd Tztles 8/                                           -            134           151          2,260          7,60         25,095                3 9.000
Village Fnuds (Million RpL) 7/                           -              -            91            284           298            166                  839
On-Farm Technolog Displays                               8              9            68            102            78             27                  292
Research Plots                                           -             -              3             -              -             -                     3
1  - Assumes 103 desa in Garut and 43 desa in Sumedang. One desa per Kabupaten would be targetted in the first and second project year.
2t - Assumes that, in each desa, one model micro-DAS is stated every year for a period of two years (i.e. two model micro-DAS per desa).                             I
TIe second model micro-DAS for PY1 and PY2 desa is a5sumed to start on PY3.
3/ - Each model micro-DAS is assumed to be 5- 10 ha, or 7.5 ha on average.
4 - Assumes that, from PY 3 on, 30 ha expansion areas are establshd per year around each model micro-DAS after one year, followed by another                          t
30 ha expansion area in the folowing year (for a total of 60 ha expansion area per model micro-DAS).
51- Yte first 9 nurseries are asnumed to become operational between PY I and PY2,sewving on-farm interventiots from PY 3 onwards.
61- At 1.5 times the length of the villagc access roads.
7/ - locluduin physkil and price contingencies.
8/ - Phasing shown pertains to the issuance of the certifcates. Surveying and land parcel mapping would commence at the same time as on-farm treatments.



Upper Cimanuk Watershed: Priority Treatment Kecamatan and Existing Land Use Patterns
Kab.       Priority      Area I   Population   No. of   No. Farmer  Farmland       Avg LAW      Land Within Land Outside                            Land Use Patterns
Kecamatan           (ha)       1967    Desa    Houscholds        (ha) Ownership per    State Forest   State Forest
Farm House,                                     B       U       Ut        A       Af        B       F
Garut:
Bayongbong            7,054       80,986      22         14,115     4,848          0.32       1,505           8,069       724    1,166      715      169     470        0      875
BLWmbangan            7,521       51,615      14         7,983      4,834         0Q8         1,524           9593          0    2,445      StS     428      208       88    1.710
Cibatu                6,867       70,515      16         8,688      4,975          055        1,043           8,966         0    2,223      273     286      360       50      993
Cmawu                 4,794       37,111      11         5,661      3,941          0.67         559           6,769       440      821    1225      416       72        0      476
asurupan               8,173      79.398      22         11,447     5,167          0.42       3,712           6,385         0    1240        78       50     556        0    2,024
KadungowaCibiuk        5,419      80,467      19          8,954     3.483          037          990           6,533         0      797      519      356     432      490      135
Katngpawitan           S,06S      67,360      20         13,282     3,4S5          025          825           6,D04         0    1,516      134       83      31      330      794
Leks                  5,029       50468      12         7,143      3,373          045        1423            5,496         0      313      859      491     227       67    L502
Mahngbong             8,346       68,802      19         11,072     5,971          052        1,277          11,990         0    1,778    2,976      167       0        0    1,673
Samamig               10,975      83,980      27         12.595     6.667          049         4,679         10,114         0      275    2,069      790     684    1,252    2,655
Sukaweni              6,026       49,655      13          8,106     4,416          051         1,629          6,837         0      392      973      606     469        0    1,177
Wanaraja              7,638       78,182      24         11,040     5343           046         1,798          9,671         0      629    2,043      363     796       69      943
X
Sumedang:
Cadasigamper           4,392       9,950       7          1,927     2,739           1.42       1,959          3,846         0      191      201      902      119       0    1.294
DarmanaaCibuge        12,059      59,132      25         IQ930      7,725          024         2,600          14,426        0    2,193      155    1,979     640      388    3,017
Wado                  10,086      52,072      17          9,871     6,290           .08        1,096          13,670        0    1,138    2,382    1,107      53      126    1,085
Total ProrityAreas    109,444    919,693     268        142,814    73,227          0.49      26,619         128,369      1,164   17,117   15,117    8,193    5,117    2,860   243S3
Souroe Prh   t prepration reports.
V - Arca given isthatwvithin the Cumnuk Watershed
LAn Use Forms:
U - Uplad croppig areas with temuces of moderae quality including ud gardens. Indudes slopes c 40 percent.
Ut - Upland cropping areas with teraces of poor qualiqt with slopes c 40 percent.
A - Stc.pknd areas outside Sate Forest Landwith sopes 40-60 pfert
At - CultWatedareasui Statt Folest Landwitbslopes mainly> 40pecent.
B - Tea Eses
B - Seodasygrwtlh and scrand indudiug natutal gassland, mostly loted inide State Foretand.                                                                                       , 
F - Forst areas (Mof 1982)
cable24 



- 59-                              ANNEX 2
Appendix S
Upper Cimanuk Watershed Component
Technical Specification of Village Access Roads
Units per Km
Kab. Garut 3/               Kab. Sumedang 41
Units        Qats. Unit Cost               Qnts.    Unit Cost
Cleaning and Excavation (in-fill)  m3            1.400      3,668               1,490         3,905
Excavation of Foundation           m3              150      3,668                150          3,555
Sholder Shaping                    m2            2,000        570               2,000           558
Sub-Base (relford)                 m3              150     22,248                150         22,715
Leveling and Shaping               m3              244     22,248                244         22,715
Base Class A. t=7.5 cm 1/          m3              266     31,914                263         36,953
Asphalt Penetration, t=5 cm 1/     m2            3,500      6,120               3,500         6,427
Side Drainage                      m3               35     55,416                 35         65,000
Culverts (60 cm diam.)             m'               15    102,409                 15         82,631
Culverts (80cm diam.)              m'                5    115,505                  5         97,631
Culverts (100 cm diam.)            m'                3    134,627                  3        107,631
Culverts (120 cm diam.)            m'                1    126,923                  1        117,631
Roadside Vegetative Protection 2/  units           200      2,500                200          2,500
Kilometer Markers                  markers           1     50,000                  1         48,700
Unit Cost per Km (Telford)                              20,683,991                        21,379,168
Unit Cost per Km (Asphalted)                            50,577,158                        53,573,830
1/ - Only for asphalted links in slopes higher than 12 percent
Road width: 3.5 m
Shoulder 1 m                                                      c:\table25



- 60 -                          ANNEX 3
iDONESIA
NATIONAL WATERSHED MANAGEMENT AND
CONSERVATION PROJECT
INFORMATION SUPPORT SYSrEM  AN  LAND USE PLANNNG
FOR MANAGING WATERSDS IN INDONESA
Background
1.        Critical Watersheds. The government has adopted six general criteria for
identifting and prioritizing critical watershed areas. These include:
(a)  Sparse (less than 25%) vegetation cover;
(b)  An erosion rate in excess of 15 metric tonnes/ha per year;
(c)  The ratio between maximum and minimum discharge rates greater than 50;
(d)  Population densities greater than 600/km2 on the island of Java and greater than
150/km2 on the outer islands;
(e)  The risk potential from flooding and sedimentation to downstream investments,
such as dams, irrigation systems, aquatic industries, etc.; and
(f)   The existence of large numbers of low income subsistence farmers.
The use of these criteria is an attempt to make the process of identifying critical areas more
objective; however, a problem remains in that the information required to make these
determinations is often unavailable, unreliable, or of poor quality.
2.        Watershed Planning. Long, medium, and short term plans are to be prepared
for each critical watershed. The long term plan, POLA RLKT DAS, prepared by the
responsible Balai office (BRLKT), is a 25 year plan that provides guidance on land usage
and conservation measures. The POLA prioritizes the Sub-watersheds (Sub-DASs) on the
basis of the extent of critical lands to determine the amount of support sub-DASs should
receive under the rehabilitation program. The POLA is meant to be implemented through
operational programs (RTL RLKT Sub-DAS) designed with a 5 year time horizon. The
RTL RLKT Sub-DAS are formulated by the sub-Balai offices (SBRLKI) and approved by
the district government(s). Each year, the SBRLKT is responsible for preparing an annual
technical plan (RTT), which should be consistent with the POLA and RTL RLKT. The
RTT is first approved by the district BAPPEDA office and then subnitted to the province
and ultimately to central government for funding support. After the RTT is approved and
funding is allocated, an operational plan (RO) describes the specific activities and serves as
imsiementation directions for carrying out the activities. It identifies funding, unit costs,
program management, and reporting requirements.
3.         In addition to tle planning activities that are done by the regional and district
offices of the MOFr (i.e., RLKT and SBRLKT), the provincial and district level
governments have Reforestation and Regreening Guidance Teams (Tim Pembina Tk-I and



- 61-                           ANNEX 3
Tim Pembina Tk-1I, respectively), which are responsible for advising the Governor and the
Bupati on the coordination, planning, and implementation of regreening and other
conservation activities. These guidance teams are designed to have representation from the
BRLKT and the SBRLKT and are supposed to ensure that the POLA, RTL RLKT, RTI,
and RO planning mechanisms are coordinated at the local levels.
4.        Reviews of the existing planning procedures have identified several problems.
First, in many instances there seems to be little relationship between the POLAs and the
short to medium term plans. The latter seem to be developed independently of the broader
planning perspective. Second, coordination of planning activities between the central MOFr
line agencies (BRLKT and SBRLKT) and the provincial and district planning agencies
(BAPPEDA) is weak or non-existent so that the watershed plans are not integrated into the
provincial and regional development plans. Third, reporting mechanisms of the impacts of
project activities are inadequate to allow proper feedback into the planning process.
The Information Support and Land Use Planing Component
5.        Information Types. Two basic kinds of information are required for the
management of watersheds: i) resource-based data to support strategic planning, project
preparation, and day-to-day management operations, and ii) reporting and monitoring
formaon for evaluating the progress and effectiveness of management activities and for
steering decisions about program planning. Essentially, these two types of basic information
support different kinds of decision-making and decision-makers, but together form an
information element of the overall watershed management process.
6.        All information used for watershed management should be treated within the
context of an overall Informaion Support System (ISS). The Information Support System
is an organizing strategy or structure for integrating information into planning, operational,
and evaluation activities. For operational purposes, however, the design and implementation
of capabilities for collecting, managing, and analyzing the two different kinds of
data-resource data and management information-can be handled as two separate
subcomponents of the larger ISS. These two subcomponents are the Resource Information
System (RIS) and the Management Information System (MIS).
7.        The RIS deals with geographic and physical information about the status and
condition of resources, together with information about the economic and cultural
landscapes. The MS deals with the actual processes involved in managing an activity or
a resource (e.g., planning, budgeting, monitoring, and evaluation). The two systems have
different data handling requirements.
8.        Both, RIS and MIS, may make extensive use of automation; however, they have
very different requirements for computer hardware, software, and data management
procedures. As subcomponents of the overall ISS, they must be compatible in terms of how
data can be organized, and they must be consistent in how data are categorized. Because
of the diverse nature of the information and the kinds of analysis performed, the systems are
actually collections of "tools", both automated and manual. The paccage of capabilities will
include functions related to database management, spreadsheets, CPM, graphics, and GIS.



- 62 -                          ANNEX 3
9.        ISS Concept and Rationale. The kinds of decisions and planning activities
vary, depending on whether they occur at the national, provincial, or local levels. Tbis
affects the requirements for supporting information. At the national and provincial levels,
information is used for 'Strategic Planning" and policy analysis. At the local level, the ISS
is more 'Operations" based supporting day-to-day management and operating functions of
the relevant agencies.
10.       The implicit hierarchy in the decision-making and operational structure of the
Regreening program imposes a corresponding hierarchy on the information requirements.
Information must flow easily from one level to another. Reporting guidelines should be
defied by the higher level strategic planners, which, in turn, will establish the criteria for
the collection of information at the field level. Much of the information will be aggregated
as it progressively passes from the field level to the provincial and national levels.
11.       A number of different agencies within, as well as between, these levels (e.g.,
MOFr, BAPPENAS, BAPPEDA, BRLKT, SBRLKT, etc.) are involved in the flow and
dissemination of information. Despite the apparent complexity of the system, the ISS must
strive for simnplicity in order to assure that it can be implemented successfully. This can best
be done by treating each sub-system-MIS and RIS-separately, yet ensuring compatibility
between the way data are represented in each.
12.       Strategy. The project will phase the implementation of an Information Support
System (RIS and MIS) for watershed management in two parts. The first will be the
development and implementation of a prototype system in Cimanuk, to correspond with the
other project activities in this watershed. The second phase will be to expand the ISS
functions and capabilities to all priority watersheds. This will only be done after a review
and evaluation of the first phase prototype system, but should be ready by MTR.
13.       To the extent possible, lessons learned from and approaches developed by some
of the earlier programs (e.g., UACP, Wonogiri, ADB) should be used in establishing the
Information Support System. Clear definitions of reporting requirements within and between
administrative levels need to be developed.
14.       Component Design. The strengthening of the integrated watershed planning
activities and the development and implementation of the Information Support System will
require inputs for technical assistance, training, data collection, equipment, and system
software and database development.
(a) Watershed Planning
15.       The project will provide technical assistance to review and revise both the
existing planning processes and the technical procedures. A Process Facilitator will be
provided for ten months over a period of three years to help coordinate discussions amongst
all agencies in the planning process, and to develop a revised set of guidelines that will
improve planning coordination amongst agencies, such as BRLKT, SBRLKT, BAPPEDA,
etc., and integrate better the planning mechanisms such as the POLAs, RTLs, and RTTs.
These planning mechanisms will be reviewed and made operationally practical. They will



- 63 -                         ANNEX 3
be coordinated and integrated into the overall regional plans prepared by local governments,
and will ensure local participation in the planning process. The initial review and revision
of the process-oriented, planning guidelines will occur in the first year of the project. This
will be followed by iterative reviews of the revised guidelines in the second and third year
to make any necessary subsequent adjustments.
16.       A Watershed Planning Adviser will be retained during the first three years of
the project to assist in identifying and refining appropriate technical approaches and
methodologies for resource-based watershed and area planning. This specialist will help
with the development of technical specifications for preparing short, medium, and long term
plans, and will assist in the development and execution of training programs for multi-
sectoral planning teams at the local level. The project will also provide support for
workshops in each of the watersheds to train local level planners in accepted methodologies
and procedures.
(b) Information Support System
17.       Phase I development in Cimanuk.  An MIS adviser, with resource
management experience, will be retained for two years to assist in the design and
implementation of the information support system in Cimanuk. A full-time counterpart from
the MOPr should be assigned to assist in the development of capabilities, procedures, and
reporting mechanisms.
18.       A Resource Information Management adviser will be retained for two years to
prepare and develop the natural resource information component of the Information Support
System. This specialist will work closely with the MIS specialist to ensure that the RIS is
compatible with and has linkages to the MIS information. A full-time counterpart from the
MoFr should be assigned to assist in the development of the resource information
management program.
19.       Systems and training will be provided to planning, monitoring, and evaluation
staff at the Sub Balai, Balai, Kabupaten and provincial Bappedas, and national levels (MOFr
and BAPPENAS). Resources will also be provided to support data collection activities,
which will include acquiring socio-economic baseline data from both treated and untreated
watershed areas and information about land use, farming practices, soils, vegetation,
topography, sediment loads, etc.
20.       Training will be provided to technical staff on how to collect, analyze, and
interpret resource-based information and to decision-makers on how to use the information
in the decision-making process. The project will also provide support for expanding and
strengthening the existing MIS at BAPPENAS, and will strengthen the MIS capabilities at
MOFr and MOHA, all dealing with the Regreening and Reforestation INPRES activities.
These MIS capabilities will be consistent and integrated with the overall ISS program.
21.       Phase II Development of Expanded ISS.   Following a successful
implementation of a prototpe of the Information Support Systems (RIS and MIS) in
Cinamuk, the program would be expanded to a national coverage. In the "expansion" phase,



-64-                           ANNEX 3
four locally trained MIS/RIS specialists from MOFr will be needed for four years to provide
training and system start-up help. Training of local staff in MIS and RIS procedures, data
analysis, and the use of spatial data in planning will also be provided. The project will also
provide for the collection of additional baseline socio-economic data and for the acquisition
of up-to-date resource infornation.
Implementation
22.       Organization and Management. The development and management of the
Information Support System and the strengthening of the watershed planning activities should
be under the overall direction of the Tim Pengendali's Secretariat. The Secretariat should
establish an Informat on Support System and Reporing, and a Plaung working group or
subcommittee, composed of representatives of relevant agencies (e.g., MOFr, MOHA,
BAPPENAS etc.). The working groups should be headed by a full-time seconded staff from
MOFr/MOHA (for the ISS and Reporting Subcommittee) and MOFr (for the Planning
Subcommittee).
23.       Within the structure and guidelines established by the Secretariat, the technical
coordination and supervision of the implementation and operation of the ISS should be the
responsibility of the MOFr and MOIA and, for planning, of the MOFr. Details of the roles
of each agency involved in the ISS and how information will flow should be determined in
the first stages of Phase I, with technical assistance.
24.       Monitoring. The implementation of the watershed planning activities and the
Information Support System will be closely monitored so that issues can be quickly identified
and addressed. A number of reviews and evaluations are built into the overall project
implementation. For example, the Process Facilitator will review with local planning staff
on a yearly basis, in the beginning, how effective the planning process is working. Two
independent reviews of the ISS are also scheduled-the first after establishing the prototype
in Cimanuk, and the second after experience has been gained with the wider implementation.
This provides opportunities to identify and correct problems. Most importantly, annual
reviews of the social, economic, and environmental impacts of the INPRES R&R
interventions will be conducted to alert decision-makers to potential problems with planning
and implementtion activities. All of these reviews and monitoring exercises will be
reported to the Tim Pengendali through the Information Support System Subcommittee.
Detailed cost tables on the component can be found in the Project Files.



-65-                           ANNEX 4
INDONESIA
NATIONAL WATERSHED MANAGEMENT AND
CONSERVATION PROJECT
UPLAND RESEARCII AND TECNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
Introduction
1.        An ongoing research program that provides a continuous flow of new
technologies and alternatives to policy makers, planners, extension agents and farmers is
essential to the success of GOI's efforts to promote soil conservation and upland resource
development. The technological packages employed by the Regreening and Reforestation
program (R&R) vere mainly developed in the 1990's with international technical assistance.
These packages appiy to the conditions found in Central Java and have not been adapted for
conditions in the Outer Islands, elsewhere on Java, nor have they been updated to reflect
developments in conservation research in other countries. In addition to research per se,
there has been little attention to the development of quality technical packages, especially
with regard to perennial crops seedlings for distribution in the uplands. Currently, a wide
range of government agencies, universities and private groups, such as the Agency for
Agricultural Research and Development (AARD), the Agency for Forestry Research and
Development (AFRD), the Departnent of Soils of the Bogor Agricultural Institute (IPB), and
CARE Indonesia, are conducting research on soil and moisture conservation technologies.
Examples of the research underway include assessment of Vetiver grass hedges for soil
conservation, farming systems research studies in East and Central Java, and numerous
erosion trials across the country.
2.        This work has, however, had limited impact on the design and implementation
of most investment under the INPRES R&R. Reasons for this include the small size of the
research effort, the dispersion of responsibility for research across numerous agencies, a
conventional and fragmented approach to conservation research, limited flow of information
on implementaion experiences (both problems and successes) to policy makers and planners,
and the limited availability of skilled researchers and technicians.
3.        For example, soil conservation research by AFRD is now conducted by fewer
than a dozen professional scientists (including only one PhD.) and is limited to only 10
projects with a total annual investment of only about US$125,000. Similarly, while
increasing emphasis is being placed on a farming systems approach by AARD, most
agicultural research is conducted with a commodity orientation that provides little focus on
soil snd moisture conservation. In addition, because information on the impact and
sustalnability of Regreening investments is not systematically collected or analyzed, there
is little realization on the part of policy makers of the need or scope for technological change
in the conservation program.



- 66 -                           ANNEX 4
4.         Together with other measures under the National Institutional Strengthening
Component (Management Information Systems Development and Training and Extension
Development), the Upland Research and Technology Development Sub-component will aim
to:.
(a)  Institutionalize support for a decentralized, multidisciplinary program of upland
research;
(b)  Integrate, on a continuous basis, new  research findings and technical
improvements into the field level investments of INPRES R&R;
(c)   Focus research on implementation problems identified through ongoing and
continuous assessment of implementation experience. The research program
will encompass work in livestock, shifting cultivation, agroforestry and other
land use systems, and include a bias for vegetative soil and moisture
conservation. Emphasis will be placed in conducting research in an inter-
disciplinary manner, with input and linkages to agencies such as Agriculture,
Forestry and Public Works.
Detailed Description
5.         The subcomponent would support (a) an upland research needs assessment,
(b) literature reviews on selected conservation topics, (c) study tours of research institutions
abroad, (d) a research grants program, (e) development of improved planting mtenrial,
particularly for timber and fruit trees, (f) development of strategic plans for the Watershed
Management 'rechnology Center(s) (WMTC) and the Soil Conservatior. research program
of the AFRD, and, (g) dissemination of results through publications, seminars and
workshops. Activities under this subcomponent would be conducted by individuals and
groups of researchers under contract to the Tim Pengendali's secretariat (see Chart 1) and
overseen by the research working group (subcommittee) to be established in the secretariat.
6.         The Tim Pengendali would commission assessments of research needed to
improve the performance of INPRES R&R and other upland conservation efforts in
Indonesia. As a first priority the following locations would be selected: Upper Cimanuk,
North Sumata, South and Central Sulawesi, West Kalimantan and East Nusa Tenggara.
Ihis should involve (a) a review of project completion reports and mid-term reviews and
other assessments of completed and ongoing watershed projects,l/ assessments of INPRES
R&R,21 and (b) field visits to selected project sites focusing specifically on the
sustainability, flexibility, and profitability of currently promoted technologies. The reviews
should assess the source of constraints to successful investment (social, economic, technical).
11  l nluding Kali Konto, Yo rta Rual Development I, Wonon, Upland Agricultre and
Conservation, Citanduy n, Tree Crops in Cntical Lands.
1  The Evaluation of the INPRES Reforesbtion and Regreeng, coperion between The Centr
Forest Rehabilitation Project, Directoe of Reforestato and Regreening, Directorate General of
RRL and Reserch Institute of Bogor Institute of Agricultural Science, 1992



- 67 -                          ANNEX 4
At each site the assessment would consider socio-economic and marketing aspects, effects
of soil and climate on potential crops, propose a range of potential soil and moisture
conservation techniques and assess the availability of quality planting material.
7.         The technology reviews would identify changes in R&R guidelines that can be
proposed for immediate implementation based on existing knowledge and would provide
terms of reference for additional research activities to be supported by the research grant
subcomponent. Proposals for changes would be promulgated as interim guidelines pending
results from the research grant component. Issuance of improved interim guidelines for the
on-farm treatments for the watersheds participating in the R&R program would be a
condition for disbursement against the R&R program.
8.        Development of Improved Planting Material. This activity would address
deficiencies in seed source harvesting and handling, plant propagation and nursery practices
to ensure that appropriate and farmer demanded fruit, timber and grass (vetiver) species and
quality planting stock would be available to support the R&R program. For selected
watersheds, an assessment of the market demand and site suitability would be conducted to
determine likely requirements for planting material. This would be followed by an
assessment of current practices for seed harvesting, handling and plant propagation. This
assessment would also be used to determine whether appropriate planting material is
available for distribution to watershed users participating in the R&R program and using the
revised on-farm treatments (para. 7). These reviews would be used to prepare manuals for
best nursery practices. Based on initial results, guidelines for plant development would be
issued for application throughout the R&R program.
9.         Literature reviews. The Tim Pengendali would commission the compilation
of bibliographies and literature reviews on the following: a) recent developments in
vegetative and agronomic approaches to soil conservation, and additional topics identified
tirough the research needs assessment.
10.       Study Tours.  The project would support study tours for conservation
researchers. Travel and subsistence costs would be provided for attendance at international
conferences and short courses. Study tours would be awarded competitively, on the basis of
written proposals. Criteria for awards would include the applicant's previous research
accomplishments, prospects for establishing ongoing collaboration with the host
institution(s), and relevance to ongoing research. Recipients would be required to prepare
detailed written trip reports and to make oral presentations to seminars convened by the
research working group of the Secretariat.
11.       Research Grants. This activity would account for the largest portion of the
costs of this subcomponent. The component would award where ever possible, on a
competitive basis, upland research grants with priority attached to interdisciplinary research
linked to field level implementation problems of INPRES R&R. Generally, however, due
to the relative isolation of the research sites, direct contracting and force account would be
used. The Tim Pengendali would solicit grant applications from individual researchers,
groups of researchers, research agencies and nongovernmental organizations, develop criteria
for awarding grants and supervise the conduct and reporting of results. Criteria to be



- 68 -                          ANNEX 4
considered in the award of research grants would include feasibility, cost, qualifications of
researchers, involvement of implementaticn agencies and local government, and relevance
to priorities identified by the research needs assessment and literature reviews.
12.       Dissemination. Research results would be annually reviewed and reassessed
by the upland research working group in the Secretariat. A major review would take place
at MTR and at Project completion with the view to up-date R&R guidelines for on-farm
treatmerts. The component will disseminate the results of work through publications,
workshops and awards. These will be issued and awarded in association with government
agencies and NGOs. Dissemination efforts will focus on planning staff of the various Balai
and Sub-Balai RLKT, local government planning staff, trainers of PPLs and PLPs, and
farmer's groups.
13.       Strategic Planning for WMTC. GOI has established a WMTC in Solo,
Central Java, and has plans to establish additional facilities in other agro-ecological zones
e.g. Ujung Pandang in Sulawesi. To maximize the contribution of existing and proposed
facilities, this subcomponent would provide a review of the program of the WMTC. This
would include assessment of the mission of the WMTC, proposals for technical assistance
inputs, and assessment of possible changes in the organization's structure. Additionally, a
review would be conducted of soil conservation research by the AFRD, to identify
mechanisms for expanding the size and impact of the research program.
Organization and Management
14.       The subcomponent will be coordinated, on behalf of the Tim Pengendali, by
the expanded R&R Secretariat. The Secretariat would appoint a Technology Development
Subcommittee or working group (TDC) consisting of representatives of AARD, AFRD,
Universities and NGOs and selected representatives from the private sector, including the
farming community. The TDC will be responsible for advising the Regreening Secretariat
on the coordination and implementation of the subcomponent through contractual
arrangements with individual researchers, government agencies and NGOs. A Research
Specialist seconded from AARD will serve as head to the TDC and will be responsible for
day to day management. An Upland Research Adviser will be recruited internationally to
provide long term technical assistance to the TDC and the Research Specialist. Short term
international technical assistance would also be provided for Strategic Planning and for
research needs assessment. The TDC will cooperate with NGOs, such as the Indonesian
Society for Soil and Water Conservation and KEPAS, for dissemination of results through
publications and seminars.
15.       The project will provide for salaries for seconded staff, including support staff,
research grants, travel, honorariums for committee members, awards for quality research,
seminars publications and technical assistance. Project costs are shown schematically in
Annex 9, and in detail in the Project Files.



-69-                       ANNEX S
INDONESIA
NATIONAL WATERSHED MANAGEMIENT AND
CONSERVATION PROJECT
TRAIING AD EXTENSION
1.         Introduction. The project's training and extension requirements are based
on a training and extension needs survey carried out in January/February 1993.1/ The
objectives of this sub-component are to strengthen GOI's ability to effectively implement the
national INPRES Regreening and Reforestation program (R&R) by increasing awareness and
by irnproving skills and increasing capabilities for planning, promoting project participation
and the utilization of improved and site specific farm production and conservation
technology. The survey is based on information provided by Government officials
representing the INPRES R&R program through meetings and interviews. The training and
extension needs are reported in table form, showing project activity, the training area or
information required, the participating agency, the target groups and the number of trainees
and duration of training, including costs. Details are given in the Project File and project
cost tables. Most of these requirements are indicative as they relate to the project activities
concerning the institutional strengthening component and those of Cimanuk. The inidal
details have to be worked out by the Training and extension working group subcommittee
in the Tim Pengendali before November 30, 1994 and would be updated by the same group
on an annual basis.
Proposed Project Training and Extension
2.         With respect to the Institutional strengthening component, appropriate staff
of all provinces and Kabupaten involved in the R&R progrum, including Cimanuk, would
receive training in the proposed information support system. While no training is envisaged
for the technology development sub-component, project support would be given for study
tours and annual workshops to discuss and disseminate upland technology research results.
Short training courses varying in duration between one to three weeks would also be given
to Regreening extension staff, BAPPEDA and BANGDES staff, PMU's and key farmers
participatng in the current R&R program. To improve R&R extension, support would also
be given to (i) improving extension programs for the general public (e.g. radio and TV
programs); (ii) undertaking special R&R campaigns; (iii) field workshops for farming
groups, NGOs, LKMDs, women group and (iv) study tours for technicians at Kabupaten
level.
1/ LAs WilelmBso. WNational Wate,hrsed Management and Conservation Projea - Training Needs
&Sy Reporat  F,ebruay 1993.



- 70 -                     ANNEX S
3.          With respect to the Upper Cimanuk component, one to two week training
courses are included for project staff relating to key farmer technology displays, nursery
development, forest land management, structural and vegetative land stabilization treatments
and road and drainage upgrading. In addition short duration courses are also included for
farmer and PMU staff to cover other special project and extension activities e.g., land titling
and credit information. Support would also be given for development of extension and
training materials and training for special studies i.e. baseline information survey, role of
women, and forest land occupancy survey (Annex 2).
Implementation
4.          Overall training and extension direction would be given by the training and
extension training working group to be established in the Secretariat of the Tim Pengendali.
This subcommittee would be headed by a full time training and extension specialist of the
Ministry of Home Affairs (BANGDA). The head of the subcommittee would be assisted
by a training needs assessor (short term consultant) and a training and extension adviser
(long term). The four participating ministries (Agriculture, Forestry, Home Affairs and
Public works) would carry out the project activities through their already established training
and extension units. All involved ministries have a nadonal training organization with
affiliates in the provinces in the form of training centers and have extensive experience in
trainig and extension preparation and delivery. Their participation in the implementation
of the training and extension activities is outlined in Appendix 1.
5.          The ministry of Home Affairs would be responsible for the coordination of
al training and extension activities through BANGDA at national level and BAPPEDA at
provincial level. The four ministries involved in the project have sufficient training capacity
in their training centers to accommodate the suggested training activities. MOHA has
training centers in each province and so has MOA. MOFr would use the Forestry Education
and Training Center in Bogor and the Forestry training centers in the provinces. MOPW
has five regional training centers with substantial capacity. For the Upper Cimanuk
component it is recommended to use the Cilampuyang training center in Garut and the
regional traning center of Public Works in Bandung. These centers appear to have
sufficient traiinig equipment for the suggested program. Annual budget requirements for
training and extension would be coordinated by the central secretariat. Estimated costs for
these activities are shown schematically in Annex 9 and further details can be seen in the
Project File.



NATIONAL WATERSED MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PRiOJECT
ROIE OF PART1CIPATING MNISRES WITH REGARD TO TRAIIG AND EXENION
________________                          Inv~bolve Work Un3aIaf
Sin mbs he         M            Sub-Bo    Dim                                      Pt"g oaff Pi Work                   iuy ut         A
T__Cyde_          Nastinl led   IProvldaiLewd      Natoalod        ?mblua P La       NlLard   Irwna _ Lewd            Nated Lew       PridalLw
Ientfcto  f    pueikia          .        F        s.  oDik         - RPL           - Dus            Die         .      r DItK
usinlog needs  - Sn^B.d          - DineB
l-aIFemvco     - DBikini. K,ID a
Cubu            Puladdt                           BaIn D&IM       Jn.ewceusWg   - Dll               Tning ter i    Bdn Ditu
-_                                                                 ccu               Paais    Sol ceckm)
- D&ktflB
Mugp
- P    " hagAir    _                        .
Tt.ii eznt      Puadikt                            Bn Dikrt        Incvei          - Dik                             Dolan DAMs
de"elopiosed                                                      cmwsPaasza
- Didth
_ _ _                              _         _     _Mul.
Taindgddcvay   Puadikset         Tainingoen       P B     Dikbt    Iaerviceftun      D n               Trdin*        llr DiAt        Novic
C_itees           Paagskun        in So%l (Cte-                    zahg
DbtBi              ow)
Map           . .Rq.d
Basnion                 - ~~~~~~Din. te d                  Dfine xtff                      - Di eof                         Kgsab DaM
d4elvay                          - PPL                               PPL                            - JlamPwla_
Moitacinsul     Nudiklat         - TmnincateA    BaDikDst         . - IwIco         MDat            - Tngc          Be" DiM          . Prook"
evadusian                        - DBr  dIff                           bainbfteo     Pga             in Solo (dbce-                    Wa,e
- P1)                            - Diametaff        DikistBba       d-n)                            - KgsbIDm
*  Mr             Mug .Regional
- Dkr                                                     Zf
_   _  _  _  _  _    _  _ =   _                  -               -   _  _ _  _  _                                       --



- 72 -                       ANNEX 6
NDONESIA
NATIONAL WATERSHED MANAGEMENT
AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
ERMS OF REFERENCE
WATERSHED MANAGEMET ADVSERUTEAM LEADE   N NATIONAL)
Duration:   36 person/months
Role:       To manage overall technical assistance for the National Institutional
Strengthening component, and assist the Secretariat of the Tim Pengendali, as
well as the project manager (PIMPRO) of the National Institutional
Strengthening component with general project management procedures.
Reports to:  Secretariat of Tim Pengendali.
Main Duties: Over the course of four years, the watershed management adviser would:
(a)   Coordinate the technical assistance activities under the ISS and Land Use
Planning subcomponents, the Upland Research subcomponent, and the Training
and Research subcomponent, and, in particular during the first and second
project years, ensure that these activities are coordinated with those of the
Upper Cimanuk component.
(b)   To assist the project manager for the National Institutional Strengthening with
implementation arrangements, including institutional coordination, reporting,
and monitoring and evaluation.
(c)   To assist the four technical subcommittees with institutional coordination,
particularly with respect to planning.
(d)   To facilitate the implementation of activities under the National lnstitutional
Strengthening component, including, i=tea1a, (i) assisting in the institutional
review of sectorial agencies planning roles and responsibilities, with a view to
strengthen the role of local government in watershed management planning and
implementation; (iii) assisting the research teams in the identification of suitable
implementation mechanisms for site-specific farming systems research;
(iv) assisting in the identification of suitable mechanisms for interagency
training management; (v) assisting in the preparation of relevant reviews on
project activities prior to mid-term review; and (vi) ensuring general
coordination between the National Institutional Strengthening component and
Upper Cimanuk.
Qualifations: Ph. D. in institutional management or related field, with strong background
in watershed management and land use planning. At least 10 years working experience in
program management in developing countries. Working knowledge of Bahasa Indonesia.



- 73 -                       ANNEX6
INDONESIA
NATIONAL WATERSHED MANAGEMENT
AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
MS OF REFERENCE
RESEARCH AND TECNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT ADVISR
Duration:   36 person-months
Role:       To facilitate the generation of appropriate technology menus for each major
land capability class in the uplands of each agroecological zone covering the
thirty-nine priority watersheds, including the review of current technology
menus and farming systems research capability in each area, the preparation
and management of resulting farming systems research contracts, and upgrading
of farming systems research capability.
Reports to:  Head of Technology Development Subcommittee/Working Group, Directors
AARD/AFRD
Main Duties: Over a period of four years and working jointly with a locally recruited
Technology Development Specialist and the designated inter-agency research
advisory committee involving AARD, AFRD and university groups:
(a)   review the current menu of technologies being applied and recommended for
each major land use capability unit in each agroecological zone to determine
their relevance and appropriateness for inclusion in the Regreening Program,
with a focus on the thirty nine priority watersheds, particularly the six with
highest priority;
(b)   assess the farming systems research capacity and capability in each agro-
ecological zone with a view to identify suitable institutions for conducting
necessary FSR in each area and how these might be strengthened; and
(c)   assist in the identification of a priority FSR research program in each region,
the most suitable form of implementing it (e.g., by administration or contract),
and in managing and supervising the conduct of research including regular
monitoring and evaluation.
Qualifications: A graduate degree in Agronomy, PHD preferred, or other relevant discipline
with a strong background in upland, rainfed agriculture. At least 10 years experience with at
least 8 years of field experience in agriculture or related natural resource management projects,
preferably with team leader or Chief-of-Party experience. Experience with upland farming
systems and credible knowledge of livestock, feed and forage, horticulture and farm forestry;
experience with research and experimental design and statistical analysis including experience
with integration of soil management and conservation into the farming system.



-74 -                        ANNEX 6
INDONESIA
NATIONAL WATERSHED MANAGEMENT
AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
TRAING AND EXnSION ADVISER
Duration:   36 person-months.
Rote:       To facilitate the conduct of training to build improved capability and capacity
in sectoral institutions and local government units to more effectively plan and
implement upland and forest conservation and watershed management.
Reports to:  Head, Training and Extension Subcommittee/Working Group, Director-General
MOHA.
Main Duties: Over a period of four years and working jointly with a locally and a
internationally recruited Training Needs Assessors and designated training
advisory committee .Tom MOFr, MOA and MOHA:
(a)   supervise and assist the Training Needs Assessors in a review of existmg
training programs, materials, facilities, and implementation capacities, and an
overall assessment of training needs based on the review and on the training
needs survey report prepared at appraisal;
(b)   assist in the preparation of training and extension programs and urricula,
including scheduling and costing of these programs, organizing and mobilizing
interagency training management teams, and preparing guidelines on program
design implementation and assessment;
(c)   identify participants for overseas training activities, and key participant groups
for other training, and assist in training program implementation;
(d)   assist the technology development staff in arranging workshops, determining
strategies for dissemination of research results, and providing training on
communication skills;
(e)   assist counterpart teams in the preparation of extension materials and extension
models;
(f)   develop and implement a training and extension monitoring and impact
evaluation systems to assess the effectiveness of training programs across each
target group;
(g)    assist in the preparation of annual progress reports.
Qualifircations: At least five (5) years experience in managing large-scale human resource
development projects in agriculture or rural development. The candidate should also possess
appropriate qualifications in agricultural education, training or human resource development,
and demonstrate excellent verbal and written communications skills.



-75 -                        ANNEX 6
INDONESIA
NATIONAL WATERSHED MANAGEMENT
AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
TEM  OF REFERENcE
ENVIRONMENTAL ADVISE
Duration:    18 person-months.
Role:       To ensure that potential impacts of regreening and reforestation activities on
National Forest Estate (both Production and Conservation/Protection Forests)
are identified, monitored and, to the extent possible, avoided. These objectives
would be achieved through investigating and researching any potential sources
of impact, developing safeguards and strategies for avoiding or minimizing
potential impacts, and incorporating into the national training and extension
program study units covering environmental and land use management issues
as required.
Lation:    Secretariat of the Tim Pengendali.
Main Duties: The major duties of the environmental specialist would include:
(a)   through consultation with relevant government agencies (PHPA, KLH, etc.),
Universities, Environmental Study Centers and relevant NGOs, identify the
nature and significance of land use management issues arising out of the
Regreening and Reforestation programs;
(b)   maintain contact with the technical assistance team working on the Upper
Cimanuk watershed component to monitor their on-going findings and assess
their relevance to the wider national program;
(c)   based on the outcome of (a) and (b), design and implement (e.g., through PSLs
or NGOs) pilot monitoring programs in selected 'at risk' Kabupaten to evaluate
the nature and significance of the potential impacts. A series of studies might
be carried out over the first three years of the project;
(d)   liaise with the ISS specialists to identify data bases relevant to the monitoring
of environmental effects and, as required, provide advice regarding
environmental/land use management data tc be gathered as part of the project
monitoring and evaluation system;
(e)   prepare an environmental training unit for inclusion in the training and
extension program. The content of the unit would be based on the outcome of
the other investigations but could include aspects such as: summary of
environmental and land use management requirements in Indonesia with



-76-                          ANNEX6
particular reference to Nature and other Conservation areas; the role of
conservation areas; potental impacts between those areas and the RegreeninB
program; strategies for avoiding and/or minimizing environmental impacts.
Qualifications and Experienze: A university graduate In Forestry or Agriculture with a
minimum of five years experience in land use planning and management with
particuar reference to firest opeatons and conservaion.  The peron
preferably should also have some experience in training, extension ad
communications .



-77 -                        ANNEX 6
ENDONESIA
NATIONAL WATERSHED MANAGEMENT
AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
INFORM  TON SUPPORT SERVICES PRoCESS FACILATOR
TMS OF REFERENCE
Lection:   Jakarta, Indonesia
DutXon:    10 months over 3 years
Duties and
Responsibilities: The Process Facilitator will report to the DGRRL in MoFr, and to Bangda
in MOHA through the Watershed Planning Adviser and will work closely with
Bappenas, Min. of Public Works, and local government planning agencies.
The Process Facilitator will begin work in the first year of the project to review
and revise the existing planning process. The Facilitator will follow-up on the
progress of improvements in the planning process by coordinatng review
discussions in the second and third year of the project. 'he Facilitator will be
responsible for:
(a)   Organizing and facilitating group meetings of relevant agencies inolved in
watershed planning to review current planning processes and mechanism, such
as POLA RLKT DAS, RTL RLKT Sub-DAS, and RTI.
(b)   Clarifying the existing roles of each agency in the planning process and
identifying the relationships between the various planning activities.
(c)   Reaching consensus amongst planners concerning weaknesses and botlenecks
in the existing process.
(d)   Facilitating the development of guidelines for a revised planning proces taking
into consideration the needs of decision-makers for short, medium, and long
term plans, the requirement for interagency planning coordination, and
practicalities.
(e)   Developing, with the relevant agencies, an approach for implementng the
revised guidelines.
(f) Facilitating a review of the planning process in the second and third year of the
project, and developing strategies for effecing subsequent modifications.
Qualifications:  At least five years experience in activities related to orgaizaton
management, work programming, process planning, and team building.
Experience in working with diverse groups of people to reach consensus and
common objectives is required. Developing country experience a definite asset.



-78-                          ANNEX6
INDONESIA
NATIONAL WATERSHED MANAGEMENT
AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
WAtSHED  PLNIG ADVIS.
TERM OF REFERENCE
Postion:    Watershed Planning Adviser
Locaton:    Jakarta, Indonesia
Duration:   30 months over 3 years.
Dutles and
Reponsblfites: Ihe Waershed Planning Adviser will report to the DGRRL in MoFr, and
will work jointly with the Planning Process Facilitator, the MIS and RIS
Advisers, a localy recruited Watershed Planning Specialist, the Chairma of
the Technical Secretariat, and a designated inter-agency team of planners form
MoFr, MoA, MoHA, Min. of Public Works. The Adviser will be responsible
for:
(a)   Reviewing and assessing the appropriateness and effectiveness of existing land
use and resource-based planning techniques and methodologies.
(b)   Reviewing the status of existing plans for each of the watersheds, e.g., which
watersheds have prepared POLA RLKT DAS, RTL RLKT Sub-DAS and RTr.
(c)   Assisting in identifying and refining improvements in the resource-based
integrated watershed and area planning methodologies and procedures.
Advising on appropriate technical approaches. Specifically, the land resource
survey and multi-factor land use evaluation system used in the Indonesia-New
Zealand Land Resources Mapping (NZLRM) Project should be considered.
(d)   Assisting in organizing training for multi-sectoral planning teams to conduct
integrated area planning at the local, province, and national levels. This will
involve, inter alia, assisting in the identification, recruitment, and training of
appropriate planners.
(e)    Ensuring that integrated watershed management plans are prepared for the
thirty nine priority watersheds with particular attention to the eleven top
priority watersheds.
(     Reviewing the processes for establishing watershed priorities and for identifyng
critical lands. This should lead to a rationalization of investment priorities.



-79 -                        ANNEX6
Qualifications: At least ten years experience in both macro and micro level land use and
resource-based planning activities with a thorough understanding of soil and
water conservation practices. Must have a working knowledge of land use
planning tools such as satellite remote sensing, aerial photography, geographic
information systems, and land use modelling. Developing country experience
a definite asset.



- 80 -                       ANNEX 6
INDONESIA
NATIONAL WATERSHED MANAGEMENT
AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
MANAGEMENT kaFORMATIoN SYsTEM ADVSR
EMS OF REFERINCE
Position:    Management  nformation System Adviser
Locaton:   Jakarta and Cimanuk Watershed, Indonesia
Duradon:   24 months over 3 years
Dudes and
Responsibilities: The Management Information Adviser will report to the Chairman of the
information Support System steering group under the Regreening Secretariat.
The MIS Adviser will work closely with Bappenas, DOPRRL of the Ministry of
Forestry, DO Bangda of the Ministry of Home Affairs, the Balai and sub Balai
offices responsible for watershed management in Cimainuk, and the Bappeda
offices in the two Kabupaten and province covering the watershed. lhe adviser
will be assisted by at least one counterpart staff from the Ministry of Forestry
with a background in information management for monitoring and evaluation.
He/she will be responsible for establishing and supervising the workprogram
of the counterpart. The adviser will be responsible for:
(a)   Identifying information requirements of the various agencies involved in
watershed management, at the national, provincial, and local levels, for
planning, monitoring, and evaluation. This should take into consideration work
and studies that has already been done, for example, the UACP project, ADB's
study of Monitoring and Evaluation for the Upper Cimanuk subwat r ed
(ADB Loan 762), etc.
(b)   Identifying existing sources and availability of information for planning and
monitoring.
(c)   Designing an information support system for planning, monitoring, and
evaluation. Ihis will have two separate but related components-one, a
resource information management system (RIS) to deal with such information
as sofls, slopes, vegetation, land use, etc., and two, an MIS system to collect
and report information on Regreening INPRES program activities. This will
be reviewed by the relevant decision-makers.
(d)   Designing data collection and information reporting formats.



-81 -                        ANNEX6
(e)   Implementing the systems in the sub Balai, Balai, Bappeda, and MoFr offices.
Ihis will involve identifying, procuring, and implementing the appropriate
software, hardware, and database management programs.
(f)   Developing an improved database management system in the Natural Resources
and Environment Bureau (NREB) of Bappenas.
(f) Organizing training for decision-uIakers on how to use information produced
by the system.
(h) Organizing training for both the RIS and the MIS system operators on how to
build the databases, access information, use the computer hardware and
software, and how to analyze data.
(i)   Developing an action plan for extending the capabilities to cover all the
watersheds included in the INPRES programs.
Qusiicatlaons: A background in managment information systems with a particular fious on
natural resources; working knowledge of resource information management
tehnologies such as GIS and remote sensing; at least 10 years experience in
developing and implemenfing MIS; developing country experience a definite
asset.



- 82 -                       ANNEX 6
NONESIA
NATIONAL WATERSHED MANAGEMENT
AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
RESOURCE INFORMATION MANAGEMET ADVISER
TERM oF REFERENCE
Position:    Resource Information Management Adviser
Loation:    Jakarta and Cimanuk Watershed, Indonesia
Duration:   24 months over 3 years
Duties and
Responsibilities: The Resource Information Adviser will report to the MIS Adviser, working
with the Information Support System steering group under the Regreening
Secretariat. The RIS adviser will work closely with DGRRL of the Ministry
of Forestry, DG Bangda of the Ministry of Home Affairs, the Balai and sub
Balai offices responsible for watershed management in Cimanuk, and the
Bappeda offices in the two Kabupatens and province covering the watershed.
The adviser will be assisted by at least one counterpart staff from the Ministry
of Forestry with a background in resource information collection, management,
and analysis. He/she will be responsible for establishing and supervising the
workprogram of the counterpart. The adviser will be responsible for assisting
the MIS adviser in:
(a)   Identifying resource information requirements of the various agencies involved
in watershed management, at the national, provincial, and local levels, for
planning, monitoring, and evaluation. This should take into consideration work
and studies that has already been done, for example, the UACP project, ADB's
study of Monitoring and Evaluation for the Upper Cimanuk subwatershed
(ADB Loan 762), etc.
(b)   Identifying existing sources and availability of information for planning,
monitoring, and evaluation.
(c)   Designing a set of capabilities and procedures to collect, manage, and analyze
resource-based information to support planning and monitoring. This will
include such information as soils, slopes, vegetation, land use, etc., The design
will be reviewed by the relevant decision-makers.
(d)   Implementing the systems and procedures in the sub Balai, Balai, Bappeda, and
MoFr offices. This will involve identifying, procuring, and implementing the
appropriate software, hardware, and database management programs.



-83 -                        ANNEX 6
(e)   Providing training for the counterpart staff on the use of resource infonnation
management technologies (GIS, remote sensing, etc.) and on data analysis.
(t)    Organizing training for decision-makers on how to use information produced
by the system.
(g)   Organizing training for the RIS system operators on how to access information,
build the databases, use the computer hardware and software, and how to
analyze data.
Quaifications:  A background in resource information management and the allied
technologies, such as GIS, Remote Sensing, Aerial Photography, etc.; at least
a Masters level degree in a natural resources related field; at least 5 years
experience in developing and implementing RIS applications; developing
country experience a definite asset.



-84-                                  ANNEX6
Appendix 1
Indonesia: National Watershed Management and Conservation Project
Technical Assistance Schedule (in person-months)
1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999        Total
National Institutional Strenhcoing Component:
Watershed Management Advsr (International)                             6       12       12       6        0        0        36
Environmental Adviser (Local)                                          6       6        6        0        0        0        1S
Program Evaluator (Local)                                              1        1       1        1        1        1         6
Sub-Committee Heads (Local Secondments)                               48       48      48       48       48       48       288
Sub- Totl (exept secondmnnts)                                         13       19      19        7        1        1        60
ISS and Planning Sub-Component:
ISS System Evaluator (Local)                                           0        1       0        0        1        0         2
Regreening Program Evaluators (Local)                                  0        1       1        5       10        8        25
MIS Adviser (International)                                            6       12       6        0        0        0        24
RIS Adviser (International)                                            6       12       6        0        0        0        24
Watershed Planning Advisr (International)                              6       12      12        0        0        0        30
ISS Process Facilitator (International)                                4        3       3        0        0        0        10
MIS/RIS Specialists (Local Secondments)                               12       36      48       48       48       48       240
Sub-TotallSSand PlaningSub-Compoanent(.cptscondmnts)                  22       41      28       .5       11        8       115
Training and Extension Sub-Component:
Training Needs Assessor (Local)                                        6       12      12        0        0        0        30
Training Needs Assessor (International)                                6        0       0        0        0        0         6
Tmraining and Extension Adviser (International)                        6       12       12       6        0        0        36
Sub- Total Training and Etension Sub-Combponent                       18       24      24        6        0        0        72
Upland Reseamh and Development Sub-Component:
Research and Technology Development Manager (Local)                    6       12      12       12       12       12        66
Research and Technology Development Adviser (Intornational)            6       12      12        6        0        0        36
Technical Consultancies (International) 1V                             3        3       0        0        0        0         6
Strategic Planner for WMTC (International)                             0        3       0        0        0        0         3
Strategic Planner for WMTC (Local)                                     0        3       0        0        0        0         3
Sub- 7toiRese Rua and DevelopmwntSub-Component                        .5       33      24       18       12       12       114
Upper Cimanuk Wateuhed Component
Soil and Water Conservation Engineer (Local)                           6       12       6        0        0        0        24
NurserySpecialist (Local)                                              6       12      12        0        0        0        30
Training Organizer (Local)                                             6       12      12        S        3        3        41
Upland Farming System Specialist (International)                       6        6       6        0        0        0        t8
Upland Farming System Specalst (Local)                                 6       12      12        6        0        0        36
Project Management Specialist (International)                          6       12       6        0        0        0        24
Project Management Specialist (Local)                                  0        0       6        6        0        0        12
lAnd Use Planning Specialist (Local)                                   6       12       6        0        0        0        24
Tree Crops Specialit (Local)                                           2        2       2        2        0        0         8
Agro-Businens and Marketing Specialist (Local)                         6        3       3        3        0        0        1S
Socio-Economist (Locai)                                                6       12       3        3        0        0        24
Road Engineer (Local)                                                  6        6       3        3        0        0        18
Nursery Extension Workers (Local)                                     36       72      72       72       72       72       396
Under NGO Sub-Contract:
Team Leader (Localilnternational)                                      8       12       12      12       12       12        68
Community Resource Specialist (Local)                                  8       12      12       12       12       12        68
GenderlssuesandWIDCoordinator(Local)                                   8       12      12       12       12       12        68
Participatory Training Offieer (Local)                                 8        6       6        6        0        0        26
Project Officers (Local)                                              16       24      24       24       24       24       136
FIeld Officers (Local) 2/                                            136      204     204      204      204      204     t,1S6
Sub- 7btad Cin;k (exudig NGO and eteownir)                            62      101       77      28        3        3       274
Estimated Total Cost: 3/           llUQA 6 
V/ - Speificonsultancies to be determined duting imaletentaon.
2V -dfield officer trained inpartici      ingfor each of the 17 kcmatan.
3/ - Costs have been estimated at Rp. Io 0ton4 zerson          stanesad Rpw 40A m         Elio rs  mnth for international cosultacis,
including taxes, provision for housing allowance and per-diem Tbese rates do not apply to lb=al secondments, or to onsultancies under the NGO ontract.
Estimated total costs include the costs of TA and NGO, as welas speci studis for tbeCi manuk component, and inlude physical and prke contingencies.
,aalo.wkl



Indonesia:Naional Watershed Manageent Conservation
Project ImplesmentatIon Schedule
. 1993   1994    1 99S  { ts9      1997    1 998 1 199    2000-  2
ID   Nam                                                                                Duration    Start
I   National Watershed Management and Conservaton Projet                                 424.4w     2/1/93
2       Bank Projct Processing                                                            60.4w        93          W
3            AppaIel                                                                         aw     2/U93
4            Nesga t-                                                                         w    9/14i        I
a            Bod                                                                             Ow    I'll"3 _             
a            Lon Effectiveness                                                              Ow   3/29/94-
601 Proect Start-Up Actiit70l2w fell
a     S      National -nioutn"l Sengteing Coone8.2w nt93 _
9   .             oP_e  Annual Progam frt FY 8U9S                                           4w    6ttS/3   _
10               tnO  PU for 9DP fOw Fl 949                                                        824193 _
I I              Dr Ph FY 9496                                                               2w _w4194           .                          
I2               Prepa Action Pban f  FY 94965                                               4w    Vlt94           a
13               Review Mmbehip of Tenicad  Comrltt+ Sertariat                              t2w    9t21t93
t4          -   Review TecwSical SContt                                                     12w 9e21t93         'Pi
IS               Prepar TORs for Mendes    Sub         e                                    12w   9121tl93 m                                                                       S
le               Appointmt of Heed of ISS Sub-CoMM     by MOFtAlOHA                         12w   1124YU           a
17               Appntent of Hesd of LUP Sub-Cormtltes by MOFr                              12w   1t2f194   =
to              AAppoinme  of Hed of Technical Resch De*o. Sub-Comabtte by AARDtAJRU        12w    1126S94         *
119              Appointment of Head of Traii  and Ex    SubC       e by MOHA               12w    1128194 _
20               Appontme  of Sub-Couw Ste   S                                               4w   4/20S941       . a
21               Procrment of Equipmient wnd Vehidel                                        law eS184                 mm
22               Procurenent of Consutnts for ISS/LUP                                       l9w    4120194
28               Ptocurewme  of C<nsulants for Tenlogy/T&E                                  19w   4120/94
34           Upper Cmanuk Waterhed Comnponent                                             70.2w    6/15193  _     =  = = M==
35               Prepare Annwu Program for FY 94/95                                          4w    6115193    a I
36               Prepre DUP for FY 94195                                                     8w    6/24/93     m 
37               DIP for fY 94t96                                                            2w    1t4194       -.a t                                _ __ 
38               Prpare Action Plan for FY 94/95                                             4w    2t15194      I
Project: Natonal Watershed Management & Conservation Ptoj                 Critical                        Progress                         Summary
Date: 10/16/93                                                            Noncrftical                     Milestone  *                     Rolled Up  K>
page I



Indonela:Natobna  Watwshed Management Conservaton
Project Implementation Schedu
1993    1994    1995    1998    1997    1996    1999   2000    2C
ID   NaM                                                                                Duration    Strt             n  i .k11                      ii bi al  n k
39               AppoIt PIMPRO for PMU Garut                                                 4w    9121193
40               Appoint PMRO for PMU Sumedang                                               4w   9121193
41               Appoint Countespart Tem In hk. D for PMU Gantt                             12w    1128194  _
42               Appoint Cauntepar Team In Tk. n for PMU Sumedang                           12w    112M94          -
43               Appoint Provfin    Countepart Teams fort BAPPEDA                           12w    1128194       _
44               Estblsh PUU Garut and Staffing                                              Sw   4/20/94        j a
45               EstabIh PUU Sumdedg and Staffin                                             Sw   4/20/94        _  
46               Conracting Nursy E_tnsion Workes                                           12w    6116194
47              Ptocurement of Eqipment and VehIles                                         18w    6/15194       j _
53               Pouremnt of Constants for TA, Special Studfies, end NGO                    l9w    4120194       _                                             -       - _
59       Proct Implementation                                                              372w     2V2/94
60           i       _mmenaIo by Componnts                                                 306w    6/15/94
81               National Institutional Strengthening                                      303w  B115194
62                    Annau Prgrwa                                                       301.6w    8115/94
96_  --P Sub-Component                                                                     292w    8/31194   =                        _
96                        Assessnme  of ISS Requrnfts                                       17w   8t31194
97                        Procurement of Computer Equipment and Software                    13w  12t28t4
98                        Procurement of Aerial Phots                                       13w  12t28t94
99                        Start Procurement of Satellt Imagery                             275w   12829/4        .                                                            _
100                        Staff Secondment                                                   6w   1228/94      :
101                       Start ield Surves                                                267w      2/1195                                                          M
102                       Start Training                                                   287w      2t1/95      1
103                       Stat Local PlannIng                                              267w      2/1195 _
104                       Review of Watershed Pans and IntegratIon into Regional Pelita     49w    2V119                    _
1O6                       Review of Cimanuk ISS                                             49w   1t23195   -               _       _        _    __  
106                       Review of R&R Inst. Structure in 8 Watersheds and Cimsnuk         13w    10/3195
107                       Complete Integration of Watershed Plans Into Regonal Pelita      37.8w    4/12/95  -=
108                       Comptete Action Plan for ESS at Natinal Level                     17w     9t5t95                                             _
Project: National Watershed Management & Conservation Proj                Critical                        Progress                         Summary
Date: 1011 5/93                                                           Noncritical                     milestone  *                     Rolled Up  O
Page 2



Indonesla:Natonal Watershed Management Conservaton
Project Implementation Schedue
1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2C
ID   Name                                                                                 Duration    St       1
109                    Tralning and Extension Sub-Component                                  292w    8131194                       l  w                   1
110                        Review Training Requirements                                       17w    8/31/94                                                     _
111                        Start Training Program                                            275w   12/28194
112                        Rteview Extension Model Develop. Requirements                      17w    8/31194               m -
113                        Start Extension Model Devel.                                      275w   12l28194
114                         Aeview of Traiing and Extension Program                           13w    10/3/95
115                        Annual Review Workshops for Trahing end Extension               208.8w    6/30195   -= __  _  _El"
121                        Fnal Review of T&E Sub-Compoment                                   12w    1/10/00
122                    Upland Research and Development Sub-Component                       291.6w     l311t94       _                           
123                        Review Curent Technology and Fied Work                             52w    8/31/94  -I           MM 
124                        Review Planing Stock/Nurseries                                     62w    8/31/94
126                        PepratIon of Revised Guidelines for On-Faem Treatmena              17w    8130196  -                                 _                                _
128                        Preparation of Guideiines for Nu y Devel.                           17w    8130195 
127                        DstrIution of Revis  Guidees to Kabupaten                           4w   12/27/96
128                        Proposal for Applied Research                                       17w    8/31/94     lM
129                        Riew of Proposal by Natinal & Intemational Experts                   6w   12/28194                    -
130                        Procurement of Equpmnent for Research Station                       17w     V8195                   mm
131                        Procurement of Vehicls for Reseach Stations                         17w     V8195
132                        Contractng Procedures for Field Stations                            t7w     V8196   _                            
133                        Sub-Contracting of Cimanuk Research                                17w      2196                   f=
134                        Fleld Assistafts Staffing                                          17w      28/61
135                        Start Traning                                                     282w   10/17194 _
136                        Plaing fr WMTC                                                     26w      6195                              _      _
137                        Annual Reviews of Programs& Dissemnnantion Workshops            248.4w    6/29/96                    __    __         __
144               Upper amanuk Watershed                                                     306w    6115194
146                    Annual Programs                                                     299.6w    6/11/94   -          _
178                   Implementatin Actvities                                                295w    8131l94
179                        Finalize Choice of Target Villages                                  3w    81319                2
Project: National Watershed Managemenm & Conservation Proj                crhicat                            Progress                         Sutmay  
Date: 10116/93                                                             Noncritical                      Milestoe  *                      Rolled Up  O
Page 3



Indonesa:Naafonal Watershed Management Conservation
Project ImplementatIon Schedule
1993    1994   1995   1996    1067    1998    1999                  20
10   Name                                          _u_aDon    Stitn tt                                                                                      i2    a t  j  m j      a n
180                        Complete aasege Study                                                43w    8131194
_ _ _ _ _ _                                                   _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_______ 
181                        Complete Land Use Study                                              43w    8131/94
182                        Complete Women Farmer Study                                          22w    8131194
183                        itate Vilag Level Cansutatlon and Planning                          290w    9121194                                                             =a
184                        organize Vilage Data Iepetio Wo-hop                                   tw    1121/9=
18S                          ae  Model Mlcro-DAS                                               270w    1/30195
l84                        Initate armer Technogy Displays                                     270w    1/30195
187                        initiate VIllage Nuseries                                           270',  11301965
188                        bIate Lnd StablIzation Treatnenft                                   270w tt 0    95s
189                        Initiate Land Mapphng toSp"                                         270w    113019C                                                             -ta
190                         SubContract NGO for Maketin and Credit I9for=tion                   17w    9=21=94
191                        Stat Mket  & Credit Ino DIsmion                                     270w    1/30/95
192                        Review Train Nee                                                     1lw    8131194               E
193                        Review  extenuon Neds                                                17w    8/31/94        .
194                        bnate TraInnt                                                       274w    1125U96
19S                        hnite extensb n Deve_opmt Activis                                   274w    1/25196
196                         Itate SUFS Reerc ActWies                                           250w      7/59S.
197                        Prepare Manel on Roda ad DraIns                                    17.0w    V31/94 
198                         Idenfy Roads for Upgrading                                          1ww 112196
199                         Start Road and Draae Upgrading                                     202w     W11S96                           I r                      a
200                         Sabmit Report an Road Maintenne                                   62.4w   1231196_
203                         InItiate cm ata-lebve Nursu                                         2w 7le8 
204                        Anualt evIw of Proposla for V       Grants                        156.4w     a
29                          Star Atution of Vitlge Gnts                                        20w    4/29/90.
210                         Start Grant  of Land lTes                                          238w    9/26/95 _
211                        Rvevew Trament In Model McroDAS                                    36.1w    4119196
212                         Iitiate Treatments in Expansion Areas                              194w     71l
213                         RevIew Status of Forest Enoachnment                                 26w     7419_
Ptoiect: National Watershed Management & Conservation Proj                   Citical-                         Progress                          Summary
Date: 10116193                                                               Noncritical                      Milestone  *                      Rolled Up  O
Page 4



Indonesla:Natlonal Watershed Management Conservafon
Project bplementaI  Schedule
1993    1094   IS9"   1996   O11          1966   19S9 1 200    20
ID   Name                                                                               DuratDon    StuAt ,b j102
214                        Review Tain wingad Extenion                                       law   0lol9
215               Ivvestmn Support for Rgeening end Reforettion                           247.4w    815/_95
216                   Annual Progrte.                                                     247.4w    6/15/        I_
241                   Dbbusemen for R&R                                                     206w     4/1196
242           Sup_vlslo  NW Report                                                          372w     2/2/94
243                P_b ets                                                                  325w    3/30/94
244               Accounting                                                              352.8w    3/30/94
245                   Audht Opinion Nf MPPS and SOE                                       352.8w    3/30J94
254               Repting                                 3t3.4w    6/30194
255                   Antual Work "rogram                                                 209.2w    8/15194
261                   Annual Press Repot                                                  313.4w    6130/94   -       -
269               Supeuvison                                                              326.2w     212194      [
284               MonItorig and Evalution                                                   364w    3/3094_
285               Mid-Tem Review                                                             18w     3t1/96
2868              Project Competion                                                           Ow    3131100
287               Projet Close                                                                Ow   9/29/00
288               Project Completion Report                                                 0.2w   12t22100                                                                 4
Project: National Watershed Management & Conservation Proj                Critcal                          Progress                        Summery _
Date: 10115/93                                                            Noncrtcal                        Miestone  *                     Rolled Up  O
Page 6



-90-                        ANNEX 8
INDONFSIA
NATIONAL WATERSHIED MANAGEMENT AND
CONSERVATION PROJECT
Economic Analysi of the Upper Cimanuk Water*ed Component
Derivaion of Economic Prices
1.         Economic prices for traded farm outputs and inputs (including most  ual
crops and fertilizers) were estimatd at their parity values, based on reported border prices
for the commodities 1/ adjusted to constant 1992 values by the G-5 MUV Index, and
forecasted in real terms through 2005. Real prices were assumed constant thereafter. The
economic derivation was based on assumptions of continuing self-sufficiency for rice, and
import substitution for soybean, groundnut, TSP, KCL and ZA. Cassava and urea, for
which Indonesia is a net exporter, were costed at their export parity prices. Maize was
costed at an average of iport and expon parity prices 2/ (Appendix 2). A 40 percert
markup of output price was assumed for annual crop seeds. All other farm inputs and
outputs, except for labor, were costed at their financial (end-1992) prices (Appendix 1).
2.         A conversion factor of 0.9 was used for unskilled farm labor. This takes into
account the relatively low opportunity costs of women farmers in the region, who have
generally less access to off-farm employment than male laborers due to socio-utwral
reasons.l/ All other labor .. costed at its market wage. Since most of the unskilled
labor used in road construction is male, for which off-farm labor opportunities exist (e.g.
seasonal work in urban areas), unskilled farm labor used in road constuction was costed at
its full market wage. Materils, which comprise the remaining 86 percent of the total cost,
are subject to a value added tax of 10 percent. Hence, a weighted conversion factor of 0.91
was used to value all road works implemented by the project. Land stabilization treatments
are expected to be implemented by force dccount using a miture of female and male farm
labor. A weighted conversion factor of 0.91 was therefore derived by taking into account
the proportion of the total cost that is siled labor (7 pi-rcent of costs, valued at full market
wage), unskilled labor (37 percent of the total, subject to a conversion factor of 0.9), and
materis (56 percent, subject to value added taxes of 10 percent). A standard conversion
I/ As reported by the World Bank Revison of Primay Commodity Price Forecass and Quaely
Rview of Commodity Makes, February 10, 1993 issue.
Z/ In 1992, Idonea imported 200,000 MT of maize and exported 50,000 MT (USDA, 1992 'Indonala
Awwal Igrlew Siaton Report). Auming impt substitution, th economic price of maim
would be Rp 196,000 per ton inted of Rp 189,000 derived through an averag of ort and impot
paity prices. This would not reult in significant changes in the economic analysis.
I/ Costmg unsklled farm labor at its mket wage does not ca  signficant changes in the componet's
ERR,  do the economic viability of the fam interventios



- 91-                      ANNEX 8
factor of 1.0 was used for the domestic component of all other project costs, net of
taxes/duties and price contingencies.
Estimation of Road Benerits
3.        The project would upgrade an estimated 125.6 km of roads in the districts of
Garut and Sumedang. Road costs were estimated based on the proposed techniWal designs
for the project and their standard costs, as c1etermined by Public Works officials of the two
districts. Since the proposed design involves asphalting only in areas of slopes higher than
12 percent, the costs of standard telford and asplalt penetration roads were estimated
separately, and a weighted average comouted assuming that 73.3 percent of the road
stretches would be of standard telford type, and only 26.7 percent would require asphalting.
Financial construction costs were converted to economic costs by a conversion factor of 0.91
(see para. 2 above).
4.        Road improvement benefits can be computed through two standard methods,
the traffic benefit approach and the population-related method. The latter applies to cases
where existing traffic is low and access conditions restricted, and is therefore more adequate
to estimate the benefits of village access roads. The population method assumptions used
were derived from methodology developed under the IBRD Rural Roads 2 Project ,4/
which is currently standard in West Java for the economic analysis of Kabupaten roads (Box
1). Local Public Works officials at the two Kabupaten were asked to prepare standard
benef.t derivations for the roads marked for improve.ment during the frst and second project
years through the use of standard benefit derivation shtflts (A3) used in Kabupaten roads.
5.         The A3 sheets permit only a rapid verification of the viability of the road
stretches, by comparing the present value of the anticipated benefits (net of maintenance
costs) with fte proposed investment costs. In order to compute the economic rate of return
of the investments, the annual benefit stream had to be derived by taking into account the
present value of the benefit per trip per Km as shown in the A3 sheets, and decomposing
it intdo the appropriate undiscounted annual benefits, which are assumed to accrue for a
period of 10 years. Standard assumptions regarding benefit growth rates were used, taking
into account the length of the constrained segment and the level of access constraint. For
the sampled roads, these growth rates, which represent growth in development benefits and
population increases, range between 4.5 and 5.5 percent a year as follows:
Access constraint 1, all road lengths: 4.5 percent a year;
Access constraint 2, length of constrained road < 5 km: 5 percent a year; and
Access constraint 2, length of constrained road 5-15 kIn; 5.5 percent a year.
where access constraint 1 represents roads subject to intermittent closure to 4-
wheel drive vehicles in wet season and/or 2-6 weeks a year, and access constraint 2
represents permanent closure to 4-wheel drive vehicles during the same period.
4/ PMU   ls  (July 1992). 'Planning AciWties Under MRD Rural Roads 2 - Background and
Medodo loy'.



- 92 -                      ANNEX 8
6.         Because of higher technical standards, the use of Kabupaten road benefits
estimates would tend to overestimate the real benefits of village access roads. An adjustment
factor of 0.7 was therefore applied to take into consideration the lower expected per trip
benefits. Ihese were then multiplied by the annual per capita trip rate (derived from
standard A3 sheet assumptions) and the population served by the project, to determine the
annual benefits of improving a particular segment of road. Similarly, the use of maintenance
assumptions applicable to Kabupaten roads would tend to overestimate the benefits of village
roads, because high levels of expenditures are assumed in the without project situation, and
a high residual value is assigned to maintenance works done under the project. These
assumptions are ukirealistic for village access roads, which are generally maintained by
villagers under low expenditure communal self-help ('gotong royong'). In the present
estimatiort, assumptions for maintenance expenditures without the project, were based on
'poor' (for access constraint 1) or 'bad' (for access constraint 2) quality gravel roads of 3
m width, assumed to represent the present condition of the roads. For routine (annual)
maintenance, 'without project' expenditures were taken to be Rp 0.5 and 0.9 million per kmI
for, respectively, bad and poor gravel roads. Periodic maintenance was assumed to cost
Rp 4.54 miHlion per km for both types of roads, and occur on years 3 and on years 1 and
6, respectively, for bad and poor gravel roads. These costs were taken from IBRD Rural
Roads 2 project management estimates for 1992 (PMU Consultants 1992). 'With project'
maintenance conditions were derived from the same source, by assuming a weighted average
of routine and periodic maintenance expenditures consistent with the proposed design.1/
A residual value of 25 percent of the initial investment and 33 percent of the last periodic
maintenance expenditure was assumed on the last benefit year. Appendix 4 presents an
example of the computations performed on a 3.6 Km road in the project area.
7.         The economic analysis was performed on 33.6 km of road, corresponding to
seven links expected to be upgraded during the second project 3 ear. The net benefits were
then extrapolated to the totality of the roads (125.6 Iam). The aggregated ERR for the
component was 20.8 percent, with a net present value of Rp 1,386 million. The switching
values for cost overruns and benefit shortfall were, respectively, 58 and 37 percent. A
common scenario with road upgrading components is lack of continuity in ni-aintenance.
This was tested by assuming that the incremental benefit of road upgrading works would
phase out 3 years after the last maintenance works supported by the project. Under this
scenario, the majority of the road works are no longer economically viable (aggregated ERR
less than 10). This stresses the impoMrnce of ensuring that maintenance activides will
contie once the project funding is phased out (4 years after the initial works), and ensuring
a sense of ownership both from local government and from the beneficiary communities.
I/ The PMU Consltants (1992) study indicates maintenance costs for 'good gravel' 3.5 wide road as
beig Rp 2.56 million a year for routine maintenance, and Rp, 8. 12 milon every third year for period
maitenance. Costs for penmac (improved) 3.5 wide roads are estimated at Rp 1.87 million a year
for routine maintenance, and Rp 24.3 million every fourth year for periodic maintenance. A weighted
average of these costs was used, considering 73.3 percent gavel, and 26.7 percent pemac. Periodic
maintenance was assumed to be required every tbird year, as for gravel roads. This yielded routine
maintenance expenditures of Rp 2.4 million, and periodic mainte  expenditures of Rp 12.4
milon.



- 93 -                         ANNEX 8
Box 1: TE POPULAnON MODEL OF BENEFIT ESnMAToN FOR
ROADS wrr ACCESS CONSTrANm
The popuation model assumes that, in addition to stad    pedi  taffic, modal
tra,-r trips, and normal and genrated traffic,l/ roads subject to accs constrits exhibit
'suppressed trffic', or trips that do not take place due their pro! -bitive costs under the exitg road
conditions. Ievalue ofa suppressed trip is thus a fnction of the probibitivecost wbor the ttrip tes
fail to a negligible level minus *!e cost of an improved road trip. Past willingesso-p  analyss 21
have shown that such prohibitive trip costs ar typically betwee 5 to 7 times those of improved roads.
Assming a linar demand curve for trip rates, the value of a suppressed trip (VST can ths be
expressed as:
STV = 1(6 x MOI) - MOT] x .5 x 0.85,
wbere MIOT reprsets the 'with prjct' vehicle operatng cost of motozed traffic per kn, and 0.5
and 0.85 are factors _presenting, respectively, the assumed linearity of the demand curve (where STV
is computed as consumer surplus), and a lag factor acconting for delays in trips gwth following
road improvement (PMU Consuats 1992).
Under the medtodology developed under the IBRD Rura Roads 2 Project, andard
samples of vehicle openting costs, passenger time value, and vehicle composition were tn from
representtve vehcle and road conditions in rural Indonesia, and used to estimate the relative per trip
benefits of nomal motorized traffic, genated trffic, modal transfer, and sppr d traffic. The
relative frequency of the different type of trffic were assumed to depend on the level of access
contait and the length of the constaned road. For aumple, for roads with access consrant levd
2 (closed to 4-whed drive vehicles for about 2-6 weeks a year) and with a consained segment of leas
ithan 5 kim, the per trip benefit for a low income nual region were assumed to be as follows (PMU
Consltants 1992):
BPT   {[(0.20) x (VMT)] + [(0.30) x (VST)l + [(0.15) x (VGT)] + [(0.35) x (VMoT)J) + [(0.10)
x (VBT)J
wbere the fiures in pareDthesis india the aumed composition of the predicted motonzed trips by
level of access c aint, and:
BPT - Tota incemel benefit per trip
VMT - ncmenta value of normal motorized trips following road improvement
VST - Value of   s       trips
VGT - Value of generated trips
VBT - Value of other (non-motorized) trips (e.g. bicycles, etc.)
Standard assumptions regarding the level of access constrint, road roughness, level of
inoome, and road user costs, yield the following BPT:
BPT = {[(0.20) x (44.1)] + ((0.30) x (78.8)] + [(0.15) x (18.7)1 + [(0.35) x (2S.8)]) + [(0.10) x
(27.0)] =
47.01 (in Rp/Km)
Rural roads are assumed to have a standard 'life' of approximtey 10 years. In order to deternine
the discounted net benefit stream of a trip on an improved road, an annual growth rate of 4.5 to 5.5
percent a year (depending on the level of accs constraint) was assumed. This growth rate takes into
candeatLon not anly popdatio  increases, but extenal development benefits that accrue as a
consequenoo of the road improvewrent (e.g. in-migration to the road area).
Contimued



- 94-                          ANNEY 8
Box 1: THE PoLAToN MODEL OF BENEFT Ef0rMAToN FOR RoAws wrmT
AcCESS CONSTRANTS (cont'd)
Applying the annual gwth rate to the benefit per trip, and discounting the benefit stram at
10 pct discount rate yields the present value of benefits of one annual trip per km of road
improved (D). Ihe aggrega  benefits for al predicted trips can then be estimdate by multiplying D
by the populaion served by the improved road, and by the avrage annual per capita motori3ed trip
rato, which is a function of income, regional differences, and the averge distance to smaret and/or
extnl centers. Finally, the present vadue of the benefits of rod improvement (PVB) can be
calcuatd as follows (PMU Consultants 1992):
PVB = (D x B x P) - M
Where:
D = Net present value of benefits of one annual trip per km;
E = Predicted motorized trips per capita with an improved road;
P = Ppulation benefitted by the improved road, and
M = Net mintenance costs per km.
Under the IBRD Rural Roads Project, PVB can be easily calculated by determining the level of access
constraint, the length of the constained segment, the populaton served by the prwect, and inputing
this infomation into stndard A3 sheets vhich are currendy of standard use by most Kabupaten Public
Wodrs offices in West Java.
11 - The benefits of normal motorized trips unde- improved roads are calculted based on the savings
to vehicle opasting costs (VOC) and passenger time costs. The benefits of generted traffic (i.e. new
taffic following road improvement), are estimated based on 'generation fias' (as a percentage of
exsig taffic) as well as standard VOC reduction estimates for motorized traffic. Modal transfer
benefits pertain t) savings in road user costs by transfers from non-motorized traffic (usually pikul,
animal dran freight, and pedestrians) to motorized traffic (estimated based on standard
passenger/freight loads). The methodology for estimation of these benefits is descrbed in detail in
PMU Consultants (July 1992) ' Plsnning Activities Under IBRD Rural Roads 2 - Bclkground and
Methodology'.
- PMU Consltant (July 1990). 'Development Roads Study'.



- 95 -                                 ANNEX 8
Appendix I
INDONESIA
WATERSHED MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
CIMANUK WATERSHED COMPONENT
Agricultual Financial and Economic Prices (at 1992 constant valnes)
FARMOATE PRICES
OutputInput          Unit              Ficial Price 11 Economir Price 21         Notes
(Rp.)                (Rp.)
Output:
Rice               Kg                     315                   303        Basedonborderprie, aumingself-sufficiency
Maize              Kg                     270                   191        Based on average of export and import parity pices
GrourdAuts         Kg                    1,500                  472        Based on border price, assuming import substitution
Soybeans           Kg                     920                   495        Based on border price, assuming import substitution
Cassava            K8                      90                    49        Based on cport parity pre
Mung Bean          Kg                     950                   950        Based on financial price
Tomato             Kg                     370                   370        Based on financial price
Cabbage            Kg                     160                   160        Basedonfinancialprice
Potatos            Kg                     280                   280        Based on financial price
Avocado             Kg                    260                   260        Based on financial price
Petal              Kg                    1,000                1,000        Based on financial price
Banana             Kg                     160                   160        Based on financial price
Mang               Kg                     780                   780        Based on financial price
Melnjo               8fruit              1,000                1,0o         Based on financial price
Pepper             Kg                     800                   800        Based on financial pie
vanill             Kg                    8,000                8,000        Based on financial price
Fuelwood           m3                    6,000                6,000        Based on financial price
Fodder             Kg                      15                    15        Based on financial prioe
Sheepmanure        ton                  17,000               17,000        Based on financial prie
Lambs for breeding   head              110,000              110,000        Based on financial price
Planting Material:
Dryland Rie        Kgseeds                750                  424         Based on economi price of outputs + 40%
Maize              Kg sees               1,000                  267        Based on economic price of outputl + 40%6
(roundauts         Kg  eeds              2,000                  661        Based on economic price of outputi + 40%
Soybeans           Kg seeds              1,200                  693        Based on economic price of outputs + 40%
CassaMa            cuttings                20                   20         Based on financial price
MungBean           Kg seeds              1,200                1,200        Baed on financial price
Tomato             Kg seeds            180,000              180,000        Based on financl price
Cabbage            Seedlings               1O                    10        Based on financial prce
Potatos            Kg planting material   1,500               1,500        Based on financial price
Avocado             Seedlings            1,100                1,l00        Based on financial price
Petai              Seedlings             2,500                2,500        Based on financi price
Banana             Suckes                 375                   375        Based on financial price
Mangga             Seedlings             2,700                2,700        Based on financial price
Melinjo             Seedlings             850                   850        Based on financial prioe
pepper             Seedlings              540                   540        Based on financial price
Vanilla            Seedlings              500                   S00        Based on financial price
lgumincusbTmes   Kg Seeds                3,500                3,500        Based on financial price
Grass              Slip                    10                    10        Based on financialprice
Sheepbreeders      Head                125,000              125,000        Based on financil price
Fertilizer:
Urea               Kg                     250                   353        Based on export parity price
1SP                Kg                     310                   513        Based on border price, assuming import substitution
KCL                Ktg                    350                   472        Based on border prie, assuming import subtitution
ZA                 Kg                     240                   323        Based on border price, asumig import substitution
Chiken manure      ton                   0,O000              50,000        Based on financial price



-96-                                   ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
IDONESIA
WATERSHED MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECI
CEMfANU WATERSHED COMPONENT
Agricultur-al Financial and Economic Prices (at 1992 constant values)
FARMGATE PRICES
Output/Input         Unit              Financi  Price I/ EBonomic Prce 21        Notes
(Rp.)                (Rp.)
Pestides:
nseciide           1                    20,000               20,0          Baed on finanl  ce
Fungcide            Kg                  10,9C0               10,900        Based on financial price
Laor.
Unilled Farm Labor petson-day            2,100 3/             1,890        Based on opportunltycost of labor 4/
Unskilled Farm Labor person-day
(veogaeas)                              1,7503/              1,575        Bad on opportunity cost of labor 4
Other  h:u
Ivestock stall      unit                75,000               75,000        Based on financial price
vestock medicine   unit              1,000,000             1,000000        Based on financial price
Trecropstakes      loo                     15                    15        Base on finanlprice
1/- Financial fum-gate pnres as quoted on Nov. 1992, and assumed constant.
21 - Eonomic fm-gmate prxes,when based on border prie deriation, are averaes ftr 1994-2023 peiod rflectingexpected
changes in real prices.
3/ - Bmased on differentialwages forwomen and man labor and a 3:2 labor rati.
4/ - Etimated at 90 percent of market wags
c:\awkes&wkI



Indonesia
National Watershed Management and Conservation Project
Cimanuk Component - Calculaflon of Econcmic Prices for Inputs and Outputs
(USS and RpK900 per ton)
IMPORT PARITY                                          EXPORT PARITY
Operation  Crrency  1994  199f   2000  2005              Operation Currency 194   1995  2000  2005
Rice
White, miled, 5% broken, POB Bangkok tl                   =        USS    270    276    261    253
Quality adjutmet (20.90)                                  _        US$    243    248    235    228
PFr t and iurae 2/                                        +        USS   36.7   36.7   36.7   36.7
aP Cirebon port 31                                        =        USS    280    285    272    264
Domestic value 41                                         =    Rp.'00    573    585    557    542
Port handling, storage and lsses 5                        +    Rp.'000   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0
Tnnsport Cirebon prt to local DOLOG storage SI            +    Rp.'000   12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5
Garut/Sumedang DOLOO overhead costa 6/                    +    Rp.'000    3.1    3.1    3.0    2.9
Ex-DOLOG SumedanglOarut                                         Rp.'000    614    625    597    582
Trnsport DOLOO to Garutmedang wholsaler 51                +    Rp.000    3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1
White. 5% broken FOCiberon port 7                                                                                   8     US%    270    276    261    253
Domesttiealue 41                                                                                                       Rp.'00  553.5   566    S35    519
Qut Aduent (x 1019)                                                                                                 =  P.p.o      615    629    595    576
Port bhndlng,storage and losses5/                                                                                   -  Rp.'000   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0
Exportes main  8/                                                                                                   -  Rp'000   15.0   15.3   14.4   14.0
Ttrspot GatutlSumeda" to Cibeon puort SI                                                                            -  Rp.'000   12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5
Wbolesah at Oat/meda"                                     =    Rp.i000   617    628    600    586                      Rp.000    563    576    543    525
Local wholesalerb margin 91                               -    Rp.000   43.1   43.8   41.9   40.9                   -  Rp.000   13.7   14.0   13.2   12.8
Transport rie mill to wholsaler 5/                        -    Rp.000    6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3                   -  Rp.'000    6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3
Ex-mil Project At                                         =    Rp'000    568    578    552    53S                   -  Rp.'0M     543    556    523    506
At-mill Project Area 10/                                        Rp.1000    369    376    359    350                 =  Rp.000    353    361    340    329
Mig and ekaning eostsS                                    -    Rp.000   16.9   16.9   16.9   16.9                   -  RpO000   16.9   16.9   16.9   16.9
XUDsOocal coltetors margin S/II/                          -    Rp.000   17.6   17.9   17.1   16.6                   -  Rp.000   16.7   17.2   16.1   15.5
Redrying and sbrinkage at KlUD level 5/121                -    Rp.2000    2.8    2.8    2.7    2.6                  -  Rp.'000    2.6    2.7    2.5    2.4
Transport fAt to KUDflocAcollectors I                     -    Rp.'000    6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3                  -  Rp.000    6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3
Economic Farmsate Prie (unmilled rice)                    =    Rp.d000    326    332    316    308                     Rp.OOO    310    318    298    288
Average Import and Export Parity Prices 131               =   Rp.000    318   32S    307   298
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m . 
11 - World Bank Revision of Primary Commodity Price Forecasts and Quarterly Review of Commodity Market, Dec. 1992. Feb. 10. 1993 (prices adjusted to constant 1992 values by 0 -5 MUV Index).
2/ - 1989 consultant's estimates adjmted to 1992 values by a foreign Inflation factor of 1.13.
31 - Rie is imported by BULOG and distributed to DOLOGs.
4/ - Echanbge rte USS 1.00 - Rp. 2.050
51- 1989 consultarnts estimates adjusted to 992 values by a domestic inftlation factor of 1.25.                                                                                      k4
6 - 0.5% of domestic value + port bandling + transport to DOLOO.
7/ - Assumes that export value FOB Cirebon is the same as export value FOB Bangkok.
8/- 2.6% of wholesae price + tansport to Cirebon pot.
91- 7.5% and 2.5%, respectively, of ex-nill prie + transport to wholesaer for import and export parity cstimations.
I01 - Assm  65% conversion Osbab Keuing GiVlg - 0KG (tredy for milling dried paddy) to miUled rice.
ItU - 5.4% of armgate pice.
121 - 0.85% of btamate price.
t1Y - Axsuming rie self-sutfficiecy.                                                                                          c6epriceiwkl



Indonesia
National Watershed Manageiient and Conservation Project
Cimanuk Component - Calcula on of Economic Prices for Inputs and Outputs
(USS and Rp.'000 per ton)
IMPORT PARITY                                          EXPORT PARITY
Cumency  +1-1=   1994  199S  2000  2005               Cuffeny  +l-1  1994  1"S   2000  200S
Maize
Maize (US) No 2, Yellow, FOB Gulf Ports a/                  US$        -     98    101   t0o       88
Qualityadjustment (Z.OS)                                    US$        =      83     86     92     75
Freight and insurance 2/                                    USS        +   33.9   33.9   33.9   33.9
aPiakartaport                                               USS        =    117    120    126    109
Domestievalue 3t                                         Rp.'000       -    240    245    25S8   223
Port handling, storage and losse 4/                      Rp.!000       +   21.9   2t.9   21.9   21.9
Inporters Margin 51                                      Rp.000        +   19.7   20.1   21.0   18.4
Transport port to akarta wholestr 4/                     Rp.'000       +    6.3    6.3    63    6.3
Wholesle in Jakrta 6/                                    Rp.'000            288    294    307    269
Jakarta whoesaler margin 7/                              Rp!000        -   20.1   20.5   21.4   18S
Ttansport Sumedang/Oasrt wholesaler to Jakarta wholesaler 4/  Rp.'000  -   22.5   22.5   22.5   22.5
Maize Yellow POB Cirebon pet 8/                                                                                    US$               98    101    10S    S8
Domestio value 3t                                                                                               Rp.'000        =  200.9   207    221    IS0
Quality Adjustment (xt0/8.)                                                                                     kp.'000             236    244    260    212
Prime premium for Adsin markets 4/                                                                               Rp.'000       +   37.5   37.5   37.5   37.5                              1C
Port handling, sotnge and loes 4/                                                                               Rp.`000        -   21.9   21.9   21.9   21.9                              00
Exporter's margin 9/                                                                                             Rp.'ooo       -   11.3   11.6  12.4   10.2 
Transport Garut/Sumedang to Ciberon port 4/                                                                      Rp.z000       -   12.5   12.5   i2.5   12.5
Wholesale at Gari/9Sumedang                              Rp.'OuO       =    245    251    263    228            Rp.`000             228    235    251    205
tocal wholesaler's margin 101                            Rp.'000       -   17.1   17.5   18.3   15.9             Rp.000        -   10.9  li.2   12.0    9.8
Transport local collectors to wbolesaler 4/              Rp.'0tO       _    6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3             Rpl000        -    6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3
LocalcollectortapImts' margIllI                         Rp.'000        -     11     I1     11     10            Rp.'000       -      10     10     11      9
Transport farm to local collectors/agents 4/             Rp.'000       _    6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3             Rp.O00        -    6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3
EconomicFarmgatePrice(dried gains)                       Rp.'000       -    205    210    221    190             Rp.000              195    201    216   tI4
Average Import and Export Parity Prices                 Rp.'000        =   200   205   218   182
V - World Bank Revision of Primary Commodity Price Forecasts and Quarterly Review of Commodity Markets. Dcc. 1992. Feb. 10, 1993 (prices adjusted to constant 1992 values by C-S MUV Index).
2/ - 1989 consultant's estimates adjusted to 1992 values by a loreign inflation factor of 1.13.                                                                                      I
3/ - Exchange rate US 1.00 = Rp. 2,0S0
4/ - Consultant's estimates adjusted to 1992 values by a domestic inflation factor of 1.25.
5/ -7.5% of domestic value + port handling.
6/ - Assumes that end market for maize is in Jakarta (fced milbs, etc.).
7 - 7.5% of wholesale vahle in Goaut/Sumedang + transport to Jakarta wholesaler.
8U- Assumes export value FOB Ciberon is the same as export value FOB Gulf port.
9/ - 4.7% of wholesale vahl in Gamtt/Sumedang + tranport to Ciberon port.
I0/ - 7.5% and 5%, respectively of btrmgate price + transport to local coletors + local coletors margin + transport to wholesaless, for import and export parity value.
It/ - S% of farmgate vlue + transport to local coflectorstagents.
c: eprid2



Indonesia
National Watershed Management and Conservation Project
Cimanuk Component - Calculation of Economic Prices for Inputs and Outputs
(US ma" Rp.*0 per son)                                                                            PMUSSwe RP.WM psua
IMPORT WARIl                                                                                      INWOr?A%IT
Comacy0posatioa    1994   1995   200   2005                                                      C     qemy Opesato    1994    199#   200    200
Soybean                                                                                                   Groundnut
Sgobes (US). C  PRotterdam                              US$               249    249    233    249    Groundo all bulb. CIP Rotsrdam /                     USS               621    657      S90    449
Taempe-tlruprieedlffental2                              USS               237    237    221    237       Domsticvainue3S                               RPOOO               1.273   1.347   1.210    920
Domestie value 3d                                     RP            *     483    48S      4S4    485    Pont bandling  ora  and bos  41                 Rp.9ow         I    750    753    75.0   73.
lorthaedgsasbrs adp losban 4/                         RP-OW0        +    25.0   23.0   23.0   23.0    lmportees marin il                                RP.20         +   134S   142.2   125    99.S
TtnmsportJakarta port toJaskta DOLOG ssorage/         Rp.O0         +      6.3    6.3      63      6.3    Ttansport port to Jakarta wlolemler 4/        Rp.'0          +      6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3
Stomp andloss"t akuat DOLOG4/                         RP.OO         +      9.4    9.4    9A        9.4    Wholesale InJakrra 12/                        Rp."o0         -   1.489   1.570   1,419   1.101
Sakaa DOLOGOPvwrbedcoa41 R4fp0                                      +    27.0    2.0   25.0    25.0        aksana w.olesiermatr&u 131                   Vp.-l o              36.3    38.3    34.6   26.9
ft-DoLOralarta                                       Rp.000        -   350.6  330.6  S19.4   530.6    Tansportlocalwbolmberabrto akat boller4          Rp21000        -    22.    22.5    22S    22.5
Tnportlakuta DOLOG to ROPTYLJkaftwholaler 4/    RP-)00               t     6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3    Wholetab at SmedagtGtarut                        Rp.000         -   1.430   I.09   1.362   102
KOMiakarna vtoluer martn 6/                          RkpOO          +    27.8    27.8    26.3   27.       SumedaglOGamtt wholeaes mar 14/               Rp700          -    34.9   36.8   33.2   25.7
Rx-XOY/wbotleale In lakart7W                          Rp.`000            584.6    4.6   551.9   384.6    Transport milto Sumedang/zut wholmlemler4,      Rp-0          _      6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3
Transport SumedaGaut wholsatr to Jaarta wholear 4/  Rp000           -    22.5   22.5   22.S    22.3    Be-mill rtFj Area                                Rp7000         -   1.389  1t466   1.323   1.020
Wholeab at Sumedanggarut                             RP.OO          *     562    562      529    562    SMiled Grouadauts, os-mil project area 1        Vp0            -     639    675    608    469
Smedaug/Gsmtwhatemslrmargln8/                        Rp.O                 26.8    26.8   23.2    26.8    Net millingand re3nerycosts 161                Rp000          -       0       0       0       O
Transport lotlecaoa/antsto bealwhoia4Fr 4/            RP000         _      6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3    Trawport SumedasGants wholeaertomls4/            Rp..000        _      6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3
Loca1collectore/wpats'marda9/                        RPtlOO         -      23      23      21      23    SuedangeGanttwhbosaiermar  I7/                 Rp.O           -    21.4    22a    20.4   15.7
Trasptr brm to healco)lectopnat 4V                    RP.OO         _      6.3    6.3      6.5    6.S    Trnport local colectoagests to local wholoeer4  Rp0M          -      3       Si     Ss      i8
laicoIecore/agntat  marsh 18                 RP.00         -    15.4   16.3   14.7    112
Transport farm to lcal collctors/eat V4       Rp0           -      6.5    6.5    6.3    6.3
1mmeU_e parma as a *Al  (tam quafty) so/             Rp.'0                5o0    soo    470    500    Haoetc fta tste  pric (ded stne Bots) 191  Rap.oo                -     St6    820    557    426
V - WoldBank Revsion of Priry Commodity rIte Forecas and Quartrly Revew of Cmmodity Markets, Dec. 1992. Feb. 10 1993 isue (prim adjusted to constant 1992 values by G-S MUYV tbdet}
V/ - lmprtedseahot lempeu . whIchIiebesrerthsanlocal ehefanoftahu' quaty. um e*93*adjustemenftomtauqualiytorempoquaUty.
3 - hEaxen,rate US 1.00  Rp. 2.0S0
4V - 1989eomulaat's esdmats adjuateds o992 values bya domesad lafatbo faetorof 1.25.                       11/ - 10* of domestir wvale4 part handlin. etrage add los,s
5s- Soybean Is Impoted by ULOG and dlsrbuted to XOPTi (Iapersi Peugrajn Tempe dan Tahu Indonesia)         12/ - Assumes end market for goundntut oU i In alartna.
ortolocalwaoleslars.                                                                                    13/ - 2.S*o oftwholeoe price In Sumd*n&siut 4. tsnusport cost to Jtatrta wboesaler.
61- 5*otex-DOLOO Jaarta value 4 traspor costs.  Inludes alo epente suc aXs wte r*Is.                      141 - 2.53 o tex-mlUlprojet ama pic 4+ tr anpo frtam mil to loeal wholesaler.
KOTn membemlbp 6nd and savinge, fees etc.                                                             11/ - Assumes 46* conversion ftom skeld gonudnets to goundust oil.
71 - Assumesend market of soybean Iinlasart                                                               161 - Willing astd reifieey osts aue ausuered to t utout with tke vlusOof pouendnut meal foim   feed
S - 5*otfe.rmtaprtee . +ocal tcllectors' marT& + .traspot towhotesawl.                                       t for export.
91- 45 of S tmrate prim + local citestor' marSts.                                                         17V- 3.3* of rm5ate prIe + transport to local cletors/agcnts + locafotllectorsrarge + tratsportons to
106 - Soyeanconasidered as an importnubstltute.                                                             SumedsnGtoarutwhoealer.
18/ -2.6* otf fanre prIke 4 trnport to local oollectorstagnts.
191 - Grouandut economie value calcuated as an Import substitute.
tecprre.wki



-100 -                                  ANNEX 8
Appendix 2
Indonesia
NVational Watershed Management and Conservation Project
Cimanuk Component - Calculation of Economic Prices for Inputs and Outputs
(USS ad Rp.0O per ton)
EXPORT PARITY
Currency  Operation   1994  195  2000  2005
Cassava
Cauava Sbth (Tac)
Tpioca, FOB Ciebon portl /                         US$                 188    186    186    186
Domicvalue2/                                   Rp.'O00          =    381    377    377    377
Port handling. storage and losses 3/           Rp.M000           -   21.9   21.9   21.9   21.9
Exporter's margin 4V                            Rp.T000          -   19.0   18.8   18.8   18.8
Transport mill (project area) to Cirebon port 3/  Rp.WC          -   125   12.5   12.5   12.5
SumedantGarut broker's margin 5/                Rp.W0            -   16.2   16.0   16.0   16.0
Ex-mll ProjectArea                             Rp.000-    311    307    307    307
Cassaws Thbom (Sin$ong)
At-mill ProjectArea 6/                          Rp.'(XJO                62     61     61     61
Net millingeosts 7/                             Rp.'000          -       0      0      0      0
T1asport local collectoralagents to mill 3/     Rp3aaO           -    6.3    6.3    6.3    63
Loa collectomsagent's margin 8/                Rp.'OOC           -    6.0    5.9    5.9    5.9
Economicl frmgate price 9/                     Rp.O00                  50     49      49     49
I/- Kompas (May 4, July 15, 1988), and consultant estimates. Based on Tapiom- FOB Bangkok prioe, onverted to 1992 constant prices.
Assumes that export value FOB CSberon is the same as export value FOB Bangkok.
21 - Exchange rate US$ 1.00 = Rp. 2,050.
31 - 1989 consultant's estimate adjusted to 1992 values by a domestic inflation factor of 1.25.
4/ - s.6g of ex-mill price + broker's margin + transport to Cirebon porL
5/ - 5.2% of ex-mill price.
6/ - Assumes 80% losses in conveMion from tapioca to fresh cassava.
7/ - Assumed to net out taking into account the value of the wastes to be reprocessed into animal feed and citric acid.
8/ - 12% of frmgate price.
9/ - Indonesia is a net exporter of cassava.
c\eprice8.wkl



Indonesia
National Watershed Management and Conservation Project
Cimanuk Component - Calrulation of Economic Prices for Inputs and Outputs
US dRLO0O p-rt-r)                                                                                   (WI 01an  p.100pertac)
IMOrPARm                                                                                                 IMoRrIARM
Cu    g Oq.    1994   1995   200    2005                                                                Cumm    OPqM          1994   1S   20mm0   '.
KCL                                                                                                 ZA (Am:nonium Sulphate)
KCLMP (48-60% 120),DBuktkFOB Vn w                  US                115    115    114    1U        Z r         pie    Bulk.Far Ea III                      W                  60      60     60      60
PF        and   re                                  US         +    339    339    33.9   33.9    be* aa dnum                                                WI          +    339    33.9   339    33.9
Cwlhbtfpoet                                         WI         =     149    149    148    146    CPJabaapost                                                WI          =      94      94     94      94
Domeatvuoe3/                                     Rp.O          =     30 30           303    299    Domestievalue3l                                       Rp.t=                192    192    192    192
Posbandh.stompand loan 4/                        Rp.000        +    219    21.9   21.9   21.9    Poshandi. slorand losses 4/                             Rp.00          +    21.9   219    219    2L9
npoaes ma    sl/                                 Rp100         +    32.7   32.7   32.5   32.1    Inpostees man SI                                        Rp.1000        +    21.4   21.4   21.4   21.4
TrupostpactoJkreasda.sI r4/                      Rp100         +      6.3     63     63      63    Tsspoutportolakbgasaisol!ler4I                        Rpl00          +     6.3    63       63      63
Strgeadlos4t                                     Rp.J00        +      5.6    5.6    5.6    5.6    Stoaeandloess4/                                        Rp.100         +      5.6    5A      5.6    5.6
labut.uoalersn&n6l                               Rp.'0          +    27.9   27.9   27.7   27A    lak   hnolesaler marn  61                                Rp.00         +    18.6    1.6   18.6   166
Wb Dlesabl akasa                                 Rp.000        =     400    400    397    392    Wholeb Di labna                                         Rp.10D         =     266    266    266    266
Ts"nt habdatoeudmagaruedsibsaor7l                Rp.E00              2:      24.8    24.6   243    Transport laka toSumedaJgaxu* diaxibwor7/              Rp.70D        +    16.5   165    165    165
St ada gspantwol-es=a* sn      l                 Rp,10O        +    21.2   21.2   21.1   2D.8    &uned.ngarantvosleesawar& sl                            Rp.100         +    14.1   14.1   14.1   14.1
Whalesatopebet tSuedangjOat                      Rp.OOO               446    446    443    437    Whole    pre at S         s                             Rp.           =     297    297    297    297
TIa  stodW4i                                     RpOOO          +     63      63      63     6.3    Toespoettn nGanttola i4/                             RpWM1o         +      63     63      63      63  
Laalregalh?s macjug!                             RlpJOOO0       +    203    203    202    2D.0    localrtaesa 9/                                          Rp.tQO        +    13       16    136    13.6       °
ReP      potarea                                 Rp.1OO        -   472.2  472.2  4693   463.7    Retal peceatpoct area                                   Rp.-OO         =   316.8  316A   3163   316.8
Tianapostt,uale:aDtrto6uan4/                     Rp.110         +     6.3    63       6.3    63      Tnepontliertofum41                                   Rp.100        +      63     63      63      63
elrnomic ~nagaepe. 14t                          Rl47lt8 -            J71    478    476    470        Beaati hste    pine 12/                             1pO)                 323    3       323    323
1VWorld aik 3evic o(Cfmodky Prbe Poeast and Qey Reviewof(Commodtylarkets. Dec.1992. Feb. 10. 1993 issue (prhes adjustdto cnsant 1992 values by G-5 MUV Min ide).
2/- 1989 scsu     eses      adjustedtol992Athusbya oreigbuai      ofl.13.
31- EBhnge nte US l    - Rp. 2.050
41- 199csuhan'tesimaeadjsteto 1992valebydomseaic b         fs     orofl 2$
5/- 10% of domesc  ae  + pot ba      oragumnd to
61- 73   of domsi value + Fonhaodtang+ imostersinaga + trspoudtouloeater+  toage and lbss
71- 62% etwkpricem3ahmta.
8/- S%of  nate preinJahkaut + trasuspontlakteato etg ldtibutor.
91- 4.5% ofwnoso    price in            and tanspostto nairtaier.
101- lntoseslasa ad i m poeterofiCL
II/- etiliier Week (UK). Pri aboveis averageofquoata foraed-Mach. 1993. deated to 1992constat price Allehargesto frm-gpte zumndto tecospaabcto those of KCL trd TSP.
12t- AJloftie. Zproducedi ldatnesiis for do(ic utitin(PAS A       AgmultumalSuatioa Report 1992). ace acts as an iwpt substitute.
epse7.kl t 



Indonesia
National Watershed Management and Conservation Project
Cimanuk Component - Calculation of Economic Prices for Inputs and Outputs
(IM dRp0OBpw t() (d  s-d Rpk.!O0put-)
InOPrPAIT                                                                                         5OMRT?ARrr
C 1-3 Operaim        I9    1995   20        200                                                   C     qrmy OPOSSU     1q94   1995 2          200
Urea                                                                                                          TSP
U:ma(46%6 n)wbagp'd.wryo    FOBswpe it                     10                13      147    163    1S4        TS?(46% P20S       .BOdfpBw-Fll                 Us                M       12     133   1M3
Pftmiut baAsiimarW2f                                       US$         +    10.4    11.0   1Z       11.5     PFrei  a ninsurance 10                           WI         +    339    33.9   33.9   339
CIP   b     (Jla) poat                                     USS         =     149    IS    175    166         ClF3abrta port                                  USS               156    162    167    165
r_twed 3l                                               Rpl0O0         =     306    324    359    339         Domestie3f                                   Itp.tX)0       =     320    332    342    338
Pos handling. gosp and Ises; 4                          Rp.,oo         -    21.9   21.9   21.9   21.9         Pot bhaling.storaeand lms V4                 Rp.000         +    21.9   21.9   21.9   2L9
Tkoapwt ktcqtoiakartapost4                              Rp!060         -      7.5    73      73      7.5      Jnre?s mar IA/                               Rp.W0          +    34.1   35.    36.4   36.0
Eapost.?smnaruj S                                       lp.lUO         -    26.5    282    31.6   29.7        Trsoaoporttolakastaivoesaler4l               Rp.tJOO        +     63      63      63     6.3
Ba-      prices (Cikanip.., Wet Java)61                 Rp.0C0         =   250.4   2663   29S2   2803         Storage and lowss41 43p.90                                  +     56      S6      5.     5.6
Tuanspot ftosy(C(kampek) so Srmda3 dsdtiribulor 4  Rp.20  +    15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0       Jakat   oaler rmarn 12/                      Rp.-WD         +    29.1   30.1   30.9   30.6
Scmageandlo.41                                          Rp.900         +     5.6    5.6    5.6    5.6         Wholesalbasin    a                           Rp.UJo         =     417    431    443    438
SweedmgwuholsasbramarWn7l                               Rp.m0          +    203    213    23.9   22.6         Transpt Jakara to SumedAG dtdbitbor131  Rp.000              +    17.9   185    19.1   18.8
Wholesabat SurnedangfGsrct                              Rp.!OO               291    3a$    343    323         SumedangfUlast uoesateks margin 141          Rp!.'00        +    21.7   22.5    231      29
Trurapost Sumedangmtsrinntosnrtibr4/                    Rp.o           +     63      63      63      63       Wholesb price at SumedRag a                  lp.0           =     456    472    485    480
Loss! msikra marvin SI                                 3Rp!W           +    14.9    5.?   17.5   16.5         Transport Swnedang/Osrutto lal rtailer V     Rp290          +     63      63      63     63
Prlo  at projectc                                       Rp2lOO         =     312    310    366    346         Local rtasiler marpln5/                      lp!0O        +    20.    215    22.1   2L9
23urspos loca*l re.allcr tor 4                          Rp.UOO         +     63      63      6.3    63        Rotaprisccatproect ar                        Rp.900        =   483.2  499.9  513    502
111-13smc 1511111511114, pm. W                          RPMW 3O9O337O373    352                               Trsarrportlocalrsta Lertofa sn4/             Rpp.OO         +     63      63      63     63
Eoomir farmgt prew 16f                      Rp.'O0               489    5S6    520    514
1 - Wold Bank Ri    of PrimayCommodiy Prie Forast and Qusrery Re  o Commodly Marters, Dee. 1992. Feb. 10, 1993 issue (prie  adsted to ctant 1992 values by 0-5 MUV mdci).
21- 75% oOrBBpre.
3t- Ewhe rate USS 1.00= Rp. 2,5                                                                               10/- 19S9carubant's esieas adjustedto 1902 vahs byaforci ifip atim fctorof 1.13.
41- 199c9onsuknts estimates adjuaedto 1992 valus bys domestc iflan factorof L25.                              IIt - 10% of domestic vabio + port handling. stage and lsk
5 - 106% of donestic vabre + port andrmsg+ transport atoyto porL                                              12t- 7.3% ofdonestic value + port handling+ imported mang + tUnspos toolesaoer + storageandloma.
6/ - A       amure markted in Wet Jva i manuaured by PIT Plukd Ku*    Ciampek We Java.                        I3t- 4.3% of vobsble pre in ulabta.
71- 75% of as-fa4toyprs pi   + tanspot cmsuto local distnitor +  agp and losset,                              141 - 5% of woea price in JaIta + tranaport Jabrta to local distribuor.
81- 5% of vhoprke + trasport to lokl atiter.                                                                  151- 4.5% of wholcale prie in GarurSumedagldgand tasport to lcal realer.
9 - h   aeisseat eof urea.                                                                                    161 -  donesia sanet importerof TSP.
c:crh5wkl
bI



-103 -                                  ANNEX 8
Appendix 3
INDONESIA: NATIONAL WATERSIED MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION PROJECF
'IMANVJK WATERSHED COMPONENT
Sensitivity Analysis of the Farm Models
Zone I                 Zone 2                Zone 3
FRR 1/  NPV            FRR 1/    NIPV        FRR It    NPV
(Millon Rp.)           (Million Rp.)         (Milion Rp.)
Base Cuae 2/                                                       33.0    2.2            28.3       2.7         18.5      0.8
10 % Decrease in Prices of New Outputs                             24.6    1.3            16.4      0.8          2.3    -0.5
20 % Decrease in Prices of New Outputs                             26.4    1.8            22.6       1.8         119       0.2
10 % Increase in Costs of New Inputs                               nL    n.a.             26.9      2.6         17.1      0.7
20 % Increase in Costs of New Inputs                               29.8    2.1             25.7      2.5         15.8      0.6
One Year Delay in Benefit Accrual                                  2t.5    1.6            18.8       1.8        10.3      0.04
10 96 Shortfll in Yields of New Crops/Activities                   21.0    1.0            21.7       1.7        10.5     0.04
20V Sortfall in Yields of New Crops/Activities                     21.0    1.0             14.5      0.6        -3.5     -0.9
No Incremental Benedits Besides Producdon of New Crops/Activities 3/    26.6    1.7       24.4       2.0        NA       NA
Larger Derease in the Area Under Annual Crops 4/                  28.1    1.1             12.0      0.2         111      0.0S
I/ - Fnancial rate of return to the farmer. Farm models take into consideration in-kind grant provided by the project.
2/ - Base case for farmers in the model micro-watersheds.
3/ - For Zone 1, this scenatio assumes no savings in fertilizer as a result of the prqoject. For zone 3, it assumes no incremental yields in annual crops.
4V - Ibis scenario assumes a decrease in area allocated to annuals of 20% for Zone 1 (69% in base case), 40% for Zone 2 (25% in base case),
and 60 % for Zone 3 (30% in base case).
Zone 1 - Vegetable Area Model.
Zone 2 - Unterraced or poorly terraced, high sloped areas.
Zone 3 - Tetraced uplnds.
N/A - Not applicable.
n.a. - Not available.
c:\sensit2.wkl



Indonesia - National Watershed Management and Conservation Pr6ject
Economic Analysis of Road Sindang Ratu-Tajuk Wetan (3.6 km) Garut
Maintenance C.st
Investment    Without Project 21              With Pcojet 31       Iocrentsetl        Residult          Benerft           Total    Net Benefit    Total Net
Length           Cosa      Routine  Periodic            Rootine   Periodic   Mainteance           Value of         per Trip         Deserit          per           Be
(kmn)         per km                                                                Costs    lweatnent           per Km           per  e               7J       t      /
It                                                                                  41      (in Rp.) 5/              8w
194      0               0            0         0                 0          0                0               0               0             0.00               0             0
1995    3.6           26.086           0          0                0          0                0               0               0             0.00         (26.086)       (93.908)
196    3.6                0          500         0              2.400         0            1.900               0             27.3           93S2            7.482        26.936
1"7     3.6               0          500         0              2.400         0            1.900               0             28.6           9,805           7.9DS        28,458
1998    16                0          se0      3.700             2.400     t2,400          10.600               0             29.9          10.247            (353)        (O71)
1999    3.6               0          500         0              2.400         0            1.900               0             31.2          10.708           8,80S        31.709
2000    3.6               0          500          0             2.400         0            1,900               0             32.6          11.189           9,2S9         33.439
2001    3.6               0          500          0             2.400     12.400          14300                0             34.1          11.693          (2.607)        (9385)
2002    3.6               0          SOO          0             2.400         0            1.900               0             35.6          12.219          10.319         37.148
2003    3.6               0          500          0             Z400          0            1.900               0             37.2          12.769          10.I69         39.129
2004    3.6               0          s0o          0             2A00      12,400          14.300               0             38.9          13.343            (957)       (3.445) 
2005    3.6               0          SO          0             2.400         0            1,900           10,613            40.6          24.557          22.657         8l.565
NPV                    47.576
IRR                     0.2U
Speciflctlou    Lenigth of road upgraded  3.6 Am
Population served by the upsaded road (estimated): 5.816
No. of tip per capibt per yean 59. baed on a distance to exteral aevity centen of 3-20 km.
Level of cess coastraint: I (Intermitent closure to four wheel drive vehicls in wet seson or 2-6 weeb a year).
Initial ivemets are assumed to occur on year 2.
V - Cost of reads are a deterined for the project and sume 73.3% telford (at Rp, 20.7 million per km) and 26.7% of asphalt (at Rp. 50.6 per km).
A conversion factor of 0.91 was used to transform financal costs into economic costs.
21- Without poject maintenance expenditures are derived from natioawide estimates for bad quality 3 m wide gravel road. EsthiattioD follows PMU Consultants (1992)
3 - With project maintenance expenditures are based on PMU Consultants (192) estimnates of standard maintenance expenditures for good gravel and improved pnetration macadam roads of 35 m width.
A weighted average of the two types of road maintenance expenditures (0.73 xgood gravel + 0.27x good penmac) was takea to reflec the proposed construcion stdards.
4/ - Assumed to be 25 peraent of initial capital costs plus 33 percent of last periodic inaintenaace expenditures.
S/ - Incremental benefit per trip per Km is predetermined for the regio, baed on the level of accs constrains. and the length of the constraned segment (3 kin).                               P
Benefits are adjusted by a factor of 0.7 to allow for lower benefits of son -asphalted stretches.
Benefitsa re asumed to grow at a rate of 4.5 percent a year. reflectiag growth in traffic movement due to incieaed development activities. The methodology follows PMU Consultants (1992).
6/ - Per trip benefit x yearly per eapita trips x population served by the project + residual valte of initial investmnent and last periodic maintenane. Orowth rte in trips taken reflected in the per trip benefit growt rate.
SowtuSusndArdM3 sheds .edbyKabpaes Publi WorwksDiv forKabuo atenroadacoit-beae0t anab   Methodoogydeidfrom PMU Couat (July1992) ?aingArvi UderlBRD RuralRoads2 - Bdkgrondand Mdet            .
W30*wkt



Ibtilh lwateabd CamcvUon   ="d   *"a_t Projc - uw*  timu recod  rawmt
"Vetbl         604lde 1 O.6                                                                                                                            4 a     oe
i6thact   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0ocber-op-¢e
ro to 2           1                      4         5 67t*a °t   6l o1   t7tC
r *  nI.260 1711.25 1606.1 V    ,17S.6".4m15  .675 K ,6.67.o.1l6.5o76 1.60I         i06'ls76 V0 6071 607C 56,17S                  7644  11125      0 7     161S              6
rotazo                         s ~~~~~~~~~~19 0.000 21060 000 1 U1k .40 1 U42.100 11 U2.400 21 U2 z00 1 912 *0D  1U02.400 1.0U2 *00 1 U22 400 1 U42.400 1 U42.400 I U22 400 1 U2.400 I S50 OtO 1,960 000 1,U22400  -6
Saw                                               -        -         -         .         -         -        -    7  o    20,800   $3 $00   44,000   46,000  446,V00 16.000 .-                        - 1600              -
r0,000-  -   -   -  -   6000   2       20.0000  0020,000   2000                         20000
Sadder                                           -         -      000 69000   6900     0 0      ,000   69 000 69           69 000   69. 0 069""ION 07       0    69 001 69 000             -         - 6S070-
STo.                                      2.1 61,s2                       2s.1ao    26 ao    25,500 #.605,601    25.60   1.0.7  1.40.    1.     1o 4,500   2,5 SOo 21,600   25604 0   25500  -1-   2 .600
Live S2,00,00S 1,17,                                                      11.02         0 1.1.0   2. 601,917,6S 00  ,5275 000  27.9 000 16,2 117.                  S       20 175 -6 2101 t511.   2 0  5 711500-
£300.45                    -         -                  .         -                        1.500    20.600    33,400~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ 447.60  4.00  660 4.               -,Fr-        4.6
9.1.1                        -         .         -         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S  .  -    60.06    160.000   300.00   420.075 62.00 47 6204.7000     420.00        -         -  42.400 
to                                              0-         -   30,000    69  000       09.000    69.000    69.000     69,000    69.000     69,000    69 000    690000    69.000    69.000  -        _   65.000           -
6640p masOn                                      -         -    16,150  _6.0    25.10  56,100  N.0    200    2 0                     2        2.1* sO St a9 Soo  -t500 U.5 50°    26 s00    25,10  5 1.100  -  2600
aI" Vat" o fmo. 516 0,s60,s71 000  211s000   2 ,0 S00   216 00 27160 S0 2651 S                              ,57 s.71          1         0 000   2   0    21600  211000C210 06,0   3             7S 07          0
-                                                         -   m,no         -00      -0    -000    69,-00           -00        -0    -0          000    69,0      69,00-  -  6e  -         -        -         0          -
06,94pams.                                    -        -   161700   21100            21-00    21000 -nI.1              44        21100 61100    211O0 621100    215 0    -              -_     _     21- M -         -
09-1
06144                                           -        -  161 500 _;i:i    _UI7             _~17   -ItI     -7l~     _,4,1  _W77   -UT1   _T577   _,1,1   _U 7                         _~!  _E1   _T    1            _
Gr                                        -U    -~tSU  1.000:-3-5-1-                                              -         -   ta,000          -        -     2,000
SP0    b.p                                             -   1,100           -         -         -        -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -        _          _
Or                                            -        -    S,SO           -         -         -        -         -         -                                  S. -  -       -         -         -        -          -
199                                           -        -    4,610          -         -         -        -         -         -    3.120          -        - O,720             -         -         -        -
04L                                           -        -    5,250          -         -         -        -         -         -    4.20D          -        -    4.200          -         -        -         -          -
6t0u1a                                        -        -    6,000
Stell fr lisatoo                                           75,060
_ r~-                                   -od    S                              - 26, 0                          -                                     ~         H 27S2  27S2  -
3id 1.14.
ram. 2.4b0 0.1114   Vp614  055- 9.1 - "table___                                                                      ____ __     117S ,-        -        -    16 107-                  -        --O
r ow1 Unct."  219*                                                                      d -  304911-              -                                   43 670 4  - t317I      -         -
tn_e1o                                  4*,000    46,000    42,300    42,300   42.300    42.300    42.300    42,300    42,300   42.300    42,300    42,300   42.300    42.300   41.000   4S.000    42.300           -6
Coboss* S  ding14                       200.000   100.000   54.000   ,94000   94,000   94.000   94,000    94N000    940000    040                    N 04.0 0  94.00    94,I O94.0    20o,OO0   200.000   94.000    -6
Set"* 1tO 5 125.000   121,000   493.000   492.600   493,100  493.10N  493. 00   4931,00  493.00   403.600  493.100  493.100  4.SW.  491,00   525.000  52S.000  493. 00                                              -6
1460.                                         -         -   12,000         -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -             -              -         -        -          -
5t5                                      62,100   62.500 So    SS0     S,0902   14,200    64.000    53.525    63,621    S13621   13,621   13,621    S,62 S2 3.621   13.022    62.100    62,500    03.620           -214 
1Sr                                     162,710   262.750  2620ns 1242.SS0  23S,493   13.4,40   130,276   13,111t  11.111  615,512          9,12 16.2   136.112   13n,112   162,710   162.750   13.1S12           -31
2L                                      1S".soo   115 .00   14S.OS0   11.U243   134,I1S    134,0S0   133,910   133.71    133,770   131,770  13.77,0   133,110   133.770   133,11    117.200   117,100   131.177   61_
*65 _Gm.n*5#al                        1.300.000 2,100.000 1. 194 70 2.12.100 2.173.0  1,172,100 1.172. S0  1.272,600 1.27,2600  2.      1272,500 1.16 2.000 1.272.100 1 .272.100 1,10.000 1.20.00 1.112.1S0       -10 02
14660400' 0.01d)                        260,100   210.100  23S1.41    221.660   231,610   220.621   21S0.66   211,616   23S.61*   23.606S   236.640   231.6S8  231.610   231.66$  2S0.100  260. 000  23S.616        -6                    tLk
15.145.4.                     211.~~~~~~~7S000   311.000   3S2.100   3160.000   06,100   300,1$00   3$6.S00   216,100  31,1400   364.100   36,6.00  320.100   314.1OO  306,000  311.000   310,.00    2SI.00 So
134041   6.. .b*.i    c     i    n     _______              30 000    1p 005   31 000   21 000   -3 00-30         000   31 0                         3U. 000 _0 M31oeG Y,00 YS                 t St O 5 00
ll-T.ir dSaroh.d topot                  2,971.4 02 17Ei1  2,S 7 142        iIN 2'1l, 22.7614450                                                                                           2,7U,.9702. ,  7,4* -
150  L2.c Unskilled - Vegetable £5   66 62S 42       60426  910 213 1 003 600 2 000 141 2 0070 000 0o4  2              007 1401 000 00 t 006 420 9 000  20  06 420 A 000 42       9 65     S"6625 1 005 420        02
0400 -t                                                                            6¶6111T 3cflin11I ° 7D00014751 0                           3'1  t25 3~7U72 -7K19  i   5   4201 3291    67171,76 "S itV  ti2K   .3
U    0r, Et- ft*v2on P-r1rd               3,t71.07  3,0717,071 4,0990,00  3.771.044 3.176.6S0 3,756.4S2 3,78.,013 3,1764,I" 3.7644.49 3.600,744 3,76S.424 3,74,424 3,09,094 3,761,424 3.677,071 3.517,071  3.76S.424   -3
L, 1,405e, tr. 0093  po"o                 36771.01S 140t00  3,7171,044 3 7160 3 10 402  11 , 013 1 764 29) 3 1764 140 3 80 144 32 14 424 3.76S1.424 30 004 3 161 424 1.761.424  11.07T 3.611,021  76S,4 42
0.56 12.. 941..e ofnoaa.2 .4-i                                                                                         0    46 196'16 t-i'f1           FOi11        iti         6
E16    FTI0  r164          6Y6 "I3-96                   121 T. u11  T-4r              FS2 11V51       irrm11    UT1 
SPA * 31.00  3 7F 223 1514 ' OtS9
16 top 29 11451,1  199m
1-1 Vegetable A.*.. s5lmide4. 0.1 1.) 1r 1-0Mda



Ubt'o*"  V&tag"W  Kb-"g`a*ftt MA CGOOO-s"m  PCOJOM  - CIPWoWAk Compameat
zoob 2 03 W Tom No"&
wtoulam            maxam
416 AP) I&
U
S34. IS%  MASI  304.111  MM   217,"S  M214  2SI.614  MM   2".10   M.404  20. III  M647  20.01  2460347  M,647  M.Sa  2450.Ul  M.S41  260. SO   M.Sa  240.541  M.Ul
P"                                         211.606   117.60    I",464   102,150   103.614   103,026   203.623   100,792,   OSOIS    93, "t    ", "S    90,S83    to, sti    ". SO3    W. S#3    90,683    90.643    9o.s*3    so."S    "I 543    go'ses    So.sa
coo.mv.                                    134.740   134,740   121.902   227,727   110.73.   110.027   12#, 606   116,04   110.802   107.612   201.790   103,780   103.700   103,780   103,790   103,7*0   103.140   103.7"    103. no   203.700   103.760   103.720
OCOWAMUtb                                  ass.00   sts,000   769.600   749,2so   lso.m             m,sw    TSZ. 400   M. Ill   70S. 37$   00, 62S   GU. 350   6U. 360   "0.350   "S. 360   6U. 3SO   Ot. 3SO   660,350   "I, 30    6". 360   "S. 3so   6". 350   6". 3so
batemo                                      64.0a      64,000   2SC000   266,000   2S6,000   2S6.000   266,000   2%.000   256.000   266.00    266,000   266.000   ZS6,000   2$6,000   2S6.000   2$6,000   2S6.00    2".00    254.000   2s6.000   26COOD   M.000
U"a                                                                                                             70 ON    IS61006   234 M         2u  00   234 006   234 000   234,000   214.00    234. ON    234.000   234.004   2S&.006   234.000   236.000   234.0ft   Ild'aft
24:320    36.040    SS:800    69:0*0    64:060    64:040    $0,810    24,320    36.040    WOOD    $4,690    54,900    U.*60    68.*80    24, M                           is. "O
so, 000   100.000   ISO.000   250.000   260.000   250.000   isoloot   2601000   160.000   160,000   iselooo   Iso.006   160.006   ISO, 000   160.00    ISO. am
107.620   107.620   107.620   107,620   107, S"    107,620   207,620   107.$20   101. SZO   207,S20   107, SU    107.S2*   207,620   107, Sn    101.620   107.620   107. in
4s,       1 6,000   I 6 000        6,000   I 6.000       6 040       6,000      6,000      6,000      6.000       6.000      6.000      6.00        6.000      6.006      6.00        6.00       4,000      6.000      6,000
Fodder                                                                coo    06.000    Os: ooo   los'm          0swo   10S:000   los.000   206.600   i0s.000   lob. ON    los,oco   los,00    105'm                  14S.C00   -10s,00    Its,wo   i0i'm    -m,M             10S.00   1,66.0m
sso 000   660 000   MO 000   no 000   "O 000                                                                                agIn    r
04100 sso 000 $60 000 $so 000 sikom"rWomoorstow  6ROW
W                                     Y.1
W  81 LOX   2,065N 23N.' i 2. 6439i 2, Utli                                  I,FW7  a. SIB.'  2,005                                          4. MIM
or
qw-. US- 09 toodheatt"   I'sov, 1. so.                                                        q. r" r" T"  Ti". r" r" F" T" T*m- T" AM T" X" T" T" rim. r"
on-two 0-
Fodor.                                                             30,020    S*. M      205,000   106.000   20S.400   106,000   los.000   105.40    ios, 000   los,000   10s,000   106.000   106,000   los.000   106.000   106.000   106.000   ios, 000   los. W*   1". coo
sb"p adme,-
006104`41 *.-F-    U"                                             4 0"         6s, mi    ios,        los.       106.0i   lot,          las.    --I1W     ,   losmi   loc            los.       loc         10S.63i   %Os.    -TIM            los.mi    loc         los.55i             --Idrm
0-nm aaaftapts-
ftoo                                            "O "O   4.10 '" 's" r 'suo r" r4M. r" Y" FAM i"  r" r" r" T" I  r" r" rim 17" 17"
lkt Val" Of trod-ti-                         sTem r!"M                       d    Am    114
1,934.97  2,044,9    2.194,73  2.299.11                 2, III. I'S  2.328.2   2.320.2   2,326.    2,293.69  2,306.2   2.320.2   2,316,    2,328,2    2,)26,1    2.328.2
C"t
selafts
S9. 440
It M
=    r                                                        24:192                                                                         24.1                                                                           24.19
1.                                                      22,400                                                                         22,492                                                                          22.4 2
cc-* W"                                                       20,000                                                                         20,00000                                                                           00000
Legooduct,a tv"  Sp*ci*.                                      is 000
sb"p broader. cf-I.)                                         M:000
ve"                                                           10,400                                                                           S as                                                                             400
ISP                                                           24'ad                                                                            1:"6                                                                           1:6*6
MM                                                            16,114                                                                          2,464                                                                           2,464
so. 760
16.400                                                                          6,400                                                                                                                                             S
" I.Id. leaud)                                                                                                                                   $                                                                              S23
21 423                                                                             23
Seek I tft   Ltoot                                           is:00
--mM -  -    -                                                  _:   _*2011                                                                                           no                             --z
owd-votat P-bee"  Impt.                                                                                                                                                                                         --------
Flood Lobw
Y-    Ld-  U-U13.4                                               I"                       . .....                                                 00                                                                                                                                             S
impao
PA-  CtmU C".) S"ft                    11,400    211400    10,260         t. 9"       s. 6"      *.420      q'i"        .,$so      s, 560     #I 2so      7900      7,"o       71990       7,"o       719"       7."O        7'"o       7. "O      1.980       7 No       7. 9"      7 no
"ttze                                   2.31S       2,376      I'm        2,076       2,026      1. oso      ),"o       iltso      1. 7?S      1.72S      2, "I      %,"3       2'"S        1."       1. "I      1, da       3.663      1. "S      1. "S       2: ea      I."3       1:663
C--                                    24.260    14, ISO    22 90        2t. 4w      12 360    11 7        11 400    It.100    10, "O    20, ISO          O.S75      V,076      9, #76      9, 97S     I'm        9, In       9197s      9,175      9.27S       1.97S      9.916      9.976
Gro.paw                                76, M       76,000    62:400    ", 60         64:600    62:0"       60:000    69,000    PAN            $5, 000    a,200    $3,200    63.200    63,200    SS, 200    $3,200    53-.200    $1. 2M             $1.200    0.200    S3.200    63.200
Too"                                                                -          -    26,190    2s.                         too    26,113    26.47         26, *30    26.930    261*30    26, 30    26 930    26 930    26,930    MIX                26,9"      26.930    26.030    26.930
271    2S 2"       I$:                                                                    11          S          I                                 I                     I          I
Um                                      It'd       IS,        26,60       It.        31,3946   3t.         30:95S    30 530    30,0224    34.04'                               2  634    29. 24    29: 14    29: 14    zo. ism          ".6        2t. is    IF at    29  14    IF  14
06        406          I        S"                     36S                                             1    2*'-        IF -S
TSP                                    23. -0    23,-         30.070    43. -#    42.130    42,172         4I474    42 961    42,3ss    da.624    42.0S*    42:050    42:06#    41.2"                 41.2"      41.244    0. M         42.04      42.0t    42:00         41:2"      41:246
XCL                                    17, 74S    17, ?405   26.460    36."4    36.404    36, 064    )7: 744    37:359    36.904    37. 300    36, SIM              16,974    36,M         36.0$2    36.062    36,082    34. OU         34.00    3C SU        U. 97S    36.061    Jf. 012
2A                                       1.920      11920      7, "O       7, "O      7,666      7,"*        7, "O      7. "O      7.690       I."O       1, "O      7,680      7, 480      7, "O      7,680       ?"No       I."o       7 "O       7."o        1.680      7.660      7.680
1"-tAoxdo                                    -                            16,400    16,406    16,400    16,400    26.400    16,400    19.60              IS.600    19. 600    19,60        16,400    16.400    16,00    19,600    29:40            19.00    It. GM        16,400    26,400
1-ti"do Wlid)                                -                            12,421    11,42)    11,423    12,423    11. 42S    21.423    21.772    111772    II'm                11,772    12,4122    12.423    111423    Is."I    11.772    II."2    21.772    21.423    11.421
ft.ti.Ld.                               it, 000    29"wo    17.22         16'640    16'160    IS'"o    16'200    14,760    24,240    13.760    11.300    13,300    13,300    13.30                    IS."O    13,300    23,30          23.300    13.300    IS.300    13.300    lI.X*
Nadi auw for sheep                           -                                                               0 O"
gwe-ut" *-.h-w levers                               184.1 -a  -IM  --4M -IM  -3.YW -"4 -7WE -TRUM0 --&WI -IM  --3M  -&MI -&A -IMI -I"  -I"  --&m-T;Lpm" -3;M2
Si"d Labor
F.-  Lob., ft.kAll*d                  ISS al   206 461   326 3*7    r2,97$   S04 266   500 %69    SOI 292   602 O"    407 463                     P2   403 412   Of 772   403 412   4*3 412   493 412   413 412   483 422                3
025.567                                      OWN$    600.'426  fiklf                                 $11:64    614:19    008!42    iWIFS
09127   W M           6S7!014    4           UK 20S                                                     4  4    014:14
sob-faft.1                                                      7 rT5rW   742:92 _T537M                               iimi 10;                                                                -TWTH  661.42 -RF-4H   t15 W9  $14,193                           43  OLUS  406,426  600.42
'Mj                                         1.3iVI   1.4i7d   1. RN    IZ                1,61CO                 1. W. i3l 1.406.'    F                 '025 2.4004 E;T  , M                                  71      iz
C"b n" "foxv, nowi*2                         UN20  941'429                                                                                                                                                  4 M   1.95.                                                        4           4
M    -Ffr3-l,8                        11401.499 r.Tg,-fff  T:U§-.M    r.IT4-.M                 rTITIT"  1,709,157 i. 709, IS1 ITUrM                               T.7gF6.
V*- P.Aly Omeatite             noo-i" T7nrm  T7fyF.                                                                                                                                                                                                           is                         I
somvw .9 wAsome
I.Ooot.. f,    ttoft-    period            $69.627   NO, 627 1.109,620   742.92$   $SO.M            $41.#07   $42,604   030,493   #",SS%   92S. 767   014,103   917.S43   N7.S4j    s".426   NS,426   1"'426    91S.W9   414.103   017.643   417.543   $01.426   408as
Truator to Nut Petiod                369,627 1 109 §1 _48!L2S   % ,201   $41 467   MAN    $34 492    30 St    926.31   HI 1.1   .17 641   .37.11    .08 426   800 42S   tft  426   016 00                                       03   $17,543   017,64    $00 02S   000.42    #00.42
setateao .9 Vi-                                                                  Elf                                                    ifi'iii    -j Pad            -      CM
ftem".G                    V41,41i 4  4m                    tn    rwrm r76r 4"   a 4" 1.460539 KIW                                                                          r4min F               rTtr 4n                 rsst55 rrz. ru I, ff r on Y. immT.4wm
=Att                      no"""                       J81                                               I06"Iso T.Zgrm Egm  RWO RINT. REM" 1710 2                                                                                     r7m.-M               -ITIT-In
sm,twas ru n"ly-oft as temea                  zs331   rw                                              31.12 -irm
21ft - 20.3t. WV - 2.733,041.73
U  U."ets"d -  P ly tattooed Wired. wft-  ta tAgh vlq*.  Ardeows total                         adec  rope to 0.476, oc n  pecoftt QC tbb fac. Om. The commaLm; 0.02S ba to ua"c smg cam   f tetraft.9 wA "t weed tar Icistlft.
Tuo up n ups"'m IM
1-1 stoo 2 (0.6 6.1 P.- Pladal
th



66116.61 V.1.061.4 669,*.1  ~  C90*waOl 93ts6n     6 W   - 0i166*5 c_nt
22       23        24  2"              26        27        28        2         30                      t M, M2
9.00                                 240,597   240.567   240.917   240.197   240,917   240.917   24;0,597   240,567   240,597   391,113   39,153   240,187        -22
"a"to                                 80.583    40. us   00.643    96.193    90,5*2    40.563    90,5U3    40.93    006.6)   117.401   131.84 9OS     .o, U       -2S
coso"o                                103.700  103.7 0   103. 00  103,740   102.70  103.78o   103. 70   101,7*0   103,700   134,746   134,14    103,160          -2S
GcowAgo to                            491.310   456. 10   4S1.310   "S9.310  4"S.3M    418,210   409,350   46U. 30   09. 310   8S50,40   969.000   459,310        -23
Baa...                                24,00   264.00   2S4.000   256,000   21,000  25s#.000   254,000   2,000   254.000    64.000    04.000   24,o000             300
ran0 234.000 r                                      WC   234 000   234.400  234,o00   234.000  234o000   234,000   234.000           -         -  234,000
repp.,                       so~~~~5,300    19.880    18,88  59.n8    59,890    24.320    31.940    58,6880  50 S#          -              59,400
Ronal.3                               *50       1I0.000   1 lS0,OOO   150,000   150,000  1tO1000    5         0,000 110,000  1S0,000  -        -     0I.000
9.8ll0.                               .01,2 10   107,120   107,        ,20   107.55 0   107,1210   107,530   107,520 0 07.12 0       -         -   107.2620
rt.1wood                               6,000     6.000     6,000     6.000     6.000     60,000    4,000      .o       6000          -         -    6.00            -
P8406:                                101,000   1"01,00   105.100   105.000   101,000   105.000   100,000   101,000   101,4                         0,000  -a.o
t_.b  for btodiag                     tsosON  sotON.O    tOS OOO  tOS OOO  tOS, 0   tOS Goo  tS,OO    tOSOO     "     Uo000                         sON,O
$0.trl a"  Vcdtic                    2,ss0,70 2.5i 700   2,U,00 5;7 2,U6.10    2.ss6ti 2,MN    0            F700    2,So  °70 176F Mo w609.5s06 s, o o
Shoop _nur                            Sl 000    St0 000    S0t 000  1  000   50000   0Si 000  S 000   Si 000    St 000              -         -    %t 000
Come nl  01 frdoief                   2,631.   2AW        2.63l      7      0 2,415 05 ,z  2,69s7. sz 2,6ii.      M0 2.631ti  1. 6"      1, US," 2.ws.w 7             4
rr.pa.c                                53S000    51000o   51000o   51040o   11000o   11000O  t51000    11000O  tO1000                -         -    11000b
0oa-a U".
Fodder                               101,000   101.000   101.000   105,000   100.000   M.N   10S,000   10s5.00   1o,o000o                          10I.000          -
51*9p ...,*                                     -110            -        -         -                   -         -         -         --                             -
514-.W  tVMU                           31800x  19941    308410   19450i  1940     1*04 1           191410 os   *410    1445    1140   198410   19100 GO
smt.
169148*                            )2,=.211 2            ,311912132S.2  213U,2i 2,32,250 2 l,S27UW  2,10)21 2,32S2  2,321,2s0 1.3T.0  1,311,21 321. 21             7i
6666                                  -         -         -         -        _         _                   _         _         _         _         _          _ 
power                                   -   24 19           - -2--
v n1.30                                 -   n     -o        -         -         -         -         -         -         -        -         -         --
V.8011.                                      22. 400
Or. 91p6                                -   20,000                                                                2,000          -         -    20,000
3*868.. ?*en 43.0±6                                         -         -   -    -         -         -         -               -
Sleep 1968*0  80616)                    -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -        -         -         -           -
0*,9                                    -    3,480          -           
TS?                                     -     1,0-6
t41                                     -    2.464          -         -         -         -                   -         _         _        _         _          _
Prn O n6*ral                            _         _         _         _         _         _         _         _         _         _         _                    _ - 
Im-ts do                                -    6,400          -         -         -         -         -         -         _                            _          _ -
ftogi0d  tn011d3                        -       523              -              -         -         -              -         -         -              -          -                                                                     _
stall to, Ii-tort
0.tol t_r       od__                               I d   2                                                                                                __t __ 20_ 000_ _
sd1 w   ta ... moat C..                                                  140 -----                                                                                                                                                         0
G.= .P..
Mmo 49.dk 0*103 f.edo               7.960     7.950     7,600     7.9n0     7.880     7.010     7.9$0     3.990    It.890    13.490    13.400     1,9800       -30
of"..                              I7 6          63° US  6,61° 3,40S          6'.3    1  661     .00      1,443     1,4 US     ,171    2.37s      1, US        -20
C 66a9.9is    9.911                                     5,'1      9,971n    9.011     1.171     9.911     5,911     9.1    74.2no   -10.210       s0.91        -so
00 ..d                              3,    5 .200  9        75, 200    12,20013. 200    13200S 5a3.2M 9    3.200     7 3200    76,000    74,000   S13200       -20
to:t                               26.930    246,30   26S300    26,934   26.936    24,830    24.930   24,93X    24.930            -    J         209 -,9M
30aa                              2.1 4    29.163      2I0,4     M 34    29,62 4    29.034    3 9,13 4    29.134 2.14    ZS. 114    30,400    1S.400    29,510  1o
110                                41,244    42.059    42,019    43,019I   42,019    41,244    4.4 41,2     004.2  43,244    23.000    23.910    41.206         39
tSt                                 6.062    34.979    36.976    35.976 36 ,9t 360,02   24.042    24,52    36.002    t7. 74S    17,74S0 3.002                  103
IA                                 73600      70 60        70     1.4000 t.S00        I.S00     7.400   7t.400    76.00       1.920     1 920    17460         300
lna6.0t806                         35.491    1,00 is   19.it 000   is,000    19,400    164,00    10.00 1,400      11..400 WO           -         165.000 
oq1icod8  0SOU11                   11.423    1     1,372    11,112    11 772    11.772    11,423    11t421   113.23    11.423     -         _    11.423
,Id.                               13"a 3,00    13.    12,300    233,20    U3.00    13,300    300    3, 300    13,300   19,000    19.000    13.200            -30
.d0ci0  4ot *tot p                 70 400    70 000    10 000    70 000   70 000    70.000    70.000    70 000   70 400           -         -   10
llirdt.1 P ....d 2_ero             123SOt2  32771   130;771   1.77130 771   32S012  13I 012 25X2   13V7U   11t7679  11717S  725 012                              76
F.- Lotnnt" Ua.17-"'I             4S3.41    4'3.42   43.42   49 2   4                83 4         3         402   42126
t-i4r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~" M_21¢1 113,0 nd3 412N 1111zT1 1 1ts.t791                                                                 *                                                                 1
0A.61 116  *... V...5g               rlli'Q1 25 rtioi'si T1T3.      500  311t7574                                     Sol!0    tIK   12')5T1102   W 439 TT2       0   2 
8666. *06.6t
Tt,6.r.  0,00 P,.olo  96:568          800.5   9,009  U14,3*3   07,043   817,142   800.           8.2S    0,40   83.2S  10962    20942    8682                     11264 
nWt 11 nt                      6092                 M31f !2035  .s775}
nr ptr _9_  *66tt6S1;o.la 1.4 9Kt1.66   1U'1Il   TIt13    tU'               -7 f 17 S1          -7.SS7  ffl02s                          -         -         ,-
1-2 0.4  2 04.5 6.8  .. 08



9.0404  vaumb"              &d e "0'000  P-         - 1"a`6  C.
1t," 3 OA. 290  da.. l0 "g
M  2 36  320.36   20.306   304.331  296.3U2  269.320  20,341   217302  264.39)  236.2*4  24.23   240.266  240.266  246,266  2 S0,266  240,266  240,266  240.266  240.266  240.206  240.26s  240.266
Mole.                     ~~~~~~~~~~1141,46  212.426  312,416   102.042   203.12  1 20.214   91. no   94.10)   01,000   09.132   46,294    03,262    43,602    03,062    83.02    83.042   62.604    "3.4    03.04  03.162   42.162   43.262
s 127,004   121,606  1217,6    122,273  138.123   114.090  21,110   204,10    201,347   202.22   90*0     02.742   94,14     20,742   92,742   90 7142   92.12   *92742   96.742   90.71    9.742   99,142
40vlwaa.                            420,09*2  426.292  422.502   404,322   393.67)  3*2.033  M72.22    361,703  321,113   340,474    2,O    319,12    310,194  319,10 o192 12 3O9, 104  319.196   319.1 9    319.124   319.104 3719.s4  319.197
wag9 9440                           324.9000  324,200   334,900  304,422   300.233   22.410  204.200   276,162  269,043  229.920  242,104   242.670  243.61S  243.616  243,67S  243,061  242,610   242.672  243.415  243.675  243.619   2413,61
44.000    44,000   120.000 12.60   3290.00  129.000  129.006  129,000  1210,00  129,000  329,000  129. 000  129.000  120,000  129,000  122.000  120,000  129.000  124.000   129.000  134.000  324.000
%.-WA        ".M    64.00  120,              ol!         -        -   3~~~~~~9.000   14,060   131.000  121.000  321,000  311.000   117.00    111,060   117.000   117.000  2111,000  117.000  12-1,040   117,000  U11.000  111,000
2o  22,300   11,920   29,440   22,440   22,440   29.400   29,460   12,140   171,20   29,440   29,440   29.400    Ma.t0o   2. 440 o    226    217920
04.11.30                    -                                     -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~22.000   00,000    0.0400   10,000   10.000   11.000    7s,000   72,060    12,000   10,000   19.000   19.000   10.000   13,000    MOOD0  1$,000
v    P                                                                               23.760   23,700   5,100    1,160    53,10   0 ,140 M31,760   23,1060    03,16         13,10 S3.140    12.140M00             23. 17eo   500o   7S 03.100 WM  .10   02.100
200390d6                                           .       .O     600D,0 6.000    6             ,00    6,000    4.000    6,400        6.00     4,000    0.0       6,000 6.40 640,0 00oo  6.000           4,000  00060  6.000    C.ON   l.000   lOSOO
ladde..4r ,4                                                      0       152,000  106 ,000   10,0000  2l0,SO    300.000  102.000  M09.     000  106.000  102.00    100,0s00   2.0   1000   102.000   100,00    102.00    102.000  10.400   10S.460
to2" - -0  004S.1S09                      .        ."a                                                          000000              SU        00       20S."0 000   0 0 00000   5100   000.400 _00   0eS0 n0  2,06 o0   100 000 ao0 00   20 000
a.,1 are_.61.00               T1T300W  E37311u   409, 0 S19   ;923422 27132 .                                                                    Z         3     0 3          I    2     1       £        2Uig!6i 2s 2O ,0 a39 2fl3tV1U
ODep mooo                               .        .    16.120    22.$       00        210      21.4      50       22000  so  o2,      22000    21 000  012000       ,000             21000     10       2100      21000        0 0   11000   0100
ae 201..et twoft m                           1.372,I1 373,910 1AN   1.662,23 !071FIU7 r.ul0t 7 V 2 T  1'2 1A   l1  I   Et I II 327229 Z, 006   3163.1s 6  fl31m2.    r;1H1  Yw00 ; 1092,002,1    2U,709.6  2;70239 I7I018i 27097   20I;0  "6IS'*e 1,uig
vadde                                                   30.16    01.809   102,000   102.000  300.000  100,000 osoo 102.000 10100    0.000  300,000  200,000   209,000  200.000  200.000  302,000  300,000  202.000  102.000  101.000  100.000
r   2  C           1l X 40 g i7a 40 a,2u"g:o7b r;gffi~~~$7.    106.0i  10.4ia; ,ls.nars M,          m,u    11,1s321 x,eu6, -Tag#l t>wswl              w 1, Mr,w0    1,16,006 a,7",      15.0N.0i   M.Niz*   losniX* ,n4  t*      00
Rim
rttt                                                                                                                 i - 
t                                       -        -    *oo    . 0630           -          -            -                   002 -  -                    - -                                    242 -   -- - 
3106                     292050   20~~~~~~~~r4400OM 3040    200400l  1274400- 3,0040  3.90.40   1004003 1.0040    109534   26.420a  3009401i1,  6 9401.7  9   ,9.61 94 8   .0,d             M10040   1000M. %Si3004001
00 .                                  -         -    U94 714       -        -         -.       -         -        -   1 . os            -      -         -        -         -        -         -2.0      -        -         -        -  
90.2820000OtO                                                                                                          20'4-                                                              20.0t0
0000028.6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00a
break         40alt  ?.0.
30.9                                 .. 2t)     -    9.100        -         -         -        -         -           _      -         -        _         _        _         _        _         _         _        _         _.      _-
7 O ^ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1740                                                                                                                      2.7 P-4   
9.2.2                                 -        -     2.300s        -        -         -        -         -        -                   .^       -         -        -         -         -        .4        ----
9.96.                                          -   32,096      -.           -     -         -         -           -   1,2.09                   -         -        -         -        -   3 12,09        -      -            ---
=     = ftl.                                    -    1.20          .                                               . 1.230*           .        -         -                                 2.37,9                 ..
_42.mt. 6996                         -.           . 3040                    -           -           - -  -        -         -                                -              -         -        -                  -              -
90409 bo.961od   00in2                -        -    * 2200        -         -         -.       -         -        - n     200         -        -                                 -        -         -             -                                  0.aoe
004cs.  .#sg-                                         ., -                  -.4  -    -        -         -        .        6 1-4               -   -         -         -         -         3.74              -              -        -         -
092                                   -        -   22.160 No                                                              4                                                -         .      93.                                        
YmLob" tor    6                       -         -   72.O2          -        -         -        -         -         -        2         -        -         -        -         -         -       4-    - -                     - - 
r_d0   _                                  n1e.00                            .                                    sco        ,--.m
_0...0                                        .     e 00           - a"   9s-                                             600    S,            -       104641000                                         -        -    al- 
28066228280.4 _     q29                 .        -                  -         -                  -         .        -   01.13  20. 0  o   I#    2,f   22  Ie  2    1o  6o0  743  6"  ,6.   -" n
28-06 641  -o   12.02t   120406012A6             1: 420  1.:S   U.    4063 5                        .w     7065        . 1                        1
91. aa  200a 0Sed                J20.00020   lO.TIS   10S 20.00 20.S 000 2, 90    9,12                                                          0;1 0 9,406    2.10    2,910  0,0    0, 0170 .300 ,10  .100     0.0  0  0 20  0.100  .  0   ,20
04.1*                             3.206     2,20      .0         3      2'4        2.02     1.91    2,01       2.00    0.000      1,4      2.400    2.44   20        2   ,009     2.690    2.60      3.0      1,6o24    1,0       2.0      1.
qrsed                         l OPOO11,220   21.240   21.200   16.416   23.004    10.203   3S.020   30.0 "  14.206   13.024   23.392   12.960   32,.00    2.90    1,4          2.94 12.9220 12,2o 22.90                      22.4O to  U 0M   12,940
0r .                             32,94     2.040   32.940o   12.312   2931.0    t13464"   12.40   31,014   10.6622 20,364O 20,044    9.720    0,130    0,120    9.722    9.120              .126    9.720    9,12      0  9"      . 220    07.20
ladder                     ~~~~~-     .                       2.,204   32.630   32.990   26.374   26.714    21. 120   21.490   21.063   21.063   21.062    21,062    21.963   21.060   21.062   21.063    271.63   27.443   21.062
V-.                              21,930   21,939   31. 930    3.93    33 .1IS9   32.734   32.213   32,162    33,236    20.920   30.314    29.029   29,802   29,049    22,260    29.560    2.022   29,029    29.0#21   29.00    29.9SU    29.060
M 42                             33,1    33,011   42.209   50,219    20,17    42.310    49,104    09,20    07.200    41.492   46.4US   40.000    40.000    40.491   40.491   40,491    45,444    40.900    60.000   45.009    05.490   62.492
003.                             20,110   231370   31,390    39,322   14.210   30.017   30,030   37,946   37.41$   31,330      30761   36.24 3,209    3       1.140    3 2.1M3640    36.160   36.200    36.200   M6.202   36,2"S   30. 160   31.160
00                        3,920~~~~~~~~"n  1.920    3.040    3,040    0,40    3.0  I,0m     2.240    2.00    3.040    3.060    0,40    3.0"0          3,440    3,040    3.940    3,040    3.240    I.060    3.240    3,040    3.400
tr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-0                                 ':                                              94st Oa    9 o 27o ':                 i:Mas7 42          I'm¢  too7  moo5 9. oo    9.80                  I'mt5ll5  S X*67as7" . 6 
t0    01at 4.d                                                          a - t  0.200  S,0 M  200    6,200   S4,200    S 200    2,  .0       .o       2,900   o,o0    S.0          . SOO,O            2        9.0s.s 02206    o,on
31.on02O  (sould)                  .3 3.     239 3.1   391    0,624    4,655      0,031    2,409     0,390    0,320    9.397    S.319    0.240    4.240    0,066        60.04    0.66      4.260    0.200    9. 240    0.240    0.046      00
24002.                           29.000   10,0060   2l000   21,00   16.462    24.200   2n0S.2    20, 30*    34.02    14,400   23,040    23.00    13,00         ,00oo   33,500   3350    133,20      23.000   23.00o    22.00o0    ,ls0    1320
Iee  0.14 0090211.            26 230  246 230  414 000  023 163   4  1    6 "      0   04 442  50461   H141004  2320900   524060   SC01400   0322.3   $11 203  122_ 23  92.62          20.    1  0    3  0    1  0    1  0                 2
49hU204 @040.   ~~~3~3~72   691112   771'120 -jitioY    991339   209~~~~~73t  93T312  1W332   U7'141  T0~~~2Ul926   101'22     120022   20t622         29901162 -0tI 02us   0 I S 203 210120
0.0190   "I90... 00.009-073               1'9   6102TSI                                   92tb   O?11T1-             019i'fl  --i T                                 -o u-'t             0'w       iiW        'o        'i  076     ~02z
.060-40J  104m on .                                                                                                                                       I
t0.400. ff"0 1.0020.2 09,10         424.212  424,212 1,030.021   114.226  916,001  044,016  026.729  04-1,449  031.232  M9.3110  010,294  006.602   024,602   000,062   900.003  000.043  061,206  402.928   04.442   004.42  900.093  6000.06
Lo" Transfer to909t 2.o14d          424.V 12.030.021   1426  01.0    060.024   40012    .064   3a32   9 330 030200  064 $42  0046042  So  OS    000.03  800.0939233                           02 044  MO   40 3   004.042 0ZN00 063 00 003  000.002
2tOublael hU.de  so 60.40..                  -. ~Iu 7U    9116   lU252 017                                           2       7702'2   .6-    459Guillf                                                                   -                 - 22-
SP I1.6.oe  WV  v2 .34 .... 3            5 0                                0ixi                                  ~         ~         ...0.. -....                                                                         ' ~ ' ~            ___
%A t00000 04200Y.  _990900 t090900  00      0.00 Ia 00 10 9000051t of t0  tam.
TOO 049 20 09,230"1 10 3
1-1 0000 3 40.0 000  600440 r hbl



3504.5  VstonS.4d Ib_t#...346 C_ m ,tlr. VCoJmt - C*.us  C _aMIt
Ia.. 3  0.1 ha)  1atu Soad.
11  p) is
-   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~toot Wiat  Itth- fDblt 
22       23       24        21              .fl 27                 29       *0     1* W8b                     _____t
MD"
aim                                240.260  240.266  240,266  240,266  240,266  240.266  240,266  240,266  240,266   2,035   3M0.35S  240.266             -2S
""to                                63. s52    63.5o    63,562 4  3,6*      .         .62 0   3.562 63.562   0.8632  II.46  121.416   63.5642             -25
C....1                               51.3742   O1.742   95.742    5. 142   55.742   95,742   50.742   95.742   9,1.42  12736,6  127.656   55.342          -as
s5.a.                               315.195  319.194  315.194  315.154   3 225.154   315.154   315.154   319.54   3,I .294  425,552  426,552   315.214    -25
a"s , 5466                              24.635   242.6    6n 24 3,643.631n 43.671  243,5  243.63S  243,611   243.631  324.500  324.500  243,65          -25
5.5.55                             12,000  M2A.0N   22.00   120.000  125,000  225.500    25.000  I2U,000  125.000   64.000   464,00   n1.00              1Oo
1 a*                                117,000  117.00  117.000  227,000  217,000   27,.000  117,000  117,000   117.000          -         -   11,000          -
"s                                  35 .440     .440   2*5,40   2.440   29.440   122160   13520    2.460   29.440             -         -   2*,40
5.11,20                              31.000 no  .000   31,0o      71,00 3o.050   35.000   n1.oo   7s5ooo   75.000             -              n 00
V 1125                               53.370   $3746    $5.3 760 $3.70    53,760    53,760    3.0760   53.470    53.760        -         -   63.760          -
Vv                                 6.000    61000    SION      i.0s.    4,000 I.ON          os000    6.I000 h ooo0                         6,000
1_00.                              15s6o0   10S.000   Uo.000  150.000   MAW000 10 50 101,000  105,000  11S.040                             10- 000         -
Lam  Cm bcCO41.9                                       51.007   51w00 0 00000 _ M000   3*'in    51.000   ".000                -
_ Cf _04 was tooduS                TNF57W§ 7.1          .646: 310t.0St6w rao 2,546,11 X,          &       2,We  0W     r7Vmw   1,7s-sl 2, IM, as
01.69 20*05                          11000    51000       00   51 000    2000   51,00  IS1,000  5I,             1.000                       01000
Iv z                                1.0       MM160   11.000  1041.000  10W,OO    N0S,.DO   1000 r    lo0. O 101o000                        20S.000
a..   -~~~~~~   -~~~~fl    -~~~~~    -~~~  -~~~i  -~~~~~    -~~~  -~M ..........                -     - 
nice                               1V.460   1         in 546   1;7 4    155x 400  154m 4    I001" 400  1400      _,4 ,              .      1   0 ,
0550                                     -         -        -         -        -        _         _        _         _        _         _        _          _
1563 Va"Of                                 1 7N1m 1,nE,1U0   51h7N.  1'001111 0tn        n      10 ;2, s4.34%,1       TThh,1 171 75U9 S , 7 9.1S          11
Na.,                                  -        -        -         -        - - __             __       _    _              -        -            
551o                                      - -          _-          -           _        _         _         _         _         _         __- - -
12:-   12.004                                        _        _                                                                                 
9.0111                               -   12.200                                                                                                 
00.5 5225                            -   *0.000         -         -        -         -        -         -   20.000        -         -   20,000
3*5.1.. tos  551.                    -         -        -         -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -          -
So..                                  -    1.40                   -        -                  -         -        -         -        -        -          -
15-                                          52          -        -        ----  -                                                            -.  -                                                               S
Ml                                   -      ,2.32       -         -        -         -        -         -        -        -         -        -          -                                                        C
N*O5dd 4._O52                                  -             -         -        -   .         -         -        -         -        -         -         -
146146  t..1262                      -       2-                                     .                                                           
501  abot 224.90005                  -         -X44     _         _    1             .*        -        -        -40       -        -        -          -0
9 5.                               -e     60          -        -,       1 -       -        -         -        -         -        -    E    -         - 2;0
Ma  (44 00903 05.4.      *      .100    0.0        ,100    5,o   o ,100    6,200   *.100  *,00   5155      510     2.00   10,S00    6o.2o00lo   -21
55,9                              165U    i,66n    1.6n5    1.6U6    1.66        1.66    1.6n1    1.66       1,65     .210    2.2s0    1.05           -31
C..y                             10.12    20,121   10,125    101O      20.N12S   10.s2    N 102S  ,25 1015  1.121   13t.500   13,500     N 1022S      -21
0055                             12.0     23.50 12,g 1.540    22.540   12,540   2.0 12     .540 12   .660    12. 500   13.260    17,250   1 2,g  .560  -*1
85.69 S.5                5.3*~;70  5.720    5,320    5.120    5.720    5.720    5,320       .120    5,120   1250    12,55S0    5.720         -21
1a44.o                  23.~~~~;64    23.56    23,563   23.56    23,062   23.562   23,542   27.6 fft .n562        -        -   27n6            -
Or.25.06                                  25,525   25026    20,625   *5,5*      25.56     25.565    25,565   29,56    21.1     2552      25.06         20 St
tS1                              41.451    45.540   4556    41 *.065   45.000   45.492    45.451   45.45    45.45     33.037   33.013   41.45          3
Ml.                     31.1~~~~~5,60    14.206    36206   36.201    36.205    31.360   31,360   31.360   31.760   23.130   33.130   31.36 e  1
5*                                3,540    3.54     3.540    3.540    3.54       3,54     3.640    3.540    3.64      2.20    1.520    3.640          100
166.01014                         0.200    5,500    5,50    5.56       5,0       6,200    6.200     6.200    5.200        -         -    6.200          -
169d14 (sIi)                     *,Ot4    0,240    6.240    0.240    0.240    5.066    0,006    5.000    0.046    3.23         2.135     0066        157
trruc14                          13.000   13,50    13.500    13.500   13.500   13.500    23,00    13,000   13.500  1U,000    25,500    13.500         -35
5.4015  rer 55.6                 71.000   300       300    70.000    7000,3000    70.000   ° 70000   3  0.000          _                 30.000
t retlba  SS,l.a Soo.0211       1S*525.203   5316,30    5266   4s.j                       2203   515ls203   515.203   *56S22    26246 1s20_
2051 _e st51  456*02,6     3    oow.o                - 50ts   20T62                _ _.7 * ^X  
t              r                 SN t6 50.7S .547   9S.U7    =                  9706s   -;5r-;nw =s 6                        -71.97_         6           9          
to...t.o Or.. 52012  9..            600.003   667.135  602.562  *00,643  506.643  500.003  *00,013*000 6uR^    21.5*3   434,333   635.232  025.493        S01 
t.9  02rf  r to 5491n  e  1.04      6674535  003      JflOAO 6B 04. 6*  60 00400.00'3tO¢t   wO,Ott3  *2 46   4*545 42st  24.272   *24-272  *25.4073SCFt
_ n-A t e. t 2,O12.in01 *so2.w 6U                        1    1.5St7 - 25t7 21.11'1 20                                                                _ _                                         21    0
1-2 15* S 50.5 ha) 1.61 Moe



kmlom*W- N"nal WIdwshod ManapmwRt and Conowvatbn Prqect - Uppw Chft*rA* W81111"11141d Componot
Eawmnic AndyWo
Os  of   p    n    0  2000  2a    MD  XMS  M         JUIS  2MS  M     M     M     =0  2MI  222  =3  =4  2US  Wt  =7  Mill M      M     Mft   30   20  3M    30    US  3M    =9
'npa WAR An  to"  VMS OM  M"  $WM  NUID SAM  OM  =AS 410,2111 M"  M"  SMAG M"  ntM  SXM  MO SINHO UW  SWO MM  MM  51111168 =0  SNLM
VKWt        tOM  MM  3SLM  OM  MM  MO 3311AM ULM  ULM  30M  314M  MM  UX70 OM  321.7%, 3n TX X&M  JIO# 3MM  MX  MM  =11111 MM X*M  MAN UM  OM  OM
IAM  SOJPS WJM OM  rAM  4*0 MM  MW =X4 74M UIX  73W  W.7111 720A  726,314 MX4 70JU WM  134A  WAS W.SX 7"4 7^94 IMM 'AILIN NUN, W.3M WA
i t 2 4 4 0 91 0 9 0 0 $ 9 9 9 9 0 9 0 9 9 0 9 9 t 0 9
I    I    I    3    5   6   10   0    so  to  to  to    9   so   0    to  to  to   a    0    to  60   0    to   4    0    to
1711am                            R,                                                                                                                                                m    la
ty4ftm                               Al  44   21  21  21   a    74  tl  147  RV  to  to  RV  la  IN  to  'a' R`41  L*   "T  to  RU  RV  to  to  IN  R"RI  to   M   473  4M
a    a    0   ni  IN   94  4"  4M  475  4n  Cn  4U  4M  4M   M    4n  4n  47S  475  gn   M    4U  471  475  47S
FFSP.M                     0                0             la   H?  III  nS  414  50  IU  III  US  US  IRS  US  M    US  US  US  OU   US  VS  US  SU   US  45  IRS  SU   US  0    M
ffsr                      0      0    0    0       A    (m)  tis  us  to   no  4w  SU   m    m    on  an   03  on  7v   m    m    in  an   m    0    m    m    m    m    On
zwk
"lima                                  9   u    14   0    a    16   0    is  to   p    is  Is  14  te  to  'it  17  to  to  14   0   to  111   p    to  to   a    17
py2pon                    T    -Mt         to   a    14  2D   n    Is   n   St  zt  30  20  21   M   n    n    A    20  3D  St  III   n    a    n    n    s    31   0    9   2m
MAIM                             R,                                            21  311                                                                                    m    so  2m
oi    10  IN  10  I"  311  211                 IM  IW  211  XO  M    XI  *6  JIM  29t  20   KO  M    301  306  M    Jft
mran                                 (M.       OM   4a   M    M   00  U34  W   CM    M    W    OX  9M  IAO  786  LO   90  On   06  974 IM   74  LON   w    "I  9%  on  Igo
rysraw                     0      :    a            OM    CM  LO  Lie  Lao to  La  LM  I"  &M   us  tAm  M    up  R"  im   I    tim  LIM  1731  Lin  LIN  LXI I    IAN  RAW  Lu  tin  am
"6111M                     0      a    a            P"  006)  as un  M    Sim  txl  M%  im  tAm  im   W6 tim   M    1.111111 UR  a    UN  U16  IAS  LM  I3111 tAll umo  ko  im  I"   UV  uu  tiu
ZM2:
17  34  30   x    3D  35   x    0    M    M    is   M    M    9    35  34  34  is   P    x    is  3s  so   M    M    it   x
13   0    v    M   41  34  39   v    30  so   x    0    M    9    a    39   M    32   0    a   9    9    a    n    x   40   n    n   S37
FYI%=                      0      R,     (,A   IN  211  41  M    al  10  10  In   91  91  21  OUR  IW  IK   M    "S  $71,  sit  M    SU   M    *3  M    Pt  SU   M    sn
rT4F6m                               O(A.      (M   at  us I'm   MO  UDS W    034  UN  UM  IAP  LM  t"  IAX  10   M    UM  IAR  IAN  I"  OAX  IPX  1.006 W6 up  Lou  oe  t.V6  LIX
tyshm                                         PAOD) MO LOU  1,5111 UU  %M   UN  UN  3AT  UO  MO  UIS UX  9.30  2"  AX7  5.3M  MO  UN  I=  I"  ZM  AX? &M   U"  UN  UX  &M   U17  In?
rydram                     0      0    0    0       M"  (INS) tm  LM  2231 %M   UR  2xl  329  us  us  RAW  UN  Oft  xv   up  JZS 3zs up  Sim  UN  LM   "D  xw   USS  U30  Ust UPO UID Ulo
(a)         79) 3    O         un  7A" MM  am  14AP lsiv IS"  16"   MM  lim  ISAIR Run OX  MM  MA30 16pu ISM  MP  aw   U"  lixt lus tan  tun tun  1=1 14M  IIA52  uls
M        IUO32)                IN    nD  40   GM  LIN  1.51%  M    Ug  UM  UX  UM  L214 UU  UM  229  2"  2W  IZ? 2W   USI IM  IV  2"  2=  2M   UN  204  IAI  M
TOWZONS                                   I               614 VU  UN  4.30  4"  4.212  4,05 t7O  4"   00  4.54  4580 4.M  4.0  4.7V  4AU  4M  tM   010  4M  4JO  4 739 4.61116 4JW  4"  43116 429  U"  LM
Toklz2                   M                              LM  4X  6JO  7AM  M    I"   trA  9144 006 "M  IRAN  UW  M    41471 OA44 OX6 OX  00  U40 CM  Un  2.1"  OJM  *AM  SAI 01M  LW   &W   Lila
ImRzmt                   am
uazm 3                   02a
mzs                     0.01
am
yo"2 RM&                   0    (1)W    NO  &M    W           US  141)  30   30   %)  76S   0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   0    a    0    a    0    0    a         9    0    0   0
Ym3lboh                    0               26S            2a
M    CPSO NSC 70S O                 6    6    0    0, 0       0    0 0       0 0       0    0    0                                  11
YSN4&0&                    11        PT                     I                                                      0    4    0    a         0   a    0    0    .    :    0    0    6   11
yousafth                   a      0    o  (T  C.)  a          s    (.)  I.   r.,             -(3             -0    0    0    0    0   00    0   0    a    0    0    6    0    0    0   a
T.idPm&                    o    (OR) (m) (WIR ("   717  736  4n  SU   103  sn  M    06  im   du    0   0    0    0    6    0    0    0   0    0    a    a    0    0    a    6   0   0   0   4
(a)   OM  (tm  (4^  0.00 OM    up  M    luo  U46 LW  16"   KX11 Km  tun tM  LVn  IM   "    "S K130 IW  ISMS WV aW  IUD "I Mm LWI IM  LUN #SAt MAS
(9) Om M
914 (479) Q    ((4961A
I"   11   QA  (IMI 0490 0^
PQM  on (M
0    0    9    0   T PA"  OA"   PM   (Xo  (00  ("    MO  PM   CISI) (IX) ON) (131) (131) (131) (131) (LX) (131) (138) (111) (LX) (M) (131) (131) (IU) (131) Qu') ON) tin) (till
(4"   (444 coo OM   P^  (Mm Pq  (Loa) (no) M             ON) (M) (399  ("   (131) (IN) (M) (Llt) (139) (IN) (13t) (IN) (L31) (IN) (M) (131) (01) (M) 031) (ill) P) 031) (13t) 031) (M)
(401)  (11M  (I."  &"  (tt^) M"  22M  1=  V=    UM  t43% IM   ISM  KM  MO LUO  AW  LMU IUSS ISA13 IS$1111 gUn LSM  LUM  AM  I!L=  ISAW OM  ISAIZ MM  RUN`          1#3111 OM    M"
CLM
JUN



Wateszhed Managent and Consrvation  "aoj.ct
Iroot Cost SPia_ry
I     I Total
(ft  Millaon)               (Us9 '000)        poraign    Base
Local   totelon    TLocl   L1l  Forin  Totl             S      Cost
A.. OatIonaX. MWt1tMtinasL EtrengthenIn COMPauOt
1. Project Imtagemnt (ational Level)                                 650     1,165     1,816     314      562     876       64
2. ITS/RIS and Planning Sub-Cpo t                                 11,766    8340    20,106   5,673   4.021   9,694         41        3
3. Technolog  Development Sub-Cobponent                            8,041     2.864    10,906   3,877   1,381   5,258        26        1
4. Training Sub-C lpont                                           10,177     2.518    12 694   4,907   1,214   6,121        20        2
total National Institutional Stegteig Cmpaont                        30,634    14,087    45,821  14,770   7.178  21,9(9        33        6
D. I mvstmnt support conponnt                                       s98,98s    34,082   633,037 288.792  16,433 305,225         5       85
C. lpper CiEa* Vatebed Compot
1. pnd Cn ti< M              nt
a. SAL
Key Farmer Tchnology Displays                                5,682        93     5,775   2,740      4S   2,784         2        1
8xpenion Areas                                              24.460       835    25,295  11.794     402  12,196         3        3
htatal SAW                                                     30,e142      927    31,069  14,533     447  14,900         3        4
b. Village Nursties                                             1.734       213     1.947     836      103     939       11        -
Sta    ld   sevtin  magmnt                                        31,876     1140    33,016  15,369    580  1S,919           3        4
2. UPa   Sadii ntatin Costaol
a. Strusl and Vegtative lad Stabiisatmo  Strutues
Land Stabilization                                           4,191       748     4,939   2,021     361   2,381        1S        1
b. land and Drainage Upgrading
RoWd Upgrading                                               3,587     1,181     4,768   1,730      570   2,299       28        1
Roadside Drainage Control                                    1.643       293     1.936     792     141      933       1S
Sttta2 Saad and D           Vainae  gwading                    58230      1.474     6.704  2.822      711   1.233        22        1
Subtotal Uplad Sediutation Contrl                                  9,421     2,223    11,644   4.842   1,072   5,614        19        2
3. Upland Suppot Servie'
Planning, Bxtansion and Training                                4,791       468     8,256   2,310     224   2,531         9        1
Farming Syatens Research                                          465        66       531     224      32      256       12        -
Land Titling                                                    1,740       750     2,490     839      361   1,200       30        -
Village  nd Nealet Funds                                          442       191       633     213       92     305       30        -
Subtotal Upland Sogert Sevice                                      7,439     1,472     8,910   3,587      710   4,296       17        1
4. ProjIet  an_ageot and Institutional Strengtbeni
Project Maagement                                               1,622       568     2,190     782      274   1,056       26        -
Technical Assistance                                            6,061     1,413     7,474   2,922      681   3,603       19        1
Special Studies                                                   245       98 94   1,229    le      475      593       80        -
ubtotal Project bu_amet and Ikstitutional Strengthening            7 928     2,965    10,893   3,822   1,430   5,252        27        1
Subtotal VWpr Cinu  Watershed Coponent                                6663      7.799    64,463  27.321   3,76   31.081        12        9
Total  BAW   COSTs                                                   686,252    86,769   743,021 330,883  27,372 358,255         a      100
Pb?sical Contingencies                                              34,687     2,891    37,577  16,725   1,394  18,118         8        5
Price Contingaecies                                                223.153     7.899   231.043 107.596   3 801 111.399         3       31
total PWO3T  COSts                                                   944,092    67,848 1,011,611  48204  32,569 487,773         7       136
Tue Sep 28 13:30:23 1993
1-1 Project Cost Sumary



Inneia                                                                            a
Watershed amag_ellt and Conservation Pro ect
exoesot ost bmaq_
a     I Sotal
(Rt Iillion)          _     U t   000)        foreign    Sea.
Local     oen    Tot                 ord onal   tal    1       costs
I. hveett costa
A  A. 1oultcal .   1qWne
Soes and Planting Material                           60,656          -    60,656  29,246       -  29,246        -         a
Livestock                                               548          -       5t4     264       -     264        -         -
Fertilizer /a                                         1,247        640     2,087     601     405   1,006       40
Pesticides                                              577        103       680     278      49     326       IS
Farm tools and £uipmat                                  217         SS       272     105      26     131       20
ubfttal gAioult el pla                                  63,245        998    64,242  30,494     481  30,975         2        9
S. civil works
Buildings and Structures                                775        336     1,111     374     162     536       30
Poada and Dtains                                      2,402      1,181     3.663   1,197     570   1,766       32
Lad Stabilizatioa Tratamts /b                         5.6834     1.041     6,875   2,813     502   3,315       IS         I
subtotal Civl worm                                       9,091      2,559- 11,650   4,363   1,234   5,617         22         2
C.  ehicles /c                                              365       858     1,223     176     414     S90       70         -
D. tl'o
PFrm and Unskilled Labor /d                              26          -        20      14       -      14        -
Rogular Salaries Is                                     140          -       140      67       -      67        -
Staff Ronoraria                                      1053          -      1_0C3    50         -     S08        -
llbtOtal                                                  1221          -     1,221     589       -    589         -         -
S. Tralaing (Cimanuk) /t                                 6,521      1,521    10,041   4,108     133   4,842       1S         1
P. Ttainig (Natioal) /g                                  1,402        250     1.653     676     121     797       1s         -
G. Extensioa (Cimk) /h                                    3,000         -     3,000   1,446       -   1,446         -        _
1. Lamp Sum Contracta/Studies 1                            245        984     1,229     118     475     593       s0
J. R"earch                                               4,347        776    5,123   2,096      374   2,470        15        1
X. Teciiosi Aadetsmoe
Consulteats Fortign                                   2,041      0,191    10,232     984   3,949   4,933       80         1
Consultant_Local                                      7.180          -     7 160   3,462       -   3.462        -         I
subtotal eatoal ASetstn                                   9,221              17,411   4.446   3,949  8e395         47        2
L. Load Cartification                                    1,381        465     1,64S     666     224     690       25
M. Purnitute ad Bquiamt                                     822       826     1,648     396     398     794        S0
N. Monitoring ad Information System (MIS)                 6,109     5,242    11,351   2,945   2,528   5,473        46        2
0. 32PEg Regreening and Reforeation Investment /I   562,632    34.082   596.714 271.279  16.433 p7,712              6       s0
Sotal t_etet Costs                                          671.600   56,751   728,315  323,819  27,363 351.182         a       99
II. PACUsnt Coasa
A. Labor
Fa  mad Unskilled Labor /k                              402          -       402     194       -     194        -
Salari  /1                                              378          -       376     162       -     182        -         -
Ijonortaia                                            2.536          -     2.S36   1.223       -   1223          -        -
Stotal   r                                                3,316         -     3,316    1,599         -    ,598      _ 
S. erioli    Sngiep
Sed  nd Planting Materials                             3,992         -     3,992   1,925       -   1,925         -        I
Fertilisrs                                               2          1         3       1       1       1       40
Subtotal Agrionltore up1ies                               3,993         1     3,994   1,925       1   1.926  7               1
C. Lnd Rental                                                 8         -        38      18        -      18        -        -
D. Building and Structures Maintenance                       11         -        11       5       -        5        -        -
B. Road and Drains Ifaintonance                           1,105         -     1,105     533       -      533        -        -
P. Vehicle Maintenance                                    1,140         -     1.140     550       -      SS0                 -
0. material' and Furniture Replacement                       67        17        83      32        6      40       20        -
H. Bquipeet Maintenance                                   2,262         -     2,262   1,091        -   1.091        -        -
K. Project mansgemnt Costs                                2,719         -     2,719   1.311        -    311
total  .amcent Coots                                        1.652         18    14.670   7,065        9   707          -        2
total SP.fli c0523                                           686,252    56,769   741,021 330,863  27,372 35S.255         6      100
Physical Contingencies                                      34,687     2,891    37,577  16,725   1,394  18,118         8        5
Price Contingencies                                        223.153     7.889   231,043 107.596   3,804 111,399         3       31
total IIICS cC05                                             944,092    67,548 1,011,641 455,204  32,569 487,773         7      136
\a Pot Bank financed.
\b C? is based on a Cf of 0.9 for unskilled labor (374 of cost), 0.9 for mterials (561 of cost), and 1.0 for skilled labor (74 of cost).
Taxes and FE assum  that S0 percent of the costs will be for vegtative treatmnts.
\c Assumes vehicles are assembled dometically: vehicles are considered raserved procurement.
\d Not taxable.
\ Niot. taxable.
\f Training is taxod if contracted out.
\g Training it. taxd if contracted out.
\b Incentive paymnts to  xtension workers (taxed at 15) accounted for in honoraria oxpenditure account.
\1 Taxed at sam rate as training and TA
\1 FB and Taxas *re determined based on breakdan of the program for PY92193.
lk Not taxble.
2-1 Project Cost Sumry



indonexia
Watershed auage_ent and Conservation Project
hojeat Comp-to by Ya
Setals Inoludiag Coe           [RD Million)                     totals Including contin4encies (tS  '000)
94/95     95/96   _9V97      97/98      98/99     99/00    Total   94)95   95/96   9697   971/98   98/99   99/00  total
A. Natia"l latittiaml Strengthening Ctoent
1. arojct Manag_Ment (latiol evtl)                                  367      654       676       329        1         43    2,110    177       315     326     1 C      20     21   1,017
2. IlS/RIB and Planning Su        et                             1,788     2,144     6,066     7,358     S.544     2,143    25,043    862   1,034   2,925   3,548   2,673   1,034  12,075
3. Tecbnology Developmnt Sub-COmponent                             661      1,805     1,987     3,117     3,235    3,402    14,208     319     870      958   1,503   1,560   1,640   6,8SI
4. Training Sub-bCupcnt                                          2.772     4.001     :.525      2,552     1,678    1,213    15,741   1,336   1,929   1,700   1.230     809    585  7.590
Ibbota1 ati*DAl ibatitoti.nl Itregtbeal"g coament                   S,S88     8,604    12,253    13,356    10.498     6,801    57,102   2,694   4.149 S908   6i4i  5.062   3,279  27.532
D. lnvestment Suport COmponet                                            -         -   182,954   205,488   228,177   2S1,038   867,656      -        - 88,213  99,07B 110,018 1212,41 418,349
C. tmge Oiaanuh watershed Component
1. q~1aud consevatie  Ibnaget
a. am
Try Farmer Technology Displays                                 87      0SO       939      1,866     2,432     2,563    8,037      42      72      453     900   1,172   1,236   3,875
gpasion Areas                                                   -        -       823     4,765    11.962    18,521    36,071       -       -     397   2,298  5.767  8,930  17.392
Subtotal SI                                                      87        150     1,762    6,632    14,394    21,084    44,108      42      72    850   3,197   6,940  10,166  21,267
b. Villag Murseries                                              33        68       653       S4         6SS       652    2.615       16     33      315    267      316    315   1.261
Subtota Utlnd Coneration managmt                                    120      218     2,415     7,186    15,049    21,736    46,723      58    10S   1,164   3,165   7,256  10,*80  22,528
2. ,plnd Sedimetation Control
a. Strmtuul anAd Vegetativ  Land Stabiliztion Statos
Land Stebilization                                           321       379     2,258     2,373       68S        668    6,684     1SS     183   1,089   1,144     330     322   3.223
b. Slod   d Drainae  Upgadng
Road Upgrading                                                  -    1,151      1,193    1,329     1,858        672    6,204       -     SSS    575    641       896    324   2,991
Roadsid  Drainage Control                                      -       645       625       657       669         -    2.596        -     311      302     317    322       - 1252
Subtotal lad and Drainage Upgrading                                -    1.796      1,819     1,987    2.526       672    8.800        -     866     877    958   1.218    324   *.243
Subtotal Upland Sedimetation Control                                321    2,175      4,077    4,360      3,212     1,341    15.484    155   1,049   1,966   2,102  1l549    646   7,466
3. Ilpad SiweSt Services
Planning, Sxtesion and Training                                 838     1,061     1,206      1,298    1,235      1,091    6,729     404    S51      582     626    596    526  3,244
Farming Systems Rsearcb                                           3       228       105       124        121      104       684       1     110      51      60      So      50     330
Land Titling                                                     111       14       204        498       930     1,561    3,319      54       7       99    240    449    753   1,600
Villag  and Hamlet unt                                             -         -        9        284       298       166      839        -              i     13t      143     80   *04
*&total Wood Swport services                                        9S2     1,302     1,607     2,204    2,584      2,922    11,570     459     628    77S   1,063   1.246   1,409   S,579
4. rerjeot Mnageent mod mnstitutonal Strangtbenig
Project Managment                                             1,225       260       278       287       302       311     2,663     591     125     134     138     146    150   1,281
Technical Assistance                                           1,705    2.486      2,086     1,116       830      871     9,093      822   1.199   1,006    538      400    420  4.384
Special Studies                                             -1.349           -        -          -         -        -      1.349    650       -       -        -      -       -    650
Spitotal Projet  amag mt  nd Matitutioel Strengthening                  27  2.746    2.363       !,0      1,133    1.182    13 105    0                         676    546    570 6SO   
total  er  Cs_k Wtershed Co_et                                  _ S,671       6.441    10.462    15.152    21.977 9     1 27,180   86,883   2,734    3.106   S.044  7.306  10.596  13.105  41.89i
otal Mm   OmS                                                        11,259    15,045  205,669  233,996   260,652   285,020 1,011,641   5.429   7,254  99,165 112,823 125,676 137,425 487,773           W
Tuo Sep 28 13:31123 1993
3-1 Project Components by Year



Watershed Manag_emt and Conservaticn Project
te tm  Aomtn  by tV
Totals Including ContAoencies (p Mtllion)                         totals Includ ng Contingancie  [USS  000O
94N95     95196     96/97      9t/98     98J99     99/00     tol    94/95   95/96               97/98   98/99   99/00   Totl
A.  agSqs toum     Sq,29
Sees end Planting material                                 46        75    11,918    16,722    241,360    31,T13    84,891       22       36   5,746   8,063  11,745  1S,320  40,932
Livstock                                                   18        21       169        268       216        79        771       9       10      62     129     104       38     372
Fertilizde  /a                                              7         8       146        541     1,009     1,061      2,773       3       4       71     261     487      512   1,337
Ftaticides                                                  5         7        69        192       315       311        899       2       3       33      93     152      IS0     433
Tara ools OndA lipnt                                       *2        19         8        111        73         13       347      20        9      43      53      35        6     167
? ubtotal    icultual SuWlie                                 117       130    12,391    17,834   25,974    33,238    89,683         56       63   5,974   8599  12,524  16,026  43,241
3. Civil Wokr
suildings oad Structures                                    -       127       323        517       298        166     1,411       -       61     156     249      141      80     690
Roads and Drains                                            -     1,151     1,110      1,161     1,176         -      4,598       -     555      535     560     567        -   2,217
Land Stabilization Treatmets /b                           321     1,024     2.883      3.030     1,354       668      9.281     155     494   1.390   1.461      653      322  4*475
Subtotal Civil Works                                         321     2 302     4,317      4,708     2,827        834    15,309     155   1,110   2,081   2,270   1,363       402   7.381
C. Vehicles Ic                                                61       235        125       136        11         12     1,382     415      113      61      65        6       6     667
fl. Labor
arm and thskillod  Abor d                                   2         2        12         13         7          -        37       1        1       6       6       4        -      18
Regular Salaies  0                                          8        13        61         64        36          -       182       4        6      29      31      18        -      s8
Staff Nonoraria                                           109       203       341        357       157       165      1.332      53      g8      164     172      76       80     642
a_btotal X.abot                                              119       218       414        434       201        165     1 551      57      105     199      209      97      80    748
S. Training (Cimanuk) /f                                   1,937     2,967     2,772      2,138     1,523     1,256    12.593      934   1,430   1,337   1,031      734      605   6,072
F. Training (National) /g                                     92        72       527        790       554        119     2,155      44       35     254     3el     267       57   1,039
G. Extenion (Clinauk)  b                                     478       757        640      8a5        776        402     3,887     230      365     308     403      374     194   1.874
1. Lump Sum Contracts/Studies Ji                          1,349          -         -          -         -         -      1,349     650        -       -       -        -       -     650
J. Research                                                  148       283       378      1,399     2,328     2,447      6,983      72      136     182     674   1,123   1,180   3,367
X. teStnca  Aesistan e
Consultants Foreign                                     2,706     4,522     3,528        872         -          -    11,628   1,305   2,180   1,701      420        -       -   5,607
Cousultants Loca1                                       1,280     2.088     1.916      1.348     1.156      1,169     8.958     617   1,007      924     650      557     564   4,319
Subtotal echtial Asastanoe                                 3,986     6,611     5,444      2,220     1,156      1,169    20,586   1,922   3,187   2,625   1,070      557      564   9,926
L. Land Certification                                          4         9         aS       344       728      1,341     2,512       2        4      41     166     351      647   1,211
M. Purniture and Squipment                                   367       237        658       370       162        167     1,961     177      114     317     179       78      81     946
N. monitoring and Informtion Systm (MIS)                     SS0        30      3,719     5,5SI     3,589        591    14,030     265       15   1,793   2.676   1.730      285   6,765
0. INPRES Regreening and Reforestation Investmnt /J            -         -   172,176   193.620   215.111   236,653  817.560          -        -  83.016  93.356  0n71  114.105 394195S
90tal 2hveeot   Coat*                                         10,329    13,850   203,648   230,381   254,940   278,393   991,540   4,980   6,678  98,191 111,0B0 122,922 134,230 478,081
3X. PACUVV=t Coats
A. labor 
arm and Unakilled Labor /k                                  5        30        80        124       153        161       553       2       i5      39,     60      74       78     267
Salincas /1                                                 -        15        32         98       170        217       532       -        7      16      47      62      105     257
Honoraria                                                 470       512       561       531        556        582     3.211     227     247      270     256     269      280   1.548
ubtota3 labor                                                475       5S7       673        752       879        960     4,297     229      269     325     363     424      463   2.072
3 Agricuture S liae
Sed  end Planting materials                                21        78       335        945     1,763     2,488      5,650      10       37     162     456     860   1.199   2,721
fertilizers                                                 -         I         1          1         1          1         3       -       0        0       0       0        0       2
Subtotal Agricltue Supplies                                   21        78        336       946     1,783      2,488     S,651      10       38     162     456      860   1,200   2,726
C. Land Rental                                                 -         7         10        11        11         12        51       -        3       5       5        5       6      25
D. Building and Structures Maintenanc                          -         -          2         4         4          5        15       -        -       1       2        2       2       7
E. Road and Drains Maintenance                                 -         -        83        168       682        672     1,606       -        -      40      81      329     324     774
F. Vehicle Maintenance                                       137       210       247        288       306        325     1,512      66      101     119     139      147     157     729
G. Materialr and Furniture Replacement                         -         1         13        25        34         40       113       -        0       6      12       16      19      55
B. Equipment Maintenance                                      29        30       295        725     1,013      1,069     3,161      14       15     142     350     486      515   1,524
IK. Project  anagement Costs                                 268       311        361       696       999   1.056        3,692     129      IS0     174     336     482    509   1.780
Sotal Flean t Coats                                              931     1.195      2,021     3,615     5,712      6,627    20,100     449      576     974   1.743   2?754   3,1      9.692
Total VAO3C  C0SSS                                             11,259    15,045   205,669   233,996   260,652   285,020 1,011,641   5,429   7,254  99.165 112,823 125.676 137,425 467,773
,a Ntot Bank financed.
lb CF is based on a CY of 0.9 for unwkilled labor (371 of coat), 0.9 for materials (56t of cost), and 1.0 for skilled labor (7t of cost).
Taxes and FE assume that 50 percent of the costs will be for vegetative tratment&.
\c Assums vehicles are assesbled doestically, vehicles are consideted reserved procurement.
Xd Not taxablo.
\0 Not taxable.
\f Training is taxed if contracted out.
%g Training is taxed if contracted out.
lh Incontive payments to extenion workers (taxed at 159) accounted for in honoraria expenditure account.
\S. Taxed at san rate as training and TA
\) FB and les ate determined based on braakdom  of the program for Ff92/93.
\k Not taxable.
\1 Not taxable.
Tuo Sep 28 13:31:56 1993
4-1 Expenditure Accounts by Years



-115 -                       ANNEX 10
INDONESIA
NATIONAL WATERSHED MANGEMENT
AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
ESIMmTED SCHUE OF DIsuaEmmu
Project Disbursement
Amount per        Cumulative            Disbursement
IBRD Fiscal Year      Semester       Amount      %            Profile % La
US$ million
1994
2                      0              0         0                0
19S
1                      1.9            1.9       3.4              3
2                      1.9            3.8       6.7              6
1996
1                      2.7           6.5       11.5             14
2                      2.7            9.2       16.3            22
1997
1                      6.0           15.2      26.9             30
2                      6.0           21.2      37.5             38
1998
1                      6.2          27.4       48.5            46
2                      6.2           33.6      59.5             54
1999
1                      6.0          39.6       70.1            58
2                      5.9           45.5      80.5             66
2000
1                      5.5          51.0       90.3            74
2                      5.5           56.5      100.0            82
2001
1                      -              -          -             90
2                       -             -          -              94
2002
1                      -              -          -             98
2                       -             -          -             100
Project Closing Date: September 30, 2000.
li For agriculture projects in Indonesia. The profile for all sectors in Indonesia is two
semesters shorter.



-116-                                      ANNEX 11
INDONESLA
NATIONAL WATERSHED MANAGEMENT AND
CONSERVATION PROJECT
PROCURMEN OF MAJOR GOODS AND CIVIL WORKS
Total Costa a(p million)
Subcomponents                                      Reponsible               including contingsncies
and Categories  Item               Units   No.    Agency             ICB      LCB       Other       NBF
Technoigy Development
Fteld Stations           Station    S    AARD/AFRD            -      561/a         -
Research Equipment       Sets       S    AARD/AFRD            -      603&          -         -
Vehicles
Four-wheel drive         Units     7    AARDIAFRD            -         -          -       332
Motorcycles             Units    20    AARDIAFRD             -         -          -        72
1SS and Land Use Planing
Microcomputers           Units   198    MOFr/MOHA             -         -          -     3,077
Plotters                 Units   163    MOFr/MOHA             -         -          -     2,024
Digitizers               Units   163    MOFr/MOHA   1,619               -          -         -
Supplies                 Lump-sum         MOPr/MOHA        641          -          -         -
Softwar                  Units   498    MOFr/MOHA   3,452               -          -
ial Photo                Lump-suM         MOFr/MOHA           -      224           -
satellite Imagery        LumP-sum         MOPrIMOHA           -         -     1,989&
Trainn  and Extbakm
Equipment for Training Center             MOHA                -      626/
Upper Cimanuk Watershed
Kabupaten-level Nurseries:
Nurseay Equipment (Garut) Set       1    PMU Garut            -      160
Nursey Equipment
(Sumedang)              Set        1    PMU Sumedang         -      160
Village Road & Roadside Drainage:
Village Road Upg,rding
(Garut)                  km     88.6    PMU Garut            -         -      4,33Sd        -
ViUlage Road Upgrading
(Sumedang)               km     37.0    PMU Sumedang         -         -      1,870L       -
RoadsideDrainage (Gart) km    132.9    PMU Garut              -         -      1,8391d       -
Roadsie Dainage
(Sumedang)              kin    55.5    PMU Sumedang          -         -       757w         -
Land Stabilization Treatments:
Land Stab. Treatments
(Garut)                  Lump-sum        PMU Garut           -         -      4,713Ld       -
Land Stab. Treatmens
(Sumedang)               LuMP-SuM        PMU Sumedang        -         -      1,9721d       -



-117 -                                   ANNEX 11
Total Costs (Rp miDlion)
Suboomponenbt                                   Responsiblo_    including contingc¢es
and Categories  Item              Units   No.    Agency          ICB      LC8      Other      NBF
Land Tiling:
Theodolite & EDM        units    2S    BPN W.l and Tk.ff  -      s44L        -         -
Microcomputen           unis      S    BPN Tl.1 and 1T.l  -         -         -        46
Other Office equipment    Lunmum       BPN Tk.1 and lkl.l  -      58          -         -
Motorycles              units    10    BPN Tl.l and Tk1.1  -        -         -        38
SUPS Resarch:
Field Offi¢             unis      3    PMU Gamt/Sumedang-         21          -         -
Resarch & Office
Equipment              Lump-sum        PMU Gamt/Sumedang-        123          -        -
Planning, Extension, Tiaining:
Field Motorcycles
(to PPL Garut)         units    37    PMU Ganut           -        -          -      126
Field Motorcycles
(to PPL Sumedang)      unis    11    PMU Sumedang                   - -      -        37
Upper Cimanuk Watershd
rut PMU:
Pour-wheel drive        units     2    Garut PMU           -        -         -        89
Motorycles             unts      4    Ganut PMU           -        -         -        13
Computer & peripheals   set       3    (arut PMU          -         -         -        29
Oer Of fic and Feld
Equipment              Lumpsum         Garut PMU                            4OLf       -
Sumedang PMU:
Pour-wheel drive        units     1    Sumedang PMU        -        -         -        45
Motorcycles             units     2    Sumedang PMU        -        -         -         7
Computers & pereals   sets        1    Sumedang PMU        -        -         -        12
Other Office and Field
Equipment              LUMP-sum        Sumedang PMU       -        -        36lf       -
Cilumpuyang Trining Center:
Microbus                units     2    MOPr                         -         -       223
Minibus                 units     2    MOPr                -        -         -       103
SBRLKT Cimanuk:
Four-whel drive         units     4    SBRLKT Cimanuc   -           -         -       178
Computer & perohals   sets        2    SBRLKT Cimanuk   -           -         -        20
Other Office and Fied
Equipnent              Lump-sum        SBRLKT Cimanuk   -        1041g        -        -
Provincial Commitee:
Four-wheel drive        units     1    Bappeda lk.1 West Java       -         -        45
Computer                units     2    BappedaTk.I         -        -         -        17
Other Office and Field
Equipment              units     2    Bappeda TI          -        -         8gL       -



-118 -                                   ANNEX 11
Total Costs (Rp million)
Subcomponents                                   Responsible             includine contingencies
and C.goriea  Item                Units   No.    Agenoy          ICe      LCB      Other      NBF
NGOs:
Four-wheel drive        units     1    fBapped. Tk.1 West Java                -        45
Field motorcycles       units     9    Bappeda Tkl         -        -         -        30
Computer & periphals    ab        2    Bapped. Tk.        -         -         -        21
Other Offic and Field
Equipment              Lump-sum        Bapped. Tlc.I      -        -        1OLf
La  Field stations and researh equipment are expected to involve multiple contrats due to the renoteness of the
locations.
Ib Procured through dircdt i;ontracting *om Spot or Landsat.
/L Equipment for several training centers is expected to be procured through separate contracts.
L Porce account. Includes maintenan¢c costs.
to This equipment is expected to be procured at different stages of project implementation, and involve more than
one contract.
Lf Local shopping.
Lg Involves purchase of theodoLhtes and dravnng tables for technical planning.



-119-                         ANNEX 12
INDONESIA
NATIONAL WATERSHED MANAGEMENT
AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
PROJE    SUPERVSON PLAN
The Project is planned to be supervised following the schedules shown in
Annex 7. The matrix below indicates the mix of specialties and frequency and duration
of missions likely to be needed to ensure adequate project supervision. The footnotes
suggest some of the key events requiring particular attention of the supervision missions.
Mission Time
No.   Mo/Yr  AE  A    SC  ISS  RE  LU  TR   SO   Er PA  Staff Weeks
lIa    2/94    2   2     2      2                         2        5    10
2^    4194     1   1                1                               3     3
3!c   8/94     2   2      2     2   1               1     1        7    11
4e4    1/95    2   2      2     2   1         2    1      2        8    14
5La   9/95     2   2                     2                         3      6
6e    3/96     2   2      2     2   1    2    2    2      2   2   10    19
.7L   11/96    2                         2         1      1        4     6
8/h   4/97     2   2     2          1                              4      7
9Li   12/97    1   1                          2           2        4      6
1011    5/98    1   1            1                   1     1        5      5
11/k   11/98    2   2     2      2        2    2           2        7    14
12L1   5/99     1   1                1                     1        4      4
13LM   12/99    2   2            2             2           2        5    10
14LA   4/00     2   2                1    2          2     2        6    11
15/q  11/00     2   2     2      2   1         2    2      2   2    9    17
La Effectiveness condition and start-up.
Lb  Technical assistance procurement.
lb Plan review FY95, operationalizing working groups (research, training, planning, MIS/RIS),
road manual, surveys, Cimanuk, incl. WID.
Ld  Review inst. strre, ISS, Research proposal, nursery dev., tech. guidelines), training,
model micro DAS in Cimanuk, road manual to be completed.
/e Planbng/Pola review, review technical guidelines for watersheds R&R.
Lf Mid Term Review.
Lg  Cimanuk: land tiding.
a   Review road maintenance in Cimanuk, review operations R&R working groups.
Li Training and extension review.
LI  Review Cimanuk.
/k  R_view R&R program.
/I  Review Cimanuk.
/n Review R&R program.
La  Completion date.
/o  Project Completion Review.
AE - Agricultual Economist, A - Agriculturist (research in upland fming, farm systems), SC -
Soil and Moisture Conservation, ISS - MIS/RIS specialist, RE - Road Engineer, LU - Land Use
Planner, TR - Training speciaList, SO - Sociologist (WID/community dev.), EXT - Extension
specialist, PA - Public Administration specialist.



- 120 -                      ANNEX 13
INDONESIA
NATIONAL WATERSHED MANAGEMENT
AND CONSERVATION PROJECT
SEIEC  DocumES IN RJoEC FIE
Project Preparation Working Document
-     Preparation of the Cimanuk Watershed Management and Conservation Project -
Draft Final Report Volume 1 and 2, and Appendices, February 1992, by Hunting
Technical Services Limited, UK, in association with PT. Tricon Jaya, Indonesia
-     Revised  Project Proposal Upper Cimanuk  Watershed  Management and
Conservation (component B), September, 1992, by Hunting technical Services Ltd,
in association with PT. Tricon Jaya
-     Investment Proposal for Watershed Management Technology Centers in Indonesia,
May 1991 by Ministry of Forestry of the Government of Indonesia, UNDP and
FAO.
-     Assistance Inplementation (INPRES) on Regreening and Reforestation: Pelita 11-
V (Progress), and Pelita VI (Prospect) by Harry Santoso, July 1992, Directorate
of Land Conservation Ditjen RRL, MOFr
-     Preparation of the Cimanuk Watershed Management and Conservation Project,
Preliminary Environmental Assessment, March 1992, by Hunting Technical
Services Ltd, in association with PT. Tricon Jaya
-     Laporan Kemajuan Pelaksanaan Kegiatan Bantuan Penghijauan dan Reboisasi,
Tahun 1992/93, Sekretariat Tim Pengendali
Decree  of  the  Director  General  of  regional  Development,  no
69/KEP/BANGDA/92, about work relation ship and the responsible Agency for
the activities of developing and controlling of Regreening and Reboization Aid
Final report on the evaluation of the INPRES Reforestation and Regreening, 1992,
by the Central Forest Rehabilitation Project, Directorate of Reforestation and
Regreening, RRL,and Research Institute of Bogor Institute of Agricultural Science
The MIS experience of the UACP, June 1992, by Richard W. Gnagey
Strengthening of National Watershed Management Organization System Study,
June 1992, prepared by P.T. Andal Agric Agrikarya Prima for Ministry of Home
Affairs, BANGDA



- 121 -                     ANNEX 13
Apprasal Documents:
-     National Watershed Management and Conservation Project - Training Needs
Survey Report, February 1993, prepared by Lars Wilhelmsson DHV Consultants
BV.
-     Commity Participation in the Cimanuk Watershed and Lessons for National
Watershed, January 1993, by Dr. Lea Jellinek
-     Agriculture Background and Technology Development for the National Watershed
Management and Conservation Project, January 1993, by John Dalton
-     Information  Support  System   Activities,  May  1993  by  B.  Wayne
Luscombe
-     Estimation of Financial and Economic Benefits of the Upper Cimanuk Watershed
Development Project, including Farm models
-     The Organization of Indonesia's Regreening Program, January 1993, by Dwight
Y. King
-     Detailed Cost Tables
Techmical Assistance: Terms of reference
Indonesia Outer Islands - Soil and Water Conservation Models, 1992, by A.
Contreras-Hermosilla
Accompanying Documents
Indonesia National Watershed Management and Conservation Project. Upper
Cimanuk Watershed, Technical Assistance Requirements. September 1993.



I                             II
*                             II
II   '    II
I                  I
I                  I
I                  I
I                  I
*                  I
I                  I
I                  I
1=!                1                      II
*11
0
I                                         H
*                  I
I                        z
I                  I
*    a             a
A
____                                     ii                                          .    Iii.
-I
w
I          *U
10E                                   3
I 0
-        I                     >0

* O                   55
I
:1                       0
I                      0
*                                              I
I                  I



ShWND > ' v R t V , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD24775
A,.h              )                                                              / LO                                                                  INDONESIA
*tt  ACEI   \     >                 ~~~South ChinaSea                 J       \                HLPNS         w            NATIONLWATERSHED MANAGEMENT AND                        r
K4,                                                                  B s g        RUNE                 PHIIPPNE                              CONSERVATION PROJECT
YSz | > % wa9 | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LOCATION OF CRITICALWATERSHEDS
gse   Calebes   5!2      |                   39  ~~~~~~~~WATE56hLOlCATON
Su   m p  |   r  Q          t                              M A L A Y SA   N)N A                                                                           c A    rrA
ig~~~Mn                                                              I  "sXXI K>rAN=A            l^sl SULAWESIm UT;
V >:MATEE);A>eATt P1 h ~~~~~~~26 D.sn                                                                                                          =s5 s1rJ\ NORTH PACIFIC OCEAN
1 2. oos  _  A  .   \                                29. Tl
4 OCs gpk  D9. c-50[0 ,>  NU5TENGGARVARAT                       O  D         g                  AruhKSeoM_h
15 OesCibnduyOssons~~~3                                                                                              Jaop AE Yn AUT1nU er0IZ,: 
35X V w hDalofot  =  J 7 e b  =                                M~~hson   C  7  N   0   IXPos3/33  TMOAN JAY
mop do noe L_S _ _-~~sF P_9r,er~_2.a n
~~~~~~~~~h"                     15 D- TlmvS  C=UAo 
411lhewbecitWubMofonyyoenre~ ~ D.K. JAKRT 116                                                         i .doueAAF5.19



IBRD 24776
10750'E                                       180
INDONESIA
NATIONAL WATERSHED MANAGEMENT AND
CONSERVATION PROJECT                                                 T &iuaj 
CIMANUK WATERSHED
pRIO  ARAS FOR TRtATMENT
-   -    WA. ARSHED OUNDARY                                           -                      Codaosngompr 
.   KECAMATAN(SUB.DITCT) BOUNDAES
KAUBATEN(DISTRICT) BOUNDARIES                                     DOrdbUG /
0      KECAIMTAN CENTERS
3~]    KASUPATEN CENTER
ROADS  ' L_ 
L0     3      6       91     12              '                                                      \.''
KIOERS           axegka
To Bondwf
K8 A    B 3,                                                                                   |
'K   A                                           T~~~~~~~~~Moogong.. ooy
'S'S            Leles                                                                            rio'l .s'''"  '' ''  0
Sfm                                 : GA          . .
SMIATE;       X M K     J         Sv
, 4kenjen  BoyIues1I/\*okJ
s wp W   .b-                 JAWA lARAT    .                   /
byTh.                           BandIs     (<  AWA TFNGA% 
, I- ; ,,,,JAWA
AeA                     JAWA TIMUR 
To ,U,Y A  OCEAN
\'_J%to   * *  I                                          =          '0'-                    --        
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JL '' Oojng



