Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL U$E ONLY
Report no. 6136-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MARANHAO
May 26, 1987
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document bas a restricted istribution and may be used by recipients onl* in the performance of
their ofiecl duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                 Cruzeiro(Cr$)/Cruzado(Cz$) 1/
US$1.00                       Cr$8,891 2/
US$1.00                       Cz$31.0o T/
CZ$1.00              -        US$0.0323-
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEARS
Government.of Brazil                           =   January 1 to December 31
Northeast Rural Development Program                April 1 to March 31
Project                                        2   April 1 to March 31
11 A new currency unit, the Cruzado (Cz$), equal to 1,000 cruzeiros (the former
currency), was introduced on February 28, 1986, at the exchange rate of
US$1.00   Cz$13.80.  The preseat rate (May 20, 1987) is US$1.00 - Cz$31.00.
2/  Exchange rate at time of appraisal (November/December 1985).



MR omcw. u= ONY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
CEASA-iA       -  Central de Abastecimento do Maranhao
(State Food Supply Center)
COBAL          -  Co!'panhla Brasileira de Alimentos
(Brazilian Food Company)
COMABA         -  Companhia Maranhense de Abastecimento
(State Input Supply Company)
COPENAT        -  Companhia de Pesquisa e Aproveitamento de Recursos Naturais
(State Company for Research and Use of Natural Resources)
CPATSA         -  Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Tropico Seni-Arido
(Center of Agricultural Research for the Sevi-Arid Tropics)
CVRD           -  Companhia do Vale do Rio Doce
(Rio Doce Valley Company)
DNOS           -  Departamento Nacional de Obras de Saneamento
(National Department for Sanitation Works)
EMArA          -  Empresa Maranhense de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(State Agricultural Research Company)
EMATER-MA      -  Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural de Maranhao
(Maranhao State Technical Asaistance and
Rural Extension Company)
FINSOCIAL      -  Fundo de Investimento Social
(Social Investment Fund)
FUNAI          -  Fundacao Nacional do Indio
(National Indian Foundation)
IBDF           -  Instituto Brasileiro de Desenvolvimento Florestal
(Brasilian Forestry Institute)
IC             -  Comiasso Interministerial Para o Nordeste
(Interministerial Comlssion for the Northeast)
ICM            -  Imposto a Circulacao da Mercadoria
(Value-Added Tax on Product Circulation)
ITERMA         -  Instituto de Cclonizacao e Te-ras do Estado do Maranhao
(Maranhao State Colonization and Land Institute)
INCRA          -  Instituto Nacional de Colonization e Reforms Agraria
(National Institute for Colonization and Agrarlan Reform)
LDP            -  Local Development Project
This doment has a sict distibution and may be oud by cipients only in te pefonnrmc
of ftir offid dutek Its contents may not otherwis be dscsed without Wodd Esank auodation.



MINTER         - Ministerlo do Interior
(Ministry of the Interior)
MIRAD          - Ministerio de Reforma Ag:aria e Desenvolvimento
(Ministry of Agrarian Reform and Development)
NRDP           - Not theast Rural Development Program
PMG            -  Irefeitura Municipal de Grajau
(Municipal Prefecture of Grajau)
POLONORDESTE   - Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas do Nordeste
(Development Program for Integtated Areas of the Northeast)
PROTERRA       - Programs de Redistribuicao de Terras e de Estimulo a
Agro-lndustria do Norte e do Nordeste
(Land Redistribution and Agroindustrial Modernization Program
for the North and the Northeast)
RDC            - Cons elho de Des envolvimento Rural
(Regional Rural Development Council)
SCC            -  Comissao de Coordenacao Estadual
(State Cooidinating ComLission)
SDR-MA         -  Secretaria de Desenvolvimento Rural e Irrigacao do Estado do
Maranhao
(State Secretariat for Rural Development and Irrigation)
SEMEMA-MA     -  Secretaria de Minas, Energia e Meio Ambiente do Estado do
Maranhao
(State Secretariat for Mlning, Energy and Environment)
SEPLAN-MA      -  Secretaria de Coordenacao e Planejamento do Estado do Maranhao
(State Secretariat of Planning and Coordination)
SIMA           -  Servico de Informacao de Mercado Agricola
(Agricultural Marketing Information Service)
SPE/SEPLAN-MA  -  Superintendencia de Programas Especiais
(Superintendency for Special Programs of SEPLAN-MA)
SRDC           -  Conselho Estadual de Desenvolvimento Rural
(State Rural Development Council)
SUDENE         -  Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordes.e
(Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast)



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MARANHAO
Table of Contents
I.  .LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY *...................................      a
II.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  3*..............................o.         3
Agriculture in the National Economy .....     .................  3
The Rural Northeast ..3...... ..o       .......................  3
Government Development Strategy for the Rural Northeast ..       4
Experience with Past Bank Lending        ........................  4
The State of Maranhao  .*................................        5
III  THE PROJECT r*                                                      7
Rationale for Bank Involvement and Origiu ................       7
Project Ares                           ........      .....      7
Amerindian Assistance ......7............................*.      7
Project Objectives and Description .......................       8
Water Resource Development .........     .................  8
Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Production .....      9
Rural Extension       9.....................................  9
Rural Credit 9.*............................   ....        9
Marketing Services ....*..*....*.....*.....      .....    10
Support to Small Rural Communities    ...........   ,     10
Environmental Protection ... ........................    11
Project Admlnistration and Training                       11
Land Tenure Improvement                                         11
Project Organization and Implementation                         12
Federal and Regional Levels                               12
State and Local Levels ...*.*  .....*    ...              12
Annual Planning and Budgeting                             12
Accounts and Auditing                                      13
Operating Agreements                                      13
Monitoring and Evaluation      .......................    13
Project Cost ............ *                                     13
Financing Plan               ............                       14
Procurement ...0.0.0.........ooo*o* o*...    14
Disbtirsements  .oo..ooooo.o   ..............................    15
This project is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil during November/December 1985. The mission comprised of
Messrs. J.P.Delsalle, A. Berthier, H. von Pogrell, D. Mitchnik (IBRD),
Mr. P. Lucani (FA0/CP) and Messrs. J. Vivas and M. Gil (Consultants).



Table of Contents (Continued)
Project Benefits and Justification .......................    16
Production, Benefits and Farm Incomes  ....o.........       16
Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact ..                          16
Economic Analysis                                           17
Project Risks  1.7....... ,            e                         17
IV.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ......17
ANNEX 1 PROJECT DESCR  TION ...........2....    . o
Table 1.1 State Structure of Land Holdings                       29
Table 1.2 Evolution of State Agricultural Production  ...        30
Table 1.3 Project Priority Areas and Beneficiary
Distribution .....31
Table 1.4 List of Municipalities in the Project Area ....        32
TsAble 1.5 Annual Cost Phasing of Project Activities ......      34
Table 1.6 Summary Account by Project Component ...........       35
Table 1.7 Estimated Schedule of BAnk Disbursements .......       37
Table 1.8 Allocation of Loan Proceeds                            38
Table 1.9 Financing Plan                                         39
Table 1.10 Status of Amerindian Reservations in or
Immediately Adjacent to the Project Area ......      40
ANNEX 2 PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .................       41
Table 2.1 List of Executing and Collaborating Agencies so*       44
Chart 1  Project Coordination and Management Chart ....o.        45
Chart 2   Implementation Schedule                               46
ANNEX 3  FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC BENEFITS  ........47
Table 3.1 Total Annual Area, Marketable Production and
Value of Major Crops and Livestock without
Project and at Full Development                       49
Table 3.2 Characteristics of Illustrative Farm Models
Used in Financial and Economic Analyses .o.o          50
Table 3.3 Estimated Areas and Yields of Major Crops at
Farm Level without Project and at Full
Development                                           51
Table 3.4 Project Economic Analysis                              53
Table 3.5 Principal Prices Used for Financial and Economic
Analysis .....                        , , S   00000000  54
Table 3.6 Project Sensitivity Analysis                           55
ANNEX 4  PARALLEL ACTIVITIES  000 *****oooooo.*oo..o.....*          56
ANNEX 5 DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE 0000000000 ...    58
MAPS: IBRD 18686 - Yearly Land Adjudication Operations
IBRD 19517 - State of Maranhao and Project Area
IBRD 19652 - Agricultural Potential Defined by
Dependable Rainfall



NORTHENST RURAL    DEVELOPWENT PROGM
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Federative Republic of Brazil.
Executins       The Superintendency for Special Programs (SPE) within the
Agencies :      State Secretariat of Planning and Coordination (SEPLAN-MA).
Amount:         US$84.0 million equivalent.
Terms:          Repayable in 15 years on a fixed amortfzation -schedule,
includiug 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Beneficiaries:  Some 66,600 low-income families operating farms of up to
100 ha in 58 municipalities of the State of Maranhao would
be the direct beneficiaries of farm improvement com-
ponents. An estimated additional 6,400 families would also
benefit from support to small rural communities and inland
fisheries.
Project         The proposed project is one of a series of projects within
Description:    the new Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP). The
project objectives are to: (a) increase agricultural
production and productivity in the State of MararAu.o; 'b)
generate employment opportunities for low-income rural
families; (c) promote water resource development and tech-
nology generation and diffusion to increase small farmer
productivity; (d) increase community participation in all
phases of the development process; and (e) strengthen the
State of Maranhao's institutional capacity to provide
efficient agricultural services for small farmers. In
order to meet its objectives, the project would support
water resource development for both agricultural and
domestic use, fish hatcheries and inland fisheries, agri-
cultural research, agricultural extension, investment
credit, marketing services, funding for community sub-
projects, environmental protection, and project
administration and training.
Risks:          Possible project risks include:  (a) insecure land tenure;
-        r       (b) inefficient delivery of project services; (c) lack of
sufficient interinstitutional cooperation; (d) persistence
of slash-and-burn shifting cultivation practice; and (e)
delays and shortfalls in counterpart funding and credit.
The project has been designed so as to minimize these
risks. Progress will be closely followed by Bank staff
through review of annual operating plans and improved
supervision, monitoring and evaluation. Implementation of
the Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project and
the Government's agrarian reform would increase land tenure
security. Streamlined administrative procedures, measures
for institutional strengthening and technical resistance
for selected agencies would improve efficiency and project



-2-
coordination. Water resource development and iatensif ied
technology generation and diffusion would help farmers
gradually eliminate traditional sl ah-and-burn shifting
cultivation practice. The Government adopted new measures
in 1986 to ensure the timely availability of counterpart
funds and credit. In addition, the regional scope of the
Northeast Program and the support the Program enjoys among
government and local leaders should help secure adequate
funding and satisfactory implementation of the proposed
project.
Estimated Costs
Local      Foreign       Total
-   US$ millio       n-
A.  Water Resource Development                    11.3         3.9          15.2
B.  Agricultural Research and Basic Seed
Production                                   8.7         0.9          9.6
C* Rural Extension                                28.6         2.2          30.8
D.  Rural Investment Credit                       42.8         7.6         50.4
E. Marketing Services                              2.0         0.6           2.6
F.  Support to Small Rural Communities            22.3         3.6         25.9
C. Environmental Protection                         1.6        0.1           1.7
F.  Project Administration and Training          1-3.3         0.7          14.0
Total Baseline Costs                             130.6        19.6        150.2
Physical Contingencies                         2.5         0.8          3.1
Price Contingencies                           16.9         2.1         19.0
Total Project Costs                              149.8        22.5         172.3 1/
Financing Plan                                     Local       Foreign      Total
US$ Million
Government                                     88.3          -          88.3
IBRD                                           61.5        22.5         84.0
TOTAL                                         149.8        22.5        172.3
Estimated Disbursements
Bank FY:  1988   1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995   1996
- - ---------US$ million----
Annual         6.3 2/  7.7    10.5    12.2    14.0    13.5    10.0        7.0    2.8
Cumulative      6.3    14.0    24.5    36.7    50.7    64.2    74.2    81.2   84.0
Rate of Return: 141       -
p_:   IBRD 18686-R 19517 and 19652
1/ Including about US$4.9 million of local taxes.
I/ Including initial deposit of US$3.5 million into the Special Account.



-3-
II.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the National Economy
2.01      Agriculture In Brazil has traditionally been the main source of
exports and employment, though a relatively small contributor to GDP. In 1970,
agriculture accounted for 12% of GDP, 44% of the economically active population
and 672 of total exports. In 1985, these figures were 132, 301 and 31X,
respectively.  Throughout the  970s, there was rapid expansion in Brazil's
agriculture (5X per annum); during the recession in the early 1980., output and
investment stagnated and then recovered in 1984 and 1985.
2.02      The performance of the sector in the 1970. masked sharply disparate
rates of growth between regions, farm types and individual crops. The most
dynamic expansion was with products that rely on heavy capital investment or
high levels of inputs, such as soybeans, citrus, tobacco, cocoa and sugarcane on
large commercial farms in central and southern Brazil. Much slower growth
rates, and in some cases declines, were recorded for such staple food crops as
rice, maize, wheat, beans, manioc and potatoes.
2.03      rheae trends in agricultural output were reflected in agricultural
trade. In the 1970s, the rapid growth in agricultural exports depended heavily
on soy products, orange juice, tobacco, cocoa and sugar. In 1970 these five
crops accounted for only 15% of the total of agricultural exports of US$2.09
billion. By 1980, they accounted for over 50X of Brazil's US$9.43 billion of
agricultural exports. After 1980, the value of agricultural exports hardly grew
at all, except in 1984, when coffee and orange juice were aided by highly
favorable price movements.
The Rural Northeast
2.04      The Northeast is comprised of the States of Maranhao, Piaui, Ceara,
Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe, Bahia, the northern
portion of Mines Gerais, and the island of Fernando do Noronha, with a total
area of over 1.5 million km2 (18X of the country's total area).
2.05      The Northeast has been the nation's foremost problem region since the
late 1800s. Drought, uncertain rainfall, skewed land distribution, and limited
employment opportunities have resulted in high levels of poverty and
underemployment. From 1970 to 1983, 3.3 million people migrated from the
region, partially in response to five years of severe drought (1979 to 1983).
In 1985, the Northeast had a total population of 39 million (about 292 of the
country's total), growing at 2.3X per annum with a population density of 25
inhabitants per km2. Half the population lives in rural areas and over 50X of
the work force is engaged in agriculture. Land ownership is highly concentrated:
farms under 10 ha (70% of all farms) occupy less than 62 of the farm area; farms
over 500 ha (12 of all farms) occupy more than 401 of the farm area. Rural
incomes are very low. In 1985, about half of the Northeast rural population
earned one quarter or less of the official minimum wage (about US$600 annually).
2.06      The Northeast contributes about one-fifth of the total value of
Brazilian crop production; many regionally produced commodities (cotton, sisal,
cassava, and sugar) represent significant shares of national production. The
zona da mata, a narrow, fertile coastal strip, contains one-third of the



-4-
regional population and a major proportion of industry and plantation
agriculture. The a8reste, a transiticnna  sone contiguous with semd-arld areas,
is dominated by mixed farming, as well ie the ralsing of cattle. -The sparsely
populated, semi-arid sertao, where cattle raising and cotton cultivation are
predominant, is the largest of the subregions and the most vulnerable to
periodic droughts.
Government Development Strategy for the Rural Northeast
2.07      Until the 195t . isost Government interventions in the rural Northeast
were limited to drought velief works, emergency programs and incentives for
export crops. The slow pace of socioeconomic development and the need for
improved regional planning led to the creation in 1959 of the Superintendency
for the Development of the Northeast (SUDENE). SUDENE was originally
responsible for coordination of public investment, drought emergency measures
and powerful fiscal and credit incentives to attract new private investment.
Initiative for regional policy formulation was transferred to various Federal
agencies in the 1970s with SUDENE continuing to play an important role in the
coordination of federally-funded special rural programs.
2.08      The special rural programs have followed two approaches.  The first
was based on the integrated devolopment of selected subregions. It included the
Bank-assisted Development Program for Integrated Areas of the Northeast
(POLONORDESTE), the Special Program of Support for the Development of the
Semi-Arid Region of the Northeast (SERTAIEJO), and the Special Program of
Support for the Small Sugar Cane Growers. The second approach was concerned
with alleviating the effects of drought. It included several parallel programs
such as the Water Resources Use Program (PROHIDRO), the Agricultural Research
Program for the Semi-Arid Tropics and the Drought Emergency Relief Program, as
weln as large federal public irrigation projects.
2.09      Planning for a major new development inl-iative began in 1982,
stimulated by the recognition that the aggregate contribution of the first two
approaches in alleviating rural poverty and increasing agricultural production
had been limited. The new initiative is to be implemented through a series of
sectoral projects in such areas as land tenure, federal irrigation, health,
education and integrated rural development* The Northeast Rural Development
Program (NRDP), simpler in design than previous efforts supported by the Bank,
Is a 15-year program which focuses on elimiaating key constraints (land tenure
Insecurity, drought vulnerability, and limited access to credit and use of
modern technology) on small farmer development. It is based upon a
comprehensive regional policy framework, multiyear state rural investment plans
and the integration of all current rural special programs. NRDP regional
guidelines establish unified and streamlined funding and administrative
procedures and mechanisms for increased beneficiary participation and improved
institutional performance.
Experience with Past Bank Lending
2.13      The Bank has made 41 loans, totalling US$3,268.6 million, for
agricultural and rural development in Brazil. These include one agricultural
credit and export loan for US$500.0 million; supplemental financing for US$30.5
milion under the Special Action Program; three loans for US$519.2 million, for
agroindustries; two for US$60.5 million, for livestock; one for US$18.2 million
for grain storage; two for US$100.0 million, for agricultural research; two for



US$255.0 million, for agricultural extension; one for US$100.0 million for land
tenure improvement; and 27, totalling US$1,382.2 million, for vatious
settlement, irrigation, and rural development proj cts in the Northeast, in
Minas Gerais, and in the North and Northwest 31.
2*11      Ten of the Bank-financed projects were POLONORDESTE rural development
projects located In eight Northeast states. Approved from 1976 to 1983, three
of the projects are still being executed; the other seven have been
substantially completed. Implementation of all the POLONORDESTE projects
generally improved over the years, especially in project planning and agency
coordination. The combined Project Completion Report for the Rio Grande do
Norte and Sergipe Rural Development Projects (Loans 1195 and 1714-BR) showed
that, despite lower than expected rates of return in both projects, adopting
farmers' incomes increased substantially. However, those two projects, similar
to the others, experienced implementation and disbursement delays, mainly
because of the unusually severe and prolonged 1979-83 drought, delays in
providing local funds, limited execution capacity for carrying out small-scale
irrigation and land activities, and initial lags in the generation of
drought-resistant technology for small farmers. The Completion Report concluded
that fundamental development constraints, such as insecure land tenure or
uncertain water availability, should receive priority treatment in future
project design and investment. These problems and priorities were addressed
during the preparation of the NRDP.
The State of Maranhao
2.12      Location and Natural Features.  With a total area of about 328,700
km2, Maranhao Is the second largest state in the Northeast (Map IBRD 19517). In
contrast with the rest of the Northeast, most of the State lies outside the
so-called 'drought polygon," and drought is infrequently a problem. Lying in a
transition zone between the semi-arid Northeast and the tropical Amazon, its
average annual rainfall varies from 2,500 mm in the northwest, to 1,600 mm in
the northeast and center, and to 1,200 mm in the south (Map IBRD 19652).
Reflecting the rainfall pattern, the vegetation ranges from tropical forest in
the northwest, to native palm (babassu) in the central area, to the stunted
vegetation of the cerrado (elevated plains) in the south.
2.13      Economic and Social Conditions.  About 80% of the State's economically
active population of 1.4 million (out of a total population of about 4.4
million) is engaged in agricultural activities and generates 32% of the State's
GDP. Maranhao's economic development is benefitting significantly from the
CarajaL Iron Ore Project (Loan 2196-BR); although the mines are in the
neighboring State of Para, the ALUMAR plant for the processing of bauxite and
the new port facilites in Itaqui are in Maranhao. Nevertheless, average per
capita income in 1981 (before the Carajas Project was begun) was estimated, at
about US$320, as compared with US$760 for the Northeast and about US$1,700 for
the entire country. Access to basic services is limited, and malnutrition, high
infant mortality and illiteracy are still widespread in rural areas.
3/   A prelimitary evaluation of impact is provided in the World Bank Country
Study, Brazil: An Interim Assessment of Rural Development Programs for the
Northeast, Washington, D.C., 1983.



-6-
2.14      Land Use, Tenure and Production.  Maranhao has the most highly skewed
pattern of land ownership in the Northeast vf Brazil. Some 83% of a total of
about 500,000 recorded rural producers are non-owners or lack secure title to
their holdings. Eighty-five percent of recorded holdings are less than 10 ha
and account for 5% of the total area. Insecurity of land tenure and high rents
considerably restrict access to land and credit, when available. Consequently,
few modern inputs are used by small farmers, who contiiiue to practice a
low-input, low-output agriculture, mostly in the form of slash-and-burn shifting
cultivation. Agriculture is dominated by extensive livestock enterprises and
the production of traditional food (rice, cassava, maize and beans) and
commercial crops (bananas and babassu nuts).
2.15      Agricultural Services.  Because of previous rural investments in
Maranhao, there are a number of agencies and a core of trained technicians with
project management experience. The Superintendency for Special Programs (SPE)
of the State Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN-MA), which was created in 1984, has
gained experience in the coordinatton and administration of all State rural
development programs. A number of Government agencies are currently providing
services to support rural development. The State Agricultural Research Company
(EMAPA) operates, with mixed results, five experimental stations throughout the
State. Agricultural extension is provided by the State Technical Assistance and
Rural Extension Company (EMATER-MA). Successful extension has been hampered by
insufficient infrastructure and staffing, and inadequate planning, supervision
and training of local extension agents. Three major public banks (the Bank of
Brazil, the Bank of Northeast Brazil and the State Bank of Maranhao) provide
credit to farmers through an expanding branch network. However, demand for
official credit is far greater than supply. The State Company for Research and
Use of Natural Resources (COPENAT) provides assistance to fishermen, including
technical assistance for inland fisheries. The Maranhao State Input Supply
Company (COMABA) which performed poorly during the past three years has been
strengthened and is gradually reactivating its 105-unit input supply and storage
network throughout the state. Public marketing is handled by the Maranhao State
Food Supply Center (CEASA-MA).  Finally, cadastral activities are eatrusted to
the State Colonization and Land Institute (ITERMA) which has recently improved
its perfor.ance.
2.16      Rural Development.  Since 1976, the Government of Maranhao has
received federal funds for four rural development projects under the
POLONORDESTE program, two of them with Bank assistance: the Alto Turi Land
Settlement Project (Loan 853-BR), which was completed in 1981 and the Maranhao
Rural Development Project (Loan 2177-BR, of US$47 million), which became
effective in May 1983. The Project Performance Audit Report for the Alto Turi
Land Settlement Project showed that the project raised settler incomes beyond
expectations, but was less successful in the areas of environmental protection,
community organization, and strengthening of cooperatives. Slow at inception,
due to early management problems: the Maranhao Rural Development Project has
also been hampered by delays in counterpart funding. Because of these delays,
it is likely that the loan closing date will have to be extended by at least one
year to meet essential project targets. The proposed project. has been designed
so that actions =n areas already covered by the ongoing Maranhao Rural
Development Project would be limited to new components not financed under the
ongoing project.



-7-
III. THE PROJECT
Rationale for Bank Involvement and Origin
3.01      The Bank's lendivg strategy in Brazil alms to promote and assist
structural reform, to develop and maintain essential infrastructure, and to
improve the productivity and living conditions of the rural and urban poor.
The Government of Brazil attaches high priority to decreasing regional
disparities. Incomes in Northeast rural areas are less than 35X of the national
awerage. The NRDP, of which the proposed project is a part, forms a central
part of the Government's investment strategy to narrow the gap between the
Northeast region and the rest of the country and to alleviate rural poverty.
3.02      In August 1982, the Government asked the Bank to assist SUDENE in
preparing the NRDP which is composed of ten state projects and a regional laud
tenure improvement project. In April 1985, the Bank approved the Northeast
Rural Development Projects for the States of Sergipe and Rio Grande do Norte
(Loans 2523-BR and 2524-BR, respectively). In addition to supporting the
Sergipe Rural Development Plan, the first project established the structure and
operating procedures for regional program planning, coordination and research to
support all ten Northeast State rural development plans. In June 1985, the Bank
approved the Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR)
which finances cadastral activities in all ten Northeastern states (Map IBRD
18686-R). The NRDP project Zor the State of Pernambuco was approved in June
1986, and projects for the States of Bahba, Piaui and Ceara were approved in
October 1986. Projects for the three remaining states (Alagoas, Paraiba and
Minas Gerais) are being presented to the Executive Directors simultaneously with
the proposed project. While it is still early on in the implementation of the
NRDP, initial experiences, particularly with respect to federal and regional
management, counterpart funding, and beneficiary participation are encouraging.
3.03      The project was appraised by the Bank in November/December 1985, and
negotiations took place in Washington in April/May, 1987. The Brazilian
delegation was led by Ms. Stael Martins Baltar of the Federal Ministry of
Finance.
Project Area
3.04      SEPLAN-MA has selected 58 municipalities, out of a total of 130,
distributed among six regional planning units - Baixada, Pindare, Mearim,
Cocais, Grajau and Balsas - as high priority areas for development. Three
planning units (Baixada, Pindare and Mearim) are currently subject (under the
ongoing Loan 2177-BR) to cadastral and land titling operations. One of the
three (Baixada) Is also benefiting from the POLONORDESTE integrated rural
development package. All six regional planning units would be integral parts of
the NRDP.
Amerindian Assistance
3.05      There are ten existing Amerindian reservations and another potential
reservation in or immediately adjacent to the project area. Of the ten existing
reservations, one (Geralda/Toco Preto), in the municipality of Grajau, was not



-8-
yet demarcated and registered at the time of appraisal. Two others, also
located in the municipality of Grajau (Urucu Jurua and Cans Brava/Guajajara),
have illegal, non-Indian occupants. In additioft, about one hundred nomadic
Guaja Amerindians live In the municipality of Bom Jardim, where a new protected
area (Awa/Carutapera) is to be created.  All reservations are covered under the
ongoing Carajas Iron Ore Project (para. 2.13) which includes funds for resolving
Amerindian problems. The Government recently provided the Bank with two
satisfactory action plans-the first for the areas of Geralda/Toco Preto, Urucu
Jurua and Awa/Carutapera and the second for the area of Cana/Brava/Guajajara-
for solving pending Amerindian issues in the project area. These action plans
signed by high-le el officials of all agencies concerned, including SEPLAN-MA,
the Municipal Prefecture of Grajau (PMG), INCRA, the National Indian Foundation
(FUNAI) and the Brazilian Forestry Institute (IBDF), present for each pending
issue, the agreed solution and the related detailed implementation timetable
with specific deadlines, and define the responsibilities for financing and
executing the various steps. As a condition of loan effectiveness, the Bank
would receive evidence that (i) the demarcation of the Geralda/Toco Preto
Reservation has been completed; and (ii) the two agreed plans of action are
being Implemented satisfactorily (para. 4.04 (a)). During negotiations, the
Federal and State Governments provided assurances that these plans of action
would be implemented (para. 4.03(a)).
Project Objectives and Description
3.06      The main objectives of the proposed project would be to:  (a) increase
agricultural productivity and production in the State of Maranhao; (b) generate
employment opportunities for low-income rural families; (c) promote water
resource development and technology generation and diffusion to increase small
farmers' productivity; (d) increase community participation In all phases of
the development process; and (e) strengthen the State of Naranhao's capacity to
provide efficient agricultural services to its small farmers. The project
would directly benefit an estimated 73,000 low-income rural families. The
project components are described briefly below (with, in parentheses, the
relative percenteges of total project costs) and in Annex 1.
3.07      Water Resource Development (12%).  This component would include:  (a)
construction of four state-managed small irrigation schemes totalling about 765
ha of irrigated land and benefiting about 380 farm families; (b) studies to
support the development of the State's irrigation plan and the preparation of
irrigation projects (20,000 ha) for implementation under future projects; (c)
construction of about 255 simple water supply systems, benefiting a total of
15,500 families in small rural communities; (d) strengthening of the Irrigation
and Rural Infrastructure Department within the recently created State
Secretariat for Rural Development and Irrigation (SDR-MA); (e) construction of
two fish hatcheries to reach, at full development, an annual production of 15
million fingerlings;and (f) some new facilities for COPENAT in the Pindare and
Mearim planning regions, including th.e establishment of six local offices and
the construction of three cold storage units. In addition, about 3,800 ha of
private irrigation schemes, benefiting about 2,500 small farms, would be
financed under the rural investment credit component (para. 3.10). There would
not be any involuntary resettlement under the public irrigation subcomponent
which would include only river pumping schemes. It would be a condition of
disbursement for loan proceeds allocated to finance the construction of each
public irrigation scheme that the Bank has received proof of land acquisition
and satisfactory detailed engineering designs and settlement plan (para. 4.05).



- 9-
Any loan proceeds so allocated, which are not committed within two years of loan
signing to a specific public irrigation scheme approved by the Bank, would be
cancelled (para. 4.06). It would be a condition of loan effectiveness that the
State Government has: (a) defined, with SUDENE's assistance and in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank, the internal structure of the Irrigation and Rural
Infrastructure Department within SDR-MA and related staffing requirements and
staff profiles; and (b) put the preceding organization into effect (para. 4.04
(b)). During negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that the
internal structure organization and staffing of SDR-MA's Irrigation and Rural
Infrastructure Department would be maintained (para 4.01(a)).
3.08      Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Production (7%).  Research would
be directed toward simple technologies to make farming systems more productive
and would include: (a) six agroecological and natural-resource studies to
assist in future research planning; (b) about 85 short- and medium-term applied
research trials at experiment stations to improve existing production
technology; (c) about 300 farm-level simple observation units and 12 observation
farms to test and adapt integrated farm production technology; and (d) basic
seed and nursery stock production on a total of about 140 ha. EMAPA would
develop its adaptive research program in cooperation with both farmers and
extension officers and evaluate both technical and economic results from its
observation farms. EMAPA would sell basic seeds to cooperatives and farmer
groups for multiplication and processing. The improved seeds would be marketed
through existing cooperative and COMABA networks.
3.09      Rural Extension (23%).  This component would include:  (a) civil
works, office equipment and furniture for 54 EMATER-MA local offices; (b)
establishment and maintenance of about 300 demonstration plots annually; (c)
salaries and related operating costs, on a declining basis, for up to 330 agri-
cultural and social extension agents, about 50 subject-matter specialists and
supervisory personnel, and related administrative staff; and (d) production of
about 8 million seedlings for farmers to plant for fodder, fuelwood and fruit
trees. EMATER-MA, through its farmer groups' visits and demonstration plots,
would encourage adoption of simple, proven practices which would improve crop
yields, preserve soil fertility, expand the cultivated area and increase
livestock production. Each extension agent would assist, on a fixed schedule,
six to eight groups of 20-25 farmers organized around contact farmers and
demonstration plots. Specialists from the Federal Company for Technical
Assistance and Rural Extension (EMBRATER) would supervise EMATER-MA at least
once a month.
3.10      Rural Credit (29%).  The project would finance medium- and long-term
credit for on-farm investments for 21,700 farmers and inland fishermen (about
30% of the 73,000 direct beneficiaries). A greater number would receive short-
term production credit to be financed by participating banks (para. 2.15).
Farmers would contribute their own labor to on-farm investments. However,
because of farmers" limited savings, financing would cover up to 100% of the
cost of goods required for on-farm investments, with a maximum repayment period
of twelve years and a maximum grace period of three years. Sugarcane planta-
tions, irrigation schemes larger than 4 ha and automobiles would not be
eligible. Financing would not exceed ceilings established for the NRDP credit
program in the Central Bank's Manual for Rural Credit for individual farmers;
farmers' associations and cooperatives would also be eligible, provided that at
least 70% of their members were small farmers who would directly benefit from
the investments.



- 10 -
3.11      Recently, new official rural credit terms were established for
Northeast Brazil. Under those terms, the interest rate for rural investment
credit charged to Northeast farmers (excluding those cultivating sugar-cane
cocoa, rubber, and coffee who would be charged a higher rate) would be 3% per
annum, with full monetary correction based on the monthly variation of the value
of National Treasury Bonds (Obrigacoes do Tesouro Nacional, OTNs). This
compares with an interest rate of 6% per annum with full monetary correction on
official rural investment credit for all farmers outside of the North and
Northeast. To provide low-income small farmers with a strong incentive to
invest in the project's technical packages project beneficiaries would have a
portion of their first investment loan rebated as a grant. The percentage of
the grant would be: 50% for investment loans approved from March 1, 1987 to
December 31, 1988; 40% for the period January 1, 1989 to December 31, 1989; and
30S from January 1, 1990 onwards. The rebate would occur at the time the loan
funds were released to the farmer. While still providing a significant subsidy,
the new terms would have several advantages over previous NRDP credit
arrangements which resulted in large subsidies due to the partial or total
absence of monetary correction on the principal of the loan. Under the new
agreement, the total amount of subsidy would be known and budgetted in advance
as part of the annual NRDP allocation in the federal fiscal budget. Also, the
long-standing practice of providing credit subsidies through the use of partial
monetary correction would be eliminated, paving the way for future improvements
in the official rural credit system.
3.12      During negotiations, the Federal Government provided assurances that:
(a) the Central Bank and the other participating banks would carry out this
component in accordance with lending terms and conditions recently agreed with
the Bank; (b) the Central Bank would provide sufficient funds to the
participating banks to carry out the project's investment credit component; (c)
each of the participating banks would provide monthly information to SUDENE and
SPE on investment credit availability, demand and lending per bank agency; and
(d) priority would be given by the participating banks to allocations, from
their own resources, of sbort-term production credit to their agencies serving
the project area in amounts adequate to finance the working capital requirements
of project beneficiaries (para. 4.02(e)).
3.13      Marketing Services (2%).  This component is designed to increase
farmers' knowledge of marketing and prices, improve the timely provision,
storage, and marketing of agricultural inputs and outputs, and help the state
establish a pilot food wholesaling service. To achieve this, the project would
include: (a) expanding the State-run marketing information service (SIMA); (b)
improving about six municipal markets and fairs; (c) rehabilitating 17 COMABA
storage facilities and constructing ten maill (120-ton) units to expand the
cooperative storage network; (d) establishing three regional centers to
strengthen COMABA's input supply network; (e) establishing a pilot wholesaling
service for private retailers; and (f) preparing a marketing study to define
medium-term policies. Ongoing crop-purchasing schemes would continue with
Government support. The additional storage units would help the cooperatives
assist project beneficiaries in storing and marketing small farmers' surpluses.
The strengthening of COMABA's regional input supply network would alro assist
the cooperative outlets in supplying timely inputs to their members.
3.14      Support to Small Rural Communities (16%).  The objective of .;his
component is to help formal and informal groups of farmers participate in the



- 11 -
development of their communities.  The component would include:  (a) creation of
a community development (CD) fund of about US$21.9 million to make grants for
local subprojects; (b) purchase of equipment; and (c) training and other
operating Costs for about 32 community development agents. SPE would be
responsible for administering the fund, and EMATER-MA for Implementing the
component. Farmers' groups would identtfy, plan and execute subprojects that
would finance economic activities (such as fish ponds, cottage industries and
small animal production schemes), community infrastructure (such as laundry
facilities, construction and repair of access tracks, small irrigation and
drainage schemes), and related training for community leaders. Written
proposals explaining objectives, benefits, implementation methodology, and
cost-sharing would be subject to Municipal Councils' approval. During
negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that: (a) the CD fund
would be established and maintained under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank; (b) no funds would be released to beneficiary groups prior to the
signing of the agreement between the State, through SPE, and the groups, or
municipalities for unregistered groups; and (c) by March 31, 1989, the Bank and
SPE would review the performance of the grants for economic subprojects to
establish the feasibility of carrying out further funding of subprojects on a
loan basis (para. 4.01 (b)).
3.15      Environmental Protection (12).  This component, which is designed to
meet a priority ewlr6inmental protection objective of the State Government,
would consist of the demarcation, protection and management by the State
Secretariat for Mining, Energy and Eg ironment (SEMEMA-MA) of the Mirador State
Park to protect the watershed of the Itapecuru River which supplies the State
capital, Sao Luis. The project would finance civil works and equipment for one
central post and four simple outposts, salaries for technicians and guards, and
other operating costs on a declining basis. The demarcation of the Mirador
State Park was recently completed and the Bank has received a satisfactory
action plan defining measures already taken and to be taken to solve and/or
prevent encroachments in this area. During negotiations, the State Government
provided assurances that this plan of action would be implemented (para.
4.01(b)).
3.16      Project Administration and Traini_g (102).  SPE would be responsible
for administering, coordinating and integrating all federally-funded rural
programs under the project. All project-related training would be centrally
coordinated by SPE. The project would strengthen SPE's planning and
administrative capabilities by financing salaries of up to 95 higher levol staff
(distributed among the headquarters and six regional offices), related support
staff, travel expenses, office equipment, and other operating coscs on a
declining basis. SPE's current administrative organization would be
restructured to enable it to implement the proposed project. It would be a
condition of loan effectiveness that SPE would be reorganized and staffed under
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (pars. 4.04(c)). In addition, during
negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that SPE organization and
staffing would be maintained (para. 4.01(d)).
Land Tenure Improvement
3.17      Land tenure improvement, through the provision of land titles or
formal usufruct rights to small farmers, is essential to the success of the
proposed project and would provide small farmers with access to
institutionalized itwestment credit. Land regularization and redistribution in



- 12 -
the 58 priority municipalities would result from the cadastral activities
initiated under the ongoin8 rural development project (Loan 2177-BR) and
expanded under the regional land project.  Redistribution targets, procedures
for land acquisition, allotment, and selection of beneficiaries were agreed upon
as conditions for the regional land project. Land project implementation has
been delayed due t" organizational changes within the National Institute for
Colonization and Agrarian Reform (INCRA) and the Ministry of Agrarian Reform and
Development (MIRAD). The Bank, INCRA and other inwolved Ministries recently
agreed on the measures needed to improve project implementation. They agreed on
implementation strategies, revised targets based on a two-year loan extension to
be approved one year at a time based on satisfactory project performance, new
management arrangements and a number of amendments to the project's legal
documents. However, basic project objectiUms and overall targets did not
change. The reachivg of these targets by 1990 would secure access to land and
credit for those project beneficiaries who are currently landless. The
Government has recently slgned these legal amendments to the Northeast Region
Land Tenure Improvement Project, and project Implementation is expected to
accelerate in the ccairg months. During negotiations, the Federal and State
Governments provided assurances that in the project priority areas: (a) at
least 301,000 ha would be available for redistribution to project beneficiaries
by Ma-ch 31, 1989; and (b) at least an additional 299,000 ha would be amailable
by March 31, 1990 (par&. 4.03 (b)).
Project Organization and Implementation
3.18      Federal and Regional Levels.  An Interministerial Commission (IC),
chaired by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Interior (MINTER) and
comprised of representatives from the Ministries of Planning, Finance, Land
Reform, Agriculture and Irrigation, and the Superintendent of SUDENE, has
overall policy planning responsibility for the NRDP. As regional coordinator of
the NRDP, SUDENE's Director for the Program of Support to Small Farmers
receives policy backing from a regional Rural Development Council (RDC), which
meets once a month and includes representatives of federal agencies, the ten
Northeastern states, and beneficiary groups.
3.19      State and Local Levels.  A State Rural Development Council (SRDC),
chaired by the Governor, with the Secretary of Planning as Executive Secretary
and with up to three other State Secretaries as members, would provide overall
guidance for project-supported rural development activities. A State
Coordinating Commission (SCC), composed of SPE's superintendent and
representatives of all executing agencies would ensure proper implementation of
SRDC guidelines and integration of project activities. Day-to-day project
implementation would be carried out by the executing agencies and coordinated by
SPE. The Bank has been provided with evidence that the planning, budgeting,
staffing and administration of all federally-funded rural programs in Maranhao
have been unified under the coordination of SPE.
3.20      Annual Planning and BudgetiDg.  Targets and costs established at
appraisal would be adjusted annually during the project implementation period.
Once the Federal Government has established overall funding availability for the
NRDP for the next year, state allocations would be established by SUDENE in
consultation with the RDC. SPE would consolidate each executive agency's-
detailed annual operating plan, ensure internal consistency and then submit them
to SRDC and SUDENE for approval. SUDENK would consolidate state plans Into a
regional operating plan, to be presented to the IC as the basis for the



- 13 -
administrative regulation (2ortaria) signed by the various Ministers itwolved,
and establishiog budget allocations for each State. During negotiations, the
Federal Government provided assurances that: (a) the regional operating plan
would be sent each year to the Bank for comment prior to approval; (b) the
portaria, the final regional operating plan and the State of Maranhao's project
fiscal operating plan would be sent to the Bank no later than tF- first working
day of each project fiscal year; and (c) any proposed changes 1 -planning and
budgeting procedures would be submitted to the Bank for comment prior to
enactment (4*02 (b)).
3.21      Accounts and Auditing.  Each participating agency, including the
Central Bank and the participating banks, would maintain separate accounts for
project expenditures, to be audited annually by independent, private or public
auditors acceptable to the Bank. During negotiations, the Federal and State
Governments provided assurances that: (a) the Special Account (para 3.t9), the
inestment credit accounts and the project accounts would be maintained and
audited annually according to practices satisfactory to the Bank; (b) te.ims of
reference for the auditors would include, inter alia, verification of the
Statements of Expenditure for the project accounts; and (c) zopies of the three
audit reports would be sent to the Bank within six months of the close of each
project fiscal year (para. 4.03 (c)).
3.22      Operating Agreements.  Agreements among project coordinating and
executing agencies would be entered into between: (a) the State, through SPE,
and the federal agencies inwolved; (b) executing agencies, with the
participation of SPE when more than one is inolved in executing a project
component; and (c) the State, through SPE, and the concerned municipality or
group prior to implementiog a community subproject. These agreements would
include execution guidelines and targets, reporting requirements, procedures for
inter-agency collaboration and funding conditions linked to performance
criteria. During negotiations, the Federal and State Gcvernments provided
assurances that they would enter into all agreements referred to in (a) and (b)
above no later than six months after loan signing (para. 4.03 (d)).
3.23      Monitoring and Evaluation.  Monitoring and eraluation arrangements
have simplified reporting requirements and would aim at providing accurate and
timely information for project management and annual planning. SPE would
receive monthly reports from executing agencies on key physical and financial
indicators, produce quarterly consolidated monitoring summaries and be
responsible for ongoing and final evaluation of the project. During
negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that: (a) quarterly
monitoring reports would be sent to the Bank no later than three months after
the end of the respective fiscal quarter; and (b) terms of reference and
instlutional arrangements for evaluations would be satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 4.01 (e)).
Project Cost
3.24      Total project costs are estimated at US$172.3 million with a foreign
exchange component of US$22.5 million, or about 13% (see Loan and Project
Summary). The total cost is based on the assumption that all goods and services
would be acquired in Brazil with the possible exception of some specialized
consultants' services. The cost estimate includes about US$4.9 million
equivalent in applicable local taxes. Physical and price contingencies are



- 14 -
equivalent to 21 and 131 of baseline costs, respectively.  Physical
contingencies were added to baseline costs at 15S for irrigation and water
supply construction; 101 for other construction; and 5X for equipment, and
furniture.  Price contingencies were estimated in US dollar terms, based on
international inflation rates estimated at 12.01 for 1986, 3.01 for 1987, 1.01
for 1988, 1989 and 1990, and 3.5Z p.a. thereafter. It was assumed that periodic
currency adjustmente, estimated on a purchasing power parity basis, would
compensate for differences between projected US dollar inflation and local
inflation rates.
Financing Plan
3.25      The amount of the proposed Bank loan would be US$84.0 million
equivalent, which would represent 501 of total estimated cost, net of taxes.
The proposed loan would finance 100% of foreign exchange costs and 411 of local
costs. The loan would be repayable over 15 years, including 3 years of grace
and would bear interest at the Bank's standard variable rate. The loan would be
made to the Federative Republic of Brazil, which would carry the foreign
exchange risk and provide counterpart funds as necessary to complete the
project. Funding procedures would be those described in para. 3.20. Funds
would be channeled from the Treasury through the Ministry of the Interior and
SUDENE to either a specific project account in the state for activities executed
by state agencies, or directly to federal executing agencies. Monthly advances
of Government counterpart funds would also be made through the Central Bank to
cover the estimated Bank share of monthly expenditures. During negotiations,
the Federal Government provided assurances that the administrative regulation
(portaria) establishing these funding procedures would not be changed without
Bank approval (para. 4.02(c)).
3.26      In August 1986, the Bank and the Government reached an agreement that
has improved the timeliness and adequacy of counterpart funds. This agreement
includes: (a) the provision in the annual Federal Budget of the full amount
required for the execution of all Northeast rural development projects; (b) the
monthly release of these resources in accordance with schedules and amounts
agreed upon with the Bank; (c) and the simplification of procedures for
channeling the released funds to the project executing units. As a result of
this agreement counterpart funding has been and continues to be satisfactory.
Procurement
3.27      Civil works, estimated at US11.4 million, would be executed by
contracts awarded through local competitive bidding procedures, which are
acceptable to the Bank. Brazil has a competitive local construction industry
that is capable of carrying out project works. As individual construction works
are small and dispersed, foreign contractors are not expected to be interested,
but would not be excluded from bidding. Some community development civil works
(para. 3.12) would be carried out by the beneficiaries under written agreements
with SPE. Equipment and materials required by the project, totalling some
US$4.1 million, would be procured by the several executing agencies at various
locations over the project implementation period, in accordance with local
competitive bidding procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank. Vehicles and
microcomputers required by the project (amounting to US$6.5 million), as
reserved procurement items, are not included in the project costs and are not
financed by the proposed loan. During negotiations, the State Government



- 15 -
provided assurances that those Items would be procured in a timely manner
(para. 4.01(f)). Civil works contracte estimated to cost more than US$250,000
and goods and services contracts for more than US$100,000 would be subject to
prior Bank review of procurement documentation (about 40X of the value of civil
works, and 30% of goods and services). Consultants' services, mainly for
feasibility studies, totalling some 45 man-years equivalent, would be procured
in accordance with Bank guidelines. During negotiations, the Federal and State
Governments provided assurances that they would follow the procurement
arrangements outlined above and sumarized in the following table (para. 4.03
(e)).
Procurement Arrangements
(U31 million)
Procurement Method
Type of Project Expenditure         LCB      Other       N.A.        Total Cost
Civil Works                     11.4(6.5)                             11.4 (6.5)
Equipment, and Furniture         4.1(1.8)                              4.1 (1.8)
Studies and Training                        9.3(5.0)                  9.3 (5.0)
Rural Investment Credit                                 50.4(25.2)   50.4(25.2)
Community Subprojects                                   21.9(15.3)   21.9(15.3)
Salaries and Allowances                                 55.6(22.0)   55.6(22.0)
Other Operating Expenses                                19.6 (8.2)   19.6 (8.2)
Total                        15.5 (8.3)  9.3(5.0)  147.5(70.7)  172.3(84.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Bank.
Disbursements
3.28      The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed throughout the
eight and one-half year disbursement period at a rate of 70% against project
expenditures made for water resource development and support to small
communities, and at a rate of 50% against expenditures made for credit and
marketing. Disbursements for the remaining components, which have a high share
of recurrent costs, would be made at a rate of 50% of project expenditures until
aggregate amounts of US$2.7 million for agricultural research, US$8.2 million
for extension, US$3.1 million for administration, US$0.8 million for training
and US$0.4 million for environmental protection have been disbursed.
Thereafter, disbursements for those categories would be made at a rate of 30% of
project expenditures until an aggregate amount of US$3.4 million for
agricultural research, US$11.3 million for extension, US$3.6 million for
administration, US$1.2 million for training, and US$0.6 million for
environmental protection have been disbursed; the remaining funds for these
categories would be disbursed at 10% of expenditures. To enable project
executing agencies to prepare for an early start of project execution, project
expenditures (-xcept agricultural credit) incurred prior to loan signing, but
after September 30, 1986, would be eligible for reimbursement up to US$4.0
million equivalent. No disbursements, however, would be made for the extension,
research, domestic water supply, inland fisheries and administration components



- 16 -
in the 21 municipalities of the ongoing project (Baixada planning region) until
funds allocated for those components under Loan 2177-BR have been fully
committed or cancelled (pars. 4.07). Disbursement projections reflect the
disbursement profile for previous rural development projects in Brazil.
3.29      Disbursements for all investment, operating and technical assistance
expenses under US$250,000 would be made under Statements of Expenditure prepared
by the various executing agencies and certified by SPE. Supporting
documentation would not be submitted to the Bank but would be made available
during project supervision. Standard documentation for contracts exceeding
US$250,000 would be submitted to the Bank. To reduce Government prefinancing
requirements, a Special Account would be opened and thereafter maintained in US
dollars In the Central Bank with an initial deposit of US$3.5 million.
Withdrawals in cruzados from the Special Account, supported by Statements of
Expenditure and other required documentation, would be made at the exchange rate
that prevailed on the date of the expenditure.
Project Benefits and Justification
3.30      Production, Benefits and Farm Incomes.  The impact of the project on
agricultural production vould result from increased productivity (through better
cultivation practices, including use of animal traction, and irrigation) and the
expansion of the cropped area. The annual value of incremental marketable
production at full development is estimated to be US$51 million equivalent, at
December 1985 farugate prices. Approximately 80% of this amount would come from
crops, 13X from livestock and fish and 7X from extractive products (babassu
nuts). This incremental production is not expected to face demand limitations.
Production surpluses would be marketed through existing mixed channels.
Improved marketing facilities, water supply systems and community activities
would also provide substantial benefits to the population, especially women.
Expanded agricultural activities would create employment equivalent to some
27,000 man-years annually. Improved farming practices and soil conservation,
and the creation and protection of the Mirador Park would have a beneficial
impact on the environment. The current sources of conflict in the Amerindian
reservations located in the project area would be eliminated. Estimated
financial rates of return for the seven illustrative farm models range from 111
to 48S. All project beneficiaries belong to the poverty target group. Net
annual farm incomes, which, taking into account supplemental income from
off-farm work, currently vary between US$120 and US$315 per capita, would
increase at full development to a range between US$225 and US$460, in constant
terms.
3.31      Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact.  Although it is not Goverment policy
to obtain full cost recovery on rural programs for low-income families, current
legislation allows SDR-MA to recover 10OZ of operation and maintenance costs
based on a volumetric annual charge for water, and 1002 of public investments in
common irrigation and drainage infrastructure based on a per hectare charge over
a 50-year period. The initial investment is revalued but without charging
interest 4/. The municipalities would cover the costs of operation and
maintenance of the water supply services until the Northeast Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation Program begins in 1989; at that stage, consumers would be
expected to pay for the service. During negotiations, the State Government
provided assurances that: (a) cost recovery provisions for public irrigation
schemes would be implemented in accordance with Government legislation
satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) drinking water supply charges covering full
operation and maintenance costs would begin to be charged to consumers In 1989
(para. 4.01 (g)).
4/   For further clarification on cost recovery of irrigation projects, see
Brazil: Upper and Middle Sao Francisco Irrigation Project, Staff Appraisal
Report No. 5975-BR), dated May 12, 1986.



- 17 -
3.32      Additional recurrent costs to the Government of about US$4.0 million
per annum to sustain the project following the investment period would be offset
by additional fiscal revenues of about US$6.0 million annually generated by the
value-added tax on product circulation (ICM) that would apply to the incremental
marketable production.
3.33      EcnmiAnalZsis.  The economic rate of return for the project has
been estimated at 14X. The cost and benefit streams are detailed in Annex 3.
Sensitivity tests show that if project benefits fall by about 24Z or project
costs rise by 311 the rate of return would fall below the estimated 11%
opportunity cost of capital. A lag of two years in achieving project benefIts
would result in a 11.S% rate of return.
Project Risks
3.34      Although projects under NRDP are simpler in design than previous rural
development projects, efficient delivery of project services and inter
institutional cooperation wculd still be important for project success. The
project includes an improved monitoring and evaluation component to foster a
more efficient institutionsl environment. Delays and shortfalls in counterpart
funding and rural credit could decrease the proposed project's impact. Recent
changes in funding procedtres, the merging of the rural special programs, the
regional scope of the Northeast Rural Development Program, of which the project
is a part, and the broad support which the program enjoys among Government and
local leaders should help the project receive adequate funding. At the farm
level, the security of land tenure is still a problem; implementation of the
Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR) and of the
Government's agrarian reform should help minimize this risk. Most farmers still
practica slash-and-burn shifting cultivation. The project has been designed to
gradually eliminate this traditional practice by increasing the focus on small
farmer technology generation And diffusion, and eater resource development.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.01      During negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that:
(a)  SDR-MA's Irrigation and Rural Infrastructure Department organization
and staffing would be maintained (para 3.07);
(b) (i) the community development fund would be established and maintained
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) uo funds
would be released prior to a written agreement between SPE and the
groups or municipalities; and (iii) by March 31, 1989, the Bank and
SPE would review performance of the grants fot ecortomic subprojects to
establish the feasibility of carrying out further community fund
operations on a loan basis (para. 3.14);
(c)  the plan of action to protect and manage the Mirador State Park would
be implemented (para 3.15);
(d)  SPE reorganization and staffing would be maintained (para. 3.16);
(e)  (i) quarterly monitoring reports would be sent to the Bank no later
than three months after the end of the respective fiscal quarter;



- 18 -
(ii) terms of reference and institutional arrangements for evaluations
would be satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.23);
(f) vehicles and mictocomputers necessary for project implementation
would be procured in a timely manner (para. 3.27); and
(g) (1) cost recovery provisions for public irrigation schemes would be
implemented in accordance with Government legislation; and (ii)
drinking water supply charges covering full operation and maintenance
costs would begin to be charged to consumers in 1989 (para. 3.31).
4.02      During negotiations, the Federal Government provided assurances that:
(a) for rural credit: (i) lending terms and conditions would be those
recently agreed between the Bank and the Government; (ii) the Central
Bank would provide sufficient funds to the participating banks to
carry out the project's investment credit component; (iii) each of the
participating banks would provide monthly information to SUDENE and
SPE on investment credit availability, demand and lending per bank
agency; and (iv) priority would be given by the participating banks to
allocations, from their own resources, of short-term production credit
to their agencies serving the project area in amounts adequate to
finance the working capital requirements of project beneficiaries
(para. 3.12);
(b) (i) the regional operating plan would be send each year to the Bank
for comment prior to approval; (ii) the portaria, the final regional
operating plan and the State of Maranhao's operating plan would be
sent to the Bank no later than the first working day of each project
fiscal year; and (iii) agreed planning and budgeting procedures would
not be changed without the Bank's concurrence (paa. 3.20); and
(c) the administrative regulation (portaria) establishing the current
funding procedures would not be changed without Bank approval (para.
3.25).
4.03      During negotiations, the Federal and the State Governments provided
assurances that:
(a)  the two plans of action for resolving conflicts related to non-Indian
occupation of Amerindian reservations in the project area and for
creating a new protected area, would be implemented (para 3.05);
(b) at least 301,000 ha by March 31, 1989, and at least an additional
299,000 ha by March 31, 1990 would be available for redistribution to
project beneficiaries in the priority areas (para 3.17);
(c) (i) the Special Account, the investment credit accounts and the
project accounts would be maintained and audited annually according to
practices satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) terms of reference for the
auditors would include, inter alia, verification of the Statements of
Expenditures for the project accounts; and (iii) copies of the three
audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the
close of each fiscal year (para. 3.21);



- 19 -
(d)  all necessary operating agreements would be entered into no later than
six months after loan signature (pars. 3.22); and
(e)  procurement procedures would be as specified in pars. 3.2?.
4.04      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be:
(a) (M) the demarcation of the Amerindian Reservation of GeraldalToco
Preto; and (ii) the satisfactory implementation of the two plans of
action agreed to resolve conflicts In the project area Amerindian
reservations and to create a new protected area (Awa/Carutapera)
(para. 3.05);
(b) (i) the definition, with SUDENE's assistance and in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank, of the internal structure of the Irrigation
and Rural Infrastructure Department within SDR-MA, and related
staffing requirements and staff profiles; and (ii) the putting into
effect of the preceding organization (para. 3.07); and
(c) the satisfactory reorganization and staffing of SPE (para. 3.16)
4.05      A condition of disbursement for loan proceeds financing the
construction of each public irrigation scheme would be that the Bank has
received proof of land acquisition for the irrigation scheme and approved the
detailed engineering designs, and settlement plan (para. 3.07).
4.06      Any loan proceeds allocated for the construction of public irrigation
schemes which are not committed within two years of loan signing to a specific
public irrigation scheme approved by the Bank, would be cancelled (para. 3.07).
4.07      No disburs,ments would be made for the extension, research, domestic
water supply, inland fisheries and administration compenents in the
21 municipalities included in the ongoing Maranhao Rural Development Project
until funds allocated for those components under Loan 2177-BR have been fully
committed or cancelled (para. 3.28).
4.08       Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$84.0 million equivalent with a term of
15 years, including a 3-year grace period.
May 26, 1987



- 20 -
AMNEX 1
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MARANHAO
Proiect Descrigtion
A. Land Tenure and Agricultural Production
1.        Over 95% of Maranhao's 500,000 farms are smaller than 100 ha, yet they
account for only 18% of the total farm area. Furthermore, 87% of the small
farms (less than 100 ha) are worked by farmers without title to their land
(Table 1.1). The vast majority of these producers work on rainfed farms that
are smaller than 10 ha; they are, however, responsible for an important part of
the State's agricultural production.
2.        Maranhao's primary sector income is the third highest in the Northeast
after Bahia and Pernambuco. The State is Brazil's largest producer of babassu
nuts, the second largest of cassava and the third largest of rice.  The
distribution of the State agricultural sector gross income is as follows: 28%
for crop production; 63% for livestock production; and 9% for extractive
products (mainly babassu nuts).
B. Project Area
3.        The project areas, or priority areas, where the Maranhao Rural
Development Plan would take place, include 58 of the State's 130
municipalities. These lie scattered throughout five of the State's homogeneous
agro-ecological regions and are organized into six regional planning units,
namely: Baixada, Pindare, Mearim, Cocais, Grajau and Balsas; the 58
municipalities were chosen as priority areas under the Northeast Region Land
Tenure Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR) on the basis of their concentration of
landless small producers and their underdeveloped agricultural potential (Tables
1.3 and 1.4 and Maps IBRD 19517 and 18686). The ongoing Maranhao Rural
Development Project (Loan 2177-BR) covers 41 municipalities in three of the
above regional planning units (Baixada, Pindare and Mearim). It is designed to
benefit about 12,000 rural families in the Baixada with provision of secure
access to land, support services and infrastructure; and 12,500 families in the
Pindare-Mearim region with secure access to land only.
C. Detailed Features of Project Components
Water Resource Development
4.        The_public irriation actIvities would include the construction of
four small schemes totalling 764 ha (Sao Joaquim - 180 ha; Boa Vista - 200 ha;
Seco das Mulatas - 184 ha; and Salango - 200 ha).  In all four schemes, some 382
farm families would benefit. In addition, about 3,800 ha of private irrigation
financed'under the rural investment credit component is expected to benefit
2,500 farm families.



- 21 -
5.        The execution of the public Irrigation component would be carried out
by the Irrigation and Rural Infrastructure Department (CIIR) within the newly
created Secretariat of Rural Development and Irrigation (SDR-NA), which would be
strengthened under the project. CIIR would be responsible for planning and
coordinating, jointly with SPE, irrigation activities, elaborating further
feasibility studies, preparing engineering designs and carrying out civil works
(usually by contractors), supervising, executing settlement programs jointly
with EMATER-NA, managing the irrigation schemes during the first three years,
collecting water charges and providing technical assistance to farmers in
hydro-aironomic practices. EmATER-l4A would be responsible for all agronomic and
technical assistance to farmers in public irrigated perimeters as well as to
those undertaking private irrigation.
6.        The plannuig and execution of the irrigation subprojects would be
subject to the following conditions: (a) receipt by the Bank of the proof of
acquisition of the land required for the irrigation schemes; and (b) Bank
approval of detailed engineering designs and settlement plan (paras. 4.04.b) and
4.06). Cost recovery through water tariffs would be implemented in accordance
with Government legislation. The satisfactory strengthening of CIIR would be
a condition of loan effectiveness. All funds financed from the Bank loan, that
are not committed within two years of loan signing to a specific public
irrigation scheme approved by the Bank, would be cancelled.
7.        Collective investment costs, including detailed engineering, pumping
equipment, power lines, access roads, pipelines, sprinklers, and canals and
drains range from US$2,870/ha for Boa Vista (river pumping with gravity
irrigation) to US$3,665/ha for Sao Joaquim (river pumping with sprinkling
irrigation). On-farm inuestments, financed under the credit component,
including land clearing, uprooting, fencing, draft animal and agricultural
equipment average US$600 per irrigated hectare.
8.        Under the public irrigation subcomponent, the project would also
finance identification and preparation of future projects (to be financed under
the NRDP subsequent phaue) as follows: reconnaissance and basic studies for
75,000 ha; feasibility studies for 20,000 ha and engineering designs for 1,000
ha.
9.        The domestic water supply subcomponent would consist of the
construction of 93 simple water supply systems with bore-holed wells and 160
smaller systems using hand-dug wells (pocos amazonas) to benefit some 15,500
families (77,500 people). This subcomponent is only expected to be financed for
the first two years as this action would later be funded by the Bank-financed
Northeast Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (NRWSS) Project that is currently
under preparation. Each simple water supply system would include a deep well or
surface source, pumping equipment, a storage tank, laundry facilities  id one or
more standpip2s that would serve from 10 to 100 families. Water supply systems
would be designed for an average flow of 30 liters per capita per day; the per
capita investment cost of new systems is estimated to vary from US$6.5 (for the
hand-dug wells) to US$42.5 (for the bore-holed wells).
10.       Planning, supervision and monitoring of the water supply subcomponent
would be carried out by SDR-MA. CIIR would be responsible for the construction
(generally by contractors) of the water supply systems. Selection criteria for
communities would include village size, per capita investment costs, location



- 22 -
(preference would be given to areas where the population density is higher) and
community willingness to gradually assume responsibility for operation and
maintenance.  During a transition period until the NRWSS becomes effective, the
municipalities and the State would assist the communities in meeting operating
expenses. SDBR-MA would discuss the location of the wells and standpipes with
the recipients and the municipal authorities before installation of the systems;
it would also provide technical backstopping and training to the community.
11.       The fishery subcomonent would follow up on the work started in the
Baixada region under the ongoing POLONORDESTE prject (Loan 2177-BR).  It would
consist of: (a) establishing two fish hatcheries at Itapecuruzinho and Rio
Flores to reach at full development a total annual production of 15 million
fingerlings (mostly native Amazon river species); and (b) expanding extension,
investment credit (under the credit component for boats and improved nets) and
cold storage facilities for some 6,400 inland fishermen in the project area.
12.       The executing agency would be the State Company for Research and Use
of Natural Resources (COPENAT) linked to the State Secretariat for Mining,
Energy and Environment (SEMEMA-MA).  It would be responsible for plaaning and
supervising the construction of (by local contractors) and managing the fish
hatcheries, and distributing fingerlings to individual fish farmers through
on-farm credit, and to rural communities to stock public ponds and lakes. The
construction of the Itapecuruzinho hatchery is scheduled in Year 1. The
construction, in two phases, of the Rio Flores unit would depend on the
successful performance of the first hatchery, Breeding stock would be provided
by the Sao Francisco Valley Development Company (CODEVASF). For both units,
sales of fingerlings would allow the operation and maintenance costs to be fully
covered at full development. Technical assistance would be provided to some 100
fish farms (totalling 100 ha of fish ponds) by specially trained extensionists
assigned to each hatchery.
13.       The subcomponent would also follow-up on the assistance provided by
COPENAT under the ongoing POLONORDESTE project to inland fisheries in five
municipalities of the Baixada planning region and extend it to an addltional
seven municipalities (Baixadas, Mearim, Pindare and Litoral planning regions).
It would provide for: (a) an increase in the technical capacity of COPENAT,
through establishment of six local offices and related incremental staff,
equipment and materials to operate these offices; (b) establishment of three
cold storage units in selected fisherman communities; and (c) training courses
for inland fishermen.
Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Production
14.       The state research program has developed during the past ten years and
would continue to develop technical recommendations to improve agricultural
productivity. However, there is a recognized need to redirect this research
program towards improved adaptation of technology to gradually replace
slash-and-burn shifting cultivation. The project would thus finance four
specific activities: (a) four natural resource studies to assist in future
research planning; (b) about 86 applied research trials to be carried out at
experiment stations to improve production technology; (c) installation and close
monitoring of about 300 farmr-level simple observation units and 12 observation



- 23 -
farms to test Improved technology using farmer participation, and (d) annual
basic seed production (rice, maize, bears and cotton) from 140 ha.
15.       The implementing agency would be the State Agricultural Research
Company (EHAPA). Technical supervision, training, coordination with research
programs in other States and review of annual plans would be the responsibility
of the Federal Center of Agricultural Research for the Semi-Arid Tropics
(CPATSA), which is receiving support for these activities under the First
Northeast Rural Development Project (Loan 2523-BR).  EWA would develop the
research in cooperation with both farmers and extension officers and appraise
both tecknical and economic results from farm-level observation units.
Cooperating farmers who have observation units on their farms would contribute
to the investments (mostly in the form of labor). Once the results of these
observations units have been proven, they would be diffused among farmers
through demonstration plots under the aegis of EMATER-MA. EMAPA would expand
the existing program to produce basic seeds of four major crops: rice, beans,
maize, and cotton. The project would finance investment costs for sheds,
vehicles, agricultural equipment and recurrent costs. The basic seeds produced
would be sold to cooperatives and farmer groups for multiplication. The
improved seeds would be marketed through the existing COMABA and/or cooperative
networks.
Rural Extension
16.       EMATER-MA is currently providing technical assistance to some 22,000
small farmers in the area, of which about 7,000 are under the ongoing
Bank-assisted POLONORDESTE project (Loan 2177-BR). Under the proposed project
the extension service would be expanded to reach about 66,600 farm families at
full development. This represents about 29% of the 230,000 small farmers in the
project area. The project would finance: (a) civil works, and office equipment
for 54 local offices; (b) establishment and maintenance of about 300
demonstration plots annually; (c) salaries and other operating costs for 331
agricultural and social extension agents (two agricultural agents for every
social extension agent), 50 subject-matter specialists and supervisory
personnel, and 208 administrative staff; (d) production of about 8 million tree
crop seedlings; and (e) extensionist and farmer training.
17.       EMATER-MA field staff within the 58 project municipalities would be
organized into nine regional and 85 local offices. Most supervisory personnel
and subject-matter specialists would be located in the regional offices and
would travel 50X of the time to supervise local extension agents. Each
extension agent would assist, on a fixed schedule, six to eight groups of 20-25
farmers organized around contact farmers and demonstration plots. The ratio of
extension agents to farm families would decline from 1:120 in Year 1 to 1:300 by
Year 8. Some extensionists would be specialized, namely those dealing with
farmers with irrigation, fish ponds and inland fishermen. Social extension
workers, cooperating in teams with agricultural extensionists, would work with
farm families to improve sanitation, child care, family nutrition, small animal
husbandry and vegetable gardening. About 32 extensionists would work
exclusively on the Support to the Small Communities component to be financed
under the project (paras. 31 to 33). Specialists from the Federal Company for
Technical Assistance and Rural Extension (EMBRATER) would supervise EMATER-MA at
least once a month. In-service training for extension staff would include



24 -
assistance from EMAPA and the Federal Agricultural Research Company (SMBRAPA)
through CPATSA.
18.       EMATER-MA would, through its demonstration plots, encourage adoption
of simple practices which would improve crop yields, preserve soil fertility,
expand the cultivated area and increase livestock production.  Such practices
have been proven and would include: (a) introduction of animal traction to
achieve better land preparation and improve laoor productivity; (b) use of
improved seeds; (c) coatour ploughing and more appropriate crop rotations to
improve water and soil conservation; (d) improved weed, pest and disease
control; (e) increased use of perennial crops; (f) improved livestock husbandry;
and (g) 4tproved pastures and cultivated forage crops.
19.       EMATER-MA would also be responsible for the implementation of the
nursery activities aimed at producing some 8 million seedlings for farmers to
plant for fuelwood, fodder and fruit trees. Small nurseries would be installed
at village and farm level and EMATER-XA technical staff would be specifically
trained in seedling production, distribution, and wood lot management.
Marketing Services
20.       The marketing component is designed to increase farmers' knowledge of
Markets and prices, improve grain storage facilities and the timely provision of
agricultural inputs, and establish a pilot food retail service throughout the
project area. A Marketing Fund (FINACOM) grouping ongoing Government schemes,
such as the Minimum Price Scheme (CEP) and the Advance Purchase of Farmers'
Surpluses (CAP), would be established, but without Bank support.
21.       The Marketing Information Service (SIMA) is an ongoing activity
carried out under the aegis of the Ministry of Agriculture. It provides farmers
with timely advice on local and regional prices, storage facilities, transport,
and selling options. The project would rehabilitdte five SIMA local offices
(Pinheiro, Santa Ines, Bacabal, Balsas and Presidente Dutra) through the
financing of staff salaries, vehicles and office equipment. Data would be
collected at markets and disseminated by radio and printed bulletins.
22.       Rural Markets and Fairs.  The project would finance improvements for
six rural markets and fairs (Viana, Vitoria do Mearim, Santa Luzia, Sao Luis
Gonzaga, Pio XII and Lago Verde). Feasibility studies would be conducted in
Year 1 and civil works carried out in Years 2 and 3. Average installation would
include roof and paved floor, equipment and facilities. In Years 3 and 4, the
project would include financing of personnel and services for the rural markets,
as a start-up activity. These costs would thereafter be taken up by market fees
paid by the users to the municipalities. The State Food Supply Center
(CEASA-MA), with assistance from the Brazilian Food Company (COBAL), would be
responsible for the preparation of feasibility studies, surveys of prospective
users, training of managers and -technical assistance. The municipalities would
be responsible for the construction of the marketing facilities, purchase of
equipment, operation and maintenance, and collection of market fees.



- 25
23.       Storae Facilities Network.  The project would rehabilitate and equi
the existing infrastructure of 17 storage units (Baixada-1, Pindare-1, Mearim-,
Cocais-6, Grajau-1 and alseas-1). Unit capacity would be about 2,000 tons. Of
these 17 units, 2 need rehabilitation, 4 need improvements in the external
structures, and all need to be equipped. Six units would be rehabilitated and
equipped in Years 1 and 2 and the remaining 11 units in Years 5, 6 and 7. The
storage facilities would be operated by the State Input Supply Company (COMABA)
with technical assistance from the Brazilian Storage Company (CIBRAZEM) which
would also be responsible for staff training (costs included under the training
component). Users would be expected to pay average CIBRAZEM-established tariffs
using simplified procedures Including weight, ad valorem and handling charges.
24.       The project would also finance ten small (120-ton units) storage
facilities to provide cooperative farmers'with adequate infrastructure for crop
and input storage for CAP and CEP operations. Projects prepared by the
cooperatives for each specific case would be submitted for approval to SPE prior
to execution by the cooperative. Cooperatives, under the supervision of
EMATER-MA, would be responsible for operation and maintenance and for charging
adequate fees to users.
25.       Input Supply Network.  COMABA's input supply activities in the project
area are currently carried out through 26 posts (out of a total of 54). The
project would improve the present network by establishing three regional supply
centers (Pinheiro, Bacabal and Dom Pedro) responsible for the supply of the
existing COMABA network, and equipping an additional 25 cooperative outlets.
The existing cooperatives in Baixada, Pindare and Mearim, after the signature of
an agreement with COMABA, would be licensed to sell inputs to their members.
The project would finance equipment (excluding vehicles) for the three COMABA
regional supply centers (which would be rented by COMABA) and the 25 cooperative
outlets.
26.       Basic Food Supply Scheme.  It is proposed to establish a CEASA-MA
basic food supply scheme of the COBAL Rede Somar type in the two priority areas
of Baixada and Mearim. The project would finance the establishment in Pinheiro
and Bacabal of two service centers covering each an average of 10-20
municipalities. The centers would be the focal point for the supply of basic
food to a voluntary chain of retailers. Retailers would agree to sell the
products supplied at prices agreed with CEASA-MA. The size of each center was
determined following COBAL's standards (250 m2 built area, a storage area of 96
m2 and a storage volume of 481 m3). Based on these coefficients, the monthly
volume of sales from such a unit is estimated to be equivalent to the supply of
about 120 retailers.
27        marketing StudX* The marketing study to be implemented under the
responsibillty or the State Agricultural Planning Commission (CEPA-MA) would
include two phases: the first phase would aim at collecting, analyzing and
presenting background information on market flows and trends, export/import
patterns, supply/demand balance, marketing costs and margins, and marketing
infrastructure. The second phase would define a development strategy, identify
development policies and projects, including prices and marketing policies
appropriate to the State of Maranhao and the preparation of specific project
profiles. The study is expected to last about two years.



-26-
28.       Training.  EKATER-MA would trained extension agents in marketing
techniques. The courses would include product marketing systems,. marketing
margins, product classification, market preferences, processing, handling and
crop storage.
29.       Marketing Fund.  This fund, complementary to the project, would be
entirely financed by the Government. It would include resources for the CAP and
CEP programs to be executed under the responsibility of participating
cooperatives, The fund would also finance the initial stock for the COMABA
input supply scheme and the CEASA-MA food supply activities. The total
financial requirements for the fund over an eight-year period, on an incremental
basis are estimated at about US$10.1 million, including 56% for CEP, 17% for
CAP, 15Z for the input supply and the remainder (2%) for the initial food supply
stock.
Support to Small Rural Communities (SSRC)
30.       The objectives of the SSRC component are to help formal and informal
groups of farmers participate in their own development by: (a) providing them
with a system whereby they select, plan, implement, manage and monitor local
development projects suited to their own needs; (b) safeguarding their interests
through group representation; and (c) enabling them to improve their economic
base through organizing joint resources for higher production. In order to
carry out these objectives, the component would include: (a) creation of a
community grant fund of US$21.9 million to finance local development projects;
(b) purchase of vehicles and equipment; and (c) training and recurrent costs for
about 32 community development staff. Most of the 73,000 project beneficiaries
residing in the project area would benefit directly as a result of the local
development projects (LDPs).
31.       The community development (CD) fund would finance three categories of
LDPs: (a) economically based LDPs (representing in total at least 60% of the
fund), suchF as cottage industries, building of fish ponds and small animal
production schemes; (b) community infrastructural LDPs (representing at least
25% of the fund) such as construction of communal laundry facilities, small
irrigation and drainage schemes, and construction and repair of small access
tracks (picadas); and (c) community organization LDPs (representing not more
than 15% of the fund), such as training group leaders and giving legal
assistance for land tenure matters. Guidelines have been established to help
select LDPs:
(a) LDPs would be submitted in writing to Municipal Councils and would
include objectives, justification, expected benefits, method of
implementation, cost sharing (groups would participate with about 15%
of cost) and monitoring and evaluation;
(b) the fund would not finance subprojects funded by other project
components or the construction of schools, health posts, roads or
rural electrification;
(c) the fund would not finance recurrent costs of LDPs; and
(d) the group would be solely responsible for the management and
administration of the LDPs that should attempt to benefit the
community and eventually become self-sustaining.



- 27 -
32.       EMATER-MA w*n'ld be responsible for the implementation of the SSRC.  It
would recruit, mainly from its own staff, 32 full-time CD agents who would be
university graduates. These agents, each one covering two municipalities, would
stimulate community organization and assist in the formulation of group requests
for LCPs, Group requests would then be submitted to Municipal Councils for
discussion. analysis, evaluation and approval. Municipal Council members would
be elected by village and each village would send two representatives to the
Council. The relevant CD agent and regional coordinators from SPE and EMATER-MA
would also participato in the analysis and evaluation of group requests. SPE
could reverse the Municip.A Council's recommendation if it does not confnrm with
the stated guidelines, or postpone funding if funds have been exhausted for the
current fiscal year.
33.       Disbursements would be made by installments.  Progress in
Implementation would be supervised by the CD agent. In the case of a legally
registered association or group, disbursements would be made directly to the
group through a bank account. In the case of an unregistered group, the
agreement would be signed by the municipality on behalf of the group, and funds
would be channelled through the municipality. At present all funds would be
disbursed on a grant basis; but by March 31, 1989, SPE and the Bank would
review the experience to date on the economically based LDCs to establish the
feasibility of carrying out further CD fund operations on a loan basis.
34.       Monitoring and evaluation of the LDCs would be extremely important to
both the groups themselves and the development of the SSRC component itself.
During the preparation of a group request the CD agent and the group would
determine the procedures required for participatory monitoring and evaluation.
The fact that monitoring and evaluation would be a participatory effort would:
(a) increase the awareness and commitment within the community; (b) allow
findings to be fed back immediately to the group; and (c) as an ongoing process,
give the CD agent a closer understanding of the project and of the community's
evolution.
Environmental Protection
35.       The objective of this component is to assist the State Secretariat for
Natural Resources (SEMEMA-MA) in establishing and protecting the Mirador State
Park (430,000 ha of state-owned land covering the watershed of the Itapecuru
River which is the only source of water for the supply of Sao Luis) created by
Governor Decree No. 7841 of 06/04/1980. The project would finance: (a)
demarcation works; (b) construction and equipment of one park management and
training central post and four simple outposts; (c) salaries and other operating
costs for one coordinator, two technicians and 18 guards; and (d) training for
technicians and guards.  SEMEMA-MA would be the executing agency and would
receive assistance in specialized training from the National Spatial Research
Institute (INPE) and in park m4nagement from IBDF.



- 28 -
D. Project Financing
36.       Funding  procedures would be those adopted for the NRDP.  Funfs would
be channelled from the Treasury through MINTER and SUDINE for both the Land
Redistribution and Agroindustrial Modernization Program Fund (PROTERRA), and the
Social Investment Fund (FINSOCIAL), to either a specific project account in the
State for activities executed by state agencies or directly to federal executing
agencies. Monthly advances of Government counterpart funds would also be made
through the Central Bank to cover the estimated Bank share of-mrnthly
expenditures.
E. Disbursements
See Tables 1.7 and 1.8
F. Progress Reporting - Monitoring and Evalustion
See Annex 2
G. Status of Amerindian Reservations in or Immediately AdJacent
to the Project Area
37.       The Carajas Amerindian Special Project linked to the Carajas Iron Ore
Project (Loan 2196-BR) became effective on the basis of an agreement signed in
June 1982 between the Company of the Vale do Rio Doce (CVRP) and FUNAI. Project
scope has been since adjusted to Include number of additional Amerindian
Reserves. The project now comprises 15 reservations in Maranhao (of which 10
are located in or immediately adjacent to the project area), 6 Reservations in
Para, 1 reservation in Goias and 2 contact programs for newly identified tribal
groups (Frentes de Atracao), one of which vlthin the proposed project area. Ten
Amerindian reservations and one Frente de Atracao in Maranhao coincide with or
are immediately adjacent to the proposed project area (see Table 1-9). Pending
issues in this context are: (a) the demarcation and registration of the Geralda
Toco Preto Reservation; (b) the implementation of a plan of action to settle
current land conflicts around the locality of Sao Pedro dos Cacetes located
within the Cana Brava/Guajajara Reservation, and around the village of Sumauma
located within the Urucu/Jurua Reservation, and create the Awa/Carutapera
protected area between the Alto Turiacu and Cara Reservations. A summary of the
two action plans agreed with the Federal and State Governments to solve pending
conflicts related to non-Indian occupation of Amerindian reservations in the
project area and creating the Awa/Carutapera protected area is given in Annex 4.



-29-                AUE1
Table 1.1
'' ~I SS{8.sX
a~~ b          X0Ei
21  Il!  



OL4
1~IW2E E3'wr P)L CR - MaS)
Ivontla  of State 621agbwal Prui,t1a
197jor Cra  1970 a-r 1960!t
Crop                    Eibf  Yield        PFt&bcdm          Ara b'  Yield          ProatIAM
hw)    ftft)          (Wm)           (ha)      (kWh&)         (tons)
Rice (pdd)                553,889     1,226        679,003     981,849       1,304       1,289,316
Seed Ccttn                105,117      228         24,014       52,413        238          12,499                       o
B Nani  (stem)             5,211    17,356          9D,441       9,734      12,816         124,560
Sugarcane                 20,727    30,556         633,346      23,050      48,916       1,127,527
Coc t ('000 VMts)           -         -              -           1,756       3,700          6,435
Beam                      69,964       571          39,932      96,678        433          41,888
Orane ('000 frults)         1,314   176,400        231,755       4,075     105,765         430,992
maine                     30D,632      663         202,765     495,123         546          70,583
Cassava                   215,050     9,2D3      1,979,254     368,302       8,905       3,279,691
T* mto                      -         -              -            319       22,592          7,2D7
Pineqpple ('000 fruits)     -         -              -             197       8,853           1,744
Watetuelan                  -         -              -          10,159       n.a.           n.a.
Soe: :        E - 1970
DM CA   - 1960
b/ Hnestd area.



MAMTh
NI       -  M     L         PF    - N
Project Priority Areas ad !g!dcdm  DistdbutiL
AGV_6         l Fktire Sta Rr    Prority Areaiis                                               Estimted Ni*mer
PegJr/          kIber o      lad hi      Total         Rl6e of       l14d  b/   Rawal          u1r I 7b   /    of
.. egiw                       Area 12) PotoA1AM c/ r        p ties   Area &2) opzl            Fanilles    Densficiaries a/
20          65.755      277,680           2         11 256      IS 483       3.645         2 410
: 11  i- lt        -Tr 25 6                  D39             -T                                  365            2:410
Cerrado             26          45,458      714 271           4          7 979       55833       16 368         3,000
ures 1C            - 8          16,473      299 -37 T                     7r         35X         16             3000
Cocae               3D          40.647      874.473          20         24.000      373 368      68 945        15,180
-                       -~~~~~~~~~,8  xw            -r                                                  3,
&Suaea 1-C                   6                 18 f16,2- 1R- 9-", s
Subea 2-0           11          15,305      317,043          11         15,3D5      220,5        41,861         9060                     W
Subarea 3.00         9          16,392      32D,434           1            674       1,767        2,337           640
Subae 4<D            4           2,130       58,115           2          1,201      22,736        5,109         1,590
Pr'-Amia            20         126,069      933,3D4          10         69 356      353 690      62,214        2D 39D
-          u I-PA            3    0,4I      179,732           1i9 W,                                     4     7 2:700
Subaa 2-PM          11          73,411      606,047           8         45,579     240,984       46,100        13,360
Subam  3-P1A         3          22,217      144,525           1         13,249      47,236        6,176         4,330
Batid               16          13,449      418,887          16         13,449      336 518      65,628        28,454
Su&         I                    9,137      327,037          132 9,137              262,74       49            23,T
Subae 2-BA           3           4,312       91,850           3          4,312      73,944       16,134         5,O07
LItoral             18          12,498      836,984           6          4,612       96 69       18,748         3 585
e=ma Z1           --7;           4,612   11,-         9       r                                  18 4 ,1  748,  3,585
Total 6-18/        13D         303,876/   4,052,599/         S8        130,652   1,233,961      235,548        73,019
6-12          97         251,636    2,843,836                                   I
FaEtimnate  umber of bmefidarles (farYres and fisbmen) at full destlopnmnt.
Source: INWCAJt 12 - 1980.
I7 ID    190



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
Table 14
Page 1 of 2
RZIL
NORIHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MARANHA
Llst of Municipalitles In the Project Area
Agro-Ecological                                                      Estilmted Numr
Reg lons/          PlannIng                                              of
SubRe tons            Reg lons      Mu 'rolitY       __               Benef Iclarles
ChaOeda                                                                    2.410
Subarea 2-04          Beisas         Forteleza dos Nogusires                 630
(Bises)                             Boliss                                 1,780
Cerrado                                                                    3.000
Subarea 4-CE          Coca Is        Fortuna                                 350
(Cocols)                            Buriti Bravo                             600
CollInas                                830
Parnaram                              1.220
Coca Is                                                                   15,180
Subarea 1-CO          wearim         Plo XlI                               1,100
(Mear.m)                            Olho d'Aguo das Cunhas                   420
Lago Verde                              250
Bwcabal                               1,370
Lago do Junco                           430
Sao Luis Gonzaga                        320
Subarea 2-0           Mearlm         Pedre Ires                              710
(Mearlm, Colis)                     Lima Campos                              430
Igarape Grande                         430
Pocc., de Pedras                        %60
Santo Antonlo dos Lopes                 500
Esperantlnopolls                      1,3,)0
Joselandia                              720
Cocals         Dom Pedro                               430
Tuntum                                1,280
Pros idente Dutra                       900
Soo Domingqs do Maranhao              1,500
Subarea 3-O           Near In        Soo Mateus                              640
(horlm)
Subarea 4-            Coca Is        Governador Eugenlo Barros             1,290
(Coa 1s)                            Grace Aranhe                            -300
jf Estimated nuaber of bonefleIarIes (farmrs end fishermn) at full deelopwmnt, of which
about 900 are expected to have secure access to land.



- 33 -
ANEX 1
Table 14
Pag 2 of 2
Agro-Ecoleg teal                                                   Estimated Number
Reg Ions/         P loan lIIg                                          of
Sub-Roalons          Realons       Run Iiola Ity                    Benf Iclares
Pro-Amzon ta                                                            20,390
Subarea 1-PAN        Plndare      * Moncoo                               2,700
(Pindaer)
Subea 2-7AM          Near le        Vitorlno FreIre                       1,000
(Nearls, Plndare)                   Paulo Rams                           1,900
Lego de Pedra                        1,420
Altamira do Maranhao                 1,280
Plndar      * Bom JardIs                            1,180
Santa ones                             600
Santa Luzie                          4,860
Plndero, NIrlm                       1,120
Subarea 3-PAN        Grajau         Grajau                               4,530
(Grajou)
BeIxada                                                                 28.454
Suborea   M          Baixada        Plahoero                             4,254
(Baixada)                           Santa Helena                         2,127
8.iulmno                             1,227
Pelmelrandla                         1,201
Porl-MirIm                             667
Sao Bento                            1,085
Sao VIcento de Ferrer                1,638
Cjap lo                                570
Sao Joao Batiste                     1,729
No-t Inhe                            1,089
Panal e                              2,433
Vlsna                                3,714
CaeJr1                               1,713
Subarea 2-A          Balxada        Anaja"ub                             2,132
(Baixode, Pindare)   Pindare        Vltorla do Mearim                    1,140
Boixoda        rarl                                 1,T5
LItoral                                                                  3,585
Subarea 2-LI         Bixada         NIrtnzal                               743
)Dolxde)                           Bacurl                                  787
Cururupu                             1,167
Gu lImers                              294
AlIcntara                              246
Codral                                 348
Total 6/12             6            58                                  73,019
g   Estimated number of baneficlaires (farmers and fIshermen) at full developinnt of whIch
90% are oxpocted to lave secure wess to land.
M NunIcIpalitles IncludIng or Immediately adjacent to AmerIndian Reserves.



- 34 -
BR^AZIL                                                  ANK  I
NORTHEAST                                                                      Table 1.5
Annual Cost Pbs               of Proect Activities
(US$ l00w)
w1"7/" U100/W   U/R1  JAh2 92f93 93194 94/95  Total
A. MTER RESMIS 09L'nE
ISO TICEm M ATER stLY                           1246.7   1,W.9                                                                  2 -  - 34.6
FUC IRlQATION                                     136.5   1,.1    oM74           91.7      40.3      13.4                   -   396A.4
FIS  IAmTU                                        152.1      40.6      3e.    104.5    121n5        194,4      93.4      96,6   1.194.9
mm  Fis lS                      3S2,5   149.3                         26.0    2.4    311.1    590,7    499.4    516.9   34.5
FEmIDILY " mS                                         -    431.1t    943    03.9  1,270.1   1901664    525S              ".3  5.22M1
INSTITUTRN     SI ENINS                            20.6    343.2       Wit    I*0   3Wt1            420*7    435.3    429.1  2,790.3
S&-Tot4l am53 ff9EI   5  MYELOF                    1,M4.4  3596*3   39624.5   348.6   2150.0   2,23.*7   34t,  i#133.0  19s495,
3, AIIcKIA  RE~IU
KIRTIa   ONF TECUO                               410,3    452.5       "i's    652.2    969.4       9.2   1,033.9  1,06.1   ,46.
MFUSIOO 'F tEIMOOT                                 i3A4    212.9    379.9       3,5   4+4' '    477.2          07       5018   :.006#7
ASIC S    PROIUCtIOII                              87.2    277.7    14*9    la5ss    170.8    176.8    182,9    1894   1439142
SIC STUIIES                                          ,7    1491        963      102.0     1.3    209.0    112,0    109.5    031.6
RESERCN  ITIIUTIION STREN6TNI                         -      43t0    120.8       39.2      40,5      47.3      43.4      44.9    379.0
Sib T%A) MICULTWL RBESE                              633.4  t1335.3   1599.6   1K0.44   1sM.4   1000.4   1,873.7   1.911J,  V2M450
C- RW1. EXTM   IWI
3oft1 EXTSION                                   3,364   3WM28,5   3014.4   3dO01.1   4,007,4  6t823.9   7,168,1   7346.6, 38,436.3
SI.   ftOESTY                                         -    351.3    2026    275.8    216.1    161,8    220,9                -  1,42864
Tow   Rm m.  TTESIN                                3,366.4  3t,37      34217.0  T.076,9  46303*5  6M67   7,389.0    346.5  39,M4.7
.NARETINI
N t WRATISN                                     79.2      57.6      66.7      70,0      72.3      9.6       95.9      9.3    6547
IICIPAL   IETI  mm FM                                 -    345.5    21,8            -         -         -         -               564.3
BASIC FOMD suWrY                                  143-1         -     14-                                         -         -    28*.1
JloUT S Y AP   T1aIE   O                          243.9    3644      2M.9    198.1    226.6    250.4           65.8         -   1,632.0
I;ITN' STUDIES                                     53.7      54.?         -         -         -         -         -         -    10Q.4
0ub-Tottl MIETNS                                     517.9    642,2    715.3    26.2    2968           342.0    161,0       9j3  3,24.55
E. IPJUL IPESTIEJIT CIT                            3546*1  6232A4   7U416.0  7,793,1   7,8302   7t429.7  64.17,4   19321.9  50,306
F. tlMPfI  To SHL  am   CO IJTS
COIUJUlY FiUR                                   14540.0  2970   2t970.0   3#30040  2,970.0  2,970.0  2,970.0  2'190.0  21,900.0
COJIIITY  FIND AIMINISTRATIN                      356.78 60.8         66.9    602.0    714.2    737.8    753.9          U4.2   54130.6
U-10tal SUElOT TO SMA.L PR. fNMITIES               1,916.8  316498  3N638.9  3s902,0  3.684.2  3,707.6   323.9   2v,U.*2 274030,4
S. ENWIR0VAIL 7TECTION
nIPADIR                                           331.0    360.S    242,3       2362      243.7    252 3    241.1       270.2   ?.l97.2
Subtotal EWIROMTAL PROTECtIO331.0                                  .5    242.1    236X2    243.7    252.3    26W1         270.2  1M97.2
N, PW TECT 4IHISTTION                              1,455.6  2,026*4   1.,731   1.81448  1,882.8  2,219,9   1,080.1   117}.9  13,33S.6
!I TRAINIG                                           42.4 0    66403    681.?   m7          593.1    X59.6    494 ^           -  A P3S. 8
Toti.l FJECT COS'                                   14,144.0  24041.9 22,873.1  21,710.1 2:2741.0  25.531*1  ?3o S.3  U79936,71729336.8
JWjd?V 29, 167  19153



onww,,,,_,__. ... .... .................  
mm~~~~~~~~mmw~ .L9W
OETIC .53 PLC              t      l      M      USI113FL1T~  WSTIUUP    393J' rg irnYSw P m1  MI                         IItItI
SIPPY    tUNTIIIIFItM CUlLtSt bIIII             '1CS   TPCtSTEI        CSLP W*OT 9332133m     SISR  IIIU I
1. 1VSW; WI
A. CIVIMIS 3t1mB             1,.3V600.0 2.441.301.0   315l.00   M36100.0                     -            -     224MO.0            -   47,*2.
3 liS fPMbiI-                                              - -              -          -                         -                       -
C. WmIES -  EmUIPn
E3SIIIDT                                         3 6to4.00    15530.,   93100.0           -     43.790*O     214,00 0   10M740.0   .0000          3551*0       74,300.0
9ktot1 WINCLES AS  FSMENI                       -  340,0t000    510.0  23100,0               *      B0,*.0  P*st 20740.0   os 0                     11o          74.00.0
1. $1751                                              -                -            7,0t70.0J000          -            -           ----                                          
F"  fITY lmINS                                                   -          -                      -                   -                             -           -                               u 
ToUtl 13N1111  CMSTS                      19W37|.00  273301.0   V09900.0 It0",200.0 3470.000.0        6870"0       50,660.0   1'-O0,o  13S32,0    155100.0          74400.0
11. 3F7753  COSTS
SilUlEltS                    -          -  ~~~~~~~~~~~29tAl.0  463P250.0  -  193riP00.0    7#415t200.0   enoe 9000.   o600       230,400#e-                                l 
SUIM      S                                 -09        -   202#347.1  3024314            -    401.460.0     101.24.0    31.401,0   42#140.0       1o4.              *4!;
aFW   6L0U S                                           -    20.6s.0  106*40.0            -            -      18,0.2 217.9'@-6   35.2030,               -      91400.0
TRM    Lo S                                 -          .    36 ,5   MI.MI0.0             -    12927,0        W .O.0   29*000,0   24.60.0    62P700.0          4.0600.0
I  bl wIMAM  I  AtlammS                                   -   453.620.0   5.M765            - .    33.0   4.,762  1,10.t4.6  2790.0.0    390floso0   13#5600.I
_   Ilt311                            96.720.0          -     ,0.0   0*0.0                      79030. -     2:61#00.0   294.600.0  629#.S1      435000.0 3.00.0
3357 A 4Nw.. __                                        -           -. -                                             -                                               -
33313-, *                                                     2         e.   24.4               4'tt%*,o    2U4000-0    %900.0 1 K 6!  -t   e -  --
t.      C.illm 71*135 FAWA                                           -                                                 
_* Tout 13*31                                                             2                                                                                       .                                 _
364  R  rRmT C*T *O00020.5                                     166.60.0 2.92.707           -  214.012.0   4.29ee.17.  2.356.2-0.  -1.3.           58.e03hte 2.00.01 i
flgw,ieI CW.tltwel                       23512,   40- 11-    45.210  t241.3390    300.0             20:.2030    10466000    0,335,0   -l12.         23.950       10,740.0P
gm Cti,M.sTIg ca!lrS                    251.0-0     04,0   211 .# 2                         -      .                  -    0                 -    I116.3        7    .
51@ 1135C-  -  -  - -- -   -  -  -  - -
I        It IPM   t'l 
Omd to II MM
tddl IF" mm     IN com                                            %*43J 9    U .  1005271 l ,11w*.  2- S439124.    42m1.7392 29.1W093W   n 130990     546.416       2b3.
ltelu NamX  MlS                            2#Ir#pM.0 2#t"#PS        m  52 0P. 3#Nltl907   3M*@O 02 #22v112.4   5 2204U2 2XO71M-6 1tM3020    jSWINo                 2"97
noie1 Cunim int                         2Wtl2 0  esiswo    4 0AM            JO143W0  31W40.t0     2e0,0        U2tIUO    h4#0           72#0g-2    2Ju10o    lom0||J-
Prim Cafha65wI&                                 .3  W74,0   211t745.3  M#240-2  964"7.4t           IS#i*t4   tvlM50              600#30.6  261rM1    IWSI1s3      1412-
ltefl RAWtC  ORM                           2PMW ,3 3J    " t J9654190  1f* 3 J170047 5*221#47A    2P2n334.4   6pW#VS*2 144#7012 1#3USAJOi              131#52 J    VOM-tt7        
lxt                                       4*t#P-4     61#M.6    jimmsX.    34hot.9                  43o,.2       214UR-        MMS      Ah"M wK      3MR&         2h.4                         
fr..*s W t 1uWA4f.41.9 213,2    74*2.5  603062.02.6109n7.7                                          3"647.2    3W4P.M.    21341.3   9.2,5    n7wo1                 U#56.9_
Vw29 t57   153 



nTf WSW  M18LPMr           WI - WAe1
Sma. v *VcoWt tv PrOJAA CusoAM
13j@'Wt  14 MJ qp4P.
-o-- -nTIES        UWAPwfIT. FORT"
tue. 177'1211mu                uum O     mF    for w          otr     RA  iewCM                               UD O
1 m TI   3SKIN tl0N111l  ?1FITISN    9                                 1118115        CtJU                                                                 BE tqT   "twp &iI1Wa?1t   A.'   1 3   AM Thh 10
4Ct__inina*   __.a.au.  ...W                '     ' .a*s   It.a,. -           '         t         s.u.~.'in.l.t*t              ~.#.                     *.eS4*W.   *t 
'w,'e e              -          -    b.,rn.o   7s.go.o   5735'SX.0                        -             -                        -    sse.oo.             -                .,e
-    1,I'wf.50O         -           -         -          -        -                             -            -                      -             *          -    lI.1OB!!0-
'09,1.0e-            -    41.370,0     80,200.0  61,600.0   63.1000       -               -             *      0.,00o           -    49Xs2000     3*010000          -   3.309,27e09
",w,e   -    4~ 0 >  e  -8A.2 .O 61600.0   4114000 4                 -                    30-000e0         -    49se40e       301.000 0         -   3.39.2 0.
*  -    *                     -          -       ~-    548.s,$,,o                                 -                  -                       -  30.30974.0
.                 .           .         .          .        .               .             .            .          .           -             -          -   3.970o.00.
-   *                       -                                            -   21400o.0<9.                                         -                  -  21,400,00.0
1.600.00.0    ,1t1.eo    41,370.0   4067090 .0< 41o,0 0,A  1499.60          *      04,3670.0  :'i0,003.0         304000.0         -   134,00.0       30O.0             -  "0176#071t
u,In,8Ooo ~ ~ ~~4960              1 6oe tm:Xo  P"Oe0.0   3340.0 49.eoo               *              *      2,80710-         -     s o        S0970Ms.0           *2,e,h*
4JY0I0.0                   1S24171.0     IP73-.0  134-0.0    12P39O0  7.073.0               -             -    507.0*:.           -      .*547.5    1.0,11S.0          -     . MM,10,9
21OU1.03.0.                 4.<00       1.00,,6,              340.<4.8,                                        .3,1.                      400 2827.0M      .@           -  26341,190.
2.103,910. e                -           -          -          -         -           *              -        *    s2S2.eo00        -           -      548.7o00<         -   3.94.4471.0       
3.6P.700.@             -    10.160.0       e.580*0    A0,560.0     - '.0,500                *             -     1sth ^            -   3.460.0<       3O.170.0<         -   1.s94-
30.60.610.0            -   2! 791.0    30.493,0  63.46,0    4h'00.Q  74.11  3.0              -             -   2.821. !            -  ,1t497 .-7 eo667 .5 0             -  44, 7 9
2,3:2.0.0             -           -           -  15-440,Q          -  X,929,0               -             -     42%120.~        -       9.480-<      29    ,0          -n 39,,0o *3tWo
1,100.000.0           -           -           -   4t000.0             5.000 0  -                                2690-  *  *0.4    * -       , 0 0.0  1724,40,0         -   1.52OA720
3.421,000.0           -           -           *  19.440,0             41,920.0              -             -     485.720,0         -   10<9.400.0     41420.0 "0  *6               h .0'
1#32.O00.0            -           *           -      e.822.0         *  2.20-,              *             *     235e,:0.          -    16490         161.1t0,0              1,791410.0
2480e4.000            *   244t00.0       8o000-    44".4    34,200.0  510oo00               -             *     204400.o 0        *     27.1000    1.,73U5w0 e         -    38ffs
3,830.400,0                ? 2*4*t o.4440  I1 12.W0    14.200.0  7?00,                     -             *     499.100.          *    44.1.0    1,34.9,0              -   7430.00
*             *          *           *                    *                                      *                        * -                      -          -      m.me.o
~~-    -           -           -         -                   -              -             -                                    -            -   405401.0    601.0.o
-  -  -  -      -           -                       -             -             -   ~      -     -                  - 1.39.90.    2.19,90.
.         *        -          -                     -       _                          Oo-   -         ,_                           _     -  "    -  _ -    - 14000    1.286._ _ .0
-  -  -      -         ..                                               ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~       ~~*  *  *  -  - 3.251481.    3,23.1.
201426490.0            -   44,91.0    3.69M,0  95.904.0<    t019900 93,113*0                                   4.00 9.5s 1                    5        o4t"4 4   3.2J   ..0  42440936.
29,0261 .40.    lW1IPN510.0   20t961.0   44593930 23304.   1771,6400  02133.0o    30o6.*0   21.900 .00   4.03,920.15               * 1t737.m5   10#724.90.0  43611.02.  102144073
11#200.0<     MOM95    2674.1         3e,   11.910.    91,8300  1.61M*                    -             -     140.982.M -                              M350  9.   WP2.13.1    ,447.         '9 1  '4 09.
4,7206-e       1I3v.92.    925m.9,     00,307.9  38.096    204558.6  14.2418t              *             -     97t4.67.           -   403.097.?   2.2.090    T314    "          3            86    U
346, 0    1471404.1   614.4014    344.40,t 214.110,0 1632.020.6 10R410,9    50.716440   21.o90.000,0   213.5110 t.t -                   97.13.2   13135SM.15 4#1354NO.6 Vtb175-6
1.4172,0              -    291s-,       t1.40-.   37,97-2   3501.19  2376.0                -             -     2W05,3.-    70.741                   ae.m,I    2*07901   4           42. 
3.044.14t 9           -    133177.3   137.670.4   ,9M.4   4S2.107.1  5.431,        7,t18.01?.    3.20.009.0    4114900.               1mo,9m65      1390   4tl 1t.l  22012.314



- 37 -
PA1 I
Tdble 1.7
VA=
1m RL 11m~w w --
FEttinted Sdmdule of Bwk  lhismt
(U$ miU4 n)
B30      Qiarter     Dsbursemet nlbnatirve Db nr1R
Flwic     hdii          Dziz                                of lam
Year                    Quter    Awunt        % TtaL
1988     Sept 30, 1987    -          -           -            -
Doc31, 1987    3.5 1/     3.5           4          80.5
Mardi 31, 1988  1.3       4.8           -           79.2
Je 30, 198    1.5         6.3           8          77.7
1989     Sit 30, 1988   1.5         7.8          -           76.2
Dec 31, 1988    2.0       9.8          12          74.2
March 31, 1989  2.0       11.8          -          72.2
Jue 30, 989   2.2        14.0          17          70.0
199D     Sept 30, 1989   2.2       16.2          -           67.8
D  31, I989    2.3       18.5          22          65.5
March 31, 1990  2.8       21.3          -          62.7
Jiue 30, 1990   3.2      24.5          29          59.5
1991     Sept 3D, 1990   3.2       27.7          -           56.3
Doc 31, 1990    3.0      30.7          37          53.3
Nardi 31, 1991  3.0       33.7          -          50.3
J,e 30, 1991   3.0       36.7          44          47.3
1992     Sept 30, 1991   3.5       40.2          -           43.8
Dec 31, 1991    3.5      43.7          52          40.3
Ma1d 31, 1992  3.5       47.2           -          36.8
Jme 30, 1992   3.5       50.7          60          33.3
1993     Sept 30, 1992   3.5       54.2          -           23.8
Dec 3,1992    3.5        57.7          69          26.3
Mardi 31, 1998  3.5      61.2           -          22.8
Ju 30, L993   3.0        64.2          76          19.8
1994     Sept 30, 1993   3.0       67.2          -           16.8
Doc 31, 1993    2.5      69.7          83          14.3
1ardi 31, 1994  2.5      72.2           -           11.8
Jume 30, 19!K   2.0      74.2          88           9.8
1995     Sept 30, 1994   2.0       76.2          -            7.8
Dec 31, 1994    2.0      78.2          93           5.8
March 31, 1995  1.5      79.7                       4.3
Jumn30, 1995   1.5       81.2          97           2.8
1996     Sept 3, 1995   1.0        82.2          -            1.8
Dec 31, 1995    0.9      83.1          99           0.9
March 31, 1996  0.9      84.0         100           -
#f  Iuc1udLt Iritial dPosit of W3.5 Utlon lito tie Speda Acmt.



X1
- 3S?  8 -
RaL nmm o    - _ON
Alloeatla of Loom Procmmb
ITOA    Xfr  alty-
of '
I } Water Bsmace U mlt.                              12.5        0.7
702 of apsuditurs
(cf Wdddh IB$25 -ii  fk  hr p,,b: Irdm )
U         hpioiltiwal Ih d_                            3.7        0.5
50 of Eawre ipto a orqate EA am Wt
in*r tbis  tepyof  W7  llit  ((*ajw,
U;B0O2         302); 3t ther Pitr ua*il t  qp1ates
rea&m  B$34 million (Qrsdm4 w$0.4 ulfli);
aid 102 thereafter
III        awld  1uioo.                                12.2        1.2
3of duHtb     e up to an qg pte dLs      unwm-
snIw e this d teoy of WM2 =iU         (Gmajw,
W$O.8 mill); 302, theretew until tu
gas e remi  I  IB$11.3 idlon  (rasj, MIA.1
iillion); and I( atertw
IV       Credit.                                      22.8        1.6
501 of emaipiiture
V        ft ~ hrketii1.4                                          _
501 of qnittuce
VI        aip,mrt to maU CAdtie.                      17.0        LO
701 of eawrAiture
VII         -- wfcNital frctectio.                      0.7         _
501 of _ienitt       up to an qwp te
dlhgaenit    dthis caqpy of UB90.4
ficm; 302 thefter uitil the qWp te
readmes 10.6 udilionm; and 101 tleater.
vIII              h                                      4.0        0.2
501 of beulib    up to Sr pg Pte
I        Ir t  wectthi otry of  $31 m4lli
(Graja, 1uL0.I Ul); 31 tbureafter imtfl the
qp    ste re        1BS$3.6 uil 4la (Qrajaz,
13*0.2  )m ); ai 101 thereafter.
DL       Trafidrg.                                     1.3         _
53  of eqmdiuww up to an _gate disbtwumt
uigr ths mt8   y of 15*0.8  Uion; 301 tertwer
until te gate readi  3$1.2 mill1m; ad 102
I -- eafter.
X         tiaIlatd                                     8.4          0.6
84.0          5.8



- 39 -
UOUUAst VIRAL 35VEbflNT PROJECT - NabO O
Finaaciin Flea (W/Am ton)       us
row-rimoo    Total
-   *      only (1)
A. VA        . RESOUCK UYELO_M
Daetlc Vater Supply                       2.8            -           2.8
Public Irtgttoo,                          4.0            -           4.0
F1b hCulte                                1.1               -        1.2
Isla    Flebarlie                         3.9            -           3.9
Flaibility Studies                        5.2            _           5.2
tstItutieo  Stweqtb.alq                   2.8            0.2         S.0
Sub TOtl (A)                 19.9            0.2        20.1
B.  AOIULTUAL EISRAECR
Geration of TSchnolgy                     6.6            0.5         7.1
Dlffusmo of Tcbuooy                       3.0            0*3         3.3
Basi SW  ProductIon                       1.4            0.1         1.S
Blc Studils                               0.e            0.1         0.9
Resea   btAttutliou Streotbslsg           0.4            -           0.4
Sub Total (5)                12.2            1.0        13.2
C. IREAL WEUIO
Rra  Irteeoln                            38.5            3*9        42.4
Socia foretry                             1.4            -           1.4
Sub Total (C)                39.9            3.9        43.8
D.   1 1MTIEG
Market Iufonatlon                         0.7                        0.7
Markets and paire                         0.6            -           0.6
Basc Food Supply (iacl.Sne..vorkla
capital)                                  0.3            0.3         0.6
Input Supply and Storzo Iktvork
(Inlu"dg tmcm.wormm capital)              1.6.           2.5        4.1
Marketing Studies                         0.1            -          0.1
ncre. Maketis   Fund (CMP/C(P)            -              7.4        7.4
Sub Total (D)                 3.3           10.2        13.S
B.   EAL DIVSENT  CEBIT                      50.4            -          50.4
F. SUPORT TO SMALL oEL  cOl.
Cessolty Fund                            21.9            -          21.9
Administration                            5.1            0.8         5.9
Sub Total (F)                27.0            0.8        27.8
6.               MOTECTIOU                    2.2            0.1         2.3
R. PROECT COOED., ND1IT.6 UVAL.              13.3            0.4        13.7
I. TAIMIEG                                    4.1            -          4.1
TOTAL                       172.3           16.6       188.9
(1) ExcIudlug I      ~l eeason.l Iicredt
(2) Includvg abot US$4.9  llion of taxes and dutle  not flnanced by RED



IAIL                                                 PEX 1
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROM                                   Tiblo 1.10
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MARAWO
Status of Awlnd Ian Reserv  In or l_med lately Adlact to tn  ProJect Area
Project        Nam  of the      Totol                                     owologatlon        Reuistratlon No.
MIuncipall y      Reserve        Populat bl/         Area      Ourcet Ion       Decree          Land        SPU           Comsents
Concerned                      Tribe na            (ha)         date         No./dtn*         Ron _sta
Nonco        (t) (Alto Turlacu   (333 Urubu-Kaapor  530,525       1970      88,002/12-28-2      467       162/83   Sae  Invaslon reported
(34 Suaja                                                                        on the wetern border
(370 Tlmbira
Om Jardim         (Plndaro       (429 GuaJajara        15,003     1977      87,646/11-22-02      71       IS53/83    no current confI lets
I              (Guarant, TabaJora
E(TchbIra
*    "{(Caru                    (129 Guajajara       172,667    1977       87,643/11-22-62      70       161/83    risks of InvasIon on
1              (35 Guaja                                                                          southern and wetern
( 11 nomds
GraJau         (*) Ararlbola      2576 Guajajara     413,00       1976      under proocss        under process      no current conf Its
Geralda/Toco  49 TlobIra            16,568      -             -                    -             50 On-rlidlen fa ll l
Preto                                                                                            opposed dew  eat bn by
FUNAI In 198
U               Lagoa CamprIda 2576 Guajajara       13,198    1983       undor proness        undor prooess      no current conflitts
*               Urucu Jurua    199 Guajajara       12,697     1982       under process        under proces       240 non-Indlan famliles
encr"ochad In several
emal villages
*              Nwro Branco   153                       49    1979        U8,600/08-09--8      342      164/64    no current conf I lots
*           (*) Cana Brava/   2515 GuaJojara      131,868     1977       under process        under process      1330 non-laId Ian
GuaJoJora                                                                                        famIles encroache
In the local Iy of
Sao Pedro des Cacetes
*              Sacurutinho    1224 GuaJaJara       82,432     1979       88,610/08-09-83      3426     165/04   no current conf I lets
Total      8306               1.388.617      -              -               -         -
Source  FMN I 6Tfl ReIonal OffiCe  - December 1965
)   seves part lal    included in the referred n  le lpal lty



- 41 -
BRAZIL                      ANNEX 2
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPM4ENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MARANMAO
PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Institutional Aspects
Federal and Regional Levels
1,        An IAaterministerial Commission (IC) for the Northeast Rural
Development Program (NRDP), chaired by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of
Interior, and comprised of representatives from the Ministries of Finance,
Planning, Land Reform, and Agriculture and the Superintendent of SUDENE, has
overall policy and planning responsibility for the NRDP. The Director ior the
Program of Support to Small Farmers within SUDENE would be the regional
coordinator of the NRDP of which the proposed project is a part. The
Directorate would receive policy backing for its work through the Regional Rural
Development Council (RDC) linked to SUDENE's Deliberative Council, which
includes all of the Northeast State Governors. The RDC would consist of the
Superintendent of SUDENE, senior management of the Directorate, representatives
of the involved federal ministries, banks, the Northeast State Secretaries
responsible for program coordination, and program beneficiary associations and
unions.
State and Local Levels
2.        A State Rural Development Council ISRDC) chaired by the Governor with
the Secretary of Planning as Executive Secretary and including the State
Secretaries of Finance, Agriculture, Interior, and representatives from
participating banks, SUDENE regional office and beneficiary associations, would
provide overall guidance for rural development activities. A State Coordinating
Commission (SCC) chaired by the Secretary of Planning with the SPE's
Superintendent as Executive Secretary and composed of representatives of all
executing agencies operating within the project, would ensure proper
implementation of SRDC guidelines and integration of project activities. The
SCC would meet monthly to plan, supervise and evaluate the implementation of the
annual work plans to ensure their compatibility with overall project goals and
methodology.
3.        SPE, a foundation with its own budget, salary structure and
administrative personnel procedures, located within the Secretariat of Planning
and Coordination, would be the agency responsible for administering and
coordinating all federally funded rural programs and for fully integrating them
under the project. It would be responsible for: (a) consolidating annual
operating plans drafted by executing agencies (Table 2.1), (b) supervising
project performance and advising the SRDC on institutional or technical
difficulties; (c) monitoring progress and preparing reimbursement requests; (d)
evaluating ongoing project; and (e) administering training activities and the
community development fund.



- 42 -
4.        SPE would reorganize its administrative structure to adjust to the
needs of the NRDP (Chart 1). Its headquarters in Sao Luis would have up to
about 60 technicians organized into a superintendency directly in charge of
three departments, namely: Planning, Operations, and Rural Developtent, and
three independent divisions: Training, Studies and Evalustion, Administration
and Finance. The Operations Department would be responsible for supervising and
monitoring project implementation through six regional offices. The regional
offlces would gradually expand in number from three In Year I to an expected $ix
in Year 5. Regional offices' staff would reach 61 (6 managers, 28 technicians
and 27 support staff). Each office would typically be composed of a regional
coordinator and four to five officers covering economic activities (such as
extension) and social activities (such as SSRC).
B. Project Execution (see Chart 2)
C. TradniU
5.       All training programs would be emphasized and would be centrally
coordinated and administered by the Training Division to avoid duplication and
conflicting strategies among State agencies. The five types of training given
would be:
(a) Induction Training.  The objective would be an Initial orientation for
staff, farmers and community leaders as to the basic project concepts,
components, expectations and the underlying strategy of
'participation" in the implementation of project activities.  It would
be given by SPE;
(b) Pro ent-Related Training. The objective would be technical training
by component for project staff. Responsibility for assessing the
needs and undertaking the execution of the training program would
remain with the implementing agencies, but SPE's Training Division
would have to give its clearance before releasing project funds;
(c) Management Training. The objective would be to improve both SPE's own
managerial skills (both at the central and regional levels) as well as
those of the implementing agencies. Though organized by SPE, the
courses themselves would be given by consultants;
(d) Trainigs of Trainers. SPF in cooperation with SUDENE would train
trainers usually with the assistance of consultants; and
(e) Farmer Training. Farmers would receive training on specific
components such as credit, marketing and community development. In
each case, the respective implementing state agency would be
responsible for the training.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
6.       Monitoring and evaluation arrangements have been designed to simplify
reporting requirements to provide accurate and timely information for project



-43-
manegem.mt and to allow annual planning. SPE would receive from executing
agencies monthly reports on key physical and financial indicators. Its Studies
and EKvluaiaon Unit would be strengthened to ssist regional offices to carry
out ongoing evaluation of project activities. State evaluation activities under
the proposed project would comprise: (a) a baseline survey; (b) ongoing
evaluation and special studies of selected topics; (c) aid-term evaluation; and
(d) post-project evaluation.



- 44 -
At 2
NIORIASr MEAL DBUt FT)JBCr - _MA)
LlBt of  Em h  WAX      lS
Eroja 69-Viq                    -Main    -d                    
Pimiect Atiity                              Agmc                bnQ1amtz   gvi
waterem    Dula_w
- Rural Omunmity Wbter Sipply               SD-Wi              Pdwte OontaMrs,
- State Publi.c Irrigotk                    S( k .-ts, Pdrvte (butctus
- Feisiilty Studies                                            conultants
- Fiqpriucg Prductio                        a=                 SPA, W4M*&
- Tnl1a Fisles                              avlA               WATE-YA
-Stu sTrials, Obsezviantc  !tta              SPA                 AMSA, 1qA,  tomulta
- Bi*. Seed Prmodim                         MPA io
- Apiau     l E 1ES EEWARRM WA, WMA
_ Soa Foety                   ~f1
Rural_ IiettCei                          B, B,  '          !H 1   asI&
- ?1arbatIx  thozuntlAl aid Odeiation Service (WASfrNA,SW      9AR-MIA
- fMtzipal Narkta  d Fals                   (AS&1
- Storap ard Iqx3t Supply Netwo*             qAICooperatis CRAZ7M
- Food Nlbleslrg Servis                     MZAS&m            0
- Me3atiW Stidy                             CEPAM              Qsu(ta>ta
- Maktii FUd                                CoSratAes          aM ,   A
SMot to Si111 Rural, Coioiiti
Ccu.ztty A,etivities                     CaM.ity Gwpe    SEE, 9ELEt
- Tedical Asuistu  ard TraW*                SPE
Elxal Protectin
-  Wlor MSNtt Paik                          S     Erm           M., MF, I
ProJect Mduiitration ad Traini
- Admitratim, M & E                         SSUR, al poject emiuti
- Traini                                    SEE and            a
.Endm



-45                                             ANNEX 2
Chart 1
NOR        UA DMEVEOPMEN PROGRAM
NORIHEA5T RURA DIVILMEWM Ii PROAEC (MARJNHAO)
Prcle ctooemInflon and Mw4lgsnm.n cha
- - - - -- - -                               --- --- -     -d-   --
- -.- - - -- -~=    1-    1
r                - =L,
*A*J~~~~~~~ 
A~&           l       l-
_______ _______ _______    ____   _     ____    _ _      _ _ _ _ _ _



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT VIl PROJECT (MARANHAO)
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
PROJsCT COMOSNENT                     AGE/CeY   _              _ 2          3 3_4s_68
Whit e IsoIIa U,.                      CASDB-M       I.__
Muketll a     'g SIDR-p                                             -               _                       ___ -    . _    _  . 
se Ve*t-Stilltt                                                    qnR--  .
Mo,' silo Ilo 4ho
gune  J*t@l SMAL AIDU-A C_M.UWI_  _ e_-.                                                                     - - _  
Commuattp  c*IIt.                      SMAeUS n R-MA
hlINVIOWMCTA  OttCCt                           ______  ___ SnR-MA                                                                               _______
D "Z*lkt  s0 sbsl*t ett PRTs)    R-MAiG_:_ _._ 
mobile WateSO
P;oalete@WiA oaes mo                 "CUAI
PEO.MCfttI _OWSBIO                                                                      _          _SIWN  ___  S_  _____    __
040 Fle ?orasn
MI- Vetm* lonvi,                                         ______                                                           -_
Ir2toS r6ht*h22 46rttf 6t_                                                          _                                                    _
1SIfttCKAC M     GSK SttD PAOOCUCTIO -   2t2APL                                                           =_
%1*sle  *-*C*1of!eo4 Studi4es           AVA
mosoolet6 fr1*111ff
Paertl Aond                  ___t__  'UAISPAr                       __=___
. Weairk*o                               t    -A   _                  _- F P    A_M  -     -
11"lt tC2ottU ya XurstirriesUU2th
De NoeltlSIJr211 'REi         -      8t2ti-                                                               _      -               __3
verb*r4tu     'A                           .                                                i_                       __ _ _
S 2t*fst arb S  s _Sl!ft  ___ cO_- _ __A
bZPOO  *2efo22 S&L *UNA Ctm^NVIS^-"2    
f*eo t**s CO                              -|2|2^  so
e2oal  el *tCO Ag*1*_o- F      __ _                         C                 -E                     _    
t2t2o2 50 Aie e f2StRISAt-tt20_                                                            _         _A
sepotion22er ov*w he-le *rt!tig t_           _--..-      _ _ _                                       -                      .      _t  ,
0tit2t of 12 Actio                   St_                         _                          _      _             _                                                 "6
L22t2t noflof J51ttr --L t                       AS*t t-62_ __A
Ulm-aso  tali**                         ;UA%SflIt AN -     al _A                 _                     _        _



- 47 -
ANNEX 3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MARANHAO
Financial and Economic Benefits
A. Financial Benefits
1.        The estimated Increase in crop, livestock and fish production (Table
3.1) due to the project was derived from seven illustrative farm models. The
farm models (Table 3.2) take into account the present low level of production
and the assumption that relatively simple basic investments will be made by
farmers and fishermen. The financial rares of return range from 11% to 48% with
a weighted average rate of 21.5X. The projected increases in crop yields are
shown in Table 3.3. The impact of the project on agricultural production would
be achieved through a combination of increased productivity and an expansion of
the cropped area by about 15%. The increased productivity would result from
higher cropping intensity on irrigated lands, more widespread use of improved
seeds and better cultivation practices, including introduction of animal
traction. The expansion of the cropped area would result from Improved security
of land tenure combined with the use of animal traction. Cropping patterns are
not expected to change dramatically but in the rainfed areas perennial crops
(fruit trees) would be expanded. In areas benefiting from irrigation, farmers
are expected to substantially lncrease the proportion of the more profitable
cash crops such as fruits and vegetables. Expansion of the cattle (mostly beef
cattle) and goat herds would occur mainly from improved animal husbandry and
better feeding resulting from increased use of artificial pastures (such as
Hyparrhenia rufa, Andropogon gayanus, Panicum maximum) and legume fodder trees
which would be planted by farmers with saplings supplied by project nurseries.
At full development (Year 12) the annual incremental marketable production
generated by the project is estimated to be about US$51 million (in
November/December 1985 farm-gate prices) with 80% resulting from crops (672 from
fruits and vegetables and 13% from basic food crops), 13% from animal productr
(including fish) and 7% from extractive products (babassu nuts).
2.        The increased production would give greater food security and raise
farmers' incomes. In the financial analysis of the models, supplementary income
from off-farm work has been taken into account. Net annual family !arm
benefits, which currently range from US$120 to US$315 per capita would increase
at full development to US$225 and US$460, respectively. The expansion of
agricultural activities, in spite of the increased use of animal traction, would
still create new on-farm employment opportunities equivalent to about 27,000
man-years annually. Most of this demand would be for unskilled labor that would
be met with family labor. Many small rural community subprojects would also
generate demand for local employment, possibly of a semi-skilled nature.



- 48 -
B. Economic Analysis and Sensitivity
3.        The overall rate of return of the project is estimated to be about
13.7X with a 20-year analysis. The cost stream for the economic analysis is
based on five elements: (a) all Maranhao project costs, except those related to
vater supply systems, feasibility studies for NRDP second phase irrigation
projects, social forestry, basic food supply, the community development and the
envlronmental protection components, or 79% of total project cost; (b) vehicles
and microcomputers required by the project; (c) 102 of regional administration
costs financed under the Northeast Rural Development I Project (Loan 2523-BR);
(d) 15.42 of regional research costs financed under the Northeast Rural
Development I and II Projects (this percentage in equal to the proportion of
rural population within the Northeast's rural population); (e) recurrent costs
on a declining basis for Years 9 to 12 and 252 of Year 8 costs during Years 13
to 20; and (f) 802 of Maranhao's share of cadastral activity costs financed
under Loan 2593-BR.
4.        The evaluation of incremental net benefits included two elements: (a)
benefits from 21,700 farmers and fishermen expected to use investment credit
(2,900 irrigated farms, 17,000 rainfed farms and 1,800 flshermen) equivalent to
302 of the 73,000 farmers/fishermen assisted in the project area; and (b) an
estimate for the incremental benefits accruing to the remaining rainfed farmers
who would be reached by the extension service and who would adopt Improved
farming practices without using institutional credit (12,800 or 25X of the
remaining 51,300 farmers/fishermen). No benefits were included from the fish
hatchery and social forestry subcomponents because they are too small to have
any substantial weight when compared to on-farm benefits.
5.        Economic prices (Table 3.5) at the farm-gate were derived for the main
traded goods, including rice, maize, cotton, and chemical fertilizers, taking
into account international trading prices, freight, insurance, processing and
handling costs with price trends projected according to those estimated by the
Bank's Economic Analysis and Projection Department at 1985 constant prices.
Cassava, beans, beef, goat seat and fish were valued at financial farm-gate
prices. All other outputs and inputs (including labor) were adjusted by the
standard conversion factor (0.83) to account for domestic price distortions.
6.        Sensitivity tests (Table 3.6) showed that the rate of return is
moderately sensitive to possible variations in costs and benefits. if project
benefits fall by 23.52 or project costs rise by 312, the rate of return would
fall below the estimated 11% opportunity cost of capital. A lag of two years in
achieving project benefits, would result in an 11.52 rate of return. Also, a
lag of two years In funding productive investments combined with a drop of 20%
in project benefits, such as might occur with chronic delays in counterpart
funding, would result in a 92 rate of return.



- 49 -
MW 3
W&  M           VURL  -    W    - 
Total hnal Area, ,a_ketabe Produtim and Valm of Mor Crops e  Uvesto
WlthOut Poject a&xt at %UDew
o-s   '                     i       Pect           Att                  M12a   _   '       _    s
tp ad                     kw '/    etoble           AMs I/ Nueal                km         FGG--Xbe     Vabo
14iemtodk                  (ha)      Prazt1on       (tia  ftO&lou                     f         n     (th  '00)
(to)                  (to)                         ()
Amid, ext gR-IrWta  (Cops:-             -                                                               10
Canaa  (freh rot)          -       S56,041         -      648,38D               -       92.339 -
Pdm                        -       129,482         -      148,195              -        18,713         2,410
lWms                       -        44,2D           -      52,396               -        8,116           716
euattm                     -         1,044         -        2,263              -         1,219           255
Bum                        -           114         -        2,399               -        2,285           735
Groi Ws  ('00 cob1)                   -             190     3,42)                19)     3,42D            83
piqe-                                  -          1,677    36,402              1,677    36,402         3,52D
ibtar Rhl                  -           _(190)2/  3,762                          (190)    3,762           242
P    _reva Crops:         365           -         21,615       -                17770      -            30416
Ota.                     T.         13,530        WZ      165,798            1iT    152,269 6iw
-M                      2,041       16,324        9,745   127,709              7,704   111,385        17,915
cazrEt                     -                       284      3,550              -          -               -
Cml =Iut                   -          -           1,425      843               1,425      843            256
TOW#1 CroP            139,037          _        161,775      -                22.738       -          40.605
Extractive pobeis        -         4,905          -      14,968               -       10,063        3_A
_Bm ai=s
Ltvinto&kl
i (Lvawiat)                -         1,353         -        7,924              -         6,571         3,917
Gsut )hst (L$%e 'd4g&t)    -           -           -        1,387              -         1,387           OD3
TOWal l1w.tod              -           -           -          -                -         -             4 72D
Pqubh                      -        10,668         -       16,077              -         5,409
IUE.                 -           -            -          --                                      5.702
y Aru MW           cb qpli            )mct be WAnaftated pr ro
~fSam arm - Grin )Main



iEMf PML  OEP ( E           OEr _ -W
OtraDewIstics of II lst$ataIV  Fam Ibdels Ued In Flnuclol end Eaic hkw lyns
Ebtimld                                                                                  tht Fally Faw 1fnIts
Ibdl lb.   Dlstrlbutin    Sla  (he)                F'arong                Mbin         Cl                      kml)                       43 ___-sto
of Fam       No    i        1Tpe            Llvstoc      Location                     ND ftoJct VI PIojet  fnw*.  Fl   O .                (ow Myra)
(at Full bysi,) 
I          250         5.5   3D       bInfed          (sts, 0..4/   Bradr          mat.Oy           751         158i    1108       to                    106
2          4!80        143   35        binfed        lbe  (tte    O2ais         Slmid/i~t by    1410            275      1342       6                    31.7
eats
3          900D        12,5   3       binfed          bef  ittIe   Prw-t_m         lbt4oy           1260        2t6      IU6       10                     111.4
4         1170         IS     30   nbinfed            bet, DA    fbxa4r                             tr          214      716        5
S          2979        14     142    111lfedPlv.   0A.              Al I %I*=       Mat.by          1071        1734     is        4                      147
Irrigated
6           30         3.5    42/   fbInfedfltIc   1.A.              All Rbglom     Vvt.Oy           716        134       n         3                       9
*                        ~~~~~~~~IrUteld
7          300         -       -      F      tlem                                   *tf rO          135         150       X2        5                    47*9
mmThL      34,480 3/
I/ of tuidh 1.5 he Is Irriplud
2/ of MIci 2 he arm lrrlted
/ SWliolent to 30 of tt1  tmflclarles receiving Instflut      icnllted credit plus 2% of the rtlning far  v' wIl Idopt I-r o1ed tdinology using otter eures of rdit
4  DA. s Oaft  ilami
X SeXm 1 9652r 



-51-                                           ANNtX3
TableX 3.
Page   ot 2
BRAZIL
- ORTHEAST RU RAL DEVELOPRENT PROGRAM
- OITHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MARANHAO
Estimated Areas and Yields of Major Crops at Farm Level
Without Probet and at Full Development
RegionlPlanning Unit/Model                   Area (ha)                Crop/Paeture Yild (XC or A&U./ba)
VD     UP      -- -V                                     X increase
Chapada, Cerrado (Daisas. Cocais)
- model 1 (Rainfed + Goats and D.A. a/  5.   30.0
Cro:                                      z    3^
t3nis  Rice + Maize + Cassava            5.    175T      IOOO(400/7G00     1150/46018O              15/ISIl/14
Cons. lice + Maize + Cotton Herb         0.9   1.5       1100/420/250      1250/490/285             14/17/14
Cons. Rice + Maize                       1.5   0.5         1150/450          1350/540              -17/20
Rice                                     1.5   0.5           1300              1500                 15
Beans                                    0.2   0.5            420               480                 14
Cashew nut (intercropped with Deans)    -    0.5                -             600/310                   -
Orange (intercropped with Beans)          -    0.5              -                22 ton
Psture /Foe:                             1.0   3.0             1.2 b/             .4 b
A-tifical Faeture                        TX   1YX              T:T               T :T
Planted Forage                            -    1.0              _                5.0
Foreat, Fallow and Other                  -   21.5
Cocais (Cocais, Mears)
- Model 2 (Rainfed + Beef Cattle)         14.5  35.0
Xrop-                                    4r.T  -375
Cons. Rice + Maize + Cassava       -            0.8      1000/400/7000    1150/460/8000             15/15/14
Cons. Rice + Maize + Cotton Herb         0.6   0.8       1100/420/250     1250/490/285              14/17/14
Cons. Ulce + Maize                       2.0   1.0         1150/450        1350/540                 17120
Deans                                    0.6   0.8            420    -    480                       14
Bananas (intercropped with Deans)        0.2   0.9            11-0 ton    12.5-1S ton               14-
Pasture/Forage                           8.0   8.5            10.4 b/     12.6 b/
Arti icial  asture                       IZ   iT              1.3         T.r
Planted Forage                                  .                         5
Forest. Fallow and Other                 2.3  21.0
Pre-Amazonia (Pindaer, Mearim. Cocais, Orajau)
- M4del 3 (Rainfed + 8eef Cattle)    12.5  35.0
Cliii Rice + Maize + Caseava            -T:5   T.        1100/450/8000    1250/520/9200             14/16/15
Cons. Rice + Maize                       1.5   1.0         1150/450          1350/540               17/20
Rice                                     0.5   0.5           1300              1500                 15
Deans                                    0.5   0.5            350               400                14
Orange (intercropped with Beans)         0.2   1.0            11-0 ton          14.5-22 ton        32
Pature/forage                            8.0   8.5            10.4  /           12.6 b/
- ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~    : utfe   atrc1;  5 ~   :                 -1:[-                  -
Planted Forage                                   5        -                      5.0
Forest, Fallow and Otber                0.3  21.0



- 52 -
A#NtEX 3
Table 3.3
2
lAgion/Planning Unlt/Modal                  Area (ha)                CroptPasture Yleld (Rg or A.U./ha)
_______________________~wo  ~UP                                       VPr                I Increase
8alxads (8aizda)-
-  odel 4 (Ra1nfed + Goats and D.A. a/  13.5  30.0
1I;iI7 Rice + Maite + Cassava           tT7  1T.       1000/400/7000    1150I/460/8000           ISIS/14
Cons. Rice + Maite                     0.3   1.0          1150/450          1350/450             17/20
Beans                                   -    0.5             -               S50                     -
Bananaa (intercropped with leans)       0.1   0.5           11-0 ton          12.5-15 ton        14
Pactur*/FoE                            10.0  12.0           1.5 b              3.9 b,
HatIv* Puture                        1T "   Tl "f                             TM-
Artifical Pasture                       -     2.0            -                 1.2
Forest, Fellow and Other                0.4  12.5
All w   m
- io  l 5(uRalfedIIrt4ated with D.A.&/)14.0  14.0
CDOD   Related                     --i2    2.0
ti;ii  Rlce * Maixe + Cassava           2.0  TS        1100/400n7000    1150/460/8000            15/15/14
Rne                                     1.5   -             130                --
Crop  - Irrlgted                        -     1.5
Rles (2 crops)                            -  0.                               1450
some (2 crops)                                e                              15
Pineappl                                -     0.5            -                 22 ton
i aetur JYrag                           S.0   3.0           0.7 b/             1.  b/
Noiat1 Pature                         ;An;                   1;5    
Artifil  Psture                         -     1.0            -                 1.2
Fowet. Fallow and Other                 S.5   6.5
- Model 6 (Rainfed/Irrlgated with D.A.a/)3.S   4.0
_rops-- Ralafed                        ;S   -
to   RICO + *Mize * Cssav               T      --      1100/400/7000            -
leans                                   1.5    -            420                -
Crocc - Irrigated                       -    2.0
Rice (2 crops)                           -    10             -                4500
ens                                     -   (1.0)            -                 550
Green  alze                             -    0.5             -                 1800                  -
Water Melon                              -   (0.5)           -                 20 con
PLneDpple                               -    0.5             -                 22 teon
P"turc/For                             -      1.2            -                1.4 b/
rtifcIal, IPrtur.                      -                     - _               =
Forest. Follow and Other                -     0.6
l D.A. - Draft Animal
b/ Total number of AUb - (Anial Units)



ERAZfl.
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELET PROJECT - MARAtH, O
PROJCT ECONC ANALYSIS
(in dillions of Cruseiros of Nov./Dec. 1985)
.... . .. .... .................................... ............................ .................................................... *,................". ...........................
I        I         3         4        $        6       I        8        I       I0       of       It       is       t4       is       tS        of
IlEt U-FUN 34n15                        .-4 t0s  -1500.  -1433s.0  -46.# -           t36.   w0t1o 11t0.0 tom41. 2m1. 241e6o 2065. n161*.0 1113m61  161*   743.0 134                            n12.0
st*.$*s 2.s-ss a$t----s -t* *sta e2sos s* sssses esonvas 94*90*6 Rss*#M #w*2*&as   tm **".
tIOt   Wt-FU   IllUNlIt& It 6631t1  -414036   -"66     -14331.0  *4610.0 -1363.0    tn. 10.0 464                        . 1      0 24 365a .     2*. 2      . 1     1   63          .0          .
umst mss
06168 ESIN S K111,hI11                     ns61.0  on60.    1n22346 W.0 44610 03.0  INI1.0 41 0   1024 S .0                                          --                         -
4*Kt136  NUUS16                          41011.0   6660.   10M1.    0662.0  40666   1641140 10641.0  1016.0   31110,4   133.   611M.0  43210.5          AI "54.0 15 0. 150.0 415"401.0 " 2 0
NM  5211316                               11231.0  10460.   1040.   M112.10 ft135   4116. 0 4661. 0  320211.0  32130.  36412.1  2154. 0  10011.11  3610.01  0110.0   3610.0  36110.01  9610. 0
imUtU                                      320. 0    4035.    4100.    1461.0   MY0.0t  11M.   01. 0    52. 0    46. 0    460.3   3M4.    22.6    131.0   131.0   ISO.0t   131.0    130.0
2IUIs1631I66                               33W.6   11f2410   1066.40  11140.0  11110.  133. 0  6100.0   366.0    66.0 3460.0I   4" 04.   364.1 32334.0  1234.0  3234. 0   3234.  0 3234.0
vaiSrim 453.                                         9m.0    4353. 0     064.0  "064.   1SI4.3  410.0               4420.   #416.61   662.5   636.3    35.0    310.0   310. 0    310.0   32Pt.0
561366101 IIM IIES IMPNVN31055.0    1610    16.                                                                  --.                        -        -                                     
563636  551*0    II                        11601.01   M36.0    1210.041010 43.    40041.                                                               
50toU3  1512 tm    901 .6                  563. 0   1030.0  15606.0  31660.0  2561.0          II   ot
0n41                                     6511.0     1 0       0 .         06      41     140           . 0 .5.  40.0  43               3.           3       1      600.   0           0"M.  0.4  6 0-
.u...; ..  .......     .........  .........    .......    .. . .  t. .    .WI. .   .....  ...  ....  ........  ........  . ....   .......    .......   i.... ..  s.......
foist 9306t 1n561                       M1     .0 -4 60 -"2.  0                 -30    55101.0  51.40.0168.0  WM.11 4046               21 . 236161   1420110 16 430.011616.0 31111130 31010440.0
costs** asetuals     .    ouggaso B        t4         ttt4St.,s* -                                     . maPus *
G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1114 5                                                     SMOPOIS"I1teN.1,



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3.5
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MARANHAO
Principal Prices Used For Financial and Economic Analyses
(in constant Nov./December 1985 prices)
Farmgate Prices (Cr$)
Products                    Unit  Financial                Economic
- Export and Import Substitute Products                    1986 1987 1990 1995
Rice (paddy)                     Kg      1145            1587 1470 2270 2214
Maize                            Kg       785            1610 1459 1797 1797
Cotton (seed)                    Kg      1860            2169 2258 4095 4154
- Non Traded Products
Cassava (fresh root)             Ton  214500                  -214500
Beans                            Kg      2860                    2860 -
Beef (live weight)               Kg      5300                - 5300       -
Goat Meat (live weight)          Kg      5150                    5150     -
Fish                             Kg      2850                   -2850
- Imported Inuts
Ureia (45Z  N)                   Kg      3300            2185 2416 2807 2958
Triple Super Phosphate (45Z p2O5)Kg    3300             2176 2176 2212 2336
Potassium Chloride (60X K20)    Kg       2700            16%6 1696 1838 1879
- All Other Inputs/Outputs:                           Financial Price x.83 1/
11 Standard conversion factor
Source: Bank Mission and EPDDR Projections



- 55 -
BRAZIL                                                      ANNEX 3
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPNENT PROGRAM                                                 Table 3.6
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MARANHAO
Proiect Sensitivitv Analysis
94156t9  1t1S* 0NETf S?UM  AT A OISC0OUT Off Of fit
ftStlt.sttti..tst.fls...s..tit-ests*as33tls%8sz.fl...:.
TroT      UP 1        Oup         u so     mm f ot   OM  5M   00t 1         L5094  5I VIMSLAG 2 TEARS L   3YEAS
0. to?        .ie.*.*94   220.13.M  2we .IM 20.   48.421 a   so. 103. *    23.3t .0  -#13.9 "SI a  M.,4   30. "2.   . -21.893.8
UP t0;        104.5u.t I 70.34t1.   238 .4.9  433114.2    368M           -28. 117.  -224. 1n 68   3.42&0   -19,215.4  -72. 6. 3
UP 20M         14.32 2.   120.014.3  181.827 4  383.06on7   -11.43t.t  -17. I5.0  -4.444.        t u1-9.   -69, 542.9  -122.428.8
UP s0o        -ft 641.2  -30. t28t   n30.M.0    3 228.2  -TV.2J4.3  -227. n7. 4  -425, 241. 7  -*t1. .0  -220. 345.  -273.231.2
la"  I        20  123.8  210.8n76.   338,12.8   U3 M. I  1)9.320. S        3. 61.5  -123.641.8  139.M.3  I   a 1211 8    2.313. t
00111 20M     251.J. 1  321. 144. 2   28 .9?. 5I4.116.6  OK ut.o0  123.84. 9   -3.3 14.4  190. 20.4  13 t.2.1,0   it 641. t
OM sgt        AIM08, t193.8  471."&?   57.M. 8   7)4. 9".0  240.440.S  274n8.   4   n7 428 1   341.)2.8   22. 32M. .   229. 43. 
LI" I YEAR                                   --                                                 130.5S0.I   80.808.?7   27. 920.8
LAG 2                                                                                                       t TEA  -  -  * -  -  - *  t2s. t64.  72. 78it 
LAG 3 *TE5tS                                                                                                       -   t#13.22s
8.tt10 1its O1 itTIII  OFiNT                       0 ST1U2S02
C.tot            ILK?        14 1s       11.403     17.3.      1t 5"        it.467      1L421      t2.528      11.51$     10.on
up l02            2.7t4 I     3.18?      141.51        148      t1.68      It.4 I       1.344      11.847       0.WM       9.681
UP 2M            ##.889 T1               13t..8 6    t 1`74     It0 se5 to      o       & .347    1t.8         IL824       1.144
u95et             S.8        10.t1       tt1.4      13. M         .432      7.140       1.724       &.n        7.919       7.27?
00M  It          14.688      150 M.351 6I4it                    13116W     t2.31        7.1"I      13.463     12.421      t1.490
o0   M2          IS 1.74    It20         17.316     19.172      14.8 "      1t3         8.an3      14.923       .4610     12.427
0011 102         is.s3       20.3S0     20.970      22.410      166         if.90I     13.67       1.352      17.128       t t.97
SUITCtIUG 1801S Ot ON
ApeasAs    SUIItC1IUG    aERM14T
STUM                  nltE         "Lot       CiGE1
0                617.   so.31      5024674. 79  -23. 1SS1
0 M              so. 610.67    657.5)0. 86     3. 0s8
got Pem t V* Ia at CCC Itl * 1K 45  I
lptuil Ste of Stu  a 13.7n
Cosee 6Eqwolent lte of Ibturn   11s.37



AIWL                                       AMEX 4
IIR ST RUAL DEVEL0IEIT  _RMM                              Page I of 2
NORtHEAST OURL DEVELORUIT PRDOJEC    NWM
Parallel ActIvitIes
Aaread Actin Plas for the Resolution of Peadin AwindIn leasues
on the ProleJt Arm
Actin Plan No.1
1.  Issue I: DOercatio  of -the Geald/loco Pteo Rservawto  located In the wmmcipatity of frsjau.
Act Ion                    Ded" I Ina       Execut Ina         Source of           funds
AbencY            Funding      Allocated (CzS'000)
- DOmareatIon ot the ReservtI on    August/87         FUIAI /FMB          FitI             1,040
- Indemiflestlon of a fa non-
Indian ocupants                 De0oer/87             FtIAI             FtII             1,000
- Acqulsition of land to resettle
on-lnd Ians                      Deembr/97           ITERM             ITEIM               6oo
- Resettlemno of non-Indiaons
occuants                          Apr lI/88          ITEA              ITA                 100
-Con Irt hon and Ra lstrat ion
of the ReservatIon               Dneber/M             FU"I              FtIAI 
Total           2.940
2.  Issue 2: Preonce of non-Indians (seven comaunitles grouping   out 240 famlles) In the Urucu/Jurua
Reervatin locates In the municipalilty of Grajau.
- Solution: Redrawing of tbe boundarwi  of tha Reservation so as to keep the non-indlans apart fra  It and
addition of an equivalent portlon of land to the Reservatlon to osapensat the Indians for the loss of
territory.
DeadeIla          ExIun             Source of            Funds
Act Ion              EmDetd D Wiated(l)  Aey                 Funding        Al located CiS '000
- Df In It Ion and surv of the
territoy to be removd          June/87  June/87      ITERI1             ITEUM               300
- Expropriation (or Aquisition)
of land to compensae tho
Ind lns for the territory
reowvd                         Dec.87   June/s8   INRA/lTEIW            INRA             15,040
- DemarcatIon of th Reservatlon
nm  boundwrles                 DOc./87   Auguet/8S    fUNAl             FUNAI             3.000
-RagIstretIon anOd tilIna of
th  urban and rural propertie   June/68  Dec./88     ITENIA             ITEPW             9.000
- Sottlemnt ot Indian VII lage    June/S, Dec./88       FUII             FUUAI             10.000
-HomalogatIon and Ragistratin
of th Resrvation               DecJ87  August/88    FUIAl               FUIAl               -
- NRP actlvitils (starting)      Feb./6  August/6    SEPLIM              SEPLPN4
Total
(1)  in cI  of serious problem



- 5? -                                        T A 
Page 2 of 2
3.  Issue 3: Provision of adequate off [clot protection for groe*ps of noadlic  Iaj Amerindians living an part of
oa    offtically designated     thoe Srupt Forest Rsorve ofnd located In te Nmielpalliy of Bo
Jard In.
Executln          Source of            Funds
Action                     DWd line               nc             Fund inr      Allocated (CzSt000)
- Crest In of the protected wrea
(Prosidentlo. Deree crestIng
a Siolog feal Resrve of
232,000 ha)                           July/6?              IMDF               IDF                 -
- Demarcat on of the B lolog Ica I Reerve   Im dC/88         IBDF               FUIAl              9,750
- Protection and control (starting)      Nart4,/se       IWF/FUNAI              FUNAI                ne.e
Total             9.750
Action Plan No.2
Issue: Prosonce of nan-Indlans (locality of Sao Pedro dos Cacetes totalilng about 1330 non-Indian families)
In tho Cane Brava/Guajojora Resrvat ion located In theo mmnelpalti s of Gr.eja and Barro do Cords.
- Solutlon: Redrawing of the boundaries of the Reservatton (reductIon of 8.000 ha) so as to kep the non-Indians
apart from It; addition of land 10.000 ha to the reservatlon to mpeansate theo Indians for tho less of
territory; and provision of bst  Infrastructure (deep weols, des and rural roads) ans social
services to the Indlans.
Executing         Source of            Funds
Action                      odlline          Ane               Funding       Alloceved (d Cz000)
- Definition and survey of the
teroltory to be removed           August/87           ITERM              ITEI4I             1,000
- Expropriation (or Acquisition)
of lend to compensate te Indlns
for the torrltory removed         JanJ.88         INCRA/WTEIVA              -              18,000
- Tras for of the now ao   to FUNAI   March/88          INCA                 -                  -
- Demarcation of the Reservation
now boundaries                    Juno/e/             FUtlAI                -               2,000
- Rev is ion of Raervat ion Doecree  Sept./U            FUM I                -                  -
- Homologat Ion and Registration of
the nw Reserva ton                Dec./86             FUIA I                -                 -
- Physlcal Infrastructure (dep wel Is,
dams and 50 Va of rural roads     Dec/86            State Gov.          State Gov.         17,000
- Provision of Social Services
(Hoealt and Education)            Oct./88(starting) Stato Gw.          State Gov.             -
- Rsttlemmnt of 500 non-Indian
Familes (Starting)                April/88          INCRA/ITERIA        ITEUIA             17,000
- NMP activitles (starting)         AprIl/68          SEPLI-M            SEPLt4-4               _
Total            $55000



- 58 -
BRAZIL                             ANNEX 5
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPNENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - FARANYAO
Documents Available in Project File
1.   Selected Bank Reports and Studies on Northeast Brazil:
- World Bank Report 3938-BR "Rural Development Programs for
Brazil'sNortheast: an Interim Assessment", February 7, 1985.
- World Bank Report 5350-BR "Northeast Rural Development I Project
(Sergipe)", March 12, 1985.
- World Bank Report 5349-BR 'Northeast Rural Development II Project
(Rio Grande do Norte), April 8, 1985.
- World Bank Report 5360-BR "Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement
Pieject", May 31, 1985.
- World Bank Report 6118-BR "Northeaset Rural Development Project
Pernambuco", May 1986.
- World Bank Reports 5709, 6117 and 6135-BR "Northeast Rural Development
Projects - Bahia, Piaui and Ceara," September 1986.
2.   State Government of Maranhao (November 1985):
Volume I - Program Summary
Volume II - General Reference
Part 1 - The State of Maranhao
Part 2 - The Agricultural Sector
Part 3 - The Small Farmer
Part 4 - Project Priority Areas
Volume III - Agricultural Development Strategy
Volume IV - The Project
Part 1 - Land Tenancy
Part 2 - Water Resource Development:
Water Supply
Public Irrigation
Private Irrigation
Fish Hatcheries
Inland Fisheries
National Reserve Gurupi/Alto Turi
Mirador State Park
Part 3 - Support to Small Rural Communities
Part 4 - Agricultural Research
Part 5 - Rural Extension
Part 6 - Rural Credit
Part 7 - Rural Roads



-59-
Volume V - Project Administration
Volume VI - Training
Volume VII - Project Costs and Targets
Volume VIII - Farm Models
Annexes:
Volume IV - Pro-Feasibility Studies for Public Irrigation Schemes
- Itapecurusinho Fish Hatchery Engineering Design
- Rio Flores Flsh Hatchery Engineering Design
Volume VI - Training
Volume VIII - Farm Model Analysis
- Input Costs
3.   I.B.R.D., SUDENE, and State Covernment of Maranhao:  "Minutes of
Understanding", November 1985.
4.   I.B.R.D., Supplementary Staff Working Papers:
a) Water Supply
b) Public Irrigation
c) Agricultural Research
d) Rural Extension
e) Support to Small Rural Communities
f) Marketing
g) COSTAB Documents
h) FARKOD Document
i) Economic Analysis



BRAZIL                             5)   t- -
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM
NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT                                  BRAZIL
PARAv b   to    XYEARLY LAND ADJUDICATION OPERATIONS
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ot Americ
f   <US  X  t;    S /                         WS_                                              an-  ., I~~~~~~ <~~'~
a.    \                     J '  o YC
/                 os~~~~~~~~~~~~ 8      F-DN           If
12.                           j9~ ,,5--.       t                                 1 os  
f*                          Z
/ <~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                             -      Prjc Boundarly 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 ze hS_wa n{  
S.                                          o                      -          Liadd wyies
~Year 1
.V,...r~~~~~N  ~     ~     Ci'6oC ~~do Cooqoao   a     LI  Yewi 2
LJ  Yewr
NuLei Cener
> D * _ _@ _. ^_  -2K        A r                           A                  .      40 ~~~~Mk-  Lkcw Comm  
-16'                                                                                                        C*fti.
~~~u iC~~~~~~C
Itnotkmatlnl Boundaries
2" ~ ~~ ~52                                                                              0       100tOMJR 3
C
o,o.s                                                                                                              3 ep6c0i/  KwICAtE5t
Z d P _cte j _ / ESV*T o & - 1 - - - - - - -E                           T                      |     m WKE
44S                                         4:.
6.4.



PtPreo .flyArn                                                                            B R A Z I L
NPotnfS aing R,nd SIo.  Port       c                               NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
-    Projec Planning R.gbnm Snondorno l v 
Rggtoea Ofmfie  MAtEI N                       9                        NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT Vll PROJECT
OPrajeo                                 i  'ff                                          (MARANHAO].
*   bit R1,eWoh SdntnIfo. 
k& Pnbwelrnge,anlonSef _/'X!  
A-WA_-. PkmeRel Inf  Olttmotero                                                          A / t  a n t ; c    C c e C  n
-     Ri, 7 oon' .t S
32'          Mi. R.                                                                                        iX 
Skft admic-i"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aola
-O   Piu                               
Stllt,,eL:e AXc
0110 |   .Sio. .pn or to-:nJ 
3.
2000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
hI~~~~~~~~~~~                                         ~~~~~~~     yy on'   '"
o w           .    S R  At NL
.orm.   o................ .-So do ,rm.                           B1-OLI......................  i,250
monet. V4. Th' ./fomo1
-~~ i'" nerooru Forem
0mm., Thea                     l/ AS                                                                      i>T
0 now  1rS .                                                                                                      1i       I         .     .
-- Ira ebomeort aaron~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Il
oo.ormrlaoooopOoooO ~ ~         I VV /1Z4+4
moheamm..ee   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f.db
SE1>I>8                        A       .           iA    1".%           45                 AC'                               JOL
r                                                      -r*W. *                                                                                 N
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RET                                                        f                *,  S  
iE t ~~~48                      4;7                            5                             4.4 J!



a e ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~45-                                                                   4'4         *       r        '                         4.
IHolgr-  1974)                                                                                                              B         R A  Z  i L
CdIBA0ot,Oq  D,trrarh>SS                                  -1'sl,& a                               NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Ve,yaVd         NMr .1,11.4f., In   , gr0lrr-#                   f                                       NORTHEAST  RLURAL  DEVELOPMENT  Vi' PROJECT
A_,d            biOlmlrd S.Rabl0io Ion r1.1 -1.4  r A       j tAr                                                              (MARANHAO)
Som-ld  PdWV- P-" W -M ql#"i.                                                                  AGRICULTURAL POTENTIAL
_QIII,     Sid    r0  ) ift   v                                         {                                       DEFINED BY CEPENDABLE RAINfALL
2 11WO9FOy            (#01,11    ohwordSr 11 *\ 900', 41yI
-     M~ Ti4poI   d-&.6- i .         hund in                  ,   , M--a
P-  j Pn.,l-igo URI Bo -d., . 6
_0I Ifolndria,  Ran.... Wyhi dn z                                                        pra
R.9nni .  0orrie or EMATER                                    J     ,           t        h l4               Ak-r3   rez d.           
nml  R-.h S.W.0m                                      ,\ 
A--3-11i. -1                                                                                                              9 L                     00 '                   200
M-4
St.                                                                                                                                                                                      B.4.
PI ..                               ,             ., R.21  r..               Y                 Shj. 
/Pfo                        PI AAU R 
\  l  TLRUW ^ , 8 R~~~~~~                                                              A   Z   I L 
rf d Qwes ~~~~~~~~~ b  -  \                 ;                                                               z~U-0   d
'W,oOa:11  nD01O                                                                1$'                                                                                       &a \.L|a 
r,noooO00.,unn,u-o                                                                                                             BOLIVIA     0.0         lo          I
M~~~~~~~~ Ihe A    U                                                                                          1  D,  
G.,b,z*s ( \ 1 ',A  S                                                             ... 
1O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PR                                                                                             a1N R   'A    Z     
>, ARGNTINA
9  1~~   n'~~O~O 44n*                                                                               4.5                        44_            _  _ __  _  _  _ _  __  _ _  _  _ __  _  _ _  _



