ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                            AWorid FFre of Poverly
IiifoShop
il,ir WMJr( t4.1
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/04/2003                              25448
Section I - Basic Information                                 February 4, 2003
A. Basic Project Data
Country: MAURITANIA                              Project ID: P078368
Project: MULTISECTOR HIV/AIDS AND ENDEMIC        Task Team Leader: Serge Theunynck
DISEASES CONTROL PROJECT
Authorized to Appraise Date: March 24, 2003      IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval June 26, 2003                      IDA Amount ($m):
IDA GRANT FOR POOREST COUNTRY 6 27
IDA GRANT FOR HIV/AIDS 15.4
Managing Unit: AFTH2                             Sector. Health (87%); Central government
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  administration (I 1%); Other social services (2%)
Status: Lending                                  Theme: Fighting communicable diseases (P); Civic
engagement; participation and community driven
development (S); Gender (S); Rural services and
infrastructure (S)
I A.2 Project Objectives:
I 1.   The overall goal of the project is to prevent the negative impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic on
the country's economic growth, the economic environment its provided to the poor, and its human
resource development.
1.2.  The Project development objective is to keep the level of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)
infection that causes the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) at its current level and to reduce
the incidence of malaria, tuberculosis and schistosomiasis.
1.3.   This Project is developed within the context of the $1.0 billion Multi-Country HIV/AIDS
Program for the Africa Region (MAP) which objectives, consistent with the 2001 UNGASS Declaration
and the Millennium Development Goals, and stated in the Project Appraisal Document (Report No.
20727-AFR), provide the framework for MAP projects. In the Mauritanian context of an early stage of
the infection spread, the project will help building the country's capacity to organize a preemptive
response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic by setting-up an efficient multi-sector institutional and operational
framework, and a program which to will aim at (a) reducing its spread and mitigating its effects; and (b)
increasing access to prevention services as well as care, treatment, and mitigation for those infected and
affected by HIV/AIDS. The project is premised on the development and expansion of local responses to
the epidemic. It aims at enabling Mauritania to achieve the objective in the short turn and reversing it in
the long run.



2
ISDS
1.4. The project will take advantage of the implementation of the multisectoral approach and support to
community-driven initiatives to complement the Ministry of Health's action against sexually transmitted
infections (STIs) and TB, which are important risk cofactors, as well as malaria and schistosomiasis
which are important debilitating disease. The emphasis of the project will be placed on the prevention in
geographic areas and groups identified as high risk/high prevalence.
I.A.3. Project Description:
1. Project components:
1.1   The proposed project will have four components: 1) capacity building and policy development;
2) multi-sector responses to prevention and care; 3) health-sector responses to HIV/AIDS/STI/TB,
malaria and schistosomiasis, including prevention, treatment and care, and 4) community, civil society
(including NGOs and religious groups), and private sector initiatives.
Component 1. Capacity Building for Government Agencies and Civil Society, and Policy
Development ($1.5 million)
1.2   The main objective of this component is to put the national HIV/AIDS apparatus in place. This
component would aim at strengthening Mauritanian capacity to cope with the spread of HIV/AIDS by
supporting: (i) the work of the National HIV/AIDS/STI Council (NAC) and the Secretariat (NAES); (ii)
ongoing work on the national HIV/AIDS Strategy and Action Plan; and (ill) the strengthening the
capacity of line ministries, private institutions and civil society in HIV/AIDS prevention and care. Four
sub-components would address the following areas: (a) National Strategy and Action Plan; (b)
Coordination and Administration, (c) Advocacy Training, and Technical Support Activities, and (d)
Assessment, Monitoring and Evaluation (i.e. including behavioral surveillance and mapping, operational
research and pilot testing, and other monitorinig and evaluation activities).
1 3   This component will build on and expand existing capacity building programs financed for
several line Ministries through other projects financed in parallel by IDA or other donors Line ministries
such as health (PASS) and education (PNDSE) for example, have adopted and are implementing
sector-wide approaches. The MAP will support the integration of HIV/AIDS action plans within these
approaches and support capacity building to do so.
1.4.  This component will follow-up the training already provided to a limited group of 30 NGOs
(about 1/3 of the total) by the Capacity Building Program(Programnme de Renforcement des Capacites -
"PRC'R partially financed under the IDF Grant 27306. The PRC aimed at enhancing the NGO's
professionalism in their capacity to reach the poor. The MAP would expand on the PRC approaches by
completing the unfinished training program, and expand to include smaller NGOs based outside of
Nouakchott.
1 5.  During preparation of this component, issues of coordination between the management of the
IDA-financed Mauritanian MAP carried out by the NAC-NAES, and the Global Fund-financed activities
which will be carried out by the MSAS, will be addressed.
Component 2. Expand Governmental Multi-sector Responses for Prevention and Care of
HIV/AIDS/STls and Other Communicable Diseases ($2.0 million)
1.6   This component will improve the capacity ofhon-health sector line Ministries to respond to the



3
ISDS
HIV/AIDS/STIs, malaria, TB and schistosomiasis, emphasizing prevention and care. Integrated into line
Ministry ongoing operations, this will be achieved through development of ministerial policies, coupled
with a two-prong action approach, namely: (i) the provision to the line Ministry staff and their
dependents of HIV/AIDS and STI education, training, condoms, and other support, to encourage
HIV/AIDS and STIs avoidance behavior; and (ii) the enhancement of the capacity of these staffs to
provide their partners and audiences (e.g. parents-teachers associations, mine worker associations, fishing
community associations, village health committees, women's groups) with means to provide effective
HIV/AIDS/STIs prevention, ways to access health care facilities, treatment, and care. In due course
municipalities and Districts entities will also prepare action plans for their personnel, as decentralization
takes on momentum. Line Ministries either have or will appoint HIV/AIDS management committees to
carry out policies and action plans for HfV/AIDS and other diseases control, with support from the
Project in terms of facilities, equipment, and incremental operating costs.
1.7 Ministries which have expressed a strong interest in participating in the program include education,
defense, interior, mining, fisheries, transport, rural development, culture and religious affairs, women,
and youth. Other Ministries that may demonstrate interest in the course of the project could be added on
an annual basis.
1.8 Line Ministries would have wide discretion in how they seek to achieve the two goals of. (i)
information and behavior change of Ministerial staff as regard HIV/AIDS, STIs and other diseases, and
(ii) their staffs reaching their constituencies on issues related to HIV/AIDS, STIs and diseases. Eligible
line Ministry activities would depend on the content of Ministerial action plans. These plans be
implemented in phases and would include appointment of an HIV/AIDS Focal Point in each Ministry to
coordinate a ministerial HIV/AIDS management Committee, provision for training, technical advisory
services, HIV/AIDS/STIs and lEC materials, Voluntary counselling and testing (VCT) and condom
distribution costs, and support for facilities and equipment, including incremental operating costs to
effectively carry out this effort.
Component 3. Expand Health Sector Responses to Management of HIV/STIs and Other
Communicable Diseases ($2.0 million).
1.9. The Ministry of Health (MSAS), and more broadly the health community, have special
responsibilities for HIV/AIDS/STI/TB, malaria and schistosomiasis prevention and management. The
basic features which differentiate the health sector from other sectors are those related to its medical
functions such as diagnosis and treatment of opportunistic infections such as STIs and TB, care at health
posts, health centers, and hospitals, and laboratory analysis. This sector therefore warrants a separate
component, making provision for prevention, treatment and care from a health sector perspective,
whether public or private. This component provides the resources to the health sector to build on and
complement the work done by the MSAS under the on-going IDA-financed PASS as well as other
reproductive and communicable disease activities currently performed by the MSAS and its health sector
partners, including the Global Fund to which the MSAS has submitted a request in September 2002
Under this component the MSAS will be able to do the activities described above for the other line
Ministries (MSAS' staff training and reaching external target groups). In addition MSAS will enhance its
reproductive health and opportunistic infection efforts with funds provided, recognizing it will not be
able to undertake all of the health sector specific tasks at once, nor do it without assistance from other
non-public health care providers. Given the support already received by MSAS from other donors
including UNICEF, UNFPA and IDA through the on-going PASS, and probable further support from
other donors such as the Global Fund. MAP support envisaged to MSAS will prioritize aspects it can
implement and scale up, such as:
*   HIV/AIDS/STI: (i) expansion of the surveillance sites and VCT center network, (ii) safe blood



4
ISDS
supply, (iii) further improvement of syndromic algorithms for STI diagnosis and treatment, (iv)
prevention of HIV Mother To Child Transmission-PMTCT, (iv) promotion of safe medical practices,
(v) staff training, (vi) procurement and promotion of condoms and social marketing program, (vii)
procurement of opportunistic infection drugs, PMTCT drugs,gloves and other medical supplies,
testing kits and laboratory equipment, (viii) Ante retroviral (ARV) treatment and, (ix) operational
research,
*   For Malaria and TB, it is envisaged that the project complement the requested Global Fund support,
within the 2002-06 National Strategic Plan for Malaria and the 2002-06 National Strategic Plan for
the expansion of the DOTS Strategy for Tuberculosis, already adopted by the MSAS.
*   For schistosomiasis, the MAP support will be elaborated during pre-appraisal.
1. 10. Four aspects need highlighting: First, the supply of safe blood is needed Blood donor mobilization
could be promoted and supported with planning for the national blood transfusion services,
complementing what is being done under existing efforts, what would be needed in terms of blood bags
and reagents, and training of laboratory technicians. The objective is to ensure that blood for transfusion
and blood products do not transmit HIV and other transmissible diseases such as hepatitis, syphilis.
Second, there is need for training in HIV/AIDS/STIs hazardous materials handling and provision of
medical supplies to health workers to prevent transmission, as well as a national health waste
management plan. Health workers is a particularly vulnerable group because of their routine contact with
hazardous materials. They are on the front line, and need to be confident their personal safety is taken
into account so that they actively promote testing of patients and care for PLWHAs. A national health
waste management plan will be prepared and available as health system needs warrantsThird, ARV are
currently available at very low cost compared to costs a few years ago. Combined with the present low
number of PLWHA, it makes ARV therapy affordable. The project will support itFourth, the provision
of PMTCT (Prevention-of-Mother-to-Child-Transmission) services. Nevirapine is now being offered free
to Sub-Saharan African Countries and can dramatically reduce such transmission, especially when
accompanied with other PMTCT interventions, including counseling, nutritional support, family
planning, nutritional support. With respect to PMTCT, Mauritania will seek grant financing of neviparine
and the Project will be able to fund a PMTCT package.
Component 4. Expand Civil Society Organizations/ Private Sector Initiatives - ($4.5 million).
.11. Civil society, and private sector initiatives are the backbone of the Project. This component
objective is to provide the resources for a broad spectrum of preventive and care activities that reach
beneficiaries to the widest extent possible. 45% of total funding will be allocated to these activities,
earmarked for nongovernmental, community-based, and private sector initiatives. The modalities,
channels of distribution, size of activities will be developed during the appraisal process The objective
will be to identify activities which are being carried out, and to replicate them elsewhere or use their
templates to customize approaches for other Mauritanian environments. There are examples of NGO
reproductive health related activities such as those of the Italian and French Red Cross, gender directed
NGOs such as thFideration Lutherienne Mondiale(FLM), World Vision, IEC/BCC materials and
approaches, community outreach efforts such as NUTRICOM (a World Bank LIL project promoting
comunity-based nutrition to women), will be assessed for potential application for Project purposes.
Additionally the Direction de la Lutte Contre la Pauvrete is in the process of developing a mechanism to
enhance NGO capacity and possibly serve to mobilize and manage of small grant activities for interested
donors. The development of such mechanisms and how to divide up the civil society operations will be
undertaken during the appraisal process in conjunction with partners.
1.12. Prevention activities conducted by NGOs and CBOs as well as the private sector will be designed
to reduce high risk behavior and exposure to risk, reduce the vulnerability of those who are unaware of



5
ISDS
their risk or cannot protect themselves, and to "de-stigmatize" the disease so as to increase access to
prevention and care. For families affected by HIV/AIDS, the objective would be to reduce the impact of
their plight by financing services to provide care for PLWHAs, but especially for HIV/AIDS
symptomatic persons and their dependents, for orphans, and for income generating activities.
1.13. Eligible grant proposals submitted by NGOs and/or CBOs will be defined in an IDA approved,
Operations Manual Assuming a qualified applicant puts forward a proposal consistent with the manual,
the presumption is that it would be eligible for financing. Further, the activities to be financed would be
as broad and flexible as possible, with the application of Simplified Procurement Rules. In Mauritania,
NGO and CBO capacity have not been sufficiently recognized or tapped, and the present Component will
reach out to tap this resource by supporting these groups to strengthen their capacity through a
learning-by-doing process. They will be reached out to under this component to tap this resource. The
operation procedures will be based a contractual process by which sub-projects performance will be
measured by "results" rather than documentation on inputs expenditures. Simplified procurement
procedures will be developed. Activities woukliter aliaaddress the following areas: (i) information
education and communication/behavioral change communications (IEC/BCC) campaigns; (ii) support to
high-risk groups and vulnerable groups subject to sexual abuse; (iii) youth-related activities; (iv) condom
supply and dissemination (This "illustrative" list is not intended to limit the scope of activities that may
become eligible for funding under this component.).
1 14. Private sector initiatives will receive about 10% of this component's resources. They would be
coordinated by the CGEMConfidiration Generale des Employeurs MauritanieWsand involve the
mining industries under the flagship of th6'oci&tg National Industirlle et Miniere(SNIM), the fishing,
transport and construction industries. The SNIM is already a good example for other industries: it has
developed staff awareness programs (including families), trained more than 300 staff as peer educators,
and is currently providing treatment to AIDS-infected staff at high cost (due to the need to go to
Senegal). The project will help expanding these existing approaches to other sectors and help networking
Mauritanian industries with similar industries in neighboring countries that have already developed
efficient strategies.
Components:
1. Capacity Building for Government Agencies, Civil Society, and Policy Development
2. Expand Governmental Multi-sector Responses for Prevention and Care of HIV/AIDS and Other
Communicable Diseases
3 Expand Health Sector Responses to Management of HIV/AIDS and Other Communicable Diseases
4. Expand Civil Society Organizations/Private Sector Initiatives
l.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will focus on prevention in geographic areas (i.e., Nouadhibou in the North and Southern border
towns, in the agriculture area of the Senegal River) and groups identified as high risk/high prevalence
(workers in the transport, mining, fisheries sectors).
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)



6
ISDS
Comments: The project has been classified as a B due to its generation of medical waste and spraying for
malaria.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                 Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                     * Yes     No     TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                             CYes *No       rTBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                        C Yes * No       TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    * Yes ONo      ' TBD
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                ?Yes *No         TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 CYes *No         TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        0 Yes * No       TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                 C0 Yes * No    CTBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)          0 Yes * No     0 TBD
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                  0 Yes * No    C TBD
*By suipporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data
II.D la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The generation of medical waste and spraying activities to combat malaria are likely to negtively affect soils,
water, resources, and public health.
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
Soil, water and air pollution, soil erosion, impacts on public health.
Il.D Ic Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
TBD
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
TBD
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The borrower is in the process of preparing a national medical waste management plan and a pest
management plan.
I1.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
TBD
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.



7
ISDS
[ ] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. - No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:          Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                2/16/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             3/20/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                              3/20/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED  Not Applicable Not Applicable
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework               Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan.                                       Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 2/15/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             3/20/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                              3/20/2003
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Serge Theunynck                             02/03/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1  Edeltraut Gilgan-Hunt/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Serigne Omar Fye                         02/04/2003
Sector Manager/Director:      Alexandre V. Abrantes                       02/03/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here



ISDS
5EARCN             FEEDBACK            SITE MAP           SHOWCASE          P



