Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20348-YEM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON
A
PROPOSED
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.7 MILLION
US$20.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR
A
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
November 28, 2000
Rural Development, Water and Environment Department
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 31, 2000)
Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial (YR)
YR 160 = US$1
US$1 = YR 0.625
1 SDR    US$1.27645
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CARE      CARE International (NGO)                          OC         Oversight Committee
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy                       O&M        Operation and Mainatenance
CBY       Central Bank of Yemen                             OP         Operational Directive
COCA      Central Organization for Control and Auditing     PCD        Project Concept Document
DRA       Demand Responsive Approach                        PFS        Project Financial Statements
EA        Environmental Assessment                          PID        Project Information Document
ERR       Economic Rate of Return                           PIM        Project Implementation Manual
FMM       Financial Management Manual                       PIU        Project Implementation Unit
FMPM      Financial Management Procedures Manual            PMR        Project Management Report
FMR       Financial Management Report                       PMU        Project Management Unit
FRR       Financial Rate of Return                          PPA        Project Preparation Advance
GAREW   General Authority for Rural Electricity and Water   PWP        Public Works Project
GICP      Guidelines for Internal Control Procedures        RWSS       Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
GOY       Government of Yemen                               SDC        Swiss Development Cooperation
GTZ       German Technical Assistance Agency                SDF        Social Development Fund
HQ        Headquarters                                      SMT        Social Mobilization Team
IDA       International Development Association             SURWAS  Dutch-financed RWS Project in Gudaydah
LACI      Loan Administration Change Initiative                        Governorate
lcd       liters per capita per day                         TA         Technical Assistance
MEW       Ministry of Electricity and Water                 TS         Technical Secretariat for Water Sector Reforir
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation                                    under MEW
MLA       Ministry of Local Administration                  UNDP       United Nations Development Program
MPD       Ministry of Planning and Development              UNICEF   United Nations Children Fund
NGO       Non-Government Organization                       WHO        World Health Organization
NPV       Net Present Value                                 WSP        UNDP-World Bank Water and Sanitation
NWRA    National Water Resources Authority                             Program
NWSA    National Water Supply and Sanitation Authority      WTP        Willingness to Pay
WUA        Water Users Association
WW         Wastewater
Vice President:    Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:    Inder Sud
Sector Manager/Director:    Doris Koehn
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Peter Koenig



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performnance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       7
3. Benefits and target population                                                      7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       7
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         14
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           14
2. Financial                                                                          15
3. Technical                                                                           16
4. Institutional                                                                       17
5. Environmnental                                                                      18
6. Social                                                                             20
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 22
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     22
2. Critical risks                                                                     23
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     24



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            24
2. Other                                                                              24
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          24
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         25
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          26
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    30
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         63
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           64
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    71
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       73
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     88
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   89
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  90
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            92
MAP(S)
IBRD No. 30659



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
MNSRE
Date: November 28, 2000                           Team Leader: Peter Koenig
Country Manager/Director: Inder K. Sud            Sector Manager/Director: Doris Koehn
Project ID: P005906                               Sector(s): WR - Rural Water Supply & Sanitation
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Environment; Gender And Development; Water
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
[I  Loan    p(] Credit    E ] Grant    [ ] Guarantee     [ ] Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): $20.0 equivalent
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                              Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%                                  Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source                                   Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       2.80           0.70           3.50
IDA                                                            9.70           10.30         20.00
LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV., DISTRICT, CITY) OF BORROWING              4.90           0.00           4.90
COUNTRY
MIN. OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS / MIN. OF DEV. COOP. -                 0.30            0.70          1.00
NETHERLANDS
Total:                                                        17.70           11.70         29.40
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Responsible agency: MLA & GOVERNORATE LEVEL PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNITS
Address: Sana'a, Republic of Yemen
Contact Person: Mr. Sadiq Abu Ras, Minister of Local Administration
Tel: 967-1-207-842                Fax: 967-1-206-629                Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
FY      2020010               2003      2004       2005       2006-     
Annual    1.50        3.00       4.50       5.00      4.00       2.00
Cumulative    1.50       4.50       9.00 1    14.00      18.00     20.00
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 04/30/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2006
OCS PAD p0  PWY,n Mnd. Z200



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The overall objective of the project is to expand sustainable rural water supply and sanitation (RWSS)
service coverage to about 400,000 mostly poor rural dwellers in ten govemorates. This would be achieved
by: (i) introducing to Yemen a worldwide proven demand-responsive, decentralized, commnunity-managed,
RWSS development approach; (ii) assisting the government in building and strengthening local RWSS
capacity; and (iii) helping government to formulate the agreed, demand-responsive approach (DRA)
principles in a coherent RWSS strategy, and to prepare a long-term (10-15 years) national RWSS
investment program that could be supported by the Bank and other donors.
The project has been designed to be implemented over a five-year period, in two phases to enhance the
learning process:
-  During Phase I (about 2 1/2 years): (i) an independent Project Management Unit (PMU),
administratively and institutionally attached to the Ministry of Local Administration (MLA) would
implement the project through three small Project Implementation Units (PIUs) in Abyan, Hajja
and Ibb govemorates; (ii) the demand responsive approach (DRA) would be introduced in these
three govemorates; and (iii) a participatory sector review would be carried out with the aim of
developing a national RWSS strategy, including RWSS institutional arrangements.
-  After a mid-term evaluation, Phase II (2 1/2 years) would: (i) implement the new strategy by
establishing another seven PIUs (which eventually might be integrated as RWSS support units into
the governorate administration), provisionally to be selected from the following govemorates
Hodeidah, Mareb, Lahaj, Al Mawhit, Amran, Sana'a, Al Dhalea and Shabwa; expand the DRA to
these govemorates, integrating the lessons from Phase I; and (ii) prepare a long-term national
RWSS sector development investment program.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
(a) Sustainability:
- functioning of water user associations (WUA);
- proper financial arrangements in place (mainly operation and maintenance (O&M) cost recovery
from
beneficiaries); and
- adequate physical and O&M status of RWSS systems.
(b) Capacity building:
- 10 PIUs at govemorate-level are ready and capable of applying the DRA.
(c) Formulation and implementation of RWSS strategy:
- new RWSS strategy is applied country-wide on all RWSS development activities.
(d) Long-term national RWSS development investnent program:
- program is ready for implementation.
(e) Health and Education Improvement:
- reduce significantly child morbidity and mortality; and
- increase school attendance, particularly of girls
- 2 -



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 19073-YEM, 05/03/99             Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/25/99
The proposed project supports the goals of the CAS regarding: (i) Integrated Water Management for
Environmental Sustainability and Peace (Section 34 of the CAS); and (ii) Targeted Social Improvement for
Poverty Alleviation (Section 35). On (i), the CAS recognizes the need for more balanced water
management at basin level, for sanitation and health and hygiene education as a necessary component to
protect the resource and to reap maximum health benefits from the supply of potable water. This applies
mostly to rural areas, in which less than 20 percent of the population have currently access to drinking
quality water and much less to safe sanitation. As for goal (ii), the CAS stresses the need for
community-based infrastructure development, such as rural water supply and sanitation.
The proposed project would address these goals, by helping to bring about more rural-urban equity by
improving rural health and hygiene - objective (i); and by providing better access to water for households,
freeing women and girls from the often time-consuming and painful chores of fetching water from distant
places - hence, allowing girls to attend schools (positive experiences are currently made in a similar project
in Morocco) and women to dedicate their time to other economic activities - objective (ii).
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues
Yemen's rural population - about 70 percent to 80 percent of Yemen's total population (16 million) - suffers
from low RWSS service coverage and high rural child mortality, reported as about 120 to 150 per 1,000
live births, among the world's highest. The following key issues are at the heart of these predicaments:
(a) Inadequate institutional arrangements and project sustainability:
-  Community level: Mostly due to insufficient community involvement in water system design,
government and donor-supported schemes usually fall short of developing effective community
construction and management mechanisms. Water committees become imposed local institutions,
often charged with intemal management conflicts, leading to negligence of O&M which results in
frequent break-downs. More than 50 percent of current systems are break-down or total failures.
-  Government level: The General Authority for Rural Electricity and Water (GAREW), under the
Ministry of Electricity and Water (MEW), is presently the major govermnent body to implement
RWSS schemes in Yemen. GAREW is highly centralized. Although decentralization is on the
forefront of the government's agenda, so far GAREW has been slow acting on it. Reasons include
unattractive compensation packages for staff to move from Sana'a to more rural towns, limited
opportunities for secondary jobs to compensate for low salaries and vested management interest.
Most. contracts for govemorate-based investments have to be led and controlled by GAREW
headquarters (HQ) in Sana'a.
-  Political interference: Frequently, political and tribal leaders demand that GAREW allocates its
resources to particular projects, thereby interrupting - even abandoning - the work of started
RWSS schemes. Thc result is that GAREW has a large demand for new projects, but an even
larger number of incomplete projects (several hundreds, according to the 1996 RWSS Review).
However, the Government's RWSS budget resources presently available to GAREW (about
-3 -



US$15 million to US$20 million per year) are far from sufficient to ever catch up with the project
contract backlog.
(b) Inadequate financial arrangements: Traditionally, RWSS schemes are financed by the
Government's RWSS budget, implemented by GAREW, or through a myriad of other projects.
Most of the projects require some 'contribution' of the beneficiaries, for example, an up-front
down-payment towards investment costs (varying between 5 percent and 30 percent). But GAREW
does not respond to clearly expressed demand from beneficiaries (choice of technical and service
options, willingness to pay (WTP) surveys). Projects are often initiated because they are requested
by a local sheik or government official. In most cases, post-implementation follow-up in terms of
continuous technical and hygiene advice, as well as monitoring, is lacking. The majority of existing
systems uses some form of cost-recovery, either based on metered water use, or a flat rate.
However, RWSS systems are often over-designed, and users can not afford paying the full cost of
operating the schemes, let alone producing an operating surplus for the purchase of spare parts and
major repairs.
(c) Inadequate sanitation: Little is done in the area of hygiene education, safe drinking water storage,
and wastewater (WW) and excreta disposal. This major omission constrains reaping the full
potential health benefits of drinking water supply. Diarrhoeal and other fecal-transmitted diseases
are major causes of infant mortality in Yemen which is reported to account for about 50 percent of
child mortality. Good examples of latrine construction were seen in Al Sinah, a community-driven,
built and managed RWSS system in the Tai'z govemorate where latrines were constructed as a
prerequisite for household water connections. The Social Assessment (SA) carried out as part of
project preparation, indicated that people are willing to accept this prerequisite for household
connected water supply, as they understand environmental implications of bringing water into the
house.
Government Strategy. In a Cabinet Decree (Decree #21 of November 22, 2000), ratifying an RWSS
Policy Statement, the Government agreed to the key principles of a sound RWSS strategy:
demand-responsiveness, decentralized community-based management and cost recovery. However, these
principles have not yet been translated into a clearly formulated sector strategy. IDA, through the proposed
project and with expected Dutch technical assistance (TA), would help the Government formulating and
implementing a comprehensive RWSS development strategy (details in Section C-I and Attachment VI to
Annex 2 - full text of Policy Statement).
The Government has embarked on an Urban Water Sector Reform and created under the MEW a Steering
Committee for Water Sector Reform. Under this reform, the National Water and Sanitation Authority
(NWSA) is being decentralized, through the establishment of autonomous branches responsible for
managing water and sanitation services in major urban areas. The reformn is carried out by the technical
branch of the Steering Committee, Technical Secretariat (TS) for Water Sector Reform. As part of the
proposed project, the mandate of the Steering Committee has been expanded to include also rural water
sector reform.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project would help address the three key sector issues, described in Section A 2, above.
Actions to deal with these core issues are summarized below and described in more details in Section C -
Project Description and Annex 2.
-4 -



(a) Institutional arrangements and project sustainability: The project would assist the Govermnent in
Phase I: (i) with reforming and decentralizing the RWSS sector; (ii) by establishing an independent
PMU attached to MLA, and by creating small PIUs at the govemorate-level, with a transparent
recruitment process, as agreed between the Bank and the Government, of key personnel for the
PMU and the PIUs; (iii) with setting up autonomous, LACI-compliant accounting and procurement
systems in the PMU and PIUs; (iv) by introducing a demand-responsive community-managed
approach to RWSS development to be formnulated as a national policy and gradually to be applied
country-wide by all institutions involved in RWSS; and (v) by developing a program with GAREW
that would phase out ongoing "old-style" projects within two to three years.
(b) Financial arrangements: The Government recognizes the deficiencies of supply driven projects and
is willing to adopt the DRA, including cost recovery for O&M and spare parts. During project
preparation, a social survey and WTP assessment concluded that the majority of the population
would be willing to contribute 15 percent to capital cost, bear the full cost of O&M, take on
responsibilities to create a water user association (WUA) and manage the system. This has been
demonstrated by six pilot villages, in which the DRA had been applied (Section C-4 and Annex 2).
(c) Sanitation: The proposed project would help address three main issues of environmnental sanitation,
regarding promotion; construction of household and community based excreta disposal systems,
and hygiene education: (i) Sanitation promotion: Social Mobilization Teams (SMT) - Section C4,
below - would promote latrine construction through hygiene education and awareness programs.
Demonstration latrines would be constructed at strategic locations such as village centers, schools
and clinics. They would also help organize latrine builder training courses; (ii) Infrastructure
Construction: The project would provide incentives (i.e. a porcelain pan and two bags of cement
per family) for families or communities to construct the sanitation facilities described above. Also,
the principle that no household would be allowed to have a water connection until a latrine had
been constructed would be applied (Section C-1, below); and (ii) Hygiene education: as part of this
project activity, SMTs would train local health promoters and design a hygiene education
campaign in some 130 project village clusters to impart knowledge and increase awareness of the
need to improve hygiene practices; promote good practice of collecting, storing and using water;
improve hygienic practice for safe excreta disposal; and promote environmental improvements
through solid waste collection and disposal.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project components are:
(a) Water Supplv (US$19.1 million)
The water supply component would provide a minimum service level including the construction
and rehabilitation of RWSS systems consisting of a range of technologies, i.e. hand dug wells and
hand pumps, spring protection and gravity supply, rain water catchments, piped schemes from
boreholes equipped with either diesel or electrical pumps, and supplying communal stand posts.
Incremental costs for building metered yard or house connections would be entirely bome by the
beneficiaries.
(b) Environmental Sanitation (US$2.1 million)
The sanitation component would include; (i) incentives to households for the construction of
household systems, i.e. simple dry pit latrines, pour-flush latrines, flush toilet and septic tanks.
-5 -



Demonstration latrines would be constructed at village centers. Block latrines for schools and
health centers would also be built. If justified by WW flow and population density, one or two
WW treatment systems (communal septic tank and/or waste stabilization ponds) would be built as
pilots. "Sanitation marts", where latrine components can be purchased, where technical advice can
be sought and builders located, would be tested in one or two locations; and (ii) hygiene education
would be provided by SMTs through training of community based hygiene specialists and teachers,
and by helping design simple hygiene education programs for schools.
(c) Institutional Strengthening. Project Management, Studies and Training (US$8.2 million)
This component would include: (i) equipment and running costs, as well as technical support and
training at central/govemorate/community levels, PMU, PIUs, SMTs and WUAs; and (ii) TA,
sector review and studies to formulate a RWSS sector strategy, as well as training to support
decentralized RWSS units at govemorate levels.
Indicative            Bank.      % Of
Component                   Sector        Costs     % of    financing   Bank:
_____ _____ ____ _____ _ _ : _ _I __:(US$M)  Total  (USSM):  financing
Rural Water Supply                 Rural Water        19.10       65.0     12.90      64.5
Supply &
Sanitation
Environmental Sanitation           Rural Water         2.10        7.1      1.60        8.0
Supply &
Sanitation
Inst. Strengthening, Project      Institutional        8.20       27.9      5.50      27.5
Management, Studies and Training   Development
Total Project Costs                   29.40      100.0     20.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                   29.40      100.0     20.00      100.0
Financing. An IDA Credit of US$20.0 million equivalent is proposed (SDR 15.7 million at the prevailing
rate of 1 SDR = US$1.27645 as of October 31, 2000). It would help finance about 70 percent of total
project costs, including about 70 percent of the water supply and sanitation investment components, and 70
percent of the institutional strengthening and support component. Government's and beneficiaries'
contributions to these investments would account for about 30 percent of costs (about 15 percent from
Government and 15 percent from the beneficiaries). The total foreign exchange component is estimated at
40 percent.
In addition to the IDA Credit, an expected TA grant of US$971,000 from the Dutch Government would
also benefit the project and is included in the overall project cost. It would be channeled through the World
Bank-managed and executed Water and Sanitation Program (WSP). During appraisal (May 2000), the
mission received a Letter of Intent from the Dutch Embassy in Yemen, confirming the approval of the
grant. It would: (i) support implementation and monitoring of the proposed project; (ii) assist with the
formulation of the national RWSS strategy; (iii) help develop a national RWSS investment program; (iv)
monitor, evaluate and document the project's implementation methods (see below, Section C-4); (v) fund
the training and institutional strengthening support of CARE in the Abyan govemorate (vi) support and
strengthen the DRA capacity of the PIUs in Ibb and Hajja, as well as help strengthening the Dhamar
GAREW branch to the extent that it would also be capable of implementing DRA-based RWSS project
(one of few operational GAREW branches that may in time convert into a govemorate-based RWSS unit);
and (vii) liaise between the World Bank, other RWSS-implementing and funding agencies and the
-6 -



Government, in view of establishing a comprehensive, country-wide RWSS approach. The Dutch-financed
TA would include funding for an international RWSS expert, three national RWSS experts and funds for
short-term consultants over an initial two year period.
IDA has approved a Project Preparation Advance (PPA) of US$600,000. As part of project preparation,
the PPA would finance implementation of RWSS schemes in the six pilot village clusters and staffing of
the PMU. The Pilot projects would be evaluated and the lessons fed into Phase I of the Project.
Cooperation with UNICEF-World Bank Child Development Project. Both the proposed RWSS and the
UNICEF-World Bank Child Development Projects have used the same Social Assessment to determine
poverty-based priority districts. Both projects may work in many of the same districts. In villages where
both projects have activities, the RWSS project would assure the proper installation of RWSS systems,
including school block latrines and water supply for schools and health centers.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
As described in B-2 (ii) above, the project would support: (i) RWSS sector reform, as outlined in the
Government's Policy Statement; (ii) formulation and implementation of a national RWSS investment
strategy, including specifically for sanitation; and (iii) the establishment of a long-term (10-15 years)
national RWSS investment program, implementation of which may be co-funded by the Government and
several donors.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project would improve RWSS to rural cornmunities in ten govemorates (Ibb, Abyan, Hajja, during
Phase I and seven more govemorates out of the following, tentatively identified as Hodeidah, Mareb,
Lahaj, Al Mawhit, Amran, Al Dhalea, Sana'a and Shabwah, during Phase II). The immediate impacts
would be a safer, more reliable and more convenient source of water in greater quantity for about 400,000
people; as well as safer and more convenient WW and excreta disposal and improved hygiene habits. This
would save time and energy in collecting water, improve health through the use of safe water, and through
improved environmental sanitation practices and behaviors. The time and energy saved could be
re-allocated to school attendance, especially by girls, and child care, other household tasks and economic
activities, mostly for women. Health improvement would increase school attendance and the overall
productivity of the population. Most benefits would accrue to households and, within households, to women
and children, who spend on average four hours a day fetching water, and children under five years of age,
whose health is particularly vulnerable to bad quality water and sanitation.  Since health benefits
attributable solely to water supply and sanitation are difficult to measure, as part of the mid-term review,
an impact assessment on diarrhoeal diseases and school attendance would be conducted.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project's implementation, institutional and staffing arrangements are described in detail in Annex 2.
They are summarized as follows:
Project Phasing. Proiect Area and Triggers for Phase II. The Project has been designed to be implemented
in two Phases, as described in Section A 1. During Phase 1, project implementation would be based on the
DRA and experience gained during the work on the six pilot schemes. Implementation methods would be
fine-tuned before they are expanded to Phase II. The triggers for Phase II would be successful RWSS
reform, including decentralization, phasing out of GAREW activities in the Phase I governorates, a
long-term RWSS sector strategy, three DRA-capable PIUs, and the willingness to establish DRA-ready
- 7-



PIUs in seven additional govemorates. Should these prerequisites not be achieved, the project status would
be reviewed, including with the possibility of canceling the project and the uncommitted balance of the
Credit. A decision to this effect would be taken by the Bank and the Government after the mid-term review.
Implementation Approach:
(a) The project would apply the Demand Responsive Approach. It would consist of decentralized,
comrnunity based and managed, water supply and sanitation development. Communities would
self-select according to a set of eligibility criteria, described below and agreed with Govemment.
On the basis of their willingness to pay, beneficiaries would decide on the technology and service
level for their RWSS system.
(b) Phase I would be implemented with two different institutional implementation methods: (i) in
Abyan, the project would be implemented through a PIU with TA support from an international
NGO, CARE Yemen (funded under the Dutch TA component, see above), as agreed by the
Government; and (ii) in Hajja and Ibb, implementation would be carried out by the PIUs with
support from the Yemen-based WSP TA team. Implementation mechanism for Phase II would be
determined following the formnulation of the national RWSS strategy and according to best practice
emerging from Phase I.
Project Manazement:
(a) Central LeveL A small PMU, consisting of a manager, social scientist, RWSS engineer,
procurement specialist, financial management specialist and an accountant/administrator, would be
established. The PMU would be attached to MLA and responsible for overall project
implementation. Key functions would include monitoring and supervising implementation of the
project by the three PIUs (in Phase II ten PIUs), training of SMTs, administration and LACI-
compliant, project accounting, reporting, international and local procurement and review of local
procurement procedures and contracts, as well as procurement training for PIU staff, with a view
of eventually (in Phase II) transferring local procurement responsibilities to PIUs. To control major
financial and procurement decisions, as well as senior personnel movements, an Oversight
Committee (OC) has been created (Prime Minister Decree #48 of November 14, 2000). It would be
chaired by the Minister of Local Administration, with representation from MEW, Ministry of
Planning and Development, and other interested ministries and agencies.
The international RWSS specialist of the WSP team and one local RWSS specialist may be
located in the Technical Secretariat. The other two local RWSS specialists may be placed within
the Ibb and Hajja PIUs. Initially, the WSP would primarily assist with implementation of the
proposed project through TA. However, the overall focus would be on the broader aspects of
RWSS sector reform, including coordinating with the Dutch-funded management team within
GAREW Headquarters, whose objective it is to review GAREW's reform potential, as well as
providing support to the GAREW Dhamar branch. The effectiveness of the WSP would be
evaluated after Phase I, along with the project's mid-term review and recommendation would be
made for possible extension.
(b) Governorate Level. Primary responsibility for project implementation would be with the PIUs,
utilizing SMTs as social intermediaries (see below). The PIUs would be supervised by the PMU.
They would also liaise with the Govemors' offices. The tasks of PIUs would include guiding and
supervising SMTs, supervising design and field work, preparing bidding documents, and
- 8 -



LACI-compliant accounting. The PIUs core staff would include a manager (social scientist or
engineer), a senior RWSS engineer or social scientist, design and procurement engineer, chemical
technician or laboratory engineer for water testing, accountant/administrator and support staff.
The Local Administration Law, approved by Parliament in early 2000, intends to drive
decentralization forward. Under the law, government agencies, operating out of govemorates would
eventually have financial and operational autonomy. Subject to the outcome of the national RWSS
strategy, in Phase II, the PIUs may become RWSS support units within the govemorate
administration. In this case, the local RWSS funds may then be channeled from Finance through
the MLA and the Governor's Offices. While this "financial autonomy" of governorates would not
happen overnight, the proposed project would help build LACI-compliant RWSS financial and
procurement capacity through the PIUs in the governorate administrations.
Two Social Mobilizations Teams (SMT) per governorate would be created (one each for the Phase
I governorates has already been created during project preparation. A second one would be created
in the early stages of project implementation). The SMTs would carry out "social intermediation"
activities between PIUs and communities, informing the latter about the project, raising their
awareness about benefits of safe water supply and sanitation, helping them with choice and design
of systems, as well as with creating WUAs and resolving internal conflicts. They would also
facilitate communities' contact with private entrepreneurs for possible O&M contracting and
supply of spare parts. The SMTs would consist of an engineer, social scientist and a hygiene
education specialist. At least one of the SMT members should be a woman. Members of the SMTs
would be recruited and trained by the PMU, and supervised by the respective PIUs. Detailed terms
of reference for SMTs are attached to Annex 2 - Attachment IV.
(c) Community Level. WUAs would be established by communities and registered (under the Yemeni
law for local NGOs - 1963) with the help of SMTs, and before the beginning of construction
work. WUAs would participate in scheme design and later manage and operate them. WUAs may
be vulnerable to many sorts of conflicts, especially when several communities are supplied by the
same system, in which case SMTs would help arbitrate and seek alleviation measures, including, to
the extent possible, preventing villages from different and often adversary tribes to be supplied by
the same system.
Selection Process. Govemorates are selected by Government. In Phase I, they are representative of Yemen,
geographically, socially and in terms of water availability. Districts within govemorates would be selected
on the basis of poverty criteria established by the SA (health, education and RWSS access indicators),
carried out under the UNICEF-WB Child Development Project and agreed with the Government, as well as
their willingness to pay (WTP). A survey was carried out under project preparation. Communities would
self-select according to criteria below.
(a) Eligibility. The project and its key features would be advertised throughout the district with flyers,
radio messages, townhall-type meetings, during which eligibility criteria would be explained.
Villages or village clusters (communities) would be given a deadline to register their interest with a
local authority (PIU, district or governorate). Communities within the districts would then
self-select, according to specific eligibility criteria, agreed with the Government. These criteria
would include the villagers willingness to: (i) contribute at least 15 percent towards investment
costs; (ii) pay full O&M costs; (iii) create a WUA; and (iv) autonomously manage the system after
construction. Interested communities would be visited by an SMT for a more detailed explanation
of the project, obligations and benefits, of final selection criteria and the range of possible technical
- 9-



and service level options and costs.
(b) Selection. The average size of participating communities would be about 3,000 people. To avoid
complex management, the village or village cluster population should not exceed 10,000. A
community should also: (i) have water available in sufficient quantity and quality; and (ii) comply
with the investment ceilings for minimum service levels (US$85 per capita for new systems,
US$60 per capita for rehabilitation) to be selected. If investment costs exceed the ceiling, a
community may still qualify for selection, if it agrees to pay full incremental investment costs. A
typical Project cycle is included in Annex 2 - Attachment I. The district selection criteria and the
village eligibility criteria are also detailed in Annex 2. The final selection would be fornalized by a
tri-partite contract between the WUA, the PIU/PMU and the District or Govemorate authority. A
sample outline of such a contract is contained in the Project Implementation Manual (PIM).
Community and Government Contributions:
(a) The level of community contributions of 15 percent to investment costs has been tested and
confirmed as the most suitable and acceptable one by a social and WTP survey during project
preparation. Nevertheless, if proven inequitable during Phase I, the project would adjust the level
of beneficiary contribution. Labor and material contributions would generally be discouraged
because of the difficulty in evaluating their value and matching them with contractual work being
provided under the project. In cases where cash contributions would be limited or simply not
possible due to poverty, in kind inputs may be accepted and valued according to market rates of
similar inputs. Communities would then be encouraged to take over one complete element of the
water supply component of their system, the cost of which would correspond to about 15 percent
of total system costs.
(b) Government contribution would consist of financing about 15 percent of total RWSS investment
costs from the sector investment budget.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing. Financial management arrangements for the project are
detailed in Annex 6 and are summarized below.
(a) The Financial Management System. The PMU at the central and the PIUs at the govemorate levels
would be responsible for financial management and accounting for the proposed project. The
arrangements proposed for the first six months in the agreed time bound Action Plan (Annex 6)
would apply. They would enable to set up the essential elements of an FMS acceptable to IDA
(Condition of Effectiveness). These elements include: (i) identification of a highly qualified PMU
team headed by a manager; (ii) preparation of a Financial Management Procedures Manual by a
qualified consultant; (iii) computerization of the accounting and reporting system; and (iv)
appointment of an independent auditor. The complementary actions proposed in the Action Plan
would allow implementation of an adequate financial reporting system. The whole plan aims at
mitigating the risk linked to the creation of an independent entity for the implementation of the
project. The role assigned to the OC would also contribute to improving accountability. To enable
smooth day-to-day project implementation, the Minister of MLA would issue specific and detailed
delegation of authority to the PMU manager.
(b) Accounting and Financial Reporting. The PMU manager would maintain project accounts
according to the International Accounting Standards, and issue annual Project Financial Statements
(PFS) and quarterly Project Management Reports (PMR). PIUs would maintain accounting
- 10-



records for the components managed under their responsibilities. They would also prepare and
disseminate sub-project accounts and sub-project management reports and ensure timely
transmission of these documents to the PMU. The PMU manager would be responsible for the
aggregation process and issuing of the consolidated PFS and PMR as well as the submission of
these documents on a timely basis to IDA and to the auditors. During an initial 12-month period,
the PMU would be assisted by a short-term consultant, highly qualified in financial management.
(c) Auditing. The OC would appoint, before project effectiveness, an independent auditor acceptable
to IDA to carry out an annual audit according to the International Standards of Auditing as issued
by the International Federation of Accountants and the IDA Guidelines (e.g. FARAH handbook).
Specific terms of reference should be prepared by the PMU and submitted to IDA for approval.
The auditor would express a professional opinion on the annual project financial statements and
would subrnit to IDA an annual audit report within six months after the end of each fiscal year.
(d) Disbursements from the IDA credit would initially follow the traditional system (reimbursements
with full documentation and against Statements of Expenditures [SOEs], and direct payments). It
would be converted to the new procedures (i.e. based on PMRs) after the assessment of the
financial management system and the issuance of a certification ensuring that the system is
operating satisfactory. The target date for this assessment is December 31, 2001. This would allow
the Govemrment to opt for the PMR-based disbursement.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
(a) Implementing the project through GAREW was the first option but was discarded because, in the
long course of project preparation, it became manifest that GAREW with its current institutional
and management configuration was unable to reform and decentralize as required by the project.
Consequently, the Government decided to implement the project through the Ministry of Local
Adrninistration with small implementation units at the level of governorates. This corresponds to
the Government's drive for decentralization and the new Law for Local Administration. In parallel
with the first phase, the RWSS sector would be evaluated, including GAREW, with a view of
developing a long-term national RWSS strategy that would also outline future institutional
arrangements.
(b) "Business as usual", providing additional funds to existing projects implementing RWSS schemes
(other than GAREW), such as the SDF and the PWP, was evaluated but also rejected, on the
grounds that, while efficient project delivery mechanisms, neither one of them is suited to leave
behind an RWSS policy imprint and to provide the post-implementation back-up service required
to assure sustainability in community- managed RWSS projects.
(c) A rural infrastructure project, covering in addition to water and sanitation, rural roads, small-scale
irrigation, electricity, rural health services and schools, was ruled out because of the complexity of
such a project, and because it would not be well suited to help the Government formulate a national
RWSS strategy. Also, these rural components are already covered by five recent IDA projects: the
Public Works Project, SDF Project, Southern Govemorates Development Project, Irrigation
Improvement Project, and Basic Education Project. The proposed project would be complementary
to ongoing projects with RWSS components, and it would help the Government in fommulating and
implementing an RWSS strategy.
-11 -



(d) Another option considered was a project that would entirely concentrate on rehabilitation of
existing, broken-down systems. This was rejected because the main reason for these systems'
breaking down is lack of community involvement and ownership. Such systems are generally
neglected and not properly maintained. Rehabilitation alone does not lend itself well for introducing
full participation and ownership. During project preparation, the systems' break-down rate was
analyzed, and lack of community involvement is indeed the confinned main reason. Nevertheless,
extensive rehabilitation would be an irnportant element of the project, as these sunk investments
may be upgraded and "revived" at a lower incremental cost than starting from zero.
(e) The option of IDA not getting involved in RWSS, but to leave the sector to others, especially
bilaterals, was also considered. But other than the Dutch, donor involvement in RWSS has been
scant and unsystematic. Discussions with the Government led to the conclusion that IDA should
lead this effort of experimenting, building up local capacity, helping create a national RWSS
strategy, expanding sustainable service coverage, and working with the Dutch-financed SURWAS
Project and projects funded by other donors, on a commnon objective. This follows the
Government's vision (supported by the Dutch) for RWSS to move away from the "project
approach" towards a more programmatic approach which, in the future, may include multi-donor
financing, including the World Bank.
(f) The alternative to continue with the standard technical options (deep-well with diesel pump, storage
tank and house or yard connections) was rejected, as this has proven unsuccessful in the past.
Communities were not consulted and projects were over-designed. The result was lack of
maintenance and systems break-downs. One of the innovations of the proposed project is that it
would offer a range of technical alternatives and service levels - with related costs - to local
communities, including hand pumps, dug wells, boreholes, spring and rainwater catchments,
on-site sanitation, or simple community sanitation systems (cornmunal septic tanks, oxidation
ponds), as well as block latrines for schools. Communities would be able to choose a system in
accordance with what is feasible in their physical and hydrological environment and with what they
are willing to pay.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
The Bank has not financed any stand-alone RWSS project in Yemen in the past. However, under the
Southem Regional Agricultural Development Project (Credit 1771-YAR, ICR # 15561 - completed) a rural
water supply component was added as an afterthought (project expansion financed by the Swiss
Development Cooperation [SDC]). Many of the systems are now out of order because the cost to maintain
them was beyond the rural communities' capacity (ICR # 15561). Another rural development project with
the Northem Regional Development Authority (Credit 1886 YAR, ICR # 15975 - completed) included no
IDA-funded RWSS. However, the Regional Development Authority is now implementing rural water
supply with own funding. Rural water supply in both projects was and is implemented without beneficiary
participation and without parallel sanitation and health and hygiene education components.
Among the few other donor activities in RWSS, the Dutch have assisted the sector the longest, financing
projects in the Dhamar and Hodeidah areas, as well as through funding of a CARE-executed Flood
Emergency Rehabilitation Project in 1996 in the Shabwa Govemorate. In addition, they are financing an
Integrated Rural Development Project, with a water and sanitation component, through the Dutch Royal
Tropical Institute, also in the Shabwa area. GTZ sponsors a self-help project (IDAS) which has a small
- 12-



rural water component. The Japanese donated equipment for rural water supply to GAREW. Finally,
UNICEF has a long history of implementing hand pump projects in Yemen and has an ongoing project in
the Abyan Govemorate, implemented with the GAREW Aden branch.
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank.ffnancod prJts only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
- lack of beneficiary consultation/  Southem Regional Agricultural   S             S
participation and of sanitation (IP and  Development Project (Cr.
DO ratings refer to overall project  1771-YAR, 1987-95).
performance).
- insufficient beneficiary participation; Rural Development Project  S             S
no sanitation measures (IP and DO  with Northern Regional
ratings refer to overall project  Agricultural Development
perfomiance).                     Authority (Cr. 1 886-YAR,
1989-96).
Other development agencies
Limited demand-responsiveness,     Dutch-funded SURWAS
sanitation component introduced as an  Project, Hodeidah Govemorate
after-thought.                    (project implementation
satisfactory, after project
restructuring, focusing on full
DRA and sanitation).
Other development agencies         CARE International:
- low beneficiary participation and lack Flood Emergency Project
of follow-up.                      (Dutch-funded) in Shabwa
Govemorate.
- insufficient beneficiary training and   IDAS - Rural Water
absence of sanitation / health education. component of GTZ funded
self-help project in Ta'iz and
Aden Govemorates.
- general rural water supply issues.    UNICEF Abyan Hand pump
project.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The following lessons may be drawn from past experiences:
(a) Participation helps create effective WUAs: The Dutch-funded project SURWAS demonstrates
how participation, spurred on by sustained efforts of conununity mobilization by SMTs, has helped
create effective WUAs.
- 13 -



(b) Sustainability and participation: The CARE-executed project was concentrating on flood
emergency rehabilitation of existing RWSS schemes, for which participation was limited, and
unfortunately no funds were available for follow up activities. Although the project has not been
post-evaluated, according to CARE's own account, sustainability is questionable.
(c) Simultaneous integration of water, sanitation and hygiene education optimizes health benefits:
The Dutch-funded SURWAS Project initially neglected sanitation, then added a sanitation
component about three years into the project. However, the health benefits, so far, have been
negligible since sanitation was not an integral part of the health and hygiene messages that
encompassed the project since the beginning. By contrast, the fully autonomous and community
initiated and managed project of Al Sinah (Tai'z Govemorate) developed water supply and
sanitation as complementary components, with the result that the overall household sanitation
coverage is close to 50 percent and rising, as compared to the national average of rural sanitation
coverage, of far less than 20 percent. An unscientific survey indicates that school absenteeism due
to diarrhoeal diseases in Al Sinah is low. On the other hand, while the IDAS (GTZ) project
provides small-scale but interesting low-cost technology systems (for example, rainwater and
spring catchments), hygiene education and O&M training are largely missing. This results in a
non-hygienic environrnent of the water point, substantial health hazards and in broken faucets,
which the community has made little effort to repair.
(d) Limited choice of technologies versus cost-effectiveness of simple technologies: While the
principle of cost recovery is often well understood, the restricted choice of design options (limited
demand responsiveness - SURWAS Project) may lead to over-designed systems. As a result,
affordable water charges fall often short of creating an operational surplus to cover spare parts or
mninor repairs. Both, the IDAS RWSS project (Dhamar, Ibb Govemorates) and the UNICEF
handpump project in the Abyan Govemorate prove that different types of low cost technologies can
be viable and cost-effective alternatives to standard water distribution schemes, provided they are
accompanied with training for maintenance and hygienic behavior.
(e) Community Management: The RWSS project in Al Sinah (see para. (c) above) is perhaps the best
exarnple for community management, as well as for integrating sanitation into water supply
schemes. This "self-made" project would provide an excellent learning ground for visiting
delegations from other communities and for seminars and best practice workshops.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The borrower's commitment and ownership of the project has been clearly demonstrated in a number of
ways. RWSS is a priority in the Government's present development plan. Senior government
representatives have participated in sector work, project identification and preparation. The Government
has agreed to adopt a number of basic principles, such decentralization, community management, cost
sharing and a demand based approach. In addition, the Government forned an active steering committee
that reviewed the preparation process and made important contributions to the project's conceptual design;
the Government views the project as a major opportunity to reform the RWSS sub-sector in parallel with
urban water and sanitation reforms that are underway. Two national workshops were held, the first to
review the consultants inception report, and the second on completion of the final preparation draft report.
The active participation by government officers and other stakeholders in these workshops was a further
indication of a high degree of commitment and ownership.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
IDA would make available to Yemen the best practice in the design and implementation of RWSS projects,
- 14-



following a demand-responsive approach which has proven to enhance project sustainability. As part of the
RWSS sector reform, IDA would promote community participation in project design and implementation,
and in the development of complementary sanitation and hygiene education programs. IDA has the further
advantage of being involved simultaneously in several other projects targeting rural populations with
poverty alleviating activities to which the proposed project would be complementary (Section D:1 (a),
above). Throughout implementation, the project would apply health and hygiene education methods to
change risky behavioral pattems and to maximize health impacts. Through SMTs, it would also promote
RWSS-related back-up services, such as small private entrepreneurs for spare parts and repair, and help
build capacity of intermediaries, such as NGOs and community organizations. This would be the first
project in Yemen that approaches RWSS in such a comprehensive way.
The WSP would station an intemational and three local RWSS specialists in Yemen. The WSP's
worldwide experience with RWSS development, its direct support from the Bank's headquarters and from
the South Asia Regional Office, which is managing similar projects in India, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka,
would be an additional asset.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
i Cost benefit    NPV=US$13 million; ERR = 17 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The actual NPV of the investment would vary, depending on actual villagers' WTP, public health and
social welfare extemalities and system economic costs. Because of the demand-driven nature of the project,
it is not possible to know a priori all systems that would actually be financed by the project, nor in which
proportion. Therefore, based on the field surveys carried out during project preparation, the approach
chosen has been to elaborate prototype investments in the selected project areas, estimate associated costs
and benefits, and estimate the proportion of each of the prototype projects financed through the project.
Economic flows were estimated for both the with and without-project scenarios. Conversion factors were
used to translate financial flows into economic values, mainly to account for the fact that energy (diesel) is
priced well below its economic cost and that labor is priced above its opportunity cost. No adjustment was
made for customs duties or local taxes, since imported capital inputs are not subject to these taxes. It was
assumed that the shadow exchange rate equals the market exchange rate. Based on IDA norms for projects
in Yemen, a 10 percent discount rate was used. The period of the analysis is 25 years, starting in the year
2001.
Based on the results of the field surveys, it was estimated that 80 percent of the population would use the
new source, and that per capita water consumption would increase from today's 10 lcd to 15 lcd in the case
of handpumps, 20 lcd in the case of standposts, and 30 lcd in the case of yard connections. Two types of
benefits accruing to the beneficiaries that use the new source were estimated: (i) the cost savings associated
with a decrease in the use of the traditional source (water bought from vendors or time spent fetching
water); and (ii) an increase in consumer surplus on the increased quantity of water used. Due to data gaps
and uncertainties, health and environmnental benefits from the water supply, sanitation and hygiene
education components were not accounted in the economic analysis.
A sensitivity analysis was carried out to determine the robustness of the ERR to changes in key risk
variables. The analysis shows that the project's results are most sensitive to changes in the share of the
population that would use the new source. The ERR would be lower than 10 percent, if the consumer
- 15-



surplus drops below 50 percent of its base line value, or if the cost savings drops 40 percent, or if less than
60 percent of the population uses the new source. The ERR would still be higher than 10 percent if the
consumption per capita does not increase, or if the capital cost increases by 25 percent.
The detailed economic analysis is contained in Annex 4.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
Cost Effectiveness. Based on per capita costs of schemes undertaken in the recent past (SURWAS, Social
Funds, GAREW, the pilot schemes carried out under the project), ceiling costs per scheme have been
established at US$85 per capita (in 1999 prices) for new schemes and for schemes where a usable borehole
or well already exists, and US$60 for rehabilitation. Investments with higher unit costs may be allowed,
but 100 percent of the incremental costs would have to be borne by the beneficiaries.
Beneficiary Financing.  If standposts or handpumps are the service level options selected by the
community/village cluster, beneficiaries are expected to pay at least 15 percent of the water supply scheme
investment costs either by an up-front cash payment (preferred version), or through in kind inputs, i.e.
labor, materials contributions, or a combination of both. The risk of in-kind contributions are recognized
(valuation of the contribution, complementarity of labor and material inputs with contracted work), and
therefore cash contributions would be highly encouraged. It is, however, possible that a community is
genuinely unable to afford a cash payment, but is highly motivated to participate in the project. In that case
in-kind contributions would be accepted and valued according to market rates. Typical per capita
investment costs to be borne by beneficiaries average US$10 for piped-water systems, US$2.2 for
handpumps (up to about 40 m of depth), US$8 for rainwater collection, and US$6 for spring protection
with gravity system. It is important to note, however, that none of the villages surveyed wanted to
contribute financially for the handpump option. Households wanting a yard or house connection would be
willing to pay the incremental cost, as compared to a standpost option.
The project would encourage villagers willing to construct household latrines at their own expense by
providing an incentive that may consist of 2 bags of cement and/or a porcelain pan, representing 5 percent
to I0 percent of construction costs.
Recovery of Water Supply Costs. As per agreement in the tri-partite contract (Section C4, Selection
Process), beneficiaries would pay full cost of O&M of their water systems, plus a provision for spare parts
and small repairs, through water tariffs. Water charges are expected to total US$0.7 to US$4.6 per
household and per month, depending on the chosen option, or between I percent and 7 percent of estimated
average household income.
Financial Analysis of a Typical Piped RWSS System. For illustration, a financial analysis of a typical
piped RWSS system is included in Annex 5.
Fiscal Impact:
The investment costs would be borne by the public budget, the proposed IDA credit and the contributions
(in-kind or financial) from the beneficiaries. Since water and sanitation investments are exempt from
taxation, increases in tax revenues would be negligible. However, savings are expected in rural
infrastructure and equipment through reduced operation, maintenance and rehabilitation expenditures.
Expected increased cost-effectiveness of investments would also have a fiscal impact. In the long-run,
improved health and productivity of rural populations would add to national income, which in turn would
- 16 -



have a positive fiscal impact.
3. Technical:
Water Supply and Sanitation. A range of service levels for water supply would be offered to the
community. It would include upgraded wells and hand pumps, spring protection and piped gravity supply,
household rain water catchments, piped schemes from boreholes supplying communal stand posts, or house
connections. House connections would be metered and water would be available in the piped schemes 24
hours per day. A major component of the project would be rehabilitation of existing schemes that have
failed, or completion of schemes that were left unfinished. Current Yemeni engineering design standards
and practices have been reviewed by the consultants and certain modifications to the existing approach
have been recommended, particularly reducing the "over design" of schemes. Another important change in
the usual design practice is that altematives to the standard expensive borehole and piped schemes should
be explored, i.e. the use of handpumps, rainwater and spring catchments. Standard designs for common
elements of schemes have been produced based on international good practice.
Similarly, a range of service levels for sanitation would be promoted. This range would include "on site"
systems, such as simple dry pit latrines, pour-flush latrines, flush toilets and septic tanks. One or two
comnmunity based systems, such as flush toilets, linked to simple sewage collection systems and communal
septic tanks or waste stabilization ponds might be considered as pilots, if justified by water flow and
population density. Standard designs for latrines and other sanitation elements have been produced, based
on intemational good practice. The options of the flush toilet obviously dictates that a household water
connection is required. In addition to the sanitation incentives mentioned above, demonstration latrines
would be constructed at village centers, schools and health centers.
Health and Hygiene Education. This key components is essential in order to reap the maximum health
benefits from the investments. In addition to safe water and sanitation facilities, the beneficiaries' hygienic
behavior has to change. Following their own training, SMTs would in turn train local health promoters,
who would promote hygiene principles through campaigns in project villages, notably by: (i) imparting
knowledge and increasing awareness of the need to improve hygiene practices; (ii) demonstrating good
practice of collecting, storing and using water; (iii) improving hygienic practice for safe excreta disposal;
and (iv) teaching environmental improvements through solid wastes collection and disposai. Key elements
of the campaign are comnmunity-based gender sensitive participatory approaches, hygiene behavior
assessment, development of key messages and materials.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The project would be executed by an independent PMU, administratively attached to MLA, through a
system of decentralized implementation methods as described in Part C - Project Description above, and in
Annex 2.
4.2 Project management:
As described in Section C-4 above, the project would be managed by the PMU and implemented through
decentralized PIUs (details - see also Annex 2).
This implementation approach bears inevitable risks: the political will to actually embrace decentralization
with all its financial and political implications may not be forthcoming, or not fast enough to carry the
- 17-



project autonomously forward. The project has been designed to minimize that risk by structuring it into
two phases. After Phase I (about 2 1/2 years), project performance would be evaluated before embarking
on the expanded Phase II. If the establishment of PIUs proves successful during Phase I, the model would
be replicated in seven more governorates for Phase II. Depending on the outcome of the RWSS sector
review and the emerging sector strategy, PIUs may become govemorate-level RWSS units incorporated
into the govemorate administrations. However, if Phase I evaluation does not provide grounds for a
potentially successful implementation, the balance of the project may be canceled.
4.3 Procurement issues:
As the PMU would be independent with statutory procurement authority (up to about US$200,000),
procurement capacity in the PMU would be built from scratch, compliant with the Bank's financial
management and procurement guidelines. Procurement decision above the statutory limit would be referred
to the OC. PIUs would have no contract procurement authority and would handle only petty cash
transactions based on a revolving fund and justifying documentation. Procurement details and a
Procurement Action Plan are described in Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The financial management arrangements proposed in the agreed time bound action plan (Annex 6) which, if
successfully implemented during the first six months, would enable to set up the essential elements of an
adequate financial management system acceptable to IDA. The complementary actions proposed in the
action plan would allow implementing an adequate financial reporting system. The whole plan would
enable mitigating the risk linked to the creation of an independent entity for the implementation of the
project. The role assigned to the OC could also be considered as contributing to improve accountability.
Flow of Funds. The Government (Ministry of Finance) would transfer the IDA funds to the PMU through
deposits to a Special Foreign Currency Account (Special Account) in the Central Bank of Yemen (CBY).
The Government would provide 15 percent counterpart funds of project costs from its sector budget. These
funds would be transferred directly from the Ministry of Finance to MLA to the PMU and deposited in a
Special Local Currency Account (Project Account) with the CBY. Both accounts would be managed by the
PMU. Funds would be allocated to the PIUs according to their annual budgets, approved by the PMU and
the OC. The PMU manager would be authorized to make payments from these special accounts.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summnarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project, as a whole, is in essence an environmental improvement initiative. However, in order to
combat any potentially negative impacts, an Environmental Review was carried out in the three Phase I
govemorates of Abyan, Hajja and Ibb. The Review assessment procedure was consistent with the
provisions of Operational Directive 4.01, Annex E "Environmental Assessment" (because the PCD/PID
was issued prior to March 1, 1999, after which date OP 4.01 is applicable). A mitigation and monitoring
plan has been prepared. The plan, together with water quality monitoring costs and parameters, is detailed
in Annex 2, Attachment V, and in the PIM. The mitigation plan is summarized below.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Groundwater Pollution - Mitigation: The likelihood of groundwater pollution from pit latrines or septic
tanks is small. However, groundwater quality testing should take place when a new borehole is drilled or
when an old well is upgraded and at regular intervals thereafter, particularly those in the vicinity of latrine
and WHO standards should be applied (i.e. WHO Guidelines for Drinking Water Quality as revised in the
- 18 -



1993 edition). Before any latrines are constructed, the soils at the site should be inspected and the depth of
groundwater assessed to ensure that there is no potential for pollution. In addition, latrines or septic tanks
should not be located within 50 meters of a well or borehole. Water quality testing equipment would be
provided through the project and appropriate training given. Communities would be trained by the SMTs to
alert local govemorate staff of any changes in water quality, which would trigger an immediate water test.
Use of Wastewater - Mitigation: There is a possibility that one or two waste stabilization ponds may be
constructed by the project for demonstration purposes in more densely populated areas and the treated WW
used for irrigation if the demand exists. Criteria for site selection would be developed as part of a limited
environmental assessment to be undertaken before construction. If treated WW from stabilization ponds
was to be used for irrigation, it would first have to be tested by Ministry of Health staff, to ensure that it
complies with the World Bank and WHO standards (i.e. The World Bank's Pollution Prevention and
Abatement Handbook and WHO Guidelines for the Reuse of Wastewater 1989). These standards would be
documented in the Project's Operational Manual. Governorate staff would be responsible for any
subsequent monitoring. Workers handling these wastes would be given training and appropriate protective
clothing and equipment by the PMU.
Use of Dried Sludge - Mitigation: Dried sludge may be sold to farmers as soil conditioner or fertilizer if
the demand exists. However, before sales, regular analysis of the dried sludge would be carried out by
Ministry of Health staff to ensure that it complies with WHO standards as mentioned above. In addition, a
formal "rural wastewater and sludge disposal and reuse policy" would be developed in coordination with
the Sana'a Water and Sewerage Project. This policy would set out good standards of practice and
monitoring and define roles and responsibilities. Eventually, govemorate staff would assume this
monitoring duty. Workers handling these wastes would be given training and appropriate protective
clothing and equipment by the PMU.
Costs and Responsibilities: The cost for these environmental mitigation and monitoring measures have
been included in the project cost. PIU staff would be responsible for the initial implementation of the
mitigation initiative, i.e. testing and monitoring overseen by the PMU. Subsequently, the responsibility for
regular monitoring may fall upon the local government, i.e. the govemorate under the provisions of the new
Local Government legislation. The responsibility and supervision for emptying of pit latrines or septic
tanks, as well as removal and treatment of sludge, would be at the govemorate or district level, even if the
actual job is carried out by a private entrepreneur. Should the project work in a small town in which there
is a need to empty cess pits and septic tanks, it would be conditional that the local authority provide a
suitable vacuum truck (approximately US$35,000) or contract a private sector service provider.
Conclusion
One of the overall goals of the project is to significantly improve the environmental conditions in rural
areas and thereby improve the health and quality of life for the rural inhabitants. This would mainly be
achieved by improving drinking water quality and quantity, and by reducing indiscriminate defecation and
isolating human excreta from the general environment. Water quality and quantity would be improved
through the construction and rehabilitation of water schemes and by introducing water quality testing.
Excreta disposal would mainly be improved through the promotion of a program of latrine building. In
addition, by providing a supporting health and hygiene education campaign, hygienic behavior would be
improved which would ensure the maximum benefits from the investment would be obtained. The
environmental review concludes that the project would generate very positive environmental impacts.
Moreover, with the proposed mitigation measures, the project does not present any significant
environmental risks.
- 19 -



5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft; May 16, 2000
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Stakeholder consultation is an inherent process in a demand-responsive project, like this one. During the
Environmental Survey, stakeholders' views were sought through household visits, focus groups and
discussions with local authorities, as well as small private entrepreneurs (sludge emptying (vacuum) truck
owners). Overall, the situation of environmental sanitation ranks low. As a consequence, child mortality
and morbidity rates are high, as indicated in B 2 (c). The project would focus on sanitation improvements
by hygiene awareness and education programs, as well as promotion of household latrines, including
construction of demonstration latrines, and block sanitation facilities at schools and health centers.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The project provides clear indicators, in terms of numbers of household and school block latrines built,
latrine builders and village level health promoters trained, and school hygiene programs designed and
implemented to be used for monitoring and evaluation purposes (see Annex 1).
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Targeting Low-Income Groups. Many water supply systems are currently implemented based on political
priorities. The proposed project's principle of a demand-driven approach would reduce this risk. Lists of
priority districts for investment in the first year have been selected based on the SA. In addition, demand
and WTP surveys have been carried out in the field during project preparation. These surveys would
complement the selection of priority districts by clos.er defining communities willingness to contribute
financially and/or with labor and material inputs in the project (Annex 2 - Attachment II - contains a list of
priority districts).
Gender. Women beneficiaries would be involved in social project preparation and implementation. SMTs
would assure appropriate representation by women in mobilization and participation meetings, as well as in
WUAs. Also, as a result of time saving from reduced water fetching chores, girls would have more time to
attend school.
Village Hvgiene. In addition to the technical and social mobilization staff, each WUA would have at least
one hygiene specialist, preferably a woman, trained by SMTs. The hygiene specialist's primary role would
be to promote water and sanitation related hygiene messages and sanitation measures, such as building
household latrines and maintaining a clean environment, especially around a public water point.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Participatorv Implementation Method. The SMTs would consult the potential beneficiary communities to
assess their demand for drinking water and sanitation, and, at the same time, sensitize them to the benefits
of potable water and safe sanitation. The teams would also make beneficiaries aware of management
obligations (O&M and cost recovery) implied by these benefits. If the community reacts positively, the
SMT would help in choosing water and sanitation systems, commensurate with socio-cultural and
economic situations and assist with the creation of community-based WUAs.
- 20 -



Throughout preparation of community-level projects and their implementation, the SMTs would deliver
well-focused health and hygiene messages to the beneficiaries, especially women, who are generally in
charge of managing household drinking water and sanitation. The teams would also promote hygiene
education programs in schools. As the communities' capacity for self-management increases, SMT support
would gradually be phased out. In addition, SMTs would help identify private enterprises for O&M and
spare parts as potential back-up services. They would bring private partners in contact with the interested
communities.
When a community has decided to participate in the project, SMTs would carry out baseline data
assessments and throughout and after implementation they would monitor and evaluate progress of
implementation in a participatory way (use of RWSS systems, change in environmental sanitation at village
and household levels, change in hygienic behavior, disease patterns).
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
At present, there are not many NGOs working on water supply projects in the country. A key feature of the
project is to work through a well-established and intemationally renown NGO - CARE Yemen. CARE
would provide TA to the PIU in Abyan, help train and supervise SMTs and, in the course of project
implementation, CARE is expected to facilitate the creation of small local RWSS-specialized NGOs.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Continuous monitoring of health impacts and of improvement in overall environmental sanitation at
household and village levels throughout project implementation is foreseen through SMTs, the PIUs and
Bank supervision mission, as well as through the WSP.
6.5 How will the project monitor pelformance in terms of social development outcomes?
The project design includes a monitoring system to be able to assess the performance based on: (i) baseline
data; (ii) periodic surveys; (iii) progress reports based on field work; (iv) continuous supervision of
implementation; and (v) project mid-term review.
The main types of monitorable performance indicators to be considered to assess perfornance would be: (i)
application of DRA methodology, first in the three Phase I govemorates, but ultimately country-wide, and
formulation of an updated RWSS strategy based on the DRA approach; (ii) successfully phasing out
GAREW activities, first in the Phase I govemorates, later country-wide; (iii) PIUs effectively and
successfully applying DRA methodology; (iv) number of SMTs successfully working in helping
communities in the design and implementation of participatory schemes; (v) number of RWSS systems in
place and functioning, with adequate O&M arrangements based on user charges; (vi) number of WUAs
functioning efficiently without further help from SMTs; and (vii) proportion of rural population with
improved hygiene habits.
Although not a primary project objective, the project would help improve health indicators (child
mortality), as well as school attendance, particularly of girls. However, as RWSS alone may not be
sufficient to improve these indicators, the project would be closely coordinated with the WB-UNICEF
Child Development Project that includes health and education components and focuses largely on the same
govemorates and districts as does the proposed RWSS project. The compounded impact of RWSS, health
services and education is expected to significantly reduce child mortality.
- 21 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                     Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            * Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
An Environmental Analysis was carried out and an Environmental Management Plan formulated and
up-dated during appraisal.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainabiity:
Sustainability can be largely achieved, if the project is responding to demand and is based on participation
and community management. At this stage and within the preparation process, including social preparation
of the pilot villages, the project appears to be well on track with the DRA. Indications are that village
populations are committed and enthusiastic to participate in the project. In some cases, communities have
demonstrated their willingness to participate financially and to manage their systems by sending letters to
the SMTs, signed by the majority of community members.
- 22 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Cost recovery is insufficient to pay for   M         The participatory approach on projects based
O&M and spare parts, preventing                      on actual demand and WTP has a positive track
break-down of systems.                               record worldwide. SMTs would help assure
communities responsibilities for their systems
through training and continuous coaching.
Less than expected demand for water and    M         SMTs would carry out intense social
sanitation systems, community                        mobilization and hygiene education campaigns
participation and adaptation to crucial              prior, during and after project implementation.
health messages (change in sanitation
behavior).
Critical mass of beneficiaries is not      M         Strong implementation assistance and M&E
reached, so as to achieve solid experience           component through SMTs, the PMU and TA
of methods leading to sustainability, as             provided under the proposed WSP presence in
basis for designing a national RWSS                  the field.
program.
From Components to Outputs
Government is not successful in            H         Decentralized implementation approach, initially
decentralizing the RWSS sector.                      through three different govemorate-level PIUs,
with an intemational NGO and WSP support;
furthermore: (i) RWSS sector reform under TS,
based on decentralization, and (ii) Ministry of
Local Administration official project
implementing arm, backed up by Local
Administration Law.
Unavailability of Government's project      S        Appropriate budget allocation for the first year
counter-part resources.                              of project implementation, and transparent
recruitment and appointment of key counter-part
staff (PMU and PlUs) would be a Condition of
Effectiveness.
Slower than expected development of        H         Intensified training by PMU, NGO and the
capacity of decentralized PIUs and their             proposed WSP-executed TA.
acceptance by govemorate
administrations as local RWSS support
units.
Overall Risk Rating                        H
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 23 -



Risk                Type   Risk            Risk Minimization Measure
of Risk Rating
Halting action by Government on either   G  S   If by mid-term review (after Phase I) no
decentralization of RWSS sector and/or           agreement is reached with government on future
phasing out of GAREW operations,                 sector institutional and implementation strategy,
subject to outcome of RWSS sector                balance of Project may be canceled.
review / strategy development study.     I      I
Type of Risk - S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Governance), M (Management capacity), 0
(Other).
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
As noted earlier, political interference has at times pressured GAREW into interrupting or abandoning
work in progress in favor of new initiatives. Under the new implementation arrangement through MLA, the
Government would be requested to mandate GAREW to follow the project's DRA approach for any new
projects in the three initial govemorates. Inasmuch as decentralization would bring investment
decision-making closer to the beneficiaries, transparency and accountability should improve. Although this
should not be seen as a panacea, it would be a clear improvement over the past supply-driven project
implementation method. In addition, the project would help accelerate the "internalization" of transparency
in investment decision making. Deciding on investments on the basis of clearly spelled out and publicized
criteria would be a learning and training experience for many of the commnunities and the concept would
eventually take hold. The project would also help to reduce the large backlog of works that were
abandoned, by having GAREW concentrate on completing them. There is also a large pipeline of
"politically assigned" projects, for which there is no funding available. Under the project, a two to three
year transition work plan would be prepared whereby, except for the high priority items, incomplete
projects would be phased out and the pipeline dropped. As these decisions would affect several individuals
and tribal communities, implementation of the "phase-out" operation may be controversial. Some leaders
may be threatened by the demand-responsive approach that effectively confers "control" of project activities
to the communities themselves. It is hoped that the support from the populations concerned would
counter-balance potential opposition from above.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
- PIU work plans for 2001 and related budget proposals submitted to PMU;
- Implementation of the minimum Financial Management requirements (Table 5 of Financial
Management Action Plan, Annex 6);
-  Employment of the PIU managers for Abyan, Hajja and Ibb, according to guidelines agreed
between the Bank and the Government; and
- Employment of key staff of PMU, according to guidelines agreed between the Bank and the
Government.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
- 24 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
D 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
O 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
-  A draft Proiect Implementation Manual was discussed with authorities during appraisal and will be
finalized in a national workshop during the Project Launch mission.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Doris Koeh                        hInder K. Sud
Team Leader                       Sector Manager                     Country Manager
- 25 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators         | Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:          Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Sector-related CAS Goal:   - increase number of rural    - Project records         Access to improved water
Improve rural sanitation and people with access to safe  - Surveys                 supply and sanitation services,
health education           sanitation                    - Sector studies          improved health and
(Theme 3, Integrated Water   - improve hygiene practices  - Independent reviews    education contribute to
Management for                                                                     increased productivity and
Environmental Sustainability                                                       poverty reduction.
and Peace).
Improve girls education,    - increase number of girls
rural health and access to   attending school          - Project records
safe water in poor areas   - reduce diarrheoal diseases in - Surveys
(Theme 4, Targeted Social    children                  - Sector studied
Improvement for Poverty    - increase number of people   - Independent reviews
Alleviation).              with access to safe water
supply and sanitation in poor
districts
Project Development        Outcome I Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Sustainable improvements of One year after project     - Baseline data collected by   Improved water and sanitation
rural water supply and     completion, at least:          SMTs                     services are effectively used,
sanitation (RWSS) services   - 90% of RWSS systems are   - Progress reports        so that expected health
and hygiene habits, by:    used and functioning.       - Mission' s field visits   benefits are achieved and time
- 80% of RWSS schemes for  - Supervision reports       is freed for school and other
which user charges cover   - Mid-term review           productive activities.
adequate O&M expenditures.  - ICR
- 90% of functioning WUAs;.                            The lack of time is what
- 80% and number of schemes                            prevents girls from going to
for which O&M is properly                              school.
done;.
-50% of people with improved - Baseline data collected by
hygiene habits.              SMTs
- Surveys
*  Introducing a         DRA applied nationwide 3    - Surveys
demand-responsive,    years after implementation:   - Mission's field visits
decentralized,        - Demands from communities - Supervision reports
community managed,   for new participatory schemes. - Mid-term review
participatory RWSS    - WUAs functioning without  - ICR
development approach.  SMT dependency.
*  Helping the Government - New RWSS strategy based   - Govemment's strategy paper
formulate agreed DRA   on the DRA approach released
principles in RWSS    by Govemment 2 years after
strategy.             start of project
____implementation.
- 26 -



* Assisting the         - 3 governorate level PlUs    - Progress reports
Government in building applying successfully DRA    - Mission' s field visits
and strengthening local after Phase I; and 10   - Supervision reports
RWSS capacity.       governorate-level PIUs or    - Mid-term review
RWSS support units applying - ICR
successfully DRA at project
completion.
- 6 SMTs successfully
intermediating with
communities 2 years after
Phase I implementation and
20 SMTs at project
completion.
*  Helping the Government Long-term National RWSS    Government's RWSS
prepare a long-term  investment program ready for investment plan.
national RWSS        implementation 4 years after
investment program.    start of project
implementation.
- 27 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical: Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Increased safe water supply - Approximately 400,000  Baseline data collected by  - Water supply resources are
coverage in 10 Governorates. additional people have access  SMTs, Progress reports,  not diverted to irrigation to
to improved water supply   Mission' s field visits,   avoid over-exploitation of
services at project completion. supervision reports, Mid-term  aquifer.
- About 130 water supply   evaluation after Phase I and
schemes are built or       ICR.                       - Tariffs are properly designed
rehabilitated at project                              to cover full cost of O&M and
completion.                                           spare parts, and beneficiaries
are able and willing to pay the
bill. WUAs receive proper
training and support from
SMTs on financial
management.
- WUA overcome internal
conflicts.
- Spare parts are available.
- WUAs receive proper
training and support from
SMTs to carry out O&M.
2. Improved access to      - About 50 school block    - Baseline data collected by    - Beneficiaries are receptive to
adequate sanitation and   latrines, 50 demonstration  SMTs                        change in hygiene habits;
hygiene practices in 10   latrines and 10,000 household - Progress reports
Govemorates; and cooperate  latrines built.           - Mission' s field visits   - Beneficiaries use and
with the UNICEF-WB Child  - 50 latrine builders trained;  - Supervision reports   maintain the improved
Development Project.       - 130 health promoters     - Mid-term evaluation after   sanitation facilities
trained.                   phase I
- Latrine incentives distributed - ICR.
in 70 villages or clusters.
- School hygiene programs
designed and implemented in
40 schools.
- Measurable increase in
number of girls attending
school.
- Measurable reduction in
child mortality rates.
- 28 -



3. Strengthened institutional - After Phase 1; 3 PIUs ready                    - Governorate-level PlUs or
capacity in central and local  and capable of applying DRA.                    RWSS support units and
Government and community  - After Phase 11: 10 PlUs or                         SMTs commitment to
organizations to plan and  governorate-level RWSS                              demand-driven, decentralized,
manage demand-driven      support units ready and                              community- based project
RWSS schemes.             capable of applying DRA.                             implementation.
- 6 SMTs formed, trained and                         - Availability of Government's
operational 2 years after                            counter-part resources (staff
project implementation, 20                           and financing).
SMTs at project completion;.                         - Adequate salary and
- I WUA formed and trained                          incentives to retain qualified
per water scheme built or                            staff in PMU, field level teams
rehabilitated.                                       (PlUs or RWSS support units)
and SMTs.
- PMU / PIUs are financially
autonomous.
- No political interference in
village selection process.
- 29 -



Key Performance
:Herarchy of Objettives           Indicitors          Monitoring &' Evaluation    Critical Assuiptions
Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:            (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                             Outputs)
1. Rural Water Supply      US$19.1 million (IDA: US$                              - Government's timely and
1.1. Construction and      12.9 million).             - Progress reports.        decentralized budget
rehabilitation of rural water                         - Bank disbursement data.    allocation.
supply systems in 10                                  - Supervision's mission reports - Communities' demand for
Governorates.                                         independent audit reports.    water.
- Communities able and
willing to contribute to design
of schemes, make contribution
to investment costs, and form
a WUA with support of SMTs.
2. Rural Sanitation and    US$ 2.1 million (IDA  US$                              Communities demand for
Hygiene Education          1.6 million).                                          sanitation systems (individual,
2.1. Sanitation facilities for                                                    collective), participation and
schools and health centers.                                                       adaptation to crucial health
2.2. Promotion of latrines                                                        messages.
(incentives to households for
the construction of latrines;
construction of demonstration
latrines and 'sanitation
marts').
2.3. Training of latrine
builders.
2.4. Hygiene education in
schools.
2.5. Training of local health
promoters.
3. Project Support
3.1. Project Management    US$ 8.2 million (IDA US$ 5.5                           Government commitment to
- PMU                      million).                                              demand-driven, decentralized,
- field level teams (PlUs or                                                      community-based project
RWSS support units)                                                               implementation.
- Monitoring and supervision
3.2. Institutional                                                                Government's willingness to
strengthening                                                                     decentralize RWSS sector.
- SMTs / WUAs
- training of PIUs and/or
RWSS support units
3.3. Studies, TA and training
Rural water strategy and
programs.
- 30 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Project Components
The project has three major components: (i) rural water supply; (ii) rural sanitation; and (iii) project
support. The latter consists of: (a) project management; (b) institutional strengthening; and (c) training and
studies.
Sector                                   Total Cost      %        IDA        %
1. Rural Water Supply                    19.1           65.0     12.9        64.5
2. Rural Sanitation                       2.1            7.1       1.6        8.0
3. Project Support                        8.2           27.9       5.5       27.5
Total                                  29.4          100.0      20.0      100.0
An IDA Credit of US$20.0 million is proposed. It would help finance about 68% of total project costs,
including about 70% of the water supply and sanitation investment components, and about 68% of the
institutional strengthening and support component. A Dutch-funded TA grant of about US$1 million would
also contribute to the Institutional Support component. Contributions from Government and beneficiaries
would account for about 30% of investment costs (15% from Government and 15% from the beneficiaries).
The total foreign exchange component is estimated at 40%.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$19.10 million
Rural Water Supply - 65% of Project Costs. The water supply component includes the construction and
rehabilitation of RWSS projects from a range of different technologies. They would include hand dug wells
and hand pumps, spring protection and rain water catchments with gravity supply, piped schemes from
boreholes, equipped with either diesel or electrical pumps, supplying communal stand posts and/or house
connections which would be metered.
Project Component 2 - US$2.10 million
Rural Sanitation and Hygiene Education - 7.1% of Project Costs. The sanitation component includes:
(i) training of latrine builders; (ii) design of a school hygiene education prograrn; (iii) training of teachers;
(iv) training of local health promoters; and (v) incentives (in the form of bags of cement and/or porcelain
pans) for the construction of household systems, i.e. simple, dry pit latrines, pour-flush latrines, flush
toilet and septic tank, and, on a pilot basis, one or two coninunity based systems i.e. low-cost (small-bore)
sewerage and septic tanks and/or waste stabilization ponds. Demonstration latrines would be constructed at
village centers (about 50 demonstration latrines), schools (about 50 school block latrines). "Sanitation
marts", where latrine components can be purchased, where technical advice can be sought and builders
located may be tested in one or two locations. Such "marts" have been successful in UNICEF implemented
projects in South Asia, especially in Bangladesh.
Project Component 3 - US$ 8.20 million
Project Support - 27.9% of Project Costs. This component covers capital and running costs, as well as
technical support at central level (PMU), govomorate level (SMT) and community level (WUA).
- 31 -



(a) Project Management (US$660,000)
-  PMU  - overall project management, staffing, training, procurement, disbursements,
accounting, monitoring and evaluation of project implementation.
(b) Institutional Strengthening (US$6,250,000)
-  SMTs - periodic field visits, social communication, training, health/hygiene education and
sanitation promotion;
-   Support to establish and strengthen 10 PIUs or RWSS support units, starting in Abyan, Hajja
and Ibb;
-  WUAs training; and
-  Awareness workshops for decision makers.
(c) Training, Institution Building and Studies (US$1,290,000)
-  Technical Assistance (TA), training and studies - support to PMU/PIUs, preparation of
national RWSS development program, other TA activities and training to be identified in
course of project implementation.
The above Project and Institutional Support activities would be complemented by a Dutch-funded TA grant
of US$971,000 included in the project costs. The grant would be channeled through the World Bank
managed Water and Sanitation Program (WSP). During appraisal (May 2000), the mission received a
Letter of Intent from the Dutch Embassy in Yemen, confirming the approval of the grant. Overall, this TA
component would contribute directly to implementation (through CARE in Abyan) and to monitoring of the
proposed project. A WSP team, including an international RWSS specialist and three local RWSS experts
would be established in Yemen to support the project throughout, including assistance to the national
RWSS strategy and the long-term RWSS investment program. The WSP team would also liaise between
the IDA funded project, other RWSS-implementing and funding agencies and the Government. The
long-term objective is to bring all the different agencies throughout the country (estimated in excess of 20)
involved in RWSS activities under one roof and have them apply the DRA to enhance sustainability of
systems built.
Cooperation with UNICEF-World Bank Child Development Project: The proposed RWSS project would
closely coordinate its activities with the UNICEF-WB Child Development Project which focuses on many
of the same govemorates covered by the RWSS project. One Social Assessment (SA) has been carried out
for both projects to determine poverty-based priority districts. Both projects may, therefore, be active in the
same districts. In villages where this is the case, the RWSS project would assure the proper installation of
RWSS systems, including school block latrines and water supply for schools and health centers.
Project Implementation and Approaches and Institutional Arrangements
Project Phasing and Project Area
IDA has approved a Project Preparation Advance (PPA) of US$600,000. As part of project preparation,
the PPA would finance implementation of RWSS schemes in the six pilot village clusters and staffing of
the PMU, so that physical construction work in the six pilots could start immediately before project
effectiveness. The pilot projects would be evaluated and the lessons fed into Phase I of the Project.
The project itself has been designed to be implemented in two Phases:
- 32 -



(a) Phase I (about 2 1/2 years) would cover activities in the Govemorates of Abyan, Hajja and Ibb,
based on experience gained during the work of the six pilot schemes; and
(b) Phase II (2 1/2 years) would begin after the project's mid-term review. Implementation methods
would be fine-tuned before they are expanded to seven additional govemorates. The Sana'a
Govemorate would be included in Phase II, as community organizations which usually work well
around RWSS schemes might also be used for local groundwater management under the Sana'a
Basin Project. The trigger for Phase II would be successful demonstrated RWSS sector reform
through creation of three DRA-capable PIUs, the readiness of seven additional PIUs or
govemorate-level RWSS support units, successful phasing out of GAREW's old-style RWSS
operations, and the Government's proven willingness to decentralize the RWSS sector. Should
these prerequisites not be achieved, the balance of the project may be canceled.
Implementation Approach:
(a) The project would apply the DRA. It would consist of decentralized, community-based and
managed RWSS development. Communities would self-select according to a set of eligibility
criteria (see "Eligibility" below). On the basis of their willingness to pay, beneficiaries would
decide on the technology and service level for their RWSS system; and
(b) Phase I would be implemented with two different institutional TA support approaches.
First, in Abyan, the project would be implemented with TA support of an intemational NGO, CARE
Yemen. CARE would work closely with the PIU in Abyan and help convert it in time into a RWSS support
unit that may be incorporated into the govemorate administration.
Second, in Hajja and Ibb, implementation would be carried out through the PIUs with support from the
WSP team.
Project Management. The project would be implemented by PIUs utilizing SMTs through an independent
PMU linked administratively to the Ministry of Local Administration. Major decisions on project budgeting
and staffing would be approved by an Oversight Committee (OC), headed by the Minister of MLA. The
Minister of MEW and other representatives of interested ministries and agencies would be members of the
OC. Project accounting and procurement procedures would be LACI-compliant, with procurement
decisions being taken by the PMU manager up to the statutory limit of about US$200,000, and referred to
the OC for larger contracts. PIUs would manage day-to-day documented expenditures on the basis of a
petty cash.
The WSP team would be based in the TS, but reach out to the PIUs. While initially it would primarily
assist with implementation of the proposed Project, its overall focus would be on the broader aspects of
RWSS sector reform. The effectiveness of the WSP would be evaluated after Phase I, along with the
project's mid-term review and recommendation would be made for possible extension.
(a) Functions and Staffing of the PMU, PIUs and the SMTs:
-  The PMUs functions would include monitoring and supervising the three PIUs (in Phase II ten
PIUs or RWSS support units), training of SMTs, administration and LACI-compliant project
- 33 -



accounting, national and international procurement and review of local procurement procedures
and contracts. PMU staff would be kept lean, consisting of a manager, who may be an engineer or
a social scientist, an engineer/technician (water or social), procurement officer and an
accountant/administrator, support staff and short-term consultants for specific tasks. The PMU
staff may be expanded according to increasing needs. At least one PMU team member should be a
woman, preferably the social scientist. PMU staff would be recruited in accordance with guidelines
agreed between the Bank and the Government for recruitment of local staff.
-  PIU tasks would include guiding and supervising SMTs, supervising field work, preparing bids and
LACI-compliant accounting. The core staff would be composed of a manager, one or two
engineers or technicians, including a procurement officer, a social scientist, an accountant, short
terrn consultants and support staff. This core staff would be recruited by the PMU according to
guidelines approved between the Bank and the Government. Compensation would be based on the
guidelines. In addition, per diem for time spent in the field would be paid according to UNDP
guidelines for local staff.
-  SMTs: Based on worldwide and regional experiences (Yemen - Dutch-funded project SURWAS;
Morocco - Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project), multi-disciplinary SMTs are among the
most successful options to intermediate between village communities and implementation units.
They would report to the PIUs, but would receive training and overall guidance from the PMU.
The SMTs main functions would include awareness raising about RWSS benefits, a community's
obligations, helping communities with choice and design of systems, with creating WUAs, helping
resolve internal conflict, advising on and supervising community level RWSS work. SMTs would
also facilitate communities' contacts with private entrepreneurs for possible O&M contracting and
supply of spare parts. Ideally, SMT staff would consist of an RWSS engineer/technician, a social
scientist and hygiene education specialist. At least one member of the team should be a woman,
preferably the social scientist or the hygiene educator. After project completion, SMTs may be
integrated into the governorate-level RWSS support units, or, alternatively, they could become
independent NGOs, acting on demand from communities or implementing agencies. Detailed terms
of reference for SMTs are attached to Annex 2 - Project Description (Attachment IV).
(b) Training:
-  PIU core teams would receive their training from the PMU in general, and specifically from CARE
(Abyan) and the WSP (Hajja and Ibb).
-  SMTs: During project preparation, a team of intemational and local social scientists, health
educators and water and sanitation engineers (i) designed a training program for SMTs; and (ii)
trained one SMT for each of the three Phase I governorates. In a second training program, funded
under the PPA and scheduled for early 2001, a second SMT per governorate would be trained, as
well as trainers for future SMT training and SMT refresher courses.
The Selection Process For Project Villages And Communities
Phase I govemorates (Abyan, Hajja and Ibb) were selected by Government to be representative of Yemen,
geographically, geologically, as well as socially and in terms of water availability. This is important since
different technologies would be introduced during Phase I. In addition, Abyan is an area familiar to CARE;
and Hajja, during implementation of the two pilot schemes, may benefit from the experience of the
Dutch-funded SURWAS Project in Hodeidah. Ibb, mountainous and relatively rich with water resources,
- 34 -



may offer a variety of new technologies in the Yemen context, such as rainwater catchments and small
gravity-fed systems.
Districts would be selected on the basis of the SA carried out under the WB-UNICEF Child Development
Project. The selection criteria under this assessment were poverty, poor access to health centers, the state of
public health and education services, as well as poor access to drinking water and sanitation.
In addition to the SA carried out under the WB-UTNICEF Child Development Project (see above), a demand
and willingness to pay survey was conducted in the three initial govemorates during project preparation.
This survey has helped detennine the level of priority attributed by communities to water supply and
sanitation, as well as an adequate proportion of beneficiary contribution to investment costs. The results
have been remarkable, in as much as water and sanitation services have in most cases the highest priority,
witnessed by the populations' high willingness to participate in up-front capital costs (Attachment III:
Terms of Reference for Demand and WTP Survey See - Attachment II: Table - Priority Districts).
Communities within the districts would self-select, according to specific eligibility criteria (see below). The
project and its key features would be advertised throughout the district with flyers, radio messages,
townhall-type meetings, during which eligibility and selection criteria would be explained. Communities
would be given a deadline to register their interest with a local authority (PIU, district or govemorate).
Interested communities would be visited by an SMT for a more detailed explanation of the project,
obligations and benefits, of final selection criteria and the range of possible technical and service level
options and related costs, including for O&M.
Eligibility. Self-selected communities are subject to the following eligibility criteria:
-  willingness to participate in the design of the project;
-  willingness to participate in the investment costs with at least 15%  in cash or kind, or a
combination of both;
-  willingness to pay full O&M costs and a surplus to create a small fund for minor repairs and spare
parts; and
-  willingness to create a WUA and to manage the system autonomously (WUAs would be legally
established under the Yemeni law for local NGOs).
Selection
-  population of villages or village clusters not to exceed 10,000;
-  availability of water in sufficient quantity and quality; and
-  investment costs are within per capita investment ceilings for minimum service levels (US$85 for
new systems or for systems where a previously built acceptable borehole or well is available, and
US$60 for rehabilitation of an existing system, all in 1999 prices).
"Final community selection" may pose an issue. As demand for RWSS services is high throughout the
country, high project interest and registration may be expected. The number of villages or village clusters
that meet the eligibility criteria may be higher than the institutional absorptive capacity. To avoid a political
decision on village selection, specific priority criteria would be designed in the course of Phase I. They may
include: (i) first come first serve (in order of project interest registration and meeting basic eligibility
criteria); (ii) according to SMT poverty and needs assessment; and (iii) community contribution to the
project is the highest (a recent national workshop declared this option as 'controversial', as poorer
communities may be left out). See - Attachment I: Typical Project Cycle.
- 35 -



Participation and Contributions
Communities and Beneficiaries. Labor and material contributions would generally be discouraged because
of the difficulty in evaluating their value and matching them with contractual work being provided under
the project. In cases where cash contributions would be limited or simply not possible due to poverty, in
kind inputs would be accepted and valued according to market rates of similar inputs. Communities would
then be encouraged to take over one complete element of the water supply component of the project, the
cost of which would correspond to about 15% of total costs for their RWSS system (for example,
construction of the stand post or the protection structure around the water point, well or borehole). This
would reduce interference with contractual work.
The level of community/beneficiary contribution of 15% to investment costs has been tested and confirmed
as the most suitable and acceptable one by a social survey and WTP assessment during project preparation.
Nevertheless, if proven inequitable during Phase I implementation, the project would adjust the level of
beneficiary contribution.
Government contribution would consist of financing about 15% of total investment costs (Water Supply
and Sanitation components) from the sector investment budget. The budget would have to be allocated at
the beginning of each project year from Finance to MLA to the PMU / PIUs. The government funds would
be transferred twice a year into Special Local Currency Account, managed by the PMU and allocated to
the PIUs according to their approved annual budgets. The PIU budget would be managed locally and
supervised by the PMU. During Phase II and subject to the results of the RWSS sector strategy and
mid-term review, PIUs may be integrated into govemorate administrations, in which case the flow of funds
may be channeled through the Governors Offices in accordance with the recently approved Local
Administration Law.
Service Levels, Technology Choices and Costs
Basic Technical Standards:
Minimum service levels would include:
-  a hand pump for about 250 people;
-  a diesel or electric pumped system with a stand post per 250 people, or a gravity supply with a
stand post for 250 people;
-  the distance from the household to the water point should not exceed about 500 meters;
-  an elevated storage tank for piped systems; and
-  the average size of participating communities or village clusters would be about 3,000 people, but
to avoid complex management, the village or village cluster population should not exceed 10,000.
Based on costs for the pilot schemes, it is expected that initial investment costs for these service levels
would be considerably lower than the ceilings. As the project evolves from simple systems to more complex
ones, per capita cost are expected to rise. Communities or members of communities, whose service level
choices exceed the per capita ceiling (i.e. house or yard connections), would still be able to participate
provided they bear 100% of the incremental costs.
Water Supplv Technology & Costs (per capita):
- Open well with handpump US$15
-  Small piped system with existing borehole US$65
-  Small piped system including borehole US$75
-  Rainwater collection system US$50
- 36 -



-  Spring protection with gravity systems US$40
-  Rehabilitation up to 40% for piped systems with boreholes
An environmentally safe WW and excreta evacuation system (pit latrine or better) would be a prerequisite
for a water supply house connection.
Sanitation Technology & Costs (per capita):
-  Simple ventilated dry latrine US$5
-  Pour-flush latrine US$8
-  Flush toilet - septic tank US$18
-  Communal septic tank system US$80
The incentive subsidy per household latrine construction (about 2 bags of cement and a porcelain pan) is
estimated at US$3.
O&M costs for water supply are estimated to range from 3% (handpump) to 8% (borehole with
high-pumping head) per year of initial investment costs for water supply schemes. Beneficiaries would pay
full cost of O&M of their water systems, plus a provision for spare parts and small repairs, through water
tariffs. Water charges are expected to total US$0.7 to US$4.6 per household and per month, depending on
the chosen option, or between 1% and 7% of estimated household income. O&M cost for sanitation is
about 3% to 5% per year of investments.
Based on field surveys, the proportion for each technology have been estimated as follows:
Haijj  Ibb    Abyan  Hodeidah Mareb  Lahaj  El-Mahwit Shabwah
Open well                  5%    5%    5%      5%        5%      5%      5%        5%
Rainwater                  0%    5%    0%      0%        0%      5%      5%        0%
Spring protection          0%    0%    5%      0%        0%      5%      5%        0%
Piped system with existing    45%  45%   45%    45%      45%    45%    45%         45%
borehole
Piped system with new      15%   10%   10%    15%        15%    10%    10%         15%
borehole
Rehabilitation             35%   35%   35%    35%        35%    30%    30%         35%
Demand and Wilingness to Pay Survey. In addition to the SA carried out under the WB-UNICEF child
Development Project (see above), a demand and willingness to pay survey was conducted in the three initial
govemorates during project preparation. This survey has helped determine the level of priority attributed by
communities to water supply and sanitation, as well as an adequate proportion of beneficiary contribution
to investment costs. The results have been remarkable, as water and sanitation services have in most cases
the highest priority, witnessed by the populations' high willingness to participate in up-front capital costs.
Attachment III: Terms of Reference for Demand and WTP Survey.
Financial Management Arrangements. Main characteristics of the financial management system for the
project are the following:
- 37 -



Project Management Unit at the central level. The PMU would be responsible for all the financial
management duties including: budgeting, staffing, procurement, disbursement, accounting and reporting.
The PIUs, to be established in Ibb, Abyan and Hajja Govemorates, would receive specific and limited
delegation of authority from the PMU manager in order to assure the needed coordination at the
govemorate level. The PMU manager would identify and appoint qualified project team. This team would
consist of five local staff, an RWSS engineer, a social scientist, a procurement specialist, a financial
management specialist, and an accountant. Since the PMU would operate as an independent entity,
segregation of duties and cross control mechanism should be implemented in order to guarantee the needed
transparency. Recruitment of the needed staff has to be done according to detailed terms of references
acceptable to IDA. The PMU manager would have overall responsibility for project monitoring and
management. For the purpose of accounting and reporting requirements, the PMU manager would: (i)
select a qualified consultant for the preparation of the financial management procedures manual, and (ii)
acquire an accounting software suitable to the project level of activity. The PMU manager would consider
among other acquisitions software that has been developed locally and is now used by implementing entities
in charge of IDA-financed projects. In any case, the PMU manager would make sure that the computerized
system to be implemented is adapted for the project and allow an integrated management of accounting,
budgeting and reporting.
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) at governorate level. In Ibb, Abyan and Hajja Govemorates, PIUs
would be established by the PMU and would operate under the supervision of the PMU manager. The PIUs
would be headed by PIU managers and consist of local staff, including a procurement specialist, a financial
officer and an engineer. The PIU manager would be responsible for maintaining books of accounts for the
sub-projects on the basis of a computerized system fully compatible with the PMU accounting system. The
PIU manager would operate on behalf of the PMU manager, according to the specific and limited,
delegation of authority approved by the OC. Payments at the level of PIUs would be limited to a
pre-defined list of items and funding limits. Disbursement related to such expenditures would be managed
based on the principles of a revolving fund. Funds received from different sources (PMU, GOY and
beneficiaries) would be identified separately and reflected in the sub-project accounts and financial
statements. Sub-projects related transactions and activities (civil works, goods, and consultant services)
would be distinguished from own operating costs at the journal entry and posting stages. The balance
would show all sub-project related receipts, expenditures, and other payments, as well as operating costs.
Each PIU would generate and maintain vouchers and supporting documentation for expenditures on all
activities.
Staffing and Operating Costs. Core PMU staff would be recruited according to terms of reference and job
description acceptable to IDA. Civil servants, who as an exception would qualify to apply, and if selected,
would have to resign from their government duties or take leave without pay. PIUs would be staffed
locally, during the first two project years, their salaries and the full PIU operating costs would be paid from
the project. Starting with year three, project funding of PIU operating costs would be phased out, 70% in
year 3; 40% in year 4; and in year 5, the government would bear the entire cost. PMU and PIU staff would
receive UNDP-based per diem compensation for time spent in the field, financed under the project.
Coaching. A short-term consultant would be hired to assist the PMU during an initial period of 12 months.
This consultant, who should be a highly qualified accounting and finance specialist, would review on a
weekly basis the financial and banking records related to the project and address the errors and
insufficiencies. This consultant would also coach and train the PMU and PIU staff. Specific TORs would
be developed and submitted to IDA for approval.
Training. The PMU manager would develop a financial management training program. This should include
- 38 -



specific training sessions for procurement, disbursement, accounting, project and financial management.
The program should include all the staff involved in the project implementation. The level of each staff
member in terms of capacity, background, and experience has to be taken into consideration in order to
meet the training needs.
Financial and Accounting Policies. The PMU would be responsible for preparing a Financial Management
Procedure Manual (FMPM). It would cover the: (i) flow of accounting documentation and information
through the budget, acquisition, and procurement cycles; (ii) financial and accounting policies and
procedures; (iii) Internal control system; (iv) chart of accounts; (v) financial reporting, including formats of
the quarterly Project Management Report (PMR), and other reports formats required by the GOY; (vi)
auditing arrangements; (vii) budgeting process; and (viii) structural organization and staffing for financial
management functions. Finanical policies would support uniformity and enforcement of accountability.
They cover: (a) treatment of expenditures, including their classification; (b) eligibility of expenditures to be
reirnbursed from the IDA Credit; (c) efficient management and development of funds; (d) accounting
policies; (e) internal mechanisms.
Flow of Funds. GOY would transfer IDA funds to MLA by deposits to a Special Account to be opened in
the Central Bank of Yemen (CBY). GOY would provide counterpart funds for the project, by deposits into
the Project Account also in the CBY. Budgetary allocations would be based on annual work plans,
approved by OC. The PMU manager would be authorized to issue checks through the Special Account and
the Project Account based on approved supporting documents signed by the RWSS engineer or social
scientist and countersigned by the financial management specialist. The accountant would issue the bank
reconciliation statements on a monthly basis and would submit them to the financial management specialist
for control, and to the PMU manager for final approval. Special attention and close follow-up would be
dedicated to all outstanding transactions. These should be cleared periodically under the responsibility of
the PMU manager.
Financial Management Procedures Manual. The FMPM would be prepared by a highly qualified financial
management consultant. It would cover mainly the following:
-  flow of accounting documentation and information through the budget, acquisition, and procurement
cycles at the central and govemorate levels;
- financial and accounting policies and procedures;
- internal control mechanisms;
- computer data entry and data base management procedures,
- identification of key control points to ensure confidentiality, quality and reliability of financial data;
- chart of accounts;
- financial reporting, including formats of PMR tables and reporting required by the OC and GOY;
- auditing arrangements;
- budgeting processes; and
- organization and staffing at the central and regional levels as well as the relationship between both
structures and external parties (OC, MAL, MEW, TS, CBY, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of
Planning, and possibly others).
Environmental Aspects
The Project as a whole is in essence an enviromnental improvement initiative. However, in order to combat
any potential negative impacts an Environmental Review was carried out in the three Phase I governorates,
Abyan, Hajja and Ibb. The Review assessment procedure was consistent with the provisions of Operational
- 39 -



Directive 4.01, Annex E "Environmental Assessment" A mitigation and monitoring plan has been prepared.
The plan together with water quality monitoring costs and parameters is detailed in Annex 2, Attachment
V, and summarized below.
Groundwater Pollution - Mitigation: The likelihood of groundwater pollution from pit latrines or septic
tanks is small. However, groundwater quality testing should take place when a new borehole is drilled or
when an old well is upgraded and at regular intervals there after, particularly those in the vicinity of
latrine and WHO standards should be applied (i.e. WHO Guidelines for Drinking Water Quality as
revised in the 1993 edition). Before any latrines are constructed the soils at the site should be inspected
and the depth of groundwater assessed to ensure that there is no potential for pollution. In addition,
latrines or septic tanks should not be located within 50 meters of a well or borehole. Water quality testing
equipment would be provided through the project and appropriate training given. Communities would be
trained by the SMTs to alert local govemorate staff of any changes in water quality, this would trigger an
immediate water test.
Use of Waste Water - Mitigation: There is a possibility that one or two waste stabilization ponds may be
constructed by the project for demonstration purposes in more densely populated areas and the treated
waste water used for irrigation, if the demand exists. Criteria for site selection would be developed as
part of a limited environmental assessment to be undertaken before construction. If waste stabilization
ponds are constructed before the waste water is allowed to be used for crops, it would initially be tested
by Ministry of Health staff to ensure that it complies with the World Bank and WHO standards (i.e. The
World Bank's Pollution Prevention and Abatement Handbook and WHO Guidelines for the Reuse of
Waste Water, 1989). These standards would be documented in the Project's Implementation Manual.
Govemorate staff would be responsible for any subsequent monitoring. Workers handling these waste
would be given training and appropriate protective clothing and equipment by project.
Use of Dried Sludge - Mitigation: Dried sludge may be sold to farmers as soil conditioner or fertilizer if
the demand exists. However, before sales, regular analysis of the dried sludge would be undertaken,
initially by Ministry of Health staff, to ensure that it complies with WHO standards as mentioned above.
In addition, a formal "rural waste-water and sludge disposal and reuse policy" would be developed in
coordination with the Sana'a Water and Sewerage Project. This policy would set out good standards of
practice and monitoring and define roles and responsibilities. Eventually, govemorate staff would assume
this monitoring duty. Workers handling these waste would be give training and appropriate protective
clothing and equipment by project.
Costs and Responsibilities: The cost for these environmental mitigation and monitoring measures have
been included in the project cost. PIU staff would be responsible for the initial implementation of the
mitigation initiative i.e. testing and monitoring overseen by the PMU. Subsequently, the responsibility for
regular monitoring may fall upon the local government, i.e. the govemorate under the provisions of the
new Local Government legislation. The responsibility and supervision for emptying of pit latrines or
septic tanks, as well as removal and treatment of sludge would be at the Govemorate or district level,
although the actual job mnay be carried out by a private entrepreneur. Should the Project work in a small
town in which there is a need to empty cess pits and septic tanks, it would be conditional that the local
authority provide a suitable vacuum truck (approx. US$35,000) or contract a private sector service
provider.
Conclusion
One of the overall goals of the project is to significantly improve the environmental conditions in rural
- 40 -



areas and thereby improve the health and quality of life for the rural inhabitants. This would mainly be
achieved by improving drinking water quality and quantity and by reducing indiscriminate defecation and
isolating human excreta from the general environment. Water quality and quantity would be improved
through the construction and rehabilitation of water schemes, and by introducing water quality testing.
Excreta disposal would mainly be improved through the promotion of a program of latrine building. In
addition, by providing a supporting health and hygiene education campaign, hygienic behavior would be
improved which would ensure the maximum benefits from the investment would be obtained. The
environmental review concludes that the project would generate very positive environmental impacts.
Moreover, with the proposed mitigation measures, the project does not present any significant
environmental risks.
Supervision Plan
First Mission, shortly after signature of the Credit. The mission would hold a Project Launch Workshop,
during which the project would be discussed in details, including the Project Implementation Manual which
should be finalized after the workshop, and the implementation of physical work of the pilots should have
started.
Second Mission, approximately three months after project effectiveness or at the latest in September 2001.
Mission focus: early implementation review, i.e. pilot projects, start-up activities, implementation
arrangements, procurement and disbursement arrangements, relationships between main stakeholders,
procurement of essential TA and other services and equipment. Also, a local working group, under the
leadership of an intemational consultant, should be established for the reform of the RWSS sub-sector and
for the development of a national RWSS policy, development strategy and investment plan.
Third Mission, approximately eight months after effectiveness: intensive field assessment of community
participation and readiness, effectiveness of SMTs and PIUs and all other aspects of project
implementation.
Fourth Mission, approximnately thirteen months after effectiveness: general supervision and field visits plus
workshop to discuss and finalize draft RWSS sector strategy, and launch of national long-term Investment
Plan. Review and revision of Project Implementation Manual.
Fifth Mission, after approximately eighteen months: general supervision and field visits plus review of the
future role of CARE and the TA. Also, progress in the dissemination and acceptance by local
administrations (govemorates) of the RWSS sector strategy; on preparation of Investment Plan and
preparations for expansion into seven further govemorates.
Sixth Mission, after approximately twenty four months: general supervision and field visits. Also, review
possibility of extension of WSP TA arrangements, and follow-up on acceptance of RWSS sector strategy
and preparation of Investment Plan, and preparations for expansion into seven further govemorates.
Seventh Mission and Mid Term Review, after approximately thirty months: Major review of all aspects of
the project, particularly the progress toward achieving its overall goals and objectives. Also review
progress on implementation of the RWSS sector strategy and Investment Plan. Launch of expansion into
seven further govemorates if preconditions have been met.
Eighth Mission, after thirty six months - intensive field assessment in the seven new govemorates
-41 -



particularly focusing on community participation and readiness, effectiveness of SMTs and PIUs, their
potential conversion into RWSS support units incorporated into governorate administrations, and all other
aspects project implementation.
Then supervision missions every six months thereafter and a completion mission after sixty months. In
addition to the above missions, regular visit would be made by resident Bank staff to govemorate offices
and scheme sites. WSP staff would also make complimentary visits to support the TA component and other
extemal consultants would be employed from time to time to provide specialist inputs. The supervision plan
is summarized in the table below.
Summary of Project Supervision Plan
Mission   Timing                      Purpose
Number
I        Approx. April 2001.          Project Launch Workshop. Procurement and Water Quality Testing
Project effectiveness.      training.
2         3 months after effectiveness.   Early implementation review. Start up activities, implementation
September 2001.             arrangements, procurement of essential TA and equipment. Relationships
between stakeholders..
3         8 months after effectiveness.   Intensive field assessment in all three govemorates. Effectiveness of
|_____ |February 2002.                SMTs and PIUs.
4         13 months after effectiveness.  General supervision; workshop to finalize RWSS sector strategy and
July 2002.                   launch long-term investment plan.
5         18 months after effectiveness.  General supervision, review of the future role of CARE and the TA;
December 2002.              review progress (i) in dissemination and acceptance by local
administrations of the RWSS sector strategy; (ii) on preparation of
Investment Plan; and preparations for expansion into seven further
governorates.
6         24 months after effectiveness.  General supervision and field visits; assess possibility extension of WSP
June 2003.                   TA arrangements; follow-up on acceptance of RWSS sector strategy and
preparation of Investment Plan; and prepare to expand into seven further
Rovemorates.
7         30 months after effectiveness.  Mid term review. Major project review, particularly progress toward
December 2003                achieving overall goals and objectives; review progress on
implementation of the RWSS sector strategy and Investment Plan; launch
expansion into seven further govemorates, if preconditions have been
met.
8         36 months after effectiveness.  Intensive field assessment in seven new govemorates, particularly
June 2004.                  focusing on community participation and readiness, effectiveness of
SMTs and PIUs, their potential conversion into govemorate-level RWSS
support units.
9-11      Every six months thereafter    General supervision and review of any emerging issues.
12       60 months after effectiveness.  Project Completion Mission.
June 2006.
- 42 -



Annex 2
Attachment I
Republic of Yemen
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Typical Project Cycle
Year I                                          Year 2
Activity   X        Month                 1  2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9  10  11  12   1  2   3   4   5   6  7  8   9  10  11
Announce Project Locally                ...
Self selection by village
First SMT Visit
Second SMT Visit                                 *
Third SMT Visit                                         '
Community mobilization
Establish WUA                                     *
Selection of Options
Prepare Environm'tal action plan
Scheme designs
Tendering & Contracts
Construction
WUA Training booking keeping                                                        ...
WUA Training O&M
WUA assume O&M of scheme
Construction of school latrines
Construction of demo latrines
Distributon of latrine incentives
Latrine Construction
Refresh training Book keeping
Refresh training O&M
Training of Health Promoter                             *'
Village Hygiene Campaign                                         .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .  .    .    .    .
Implement Environt action plan                                   .    .  .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .
Final SMT Visit.
-43 -



Annex 2
Attachment II
Republic of Yemen
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Table - Priority Districts
Abyan
_ _ _ _  _ _ _   1  2  3
Abyan        Total    Nr of RURAL               U5      Rate of girls No. of girls Total points
Population     HH        not hv   Mortality  not enrolled  enrolled  1+2+3
District                  _       'larwaer      rate  at school/l OO  at school
Rasad          70205       10070         580       630        960       2548
Khanffar      121267       11148         280       740        920       9298
Lawdar        127732       15229         420       570        940       7626
Mudiyah        60611        6397         320       640        950       2995
All districts were screened and prioritized, first according to priority criteria established and agreed
between IDA and the Government under the Social Assessment Child Development Project,
3326-YE), second, according to 30 % or less of the population having access to sqfe water.
-44 -



Hajja
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   1  2  3
Hajjah         Total  Nr of RURAL Average Rate of    U5   Rate of girls   Total Points
Population  HH      pop not having   Mortality   not enrolled  1+2+3
District                         clean waterflOQO  rate/1000  at school/1000
Kuhlan Affar         26,693      3,813           950       115         820         1Bi
Wadreh                 9,504     1,358           930         61        850          I .    I
Ai-magrabeh           32,774     4,682           890        106        780          1 77%
Najrah               22,714      3,245           890        93         780  _  
Bkil Al-mir          21,146      3,021           820        65         870         17 4
Al-shaghadreh         35,959     5,137           790        113        840         17#3
Zulaymt Habur        54,602      7,800           890         62        770
Al-tawr               40,120     5,731           650        159        880
Al-jamimah            26,518     3,788           750         82        780          1#12
Washhah              55,848      7,978           660         76        830          153
Shhareh              43 170      6,167           760        85         720         1505
Aslam                 35,765      5,109          500        145        900          145
Al-madan              31,297     4,471           810         53        600          13
Aflah Al-yaman        28,081     4,012           620         62        770          1 $2
Kuaidaneh            48,810      6,973           510        100        830 1r 40
Kusher               55,139      7,877           560        75         790  190
Qufl shamer          33 676  4_811               520        125        770          1415
Al-meftah            43,023      6,146           580         36        790          1406
Mabyen               37,549      5,364           610        91         680         1 81
Khiran Al-muharrg   101,967    14,567            540         63        770          1373
Suwyr                 17,257     2,465           500         44        820          1304
Aflah Al-sham         26,612     3,802           610         37        710          13
Kuhlan Al-sharef     50,849      7,264           710        42         590 .
Abs                   85,602    12,229           470        121        740          1  1
Bni Al-awwam         33,916      4,845           930         89        290         i1303
Harad                61,820      8,831           360         87        850          19
Al-mhabeshah          36,321     5,189           570         70        590          13
Shares                10,762     1,537           870        171        170          1211
Midi                  11,817     1,688           280        83         770         1133
Al-shahil             26,554     3,793           370         83        570          1023
Mustaba              22,666      3,238           610        146        250          1006
Hajjah               59,252      8,465           350        81         530          961
Khayran               10,331     1,476           340         85        330           75
All districts were screened and prioritized, first according to priority criteria established and agreed
between IDA and the Government under the Social Assessment Child Development Project,
3326-YE), second, according to 30 % or less of the population having access to safe water.
- 45 -



Ibb
1          2        3
Ibb              Total   Nr of RURAl AvrgR*ao of    U5    Rate of girls No. of girls   Total
Population    HH       opno hawig  Mortality not enrolled  enrolled    points
District      _           ____                     rate   t school/i 00 at school   1+2+3
Hubaysh             88557    13250          720       145       960      3489  .   .
Al Udayn           116143    18310          740       104       950      5786       7
Al - Qafr           80265    12587          670       142       954      3654      1,
Far Al Udayn        68207    12440          670        95       968      2146      17
Hazm Al Udayn       63248    10890          630       113       961      2449  N a7
An Nadirah          63491      7927         590        86       940      3795      1
Ibb                240891    20095          550       105       912    20999      1 _
Ar Radmah           60909      8308         490       127       948      3147      1
Mudhaykhirah        65371    10434          530       105       926      4820     a
Badan              107390    14231          510       102       926      7936
Qatabah             64774      7683         470        98       960      255301
As Sayyani          91717    13073          500        95       933      6119
Al Makhadir         84600    12677          450       102       957      3637      1
As Sabrh            55326      7790         470        80       954      2490 
Damt                42033     4606          430        92       936      2685 '11
Yarim              122162    14189     |    380       137       938      7545      1
Ash Shair           38787      4771         420        86       949      1978 I
Jiblah             114894    15417          380       125       914      9810 10`  4
As Saddah           73226    10173          320       119       932      4916      1 1
Dhi Sufal          129870    14707          310        99       909    11730       131
All districts were screened and prioritized, first according to priority criteria established and agreed
between IDA and the Government under the Social Assessment Child Development Project,
3326-YE), second, according to 30 % or less of the population having access to safe water.
- 46 -



Annex 2
Attachment III
Republic of Yemen
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Terms of Reference for Demand and Willingness to Pay Survey
Willinzness to Pay (WTP) for Rural Water SUPDIV - Field survev
Where: Hajja, Abyan, Ibb - villages different from the one surveyed, but with the same socio-economic
characteristics and current water situation.
Number of villaees: about 3 to 4 villages per govemorate from different districts.
Time: about 1 day per village
Purpose:
1. Estimate the WTP for initial participation in investment costs.
2. Estimate the WTP for monthly payment.
Remark: It should be explained that both a contribution to the initial investment and a monthly payment
are required.
Methodoloev:
-  Make sure that the village understands that this survey does not constitute a commitment for future
rural water supply from either side, but that there is a possibility.
- 2 complementary approaches are applied in parallel:
1. Focused group discussion:
-  Organize focused group of about 4-6 people of different socio-economic background to be
surveyed: (i.e. women, farmers, herders, retailers).
-  Estimate the % of the population of each social group surveyed against total village population.
-  Estimation of the total village population.
2. Household survey:
-  In parallel, one SMT member visit a representative number of households per village from the
same background characteristics as the social groups.
1. Household survey
For each household surveyed, 6 groups of information should be collected:
1. Gender and social characteristics of the family.
2. Current water source and sanitation and health practices:
- Sources of water used, quantity and quality of water used from each source.
- For each source: distance from the source of water, number of trip per day, time spent fetching
water, who is fetching water (women, girls, boy, men), water price/m3.
-  Does the family boils or filter water?
-47 -



-  Satisfaction and problems health problems related to water and related average expenses.
-  Current sanitation and hygiene practices (hand-washing, storage of water, cleaning of the
storage, cooking, defecation ...).
Additional information:
-  Children's school attendance, especially girls.
-  Proximity of the nearest school and health center.
-  Have the nearest school and health center access to the safe water supply and sanitation ?
3. Estimation of current household expenses by main category, including expenditures for water
4. WTP for participation in investment costs
(a) Handpump option (1750 YR /household):
- Is the person surveyed WTP above 2000 YR/hh ?
- If not, is the person surveyed WTP above 1500 YR/hh ?
- If not, is the person surveyed WTP above 500 YR/hh ?
(b) Standpost option (average contribution 7000 to 10000 YR/hh)
- Is the person surveyed WTP above 10000 YR/hh ?
- If not, is the person surveyed WTP above 7500 YR!hh ?
- If not, is the person surveyed WTP above 5000 YRJhh ?
- If not, is the person surveyed WTP above 2500 YR/hh ?
(c) House connection option knowing that a latrine should be constructed by the household
before getting a house connection (the project would give 2 bags of cement for free)
- Is the person surveyed WTP above 10000 YRlhh ?
- If not, is the person surveyed WTP above 7500 YR/hh ?
- If not, is the person surveyed WTP above 5000 YRhh ?
- If not, is the person surveyed WTP above 2500 YR/hh ?
5. WTP for monthly payment
(a) Handpump option ( about YR 35/household/month)
- Is the person surveyed WTP above 50 YR/household/month ?
- If not, is the person surveyed WTP above 35 YR/household/month ?
- If not is the person surveyed WTP 20 YR/household/month ?
(b) Standpost option ( about YR 315/ household/month)
- Is the person surveyed WTP above 500 YR/household/month ?
- If not, is the person surveyed WTP above 350 YR/household/month ?
- If not is the person surveyed WTP 150 YR/household/month ?
(c) House connection option (about YR 315/ household/month)
- Is the person surveyed WTP above 500 YR/household/month ?
- If not, is the person surveyed WTP above 350 YR/household/month ?
- If not is the person surveyed WTP 150 YR/household/month ?
6. Estimation of level of income and ability to pay for water:
(a) Estimate household level income.
(b) Compare the WTP for water with the ability to pay for water:
Situation 1: WTP for water (monthly payment) + average hh expenditures < income => OK, no further
question.
Situation 2. WTP for water (monthly payment) + average hh expenditures > income => then, explain to
- 48 -



the hh that according to what they said, they are not able to pay for what they are willing
to pay. => therefore, further discussion is required to check:
1. The estimation of hh income.
2. The estimation of hh expenditures (particularly for water), and/or the willingness to increase
hh expenditures for water and reduce their expenditures for other things.
3. The estimation of the WTP.
2. Focused Group Discussion
For each focused group surveyed, 6 groups of information should be collected:
1. Gender and social characteristics of the group surveyed.
2. Current water source and sanitation and health practices:
-  Sources of water used, quantity and quality of water used from each source.
-  For each source: distance from the source of water, number of trip per day, time spent fetching
water, who is fetching water (women, girls, boy, men), water price/m3.
-  % of the population who boils or filter water.
-  Satisfaction and problems.
-  Health problems related to water and related average expenses.
-  Current sanitation and hygiene practices (hand-washing, storage of water, cleaning of the
storage, cooking, defecation ...).
Additional information:
-  Children's school attendance, especially girls.
-  Proximity of the nearest school and health center.
-  Have the nearest school and health center access to the safe water supply and sanitation?
3. Estimation of current household expenses by main categorv. includinz expenditures for water
-  What are the investment priorities of the focused group?
4. WTP for participation in investment costs
(a) Handpump option (1750 YR /household):
- % of the group that would be WTP above 2000 YR/hh
- % of the group that would WTP above 1500 YR/hh
- % of the group that would be WTP above 500 YR/hh
(b) Standpost option (average contribution 7000 to 10000 YR/hh):
- % of the group that would be WTP above 10000 YR/hh
- % of the group that would WTP above 7500 YRIhh
- % of the group that would be WTP above 5000 YR/hh
- % of the group that would be WTP above 2500 YR/hh
(c) House connection option knowing that a latrine should be constructed by the household
before getting a house connection (the project would give 2 bags of cement for free):
- % of the group that would be WTP above 10000 YR/hh
- % of the group that would WTP above 7500 YR/hh
- % of the group that would be WTP above 5000 YR/hh
- % of the group that would be WTP above 2500 YR/hh
- 49 -



5. WTP for monthlv payment
(a) Handpump option ( about YR 35/household/month):
- % of the group that would be WTP above 50 YR/household/month
- % of the group that would WTP above 35 YR/household/month
- % of the group that would be WTP above 20 YR/household/month
(b) Standpost option ( about YR 315/ household/month):
- % of the group that would be WTP above 500 YR/household/month
- % of the group that would WTP above 350 YR/household/month
- % of the group that would be WTP above 150 YR/household/month
(c) House connection option (about YR 315/ household/month):
- % of the group that would be WTP above 500 YR/household/month
- % of the group that would WTP above 350 YR/household/month
- % of the group that would be WTP above 150 YRJhousehold/month
PRESENTATION OF THE RESULTS
1. Preparation of " fiches"
For each household surveyed and group discussion, a fiche should be prepared, including the 6 groups of
information mentioned above.
2. Summarize information on WTP
Information collected on the WTP could be summarized in the 2 tables below. In each one should be
presented the output of the household survey and the output of each group discussion.
WTP for participation in investment cost
Households       Focused group #1        Focused group  #
surveys
Number of family  % of family surveyed   Number of people from focused
surveyed                                 group #1% of people from
focused group #I Number of
people from focused group #
% of people from focused
group #1
Handpump option
Above 2000 YR/family
Between 1500 and 2000
YR/family
Between 500 and 1500
YR/family
Below 500 YR/family
Standpost option
Above 10000 YR/family                                      .
Between 7500 and 10000
YR/family
50 -



Between 5000 and 7500
YR/family
Between 2500 and 5000
YRlfamily
Below 500 YR/family
House connection option
Between 7500 and 10000
YR/family
Between 5000 and 7500
YR/family                                             _
Between 2500 and 5000
YR/family                                                          _
Below 500 YR/family
WTP for monthly payment
Households       Focused group #1       Focused group #
surveys
Number of family  % of family surveyed  Number of people from focused
surveyed                                group #1% of people from
focused group #lNumber of
people from focused group #
% of people from focused
._______________________  _______________      grou p   # 1
Handpump option
Above 50 YR/family/month
Between 35 and 50
YR/family/month
Between 20 and 35
YR/family/month
Below 20 YR/family/month
Standpost option
Above 500 YR/family/month
Between 350 and 500
YR/family/month
Between 150 and 350
YR/family/month
Below 150 YR/family/month
House connection option
Above 500 YR/family/month
Between 350 and 500
YR/family/month
Between 150 and 350
YR/family/month
Below 150 YR/family/month
- 51 -



ANALYSIS OF THE RESULTS
-  Weighted average of the WTP for project cost and monthly payment for the family survey and each
focused group
- Comparison between the WTP obtained from the household survey and focused groups
-  If time permits, feedback of the results to the population
- 52 -



Annex 2
Attachment IV
Republic of Yemen
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Social Mobilization Teams
Outline Terms of Reference
Social Mobilization Teams (SMT) would be established and trained in each of the project govemorates.
The teams would comprise at least three members of which at least one must be a woman. Each team
would consist of a social communications/facilitation expert, a water and sanitation engineer and a
health and hygiene educator. The SMTs would be the key mechanism in the project for communicating
with, mobilizing and educating the communities and ensuring the success of the demand based
approach. More specifically they would be responsible for the following tasks:
1.  In project areas, making the communities aware of the existence of the project and its rules or
terms and conditions for participation.
2.  Assisting the communities to select representatives, including women, and to form and legally
register, water user associations (WTUA), which would be responsible for interacting with the project and
the long term management of the rural water supply and sanitation (RWSS) schemes.
3.  To assist the community in understanding the implication of the various options for water and
sanitation services that can be made available under the project and then making informed choices as to
the systems to be adopted in the villages.
4.  Providing detailed designs and estimates of scheme costs for both capital and operations costs and
determining the anticipated community contributions.
5.  Working with the WUAs to finalize the agreements with the project authorities to proceed with
scheme construction.
6.  To train the water and sanitation committee in basic skills to enable them to manage and operate
the water and sanitation facilities, including bookkeeping, banking and operations and maintenance of
pumps and other equipment, etc.
7.  To provide health and hygiene education to the community that focuses on the importance of clean
water and good hygienic practices to improved health and environmental conditions in the villages. This
includes the promotion of latrine construction.
8.  To work with communities to survey their environment and to develop village action plans for
environmental improvement, including the organizing the construction of demonstration latrines and
"sanitation marts", if and where culturally feasible.
9.  To recruit and train village health promoters, preferably women, who would be responsible for
following up and maintaining the hygiene education initiative.
An SMT Guide, or SMT Operational Manual is being prepared (in Arabic) and would be finalized
during the Project Launch workshop. The manual would subsequently be translated into English.
- 53 -



Annex 2
Attachment V
Republic of Yemen
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Summary of the Environmental Review
As part of the preparation of the Yemen Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project, an environmental
review was undertaken. Field visits to the three pilot govemorates of Ibb, Abyan and Hajja. The review
assessment procedure was consistent with the provisions of Operational Directive 4.01 Annex E,
"Environmental Assessment". The Project was reviewed and designated Environmental Category B as
there are no major adverse environmental issues involved. Furthermore, there are no land acquisition,
involuntary resettlements, indigenous people or cultural heritage issues involved and there is no impact on
intemational water ways.   This annex summarizes the main findings of the review, makes
recommendations for certain environmental issues to be addressed as part of the proposed project and
proposes a number of environmental mitigation and monitoring measures.
Introduction
This summary focuses on what were seen to be the main areas of environmental concem, i.e. Excreta and
Wastewater Disposal, Gray Water (or sullage) Disposal, Reuse of Dried Sludge and Effluent, Sanitary
Protection of Wells and Boreholes, Water Quality Testing and Surveillance, Solid Wastes Disposal and
Storm Water Drainage.
Excreta and Wastewater Disposal
Rural Areas: In the rural areas visited, only a small percentage of house holds had some forrn of latrine,
of those few with latrines either inside the house or in a separate building, most used a pour-flush system,
which consists of a squatting pan, usually ceramic, connected to an external cess pit. After use, the pan is
flushed with water using a hand held small pan or bucket. Other households in hilly areas were seen to
pipe the waste water down the hill side to soak away in the valley below. Generally, the latrines or cess
pits are not emptied when full, they are covered with sand, and the villagers dig a new pit. Sometimes,
irresponsible households were seen to allow the wastewater to continue to overflow on pathways and
fields. Sanitation coverage in some areas is less than 10% and the resulting indiscriminate defecation in
the fields nearby communities poses a serious environmental/health issues. A major project objective is to
isolate excreta and its accompanying health risk from the general environment. Most of the project
villages fall into this low coverage category as they are mainly small with an average population of less
that 3,000. In the project areas visited the soils were mainly homogeneous and the groundwater was at
great depth so the likelihood of groundwater pollution from on site sanitation systems is low.
Rural Schools and Clinics: Many rural schools and clinics had no sanitation facilities. Of those that did
have facilities, these included pit latrines, cess-pits and septic tanks, these are maintained individually by
the admninistrative personnel, however little attention is given to this issue. This could be improved by
making contracts with private individuals to maintain the facilities.
- 54 -



Large Villages and Small Towns: More densely populated areas, such as large villages and small towns
(3,000 to 10,000 population), also rely on "on-site" disposal through latrines and cess-pits. Sanitation
coverage is higher in these areas, up to 60%, causing potential surface and groundwater contamination
problems. At the govemorate and district level, the responsible body for emptying the cess-pits and septic
tanks in urban areas is the municipality which is under the Ministry of Construction and Urban Planning.
A number of the larger municipalities operate sanitation vacuum tankers. The wastes are theoretically
disposed of in waste treatment plants or stabilization ponds if they exists (Ibb and Al Baida, for
example), or more generally the wastes are dumped in a valley or wadi in a non-residential area. Charges
are not usually levied, but in some cases, the municipality is charging for extending the service outside of
the town to nearby villages. The emptying of pit latrines and cess-pits in these more densely populated
areas can be improved, if the responsible and concemed authority can provide an emptying service using
a vacuum tanker. The costs could be covered by user charges. However, a major issue that should be
addressed is to how to provide facilities where septic wastes can be emptied and treated.
Extending Emptying services into Rural Areas: The possible extension of emptying services to rural
areas depends on a number of factors: The willingness of the municipality to extend its services and the
availability of equipment, how much are the villagers willing to pay for this service, and the accessibility
of the villages. A good example is the Municipality of Ibb, which provides an emptying service, and
charges between 1,000-5,000 YR (US$6 to US$31), depending on the distance from the town. However,
they only have one vehicle which is insufficient to serve more that a small area of the govemorate. Mluch
of this burden would fall on the public sector who have a more important role in providing health and
hygiene education so that communities understand the health implications of excreta, sludge and
wastewater disposal. Potential may also exists in the private sector, which can more readily employ
people from the rural areas provide the required equipment, if they can be persuaded that it could be a
profitable investment. However, emphasis should be placed on introducing saritation technology into the
remote rural areas that does not require mechanized emptying, such as altemating twin pit latrines and
deep (long life) pit latrines.
Gray Water Disposal
The majority of village households have no proper means of gray water or sullage disposal. It is usually
piped away from the sink to the outside where it is allowed to soak into the ground, or if no sink exists,
the waste is thrown onto the ground. Also, in general, the spillage from public stand posts or water points
is allowed to pond on the ground, forming a stagnant pool where animals come to drink chuming the area
into a mud bath. Increasing water supply service levels in a village can exacerbate this problem unless the
problem is addressed.
The disposal of gray water at the household level can easily be improved by households constructing
simple sanitary "soak-aways". Similarly, providing a concrete apron around a stand post, with a drain to
channel the waste water to an animal trough or to an area of vegetation, can improve the surrounding
area.
- 55 -



Reuse Of Dried Sludge & Effluent
Since this project is primarily focusing on rural areas with rather dispersed housing clusters, most of the
sanitation installations would be on-site facilities (pit latrines, septic tanks), with on-site sludge maturing
techniques that would not require extensive emptying services. Excreta that has been contained in a pit
latrine for two years or more is safe as all pathogens, including worn ova, would have died off and is
safe to use as a soil conditioner.
However, in a very few cases, where justified by population density and water use, communal septic
tanks or oxidation ponds may be built as demonstrations. Before using sludge from these sources as a soil
conditioner or fertilizer tests would be required to ensure that there was no health risk. Current practice
of effluent disposal from treatment plants in some places in Yemen has been to let the effluent run into
open ditches or other natural drains. Farmers have used the effluent for irrigation at their own initiative
and without concem about the quality of the water. This is an indication that there is a demand for
agricultural reuse of wastewater in some areas due to shortages of water and potential savings in
fertilizer and pumping costs. Villagers also expressed interest in using latrine emptying and septic tank
sludge as fertilizer (although this is not a comrnon practice) because they believe that artificial fertilizer
can cause damage to soils and plants and prefer natural fertilizer. A good example is in Ibb, where the
farmers use dried sludge from the treatment plant as fertilizer.
The hygienic use of matured latrine contents manure and septic tank sludge as soil conditioner or
fertilizers can be introduced into villages through demonstration and education programs. Septic tank and
oxidation pond sludge need treatment in WW  treatment plants or be allowed to "mature" over time in
drying beds.  However, appropriate guidelines and controls are needed for the reuse of treated
wastewater. The technical and maintenance responsibilities for treatmnent facilities would be under the
concerned municipalities. The Ministry of Health under the local administration (govemorate-level), at
least initially, should take responsibility for introducing waste water and sludge quality testing. This
would include the adoption of safe effluent quality standards, restriction on crops where reuse is allowed
so as to exclude vegetables that are eaten raw, control on exposure of farm workers and promotion of
hygiene, and monitoring and field surveillance of wastewater reuse in accordance with WHO standards
as discussed below in the mitigation and monitoring plan.
Sanitary Protection of Wells and Boreholes
Buckets and ropes are used to draw water from open wells. The buckets and ropes are often laid on the
ground where they can pick up contaminants which are then introduced back into the well. Spillage from
the buckets is often allowed to pond on the ground. The areas around the well are not usually fenced, and
the wells are left open to the elements. Similarly, the spillage from public stand posts or water points is
allowed to pond on the ground, forming a stagnant pool where animals come to drink churning the area
into a mud bath. This can easily be improved by providing a concrete apron around the well stand post,
with a drain to channel the waste water to an animal trough or to an area of vegetation. In the case of
drilled boreholes, it is very important to solidly grout between the ground and the borehole liner at the
surface to prevent infiltration of polluted surface and spillage water into the aquifer.
Water Quality Testing and Surveillance
In general, limited water testing facilities are available at the govemorate or districts level. However,
Ministry of Health and three GAREW Branches (lbb Aden and Dhamar) and the NWSA Branch in Hajja
have water testing equipment. PIUs would have capacity to carry out chemical tests. Present practice is
to test each borehole after it has been drilled for chemical pollutants. Most borehole are deeper than 150
- 56 -



meters and the occurrence of pollution is rare. Occasionally, PIUs would ask the Ministry of Health, or
one of the GAREW branches, to carry out bacteriological tests on shallow boreholes and open dug wells
or if the community report a problem with their water quality.
Water quality surveillance can be improved by providing each PIU with portable water testing kits for
both chemical and bacteriological tests. Water quality should be tested after the development of a new
source and on a regular basis thereafter and in response to any signal from a community that their water
quality has changed.
Solid Wastes Disposal & Storm Water Drainage
In most villages, the disposal of solid wastes is a very obvious problem, as paper and plastic wastes are
indiscriminately strewn around the streets and disposal facilities are not provided. Flooding from storm
water was not seen to be a major problem although some villagers reported occasional flooding problems
during heavy rains. In some areas where storm water drains had been provided, solid wastes were a major
contributing factor to the blocking of these drains. Solid waste disposal can be greatly improved through
hygiene education and this issue should be included in the proposed campaign which would promote
improved collection and disposal in waste pits to be dug by the community.
Recommendations
The main issue to be faced is poor excreta disposal facility (latrine) coverage. The project should have an
intensive and vigorous environmental sanitation component to improve coverage and to address the other
important issues of waste water disposal, solid waste disposal and storm water drainage. The sanitation
component should have two main parts: (i) a sanitation promotion campaign; and (ii) physical support to
the construction of household and community based excreta disposal systems. This should be reinforced
by health and hygiene education.
Sanitation promotion campaign. Social Mobilization Teams should work with village water user
associations and individuals to promote on-site latrine construction and the development of village
environmental action plans. These village plans would include identifying environmental problem in the
village and mobilizing local resources to address them, e.g. constructing rainwater drainage channels,
identifying sites for the disposal of solid wastes and digging waste pits. In support of the promotion
campaign, demonstration latrines could be constructed at strategic locations such as village centers,
schools and clinics. Latrine builder training courses can be organized and the graduates given certificates
of attendance. Also, the use of household soakaways for sullage (wastewater) disposal should be
demonstrated and promoted. Other components of the promotion campaign would include fencing around
and protecting wells to keep animals from polluting the source, concrete aprons and drainage channels
around public stand posts etc.
Latrine construction. The project should provide incentives for families or communities to construct the
sanitation facilities. These incentives could include the provision of a porcelain pan and two bags of
cement for each household. The principle that no household would be allowed to have a water connection
until a latrine had been constructed should be applied. The Ventilated Improved Pit (VIP) latrine and the
pour-flush toilet are technically acceptable latrine designs that would reduce the need for regular
maintenance.
- 57 -



Schools Sanitation. Where ever possible schools and clinics would be provided with a good standard of
sanitation, i.e. a pour flush latrine with facilities for hand washing. This would be a key demonstration
strategy in the health & hygiene campaign.
Health and Hygiene Education. A health and hygiene education campaign should be staged in the
project villages that would seek to: (i) impart knowledge and increase awareness of the need to improve
hygiene practices; (ii) promote good practice of collecting storing and using water; (iii) improve hygienic
practices for safe excreta disposal; and (iv) promoting environmental improvements through solid and
wastes management and disposal.
Pit Latrine Emptying and Sludge Disposal in More Densely Populated Areas. The project should devise
a strategy to improve and introduce a system for the hygienic emptying of latrines and septic tanks in the
more densely populated areas. This could include expanding the services from local municipalities and/
or involving the private sector. The hygienic use of matured latrine emptying and sludge as soil
conditioner or fertilizers can be introduced into villages through demonstration and education programs.
However, appropriate guidelines or controls are needed for the reuse of treated wastewater. These include
the adoption of safe effluent quality standards, restriction on crops where reuse is allowed so as to
exclude vegetables that are eaten raw, control on exposure of farm workers and promotion of hygiene,
and monitoring and field surveillance of wastewater reuse.
Protection of Groundwater Sources. During the intensive campaign to promote latrine building, one
important issue that would be taken into account is the possible pollution of groundwater sources. A
number of research studies have confirmed that pathogens and other pollutants do not travel far from a
pit latrine or septic tank in homogeneous soils particularly as the volumes of water involved are very low.
However, the risk of pollution relates to the nature of the soil and the depth of the groundwater and each
site should be assessed before construction to ensure that there is no water pollution potential. Current
good practice adopted in many countries is that latrines or septic tanks should not be located within 50
meters of a well or borehole.
Sanitary Protection of Boreholes and Wells. Standard drawings would be provided that indicate the
measures required for the sanitary protection of boreholes and wells that prevents surface run-off from
re-entering wells carrying pollution with it. These measures should include: fencing, aprons and spillage
water drainage channels, separate animal drinking troughs. Also in addition, open wells require parapets,
hygienic windlass and buckets, and covers.
Water Quality Monitoring. All PIUs would be provided with water testing equipment to improve water
quality monitoring. This should comprise of portable equipment that can measure both chemical and
biological pollutants. Water quality testing should occur after the development of a new source and at
regular intervals thereafter. In addition, testing should occur whenever a village detects a change in their
water quality which they should report to the PIU of their area. The PMU would train and assign water
quality technicians to each of the PIUs.
Water Quality Monitoring Parameters: The basic water quality monitoring parameters include:
-  pH and Salinity
-  Biological Oxygen Demand
-  Chemical Oxygen Demand
-  Total Coliforms
-  Fecal Coliforms
- 58 -



Mitigation & Monitoring Plan
The project, as a whole, is in essence an environmental improvement initiative. However, in order to
combat any potential negative impacts, an environmental mitigation and monitoring plan has been
prepared. The plan, together with water quality monitoring parameters, is detailed in the Project
Implementation Manual, and is summarized below.
Groundwater Pollution - Mitigation: As discussed above the likely hood of groundwater pollution from
pit latrines or septic tanks is small. However, groundwater quality testing should take place when a new
borehole is drilled or when an old well is upgraded and at regular intervals there after, particularly those
in the vicinity of latrine and WHO standards should be applied (i.e. WHO Guidelines for Drinking Water
Quality as revised in the 1993 edition). Before any latrines are constructed the soils at the site should be
inspected and the depth of groundwater assessed to ensure that there is no potential for pollution. In
addition, latrines or septic tanks should not be located within 50 meters of a well or borehole. Water
quality testing equipment would be provided through the project and appropriate training given.
Communities would be trained by the SMTs to alert local governorate staff of any changes in water
quality, this would trigger an immediate water test.
Use of Waste Water - Mitigation: There is a possibility that one or two waste stabilization ponds may be
constructed by the project for demonstration purposes in more densely populated areas and the treated
waste water used for irrigation if the demand exists. Criteria for site selection would be developed as part
of a limited environmental assessment to be undertaken before construction. If waste stabilization ponds
are constructed, before the waste water is allowed to be used for crops it would initially be tested by the
Ministry of Health staff to ensure that it complies with the World Bank and WHO standards (i.e. The
World Bank's Pollution Prevention and Abatement Handbook and WHO Guidelines for the Reuse of
Waste Water 1989). These standards would be documented in the Project Implementation Manual.
Governorate staff would be responsible for any subsequent monitoring. Workers handling these waste
would be give training and appropriate protective clothing and equipment by the PIU.
Use of Dried Sludge - Mitigation: Dried sludge may be sold to farners as soil conditioner or fertilizer if
the demand exists. However, before sales, regular analysis of the dried sludge would be undertaken
initially by the Ministry of Health staff, to ensure that it complies with WHO standards as mentioned
above. In addition, a formal "rural waste-water and sludge disposal and reuse policy" would be developed
in coordination with the Sana'a Water and Sewerage Project. This policy would set out good standards of
practice and monitoring and define roles and responsibilities. Eventually, govemorate staff would assume
this monitoring duty. Workers handling waste would be give training and appropriate protective clothing
and equipment by the PIU.
Costs and Responsibilities: The cost for these environmental mitigation and monitoring measures have
been included in the project cost. PIUs would be responsible for the initial implementation of the
mitigation initiative, i.e., testing and monitoring overseen by the PMU. Subsequently, the responsibility
for regular monitoring may fall upon the local government, i.e., the govemorate under the provisions of
the new Local Administration legislation. The responsibility and supervision for emptying of pit latrines
or septic tanks, as well as removal and treatment of sludge would be at the govemorate or district level,
even if the actual job is carried out by a private entrepreneur. Should the project work in a small town in
which there is a need to empty cess pits and septic tanks, it would be conditional that the local authority
provide a suitable vacuum truck (approx. US$35,000) or contract a private sector service provider.
- 59 -



Conclusion
One of the overall goals of the project is to significantly improve the environmental conditions in rural
areas and thereby improve the health and quality of life for the rural inhabitants. This would mainly be
achieved by improving drinking water quality and quantity and by reducing indiscriminate defecation and
isolating human excreta from the general environment. Water quality and quantity would be improved
through the construction and rehabilitation of water schemes and by introducing water quality testing.
Excreta disposal would mainly be improved through the promotion of a program of latrine building. In
addition, by providing a supporting health and hygiene education campaign, hygienic behavior would be
improved which would ensure the maximum benefits from the investmnent would be obtained. The
environmental review concludes that the project would generate very positive environmental impacts.
Moreover, with the proposed mitigation measures, the project does not present any significant
environmnental risks.
Environmental Mitigation Plan and Costs
Item            Potential       Mitigation      Implementation  Monitoring      Costs
Negative Impact Measure         Responsibility   Responsibility   US$
groundwater     Pollution of the   - Groundwater   PIU          Initially PMU   Included in
Pollution from Pit underlying   quality testing at              Local Govn't in  project budget
latrines        aquifer.       source                           future.         US$15,000.
development and
regular intervals.
- Soil/site
inspection before
latrine
construction.
- Latrines to be
more than 50 m
from wells.
Use of          Transmission of  Regular testing of PIU         Initially PMU   Included in
Wastewater      Pathogens to    wastewater to                   Local Gov't in   project budget
crops.          ensure pathogen                 future.         US$4,000.
free.            _  _ _  _  _     _ _  _  _  _
Use of Dried    Transmission of  Regular testing of PIU         Initially PMU   Included in
Sludge          pathogens to    sludge to ensure                Local Gov't in   project budget
crops.          pathogen free.                  future.         US$4,000.
- 60 -



Environmental Monitoring Program
Item                Monitoring Parameters         Monitoring Frequency         Monitoring Locations
Groundwater         pH and salinity               - At the development of      Boreholes
Quality             BOD                           a new source.                Open Wells
COD
Total coliforms               - At the rehabilitation of
Fecal coliforms               an existing source.
- Each six months
there after.
- When ever the commu-
nity signal a change
in water quality.
Waste Water         As above.                     - At commencement of         At effluent discharge
Quality                                           reuse.                       point.
- Each six months            At point of use.
there after.
Dried Sludge        As above plus                 - At commencement of         At point of sale or
Quality             microscopic exam.             distribution.                distribution.
for viable ova.
- Each six months           At point of use.
there after.
- 61 -



Annex 2
Attachment VI
Republic of Yemen
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Policy Statement
The substance of this draft Policy Letter has been ratified by Cabinet Decree #21 of November 22, 2000..
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Draft
Republic of Yemen
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Policy Statement
Mr. Inder Sud
Country director
The World Bank
1818, H-Street NW
Washington, DC 20433
Dear Mr. Sud,
Subject: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation - Policy Statement
The Government of Yemen has prepared a Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (RWSS) Project
(the Project), implementation of which is expected to start in the first half of 2001. The project would be
implemented by the Ministry of Local Administration and govemorates. It is the Government's policy to
implement the project according to the following guiding principles:
1. To introduce a new decentralized, demand-responsive approach (DRA) to RWSS development,
integrating sanitation and hygiene education with water supply, to maximize health benefits and
sustainability of the RWSS systems. The DRA encompasses three major principles:
-  that communities self-select to participate in the project;
-  that communities participate in the design of the RWSS system and in the selection of the
technology and service level that they consider suitable for their needs, and for which they are
- 62 -



willing and able to pay a contribution towards investment costs (in cash or kind) and full operation
and maintenance costs (in cash), including for major repairs and spare parts; and
that each community creates a formal Water User Association for management of the RWSS
system.
2. To formulate a forward-looking RWSS sector strategy, including institutional, financial and
procurement management arrangements.
3. To prepare a long-term national RWSS investment program with the objective to rapidly increase access
of rural populations to safe water and sanitation, country-wide.
The Government hereby assures that, beginning July 2001 and until the sector strategy is approved
by the Government, all new RWSS projects in the districts, covered by the IDA project, of the govemorates
of Abyan, Hajja and Ibb, financed by the Government or extemal resources, would be implemented in
accordance with the DRA principles.
Council of Ministers
Government of Yemen
- 63 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Project Cost by Component               Local               Foreign            Total
US$ million         US$ million       US$ million
Water Supply                             10.4                 8.7              19.1
Sanitation                               1.6                  0.5               2.1
Institutional Strengthening and          5.7                  2.5               8.2
Support
Total Project Costs                      17.7                11.7              29.4
Project Cost by Category               Local               Foreign             Total
US$ million         US$ million        US$ million
Civil Works                             10.0                 9.0               19.0
Goods & Equipment                       0.2                  1.4                1.6
Services                                2.7                  1.1                3.8
Recurrent Costs                         4.8                  0.2               5.0
Total Project Costs                     17.7                11.7               29.4
- 64 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
This annex presents the results and the methodology followed in the economic analysis of the
Yemen Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (RWSS).
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Base case scenario                     Net Present Values (million US$)
Benefits
Saved resources                                                 23.0
Increased water use                                             27.0
Total benefits                                                  50.0
Costs
Investment costs                                                13.0
Recurrent costs                                                 16.0
Total costs                                                      29
Net Benefits (US$)                                                 13.5
Economic Rate of Return                                            17%
Main Assumptions:
Beneficiaries. The project would improve water supply and sanitation coverage and services to rural
communities in ten govemorates (Ibb, Abyan, Hajja (Phase I, about 2 1/2 yrs.), and seven govemorates for
Phase II through the construction, extension or rehabilitation of about 130 rural water supply schemes and
the promotion of low-cost sanitation systems. The immediate impacts would be a greater quantity of safer
water and more convenient source of water for about 400,000 people; safer and more convenient
wastewater and excreta disposal and improved hygiene habits. The project would also help strengthen the
institutional capacity in the sector by helping the Government design a Rural Water Supply sector strategy
and a large-scale national program. Most benefits would accrue to households, and within households, to
women and children who spend on average 4 hours a day fetching water and to children under five year old,
whose health is particularly vulnerable to bad water quality (according to a 1996 UNDP-World Bank
Water and Sanitation Program Study, diarrhea and vomiting, diseases that are closely linked to water
quality, environmental sanitation and personal hygiene, account for around 50% of under-five mortality.
Overall rural child mortality is among the highest in the world - 120 to 150 per 1,000 births). The project
would particularly benefit the poor, since they are suffering the most from the lack of safe water. A village,
to be eligible, must be located in priority poverty districts (defined by the Social assessment on the basis of
three criteria: access to education (particularly girls enrollment in school), access to safe rural water
supply, and access to health facilities (with particular focus on child mortality).
Alternatives. Ideally, participating villages would be chosen by evaluating NPV generated by water
investments that maximizes the benefits across all villages, but generating such information over 10
govemorates is not practical. As an altemative, villages are required to pass a test of revealed demand - a
willingness to contribute 15% of capital costs, as well as pay water tariffs to cover full O&M costs of the
systems. Water investments are thus justified in terms of household demand. Since this test alone may
bias selection towards better-off villages, eligible villages must be inside the poverty districts.
- 65 -



Cost Effectiveness. To lower the cost of the schemes, and thus benefit more people, the project gives
priority to the rehabilitation of existing rural water systems (a survey just completed by GAREW shows
that at least 30% of the rural water supply schemes are broken down (other RWS reviews indicated a
considerably higher break-down rate). Main failures include broken down pumps and motors, drying-up of
wells and political tensions inside the communities) and the use of non-developed boreholes (It is estimated
that several hundreds, maybe thousands, of boreholes have been drilled by GAREW without being
developed), as a source of water over more expensive alternatives. The project also promotes low-cost
sanitation options.
Following are typical average per capita unit costs:
Per capita investment costs
Water supply
Water supply
- Open well with handpump                 US$15
- small piped system with existing borehole  US$65
- small piped system including borehole   US$75
- rainwater collection system             US$50
- Spring protection with gravity systems  US$40
- rehabilitation                          up to 40% for piped systems with boreholes
Sanitation
- simple ventilated dry latrine           US$5
- pour-flush latrine                      US$8
- flush toilet - septic tank              US$18
- communal septic tank system             US$80
O&M costs are estimated to range from 3% (handpump) to 8% (borehole with high-pumping head) per
year of initial investment costs for water supply schemes and 3 % to 5% per year for sanitation.
Economic Cost-Benefit Analysis. A cost-benefit analysis was carried out to calculate the economic rates
of return and net present value of the project. Financial flows were estimated for both the with and
without-project scenarios. Conversion factors were used to translate financial flows into economic values.
Based on IDA norms for projects in Yemen, a 10% discount rate was used. The period of the analysis is
25 years, starting in the year 2001.
The actual NPV of the investment will vary, depending on actual villager willingness to pay (WTP), public
health and social welfare externalities and system economic costs. Because of the demand-driven nature of
the project, it is not possible to know a priori all systems to be actually financed through the project, nor in
which proportion. Therefore, based on the field surveys carried out during project preparation, the
approach chosen is to elaborate prototype investments in the project selected areas and estimate the
proportion of each financed through the project.
- 66 -



Percentage of each scheme by Governorate
Hajja       lbb      Abyan   Hodeidah      Mareb      Lahajj  El-Mahwit   Shabwah
Open well             5%         5%         5%         5%         5%         5%         5%         5%
Rainwater             0%         5%         0%         0%         0%         5%         5%         0%
Spring protection     0%         0%         0%         0%         0%         5%         5%         0%
Piped system with    45%        45%        45%        45%        45%        45%        45%        45%
existing borehole  I_I_I__I_I_
Piped system with    15%        10%        10%        15%        15%        10%        15%        15%
new borehole
Rehab.               35%        35%        35%        35%        35%        30%        30%        35%
Economic Benefits. The starting point for estimating the benefits were the field surveys carried out by the
SMTs during project preparation in the area covered by the Pilot Projects. The survey was conducted in
the 6 pilot clusters of villages identified in a self-selection process during project preparation, in the
govemorates of Ibb, Hajja and Abyan. The clusters faced a variety of the socio-economic and physical
conditions and are deemed fairly representative. These surveys allow detailed analysis of households
benefits for different 'with' and 'without-project' situations.
Economic benefits depend on the extent to which the improved system is used by the communities, which in
tum depends very much on the original supply. According to field surveys conducted in the pilot areas,
average household consumption has been estimated at 70 liters per day, or an average of 10 lcd. About
85% of water supply is fetched from an open well, a borehole or a spring, and, typically, is carried by hand
or donkey. Fetching water is the responsibility of women and children. It is performed twice a day on
average, and takes on average about 4 hours. These sources are free. Women complain about the quality
and quantity of these traditional sources, and the heavy workload involved. The quantity is often low in the
dry season, and the quality is often poor due to contamination by animals and insects. The remaining 15%
is supplied twice a month by tanker trucks at an average price of YR 500 per m3 (about 3.12 US$/m3).
Water-bome diseases, such as diarrhea, bilharzia hepatitis and malaria are widespread. Based on the
results of the field surveys, it has been estimated that 80% of the population will use the new source, and
that average water consumption from the new source, would be 15 lcd for handpumps, 20 lcd for
standposts and 30 lcd for yard connections. These assumptions are tested in the sensitivity analysis.
The surveys were used to estimate the demand curves for the various types of households in the project
area. The water demand function was assumed to be a linear function form and defined by several known
points (for example, the price charged by water vendors and the household consumption at that price and
the price and quantity consumed in the 'with project' scenario). Given that the linear curve is likely to
overestimate consumer surplus, only 70% of the latter has been included in the benefits of the project.
The table below describes the situation of the different types of household in the "with" and "without
project" situations. For purposes of analysis, the future 'without' scenario is assumed to remain at existing
levels.
- 67 -



Water Demand Curve for Household relyiin on private vendors
1.6
120
0.8
v 04P2
OA
0 Q11   2  3  d2  5  6   7  8   9  10
QnuTrbon (nha8pftIath)
Two types of benefits accruing to the beneficiaries that use the new source were estimated: (i) the cost
savings associated with a decrease in the use of the traditional source; and (ii) an increase in consumer
surplus on the increased quantity of water used. Depending on the traditional source used, the cost savings
considered are: the costs saved for not having to buy water from vendors or the costs saved for not having
to spend time fetching water.
With" and "Without" Project Situations
Without Project Scenario                         With Project Scenario
- Tanker water:                                   Protected well with handpumps
- average consumption: 10 lcd                   - 5 % of the schemes
- 15% of water use                              - average consumption: 15 lcd
- Financial cost: 3.12 US$/m3                   - Economic cost: 0.3 US$/m3
- Economic cost: 3.2 US$/m3                 Rain water catchment
- supplied twice a month                        - 2% of the schemes
- Fetching water:                                   - average consumption: 20 lcd
- average consumption: 10 lcd                   - Economic costs: 0.32 US$/m3
- 85% of water use                          Small piped system (borehole or spring catchment)
- 4 hours a day                                 - 93% of the schemes
- head, hand or donkeys                         - 70% standpost and 30% house connection
- women and children                            - average consumption of 20 lcd for standposts
- financial costs : 0 US$/m3                     and 30 lcd for house connections
- economic cost: 4.5 US$/m3                     - Economic cost: 0.56 - 0.94 US$/m3
Consumer surplus and the cost saving of not having to buy water from vendors were estimated directly
from the demand curve. In the case of a household that would get water from a standpost, for example,
these benefits were estimated as follows: in the 'without project' situation, the household was assumed to be
buying 10 liters per capita and per day from water vendors at 3.12 US$/m3. In the 'with project situation',
all household's members would use 20 lcd and would pay 0.42 US$/m3. The monthly cost savings
accruing to the household were estimated at US$4.7 = [7*10*30/1000*3.2*0.7]. ( 30% of the price paid to
vendors was assumed to be an economic rent - The economic cost includes the cost of the storage tank
estimated at 62.5 US$ with an average life of 20 years. The consumer surplus is given by the area under
the demand function, as shown in the figure above, and represented by the area B. This was estimated at
- 68 -



1.82 US$ per month per household [7*(3.2- 0.42 )*(20-10)*30/2/1000*0.7] (Given the uncertainty
surrounding the linear form of the demand curve, the calculated consumer surplus was reduced by 30%).
The cost saving for not having to fetch water was estimated at the opportunity cost of time spent on water
fetching and is equal to 30% of the average income in rural areas 62.5 US$/month (On average, it was
estimated that 4 hours is spent daily to collect 10*7 lcd of water per household. The opportunity cost of
time per cubic meter is 2.12US$=[[(62.5*30%*(4/8)/(10*7*30)]*1000]/(7*10*30/1000). Therefore the
monthly cost saving from not having to fetch water is US$4.46 = [2.12*2.1] per family.).
Non-Quantified Economic Benefits. Due to data gaps and uncertainties, a number of benefit streams were
not accounted for in the economic analysis. They include health and environmental benefits from the water
supply, sanitation and hygiene education components:
the reduction in the cost of medical expenses due to water-bome disease;
the reduction of indirect cost of illness, including the cost of time, work, schooling and leisure due to
morbidity, and the loss of income due to morbidity and premature mortality. Because of the absence of
sound method to value life, no attempt was made to quantify the economic cost of mortality.
improved quality of life and environmental amenities.
Diarrhea and other intestinal diseases that are closely linked to water quality, sanitation and hygiene
behavior account for around 50% of child mortality in Yemen. As demonstrated in the table below from a
1996 UNICEF study, expected health benefits from the reduction in child mortality are high:
Infant and child mortality rates in rural Yemen
Sanitation factor   Source/condition  Rural infant  Rural non-infant   Rural under 5
mortality rate    mortality rate    mortality rate
Drinking  water Piped                  85.5              36.9              119.2
resources       Well                   104.8             45.5              145.5
Other                 103.0              58.6              155.6
Toilet facilities    Flush             72.6              45.8              115.1
Bucket                97.6               34.5              128.7
other                 101.2             49.9               146.1
Area around the  Clean                 85.8              29.0              112.3
house           Dirty                  107.4             55.7              157.2
Stagnant              80.5              46.7               123.5
water/sewage
overflow
NPV and Economic Rate of Return. The expected net present value of the project is US$12.0 million
corresponding to an economic rate of return of 19 %.
Base case
ERR                          17%
B/C                          1.4
NPV (million US$)            13.5
- 69 -



Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Several risks that would jeopardize the successful implementation of the project and affect its NPV were
identified. They include: (i) a reduction in benefits because assumptions regarding cost saving of not having
to buy water from water vendors or not having to fetch water have been over-estimated, because more
people than 20% of the population still use the old source, because the average consumption per capita is
lower than expected; (ii) an increase in costs because of unexpected expenditures; and (iii) a lag in benefits
because of unexpected delays.
A sensitivity analysis was carried out to determine the robustness of the ERR to changes in key risk
variables. The analysis shows that the projects results are most sensitive to changes in the share of the
population that will use the new source. The ERR will be lower than 10%, if the consumer surplus drops
below 50% of its base line value or if the cost savings drops 50% or if less than 60% of the population uses
the new source. The ERR will still be higher than 10% if the consumption per capita does not increase.
Dsenamners4l
1aS   93N          88         ~~~7Ut       8)            SYY/         47           3)'          2w
17"  j40       13'         110            9'           8'                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40,
107'            SO)'         87'          7008        65) '3y                   4C          3            270
_17"!e                              1!          13'8        110N          10/          8"                        9'S>
10)            9)'           8G/         70'         65)           /          4)'43t
21&           17"         1340         10'                  80/   1
Average consumption per capita
35                    3                    251               20               15                  10
18%l                  18%l                 18%l              17%              17%J                15%
Share of the population using the new source and consumption per capita
_____~~~~~~~~~~~~ ____n ____g he nrnvowce                            _      _           _     _ _         _
l_______ _  100h  |     90%_  _        80h%         70Yo           60%      T   50%        l     40%
35              26h              22%            18h          14%            11%             6%0            2%
30              26%               22%            18%           14%            10h             6%             2%
25              26%               22%            18%            14%           10%             6h            1%
20              26%               21%            17%           14%            10%             5%             1%
15              25%               21%           1t7%           13%             90/0           5h
10              23%               19h           15%           12%             7%             3%       _ _ _
Decrease in cost savings and share of the population using the new source
- 70 -



._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   Decr ase   hI  cos                       __  __
100%__           8%/O           80O           70h           60%            50h          40%
100%             26%              23%             21%           19%           17%             15%           13%
900h            21%              20%/           18%           16%            14%            12%            10%
80%              17%              16%            14%           13%            11%             9Yo           8%
70Yo             14%              12%            11%            9%            8%              7h           5%
650             10h             9h              70/o          6h           5%              3%            2%
50Yo             5%               4%             3Yo            2h           1%
400o%             1%       I                I             I             I              I              I
Benefits delayed one year: ERR = 14%
Benefits delayed two years: ERR = 11%
Fiscal Impact. The investment costs would be bome by the public budget, the credit and the contributions
(in-kind or financial) of the beneficiaries. Since water and sanitation investments are exempt from taxation,
increases in tax revenues will be negligible. However, savings are expected in rural infrastructure and
equipment O&M expenditures, particularly through reducing the frequency of rehabilitation and O&M
costs (beneficiaries are expected to cover full O&M costs of the schemes). In addition, beneficiaries would
contribute at least 15% of the investment costs up front in cash or kind. In the long-run, improved health
and productivity of rural populations would add to national income, which in turn would have a positive
fiscal impact.
- 71 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Years Ending
US$ million
I Year         I         Year 3  | Year 4  1 Year 5 j   Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs             2.3         3.3        6.7         6.6         5.6        0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs               0.3        0.4         1.2         1.4        1.6         0.0       0.0
Total ProjectCosts             2.6         3.7         7.9        8.0         7.2        0.0        0.0
Total Financing                2.6         3.7         7.9        8.0         7.2        0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                     1.7        2.5         5.9         5.5        4.4        0.0        0.0
Government                   0.2        0.3         0.8         1.0        1.2        0.0        0.0
Central                  0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Provincial               0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers                0.5        0.4         0.1         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries      0.2        0.5         1.1         1.5        1.6        0.0        0.0
Others                       0.0                    0.0                    0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing       2.6         3.7         7.9        8.0         7.2       0.0         0.0
Main assumptions:
- 72 -



FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF A TYPICAL PIPED SCHEME SYSTEM - WUA's point of view.
(US$)
Anual pp. growth = 2%                                          Annual O&M isbansed rn AGul cost .                 Average income at year 2000 i esemated at 62.5USShnonth.
Esamated per capfta demand in year 2000 = 20 Liter I day       Depredation: 6.7% for mechanical wolks I year.     Fanily income is esbmated to inrease annually by 3%.
Estmated anrxual per capita demand increase = 2.55%            1 % neaae in variable oost dunng prcject life
United States                                                        2000           2001        2002         2003        2004        2005          2010         2015            2020
Inflation, GOP deflator (annual %)                                              1.80E+00   2.17E-00   2.12E200   2.08E.00    2.03E200          2.00E.00    2.00E00         2.00E00
GDP deflator (1990= 100)                                             123.8         126.03      128.76      131.49       134.22      136.95         151.8
2000          2001         2002        2003        2004         2005         2010         2015            2020
Populabon(people)                                                   1,424          1,452       1,481        1,511       1,541       1,572         1,736        1,916           2,116
Water Demand (m3)                                                   10,395        10,873      11,373       11,896      12,444       13,016       16,299       20,410          25,558
Operation expendtures
1- Tedridan Pump Operators                                            750            771         796         821         846          872         1,016        1,179           1,367
2- Collector                                                         1.050         1,080        1,114       1,149       1,185        1,221        1,422        1,650           1,914
3- Fuel: dieseVodl + adm costs                                      2,601          2,674       2,759       2,846        2,934       3,024         3,522        4,087           4,741
Maintenance expencttures
1- Pumps & Vates Maitenaice                                          1294          1,317        1,346       1,374       1,403        1,431        1,587        1,751           1,933
2- General Mainternance                                               650            661         676         690         704          719           797          879            971
Totl O&M Expenes                                                    6,344          6,503       6,690        6,880       7,072        7286         8,344        9,546          10,926
Pumps depreciation                                                  2,335          2,335       2,335       2.335        2,335       2,335         2,335        3,141           3,141
Total O&M + annual depredation                                       8,679         8,838       9,025        9215        9,407       9,602        10,679       12,686          14,067
Tariff calculation
Watrtariff per 13 ofwater dtemand                                    0.83           0.81        0.79        0.77         0.76        0.74          0.66         0.62            0.55
Averageconsumptionpercapitaperday CM.                                0.020          0.021       0.021       0.022       0.022        0.023         0.026        0.030          0.034
Average Consumption per capdta per month CM.                         0.608          0.624       0.640       0.656        0.673       0.690         0.783        0.888           1.007
AveragenmonthlybilperfamilfUSS                                        3.56          3.55         3.55        3.56        356          3.56         3.59         3.86            3.88
Average waterbillasa%toaveragefamilyincome                             6%             5Y          5%          5%           5%          5%            4%           4%              3%
CASHI FLOW ANALYSIS OF THE WATER ASSOCtATlON
O&M expenditures                                                    6,344          6,503       6,690        6,880       7,072       7,266         8,344        9,546          10,926
Pump replacement                                                                                                                                              35,025
Total exapenditures                                                 6,344          6,503       6,690        6,880       7,072       7,266         8,344       44,571          10,926
Receipts                                                            8,679          8,838       9,025       9,215        9,407       9,602        10,679       12,686          14,067
Net Cash Flow                                                       2,335          2,335       2.335       2,335        2,335       2,335         2,335      (31,88S)          3,141
Cumulative Cash flow                                                2,335          4,670       7,005       9,340       11,675       14,010       26,685        3,141           9,422
Notes:
Any incremental O&M costs for house connections are borne by the beneficiaries.
O&M costs includes small repairs. In addition tariff are set-up to cover pump replacement every 15 years.
SMTs will impress upon WUAs that funds collected for RWS should not be used for other village
expenditures.
- 73 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Procurement
The Credit would finance selected activities requiring the procurement of: (i) works, i.e. the construction or
rehabilitation of a range of rural water supply and rural sanitation technologies; (ii) goods, including
vehicles, construction materials, computers and office equipment; (iii) consultancy services and training
including institutional strengthening; and (iv) incremental operating expenses for PMU. Procurement under
the Credit would be carried out in accordance with IDA's Guidelines for "Procurement under IBRD Loans
and Credits", January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999;
"Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers". January 1997, revised September
1997 and January 1999. IDA's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) would be used for all procurement
under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and, with modifications acceptable to IDA, in Arabic
language, also for National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Simplified documents would be prepared for use
under the Credit and apply to relatively low-value works contracts and low-value consulting contracts.
National Shopping procedures would apply to the procurement of small quantities of goods; Intemational
Shopping procedures would be used where there are less than three capable national suppliers. The
components not financed by IDA would be procured in accordance with Republic of Yemen regulations or
the guidelines of co-financing institutions. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) would be advertised in
"United Nations Development Business" (UNDB) not less than eight weeks prior to the publication of the
first Specific Procurement Notice (SPN) and bidders who have expressed an interest would be notified
directly by the PMU.
Works: Taking into account the relative simplicity and small value of the works and scattered locations of
the communities for which the works would be done, works contracts are not expected to attract
International Bidders. Bid evaluations would be submitted on IDA's Standard Bid Evaluation Form:
"Procurement of Goods and Works" - April 1996. Several bid packages would be prepared. Bid packages
with an estimated contract value above US$100,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of
approximately US$17.50 million equivalent, would be procured using NCB procedures and documents and
advertisements in at least two local newspapers. NCB contract would be open to eligible foreign bidders if
they wish to participate. Contracts below an estimated value of US$100,000 equivalent, would be
procured using simplified NCB procedure. It would require: (i) advertisements in a local newspaper and
announcements posted in a public place, (ii) simplified bidding documents and evaluation procedures
agreed with IDA, (iii) public bid openings, and (iv) and contract awards to the lowest evaluated bidder.
Pre-qualification would be necessary for all contracts above US$0.3 million equivalent procured under
NCB procedures. For contracts below US$0.3 million equivalent procured under NCB post-qualification
would be used. An open pre-qualification process and explicit qualification criteria would be used. Subject
to prior agreement with IDA in each case and practical considerations, works below an estimated value of
US$10,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$1.5 million equivalent may occasionally be implemented,
instead, by using direct contracting with the nearest available source. Force account construction through
Yemeni Government personnel and equipment would not be acceptable under this Project.
Goods: To the extent possible, the procurement of goods would be carried out through bid packages
comprising several lots of similar items. Bid packages with an estimated contract value above US$400,000
equivalent would be procured using ICB procedures and documents, and advertisements in UNDB and in
local newspapers. Bidders would be subject to post-qualification in accordance with IDA's SBD for
"Procurement of Goods" January 1995. Bid evaluations would be submitted on IDA's Standard Bid
- 74 -



Evaluation Form "Procurement of Goods and Works" - April 1996. Bid packages with an estimated
contract value above US$50,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate of approximately US$0.50 million
equivalent, would be procured using NCB procedures and documents and advertisements in at least two
local newspapers. The procurement of goods and supplies below an estimated value of US$50,000 per
contract or purchase order, up to an aggregate amount of approximately of $400,000 equivalent, would be
procured using NS/IS procedures, with requests for quotations which would indicate the description,
quantity and required delivery time of the procured goods. At least three quotations would be solicited from
local suppliers, when these goods are readily available locally at competitive prices; otherwise, quotations
would be solicited from at least three intemational suppliers in two different countries. The evaluation of
quotations would follow procedures agreed with IDA. Goods and supplies below a cost of US$5,000 per
purchase, up to an aggregate amount of approximately US$100,000 equivalent would be purchased
directly from the nearest available supplier. Under ICB procedures, bids offering goods manufactured in
the Republic of Yemen would be granted a margin of preference of 15% when compared to goods
manufactured elsewhere. In the comparison of bids to establish eligibility for Domestic Preference, the
provisions of Appendix 2 of IDA's Procurement Guidelines would be followed.
Services: For consultancies above an estimated contract value of US$100,000 equivalent, the selection
method would be Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS). For consultancies below an estimated
contract value of US$100,000 equivalent, the selection method would be Quality-Based Selection (QBS) or
Least-Cost Selection (LCS) or Selection under a Fixed Budget (SFB) or Consultants' Qualification-Based
CQ). Single-Source Selection (SS) methods would be used for all specialized, short-term or contracts with
consultants with contract values below US$50,000. Furthermore, all for consultancies with an estimated
contract value above US$200,000, a request for expressions of interest would be advertised in UNDB and
in local newspapers.
Prior Review: The first three contracts packages in each category and each procurement method (works,
goods and services), irrespective of the estimated contract value, would be subject to IDA's prior review, in
accordance with the applicable guidelines. Thereafter, all procurement of goods, which is subject to ICB
procedures, would be subject to IDA's prior review. Also, any contract for works with an estimated
contract value above US$200,000 equivalent and any contract for goods with an estimated contract value
above US$100,000 equivalent would be subject to IDA's prior review. Contracts with individual
consultants in excess of US$50,000 equivalent and with consulting firms in excess of US$100,000
equivalent, as well as all single-source contracts, and first three RFPs under any selection method for
services would be subject to prior review. The prior review process would cover about 75% of total works,
goods and services contracts, which would be reasonably achievable under the circumstances. All other
contracts would be subject to post-review on a random basis during supervision missions and procurement
audits.
Procurement Responsibilities: An independent Project Management Unit (PMU) would be established,
reporting to the Oversight Committee (OC). Also, a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would be
established in each governorate, reporting to the PMU. The PMU would include a procurement officer as
part of its team to be recruited competitively. Every PIU would also include a procurement officer/engineer
as part of its staff. The PMU would be responsible for: (i) procurement activities to all contracts that are
subject to IDA's prior review; (ii) procurement capacity building and consistent application of procedures
in the PIUs through the Operations Manual; (iii) acquisition of goods and equipment; (iv) incremental
operating expenses; and (v) awarding contracts. The PIUs would assist in procurement of activities related
to: National Competitive Bidding (NCB), National Shopping (NS), Direct Contracting (DC) and Direct
Purchase (DP) in their respective govemorate. The PMU would retain responsibility (each PIU would
assist the PMU in its respective govemorate) for advertising bids, issuing bidding documents, opening and
- 75 -



evaluating bids and awarding contracts. All request for no objection from the Bank would be directed
through the PMU. The PIUs, with assistance from PMU, would prepare the standard bidding documents to
be used for sub projects. Local or regional consulting firms or individuals would be contracted as needed
to review/prepare engineering design, specification, and tender documents before tendering and also to
provide technical advice and contract management during the construction of the sub projects. The initial
Procurement Plan is shown in Table [ B I]. It would be updated periodically and jointly by the PMU and
the PIUs.
Procurement Training: Since all procurement staff of the PMU and the PIUs would be recruited, the
procurement skills of the PMU and PIUs staff would be upgraded through a training program. In order to
overcome the weaknesses of the PMU and the PIUs in the first year of project implementation, a short-term
procurement specialist with relevant experience should be engaged for several months. S/He should
provide on-the-job training for the PMU, PIUs and MLA staff. The first training course would be held in
March 2001 for Phase I PIUs, PMU and MLA procurement staff, shortly after their selections. This
training course would concentrate on preparation of tender documents and bids evaluation for works, goods
and consulting services. This course would be followed by a training course on contract management just
before the first package of the physical sub-projects for Phase I branch offices is due. A question and
answer session on procurement and contract management would be conducted during procurement
supervision missions. For phase II of the project similar action would be taken with the newly established
PIUs.
Procurement Action Plan
Issue                              Remedial Action                              Responsibility  Target date/i
a) Documents
1. NCB SBD for goods and works    Prepare/revise bidding documents for NCB in   PMU           April 2001
Arabic, also prepare simplified bidding documents
for NCB for goods and works in Arabic and get
Bank no objection
2. RFP                             Prepare request for proposals for consultancy  PMU          April 2001
services in English and Arabic
b) Procurement process
1. Advertisement                  Prepare standard sample advertisement for     PMU           April 2001
rocurement of goods and works
2. Evaluation reports              Prepare bid evaluation report format and sample    PMU      April 2001
sheets based on IDA forms with all evaluation team
signing off.
c) Procurement Planning
1. Procurement plan               Update procurement plan for first year and prepare  PMU and PlUs April 2001
procurement plan for each PIU.                              (Ongoing)
2. MIS                             Ensure that MIS includes, with other procurement  PMU Director  June 2001
information needed by LACI, key dates of
procurement process, break down of procurement by
PIU and type of procurement (goods, works,
consulting services and operating expenses)
d) Procurement Filing
1. Filing system                  Establish a system for filing in order to have a full  PMU  April 2001
file in the PMU for each sub-project executed at the
PIUs and at the PMU
2. Records on claims and dispute   Keep separate file for claims and disputes   PMU and PIUs April 2001
e) Procurement Training/2
- 76 -



1. IDA guidelines               Train procurement staff of PMU and PlUs on IDA  PMU/Bank    March 2001 &
procurement guidelines                                  continuos
2. Standard bidding documents    Train PMU and PlUs procurement staff on the  PMU/Bank    March 2001 &
preparation of tender document for works, goods         continuos
and consultant services
3. Bid evaluation                Train PMU and PlUs staff on bids evaluation for   PMU/Bank    March 2001 &
works, goods and consultant services                    continuos
4. Contract management           Train PMU and PlUs on contract management    PMU/Bank    May 2001
5. Construction management       Train local contractors on construction management PMU/Bank    August 2001
6. Preparation of proposals      Train local consultants on preparation of proposals PMU/Bank    August 2001
for Bank-financed projects
7. Strengthen knowledge on       Conduct question/answer sessions every 6 months  PMU/Bank    Every 6
procurement                      during procurement supervision                           months
1/ These dates are tentative and could be changed with mutual agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.
2/ All training activities should be a combination of formal classroom training and continuous training on-the-job
in the first six months of project implementation through an experienced short term procurement specialist.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Allocation of loan proceeds by disbursement categories and percentages financed by the loan are presented
in Table C.
Use of Statements of Expenses (SOEs). Full documentation for expenditures under contracts requiring the
Bank's prior review would be submitted with the corresponding application. Disbursements for contracts
valued at less than US$500,000 for works, US$100,000 for the services of consulting firms and
US$50,000 for the services of individual consultants, and training, as well as disbursements for all goods
contracts, would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOE). Documentation to support
these expenditures would be maintained by the concemed field level teams with copies submitted to the
PMU. These documents would be made available for review by visiting Bank missions and for project
auditing.
All other expenditures would be made against SOEs.
Special AccounL The Borrower would establish a special foreign currency account (Special Account)
with the Central Bank, where IDA funds would be deposited. The initial amount of this account would be
US$ 1 million The Special Account would be managed by the PMU. Disbursement requests would have to
be signed by an authorized person of the PMU, the PMU manager. The Bank would, upon request, make
an authorized allocation of US$ 1 million to cover about 90 days of average disbursements. Applications
for the replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly or when one-third of the initial
deposit has been utilized, whichever occurs earlier. The replenishment application would be supported by
the necessary documentation, including the bank and reconciliation statement of the Special Account.
In parallel with the Special Account, the Borrower would also open a special local currency account
(Project Account), to which the 15% government counterpart funds would be transferred. Funds would be
allocated to PIUs, according to their approved annual budgets.
Both the Special Account and the Project Account would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA.
- 77 -



Financial Management Assessment
The financial management of the project would be carried out by a PMU, to be administratively attached to
the Ministry of Local Administration. It would report to the Oversight Committee. The OC would be
responsible for appointing a highly qualified multi-disciplinary engineer or social scientist, as PMU
manager, with skills and job description acceptable to IDA, in order to implement the project and to
manage the related affairs. The OC would delegate to the PMU manager the responsibility of organization
of the project team including appointment of the needed staff at the central and regional levels and setting
up of the organizational framework, internal control mechanism and sound financial and accounting
system. Recruitment of the PMU manager is in process.
The PMU would operate as independent entity and thus would not follow the Government's unified
accounting system used by the public sector according to the legal framework. The PMU manager would
implement a sound financial and accounting system, which would provide the financial data required for
proper project management. Upon the implementation of the minimum financial management arrangements,
the PMU would receive the IDA and counterpart project funds from Ministry of Finance through Ministry
of Local Administration.
The PMU manager would have on board before effectiveness: (i) the full financial management team at the
central level, consisting of a qualified financial management specialist and accountant, and (ii) PIU
managers at the regional level. Setting up of the financial management system is the responsibility of the
PMU manager, under the supervision of the OC, and according to the time bound action plan agreed during
negotiations.
Financial Manaeement System for the Proiect
Main characteristics of the financial management system for the project are the following:
Project Management Unit (PMU) at the central level. The PMU would be responsible for all the financial
management duties including budgeting, staffing, procurement, disbursement, accounting and reporting.
The PIUs to be established at the regional level at Ibb, Abyan and Hajja Govemorates, would receive
specific and limited delegation of authority from the PMU manager in order to assure the needed
coordination at the regional level. The PMU manager would identify and appoint a qualified project team.
This team would consist of five local staff, a RWSS engineer, a social scientist, a procurement specialist, a
financial management specialist, and an accountant/administrator. Since the PMU would operate as an
independent entity, segregation of duties and cross control mechanisms should be implemented in order to
guarantee the needed transparency. Recruitment of the needed staff has to be done according to detailed
terms of references acceptable to IDA. The PMU manager would be responsible for project monitoring and
management. For the purpose of accounting and reporting requirements he would be responsible for: (i)
selecting a qualified consultant for the preparation of the financial management procedures manual, and (ii)
acquiring accounting software suitable for the project level of activity. The PMU manager would consider
among other acquisitions, software that has been developed locally and is now used by implementing
entities in charge of IDA-financed projects. In any case the PMU manager would make sure that the
computerized system to be implemented is adapted for the project and allows integrated management of
accounting, budgeting and reporting.
- 78 -



Project Imnplementation Unit (PIU) at governorate level. In Ibb, Abyan and Hajja Governorates, PIUs
would be established by the PMU and would operate under the responsibility of the PMU manager. Each
PIU would be headed by a manager and consist of local staff, including a procurement specialist, a
financial officer and an engineer. The PIU manager would be responsible for maintaining books of
accounts for the sub-project on the basis of a computerized system fully compatible with the PMU
accounting system. The PIU manager would operate on behalf of the PMU manager, according to specific
and limited, delegation of authority approved by the OC. Payments at the level of PIUs would be limited to
a pre-defined list of items and limits. Disbursement related to such expenditures would be managed based
on the principles of the revolving fund. Funds received from different sources (PMU, GOY and
beneficiaries) would be identified separately and reflected in the sub-project accounts and financial
statements. Sub-projects related transactions and activities (civil works, goods, and consultant services)
would be distinguished from own operating costs at the joumal entry and posting stages. The balance
would show all sub-project related Teceipts, expenditures, and other payments, as well as operating costs.
Each PIU would generate and maintain vouchers and supporting documentation for expenditures on all
activities.
Staffing. The PMU staff would be recruited according to terms of reference and job descriptions acceptable
to IDA. Civil servants, who as an exception would qualify to apply, if selected, would have to resign from
their government duties or take leave without pay. PlUs would be staffed locally. During Phase I their
salaries would be paid from the project. During Phase II, project funding of PIU staff and operating costs
would be phased out, so that in the last project year the government would bear the entire cost. PMU and
PIU staff would receive UNDP-based per diem compensation for time spent in the field, financed under the
project.
Coaching. A short-term consultant would be hired to assist the PMU during a first period of 12 months.
This consultant, who should be a highly qualified accounting and financial specialist, would review on a
weekly basis the financial and banking records related to the project and address the errors and
insufficiencies. This consultant would also coach and train PMU and PIU staff. Specific TORs would be
developed and submitted to IDA for approval.
Training. The PMU manager would develop a financial management training program. This action should
include specific training sessions for procurement, disbursement, accounting, project management, and
fmancial management. The program should include all staff involved in project implementation. The level
of each staff member in terms of capacity, background, and experience has to be taken into consideration in
order to meet the training needs.
Financial and Accounting Policies. The PMU would be responsible for preparing a Financial Management
Procedure Manual (FMPM). It would cover the: (i) flow of accounting documentation and infornation
through the budget, acquisition, and procurement cycles; (ii) financial and accounting policies and
procedures; (iii) Internal control system; (iv) chart of accounts; (v) financial reporting, including formats of
the quarterly Project Management Report (PMR), and other reports formats required by the GOY; (vi)
auditing arrangements; (vii) budgeting process; and (viii) structural organization and staffing for financial
management functions. Finanical policies would support uniformity and enforcement of accountability.
They cover: (a) treatment of expenditures, including their classification; (b) eligibility of expenditures to be
reimbursed from the IDA Credit; (c) efficient management and development of funds; (d) accounting
policies; (e) internal mechanisms.
Flow of Funds. GOY would transfer the IDA funds to the MLA by deposits to the Special Account in the
Central Bank of Yemen (CBY). GOY would provide counterpart funds for the project, by deposits into the
- 79 -



Project Account in the CBY. Budgetary allocations would be based on annual work plan, approved by OC.
The PMU manager would be the authorized person for issuing checks through the Special Account and the
Project Account, based on approved supporting documents signed by a senior staff, i.e. the RWSS engineer
or social scientist, and countersigned by the financial management specialist. The accountant would issue
the bank reconciliation statement on a monthly basis and would submit them to the financial management
specialist for control and to the PMU manager for final approval. Special attention and close follow up
would be dedicated to all outstanding transactions. These should be cleared periodically under the
responsibility of the PMU manager.
Financial Management Procedures Manual (FMPM). The FMPM which would be prepared by a highly
qualified financial management consultant, would cover mainly the following:
-  flow of accounting documentation and information through the budget, acquisition, and procurement
cycles at central and governorate levels;
-  financial and accounting policies and procedures;
-  intemal control mechanisms;
-  computer data entry and data base management procedures,
-  identification of key control points to ensure confidentiality, quality and reliability of financial data;
-  chart of accounts;
-  financial reporting, including formats of PMR tables and reporting required by the OC and GOY;
-  auditing arrangements;
-  budgeting processes; and
-  organization and staffing at the central and regional levels, as well as the relationship between both
MLA structures and external parties (OC, MEW, TS, CBY, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of
Planning, etc).
Financial Management Reports
Quarterly PMRs for the project would be generated from the computerized financial management system.
These reports would be management-oriented (i.e., summaries rather than transactional details) and would
be used for project monitoring and implementation by the PMU, and other agencies. The PMR should
include the 3 following parts:
(a) Financial Statements that include:
- Sumrnmary of sources and uses of funds
- Uses of funds by project activity
- Project balance statement of affairs
- Cash withdrawals
- Cash forecasts
- Special account statements
(b) Project Progress statements that include:
- Output monitoring reports using contract management information, or
- Output monitoring reports using unit variance as monitoring indicator
(c) Procurement Management reports that include:
- Contract expenditure reports - goods and works
- Contract expenditure reports - consultant
- Procurement management reports - goods and works
- 80 -



-  Procurement management reports - consultant
Formats of the reports should be part of the Financial Management Manual.
Annuallv: Audited Project Financial Statements (PFS) would be submitted to IDA. PFS would include: (i)
a statement of sources and utilization of funds or balance sheet, indicating funds received from various
sources, project expenditures, and assets and liabilities of the project; (ii) schedules classifying project
expenditures by components, expenditure categories, and sector; (iii) a Special Account Reconciliation
Statement; and (iv) a Statement of Withdrawals made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs).
Audit Arrangements. Annual PFS audited by auditors acceptable to IDA would be submitted to IDA as
soon as possible after the end of the fiscal year, but no later than 6 months after the end of the fiscal year.
Terms of Reference have to be issued by the PMU manager and submitted to IDA for approval.
Appointment of the auditor would take place by effectiveness.
The audit would be comprehensive and cover all aspects of the project (i.e., all sources and utilization of
funds, and expenditures incurred). The audit would be carried out in accordance with both International
Standards on Auditing (ISA) and guidelines provided by the World Bank/IDA Financial Accounting,
Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH). Tenns of Reference for this assignment should cover an
audit of financial transaction, an opinion on SOEs and on the SA, as well as an assessment of the financial
management system, including review of internal control mechanisms. The PMU and each PIU would
provide the auditor with access to project-related documents and records, and information required for the
purposes of the audit. The Auditor would carry out a concurrent audit during the fiscal year, to bring to
management's attention any issues, which need to be addressed. This would strengthen internal controls,
and would also facilitate early completion of the annual audit.
Financial Management Action Plan
A. Introduction
According to the IDA guidelines, the implementing agency (PMU) should have in place a sound and
adequate financial management system, in order to implement the project and to issue meaningful, relevant
and timely accounting information and financial reports.
Essential elements of this system include: (i) appropriate planning and budgeting procedures; (ii) adequate
internal control mechanisms; (iii) defined links between members of the project team; (iv) computerized
accounting system; and (v) well-defined system for financial reporting.
B. Minimum Requirements
17.   Actions. Based on the assessment carried on and the general design adopted for the implementation
of the project, an independent PMU would be established. The PMU would report to the OC. An adequate
financial management system would be implemented and essential elements of this system, should be in
place by Effectiveness. The objective of these short term actions is to meet the IDA minimum requirements
which are the following:
(a) Identification of the Project Management Team (PMT). This action includes issuing of terms of
reference and job descriptions acceptable to IDA. Selection of the tgam would be made in
accordance with guidelines agreed between the government and the Bank for recruitment of local
- 81 -



staff. Job descriptions and responsibilities should be issued in writing and included in the FMPM.
(b) Organizafion of the PMU. A manager, who would have overall responsibility for PMU staff,
would head the PMU. Job descriptions and responsibilities should reflect acceptable segregation of
duties according to the mechanisms, which would be defined in the FMPM.
(c) Hiring of a specialized consultant in accounting, finance, and information systems, in order to
issue a FMPM for the project, according to TORs acceptable to IDA. The FMPM would define the
flow of funds, the internal control mechanisms, the finance and disbursement procedures, the
relationship between all the internal and external entities involved in the project implementation, the
chart of accounts, and the reporting procedures and rules.
(d) Implementation of an accounting and reporting software. This would be done through
acquisition of available project management software. High priority would be given to software,
which has been run successfuilly by other implementing agencies of IDA-financed projects.
(e) Acquisition of the needed hardware for the project team. This action would start at the central
level in order to allow the implementation of the accounting and reporting software and would be
extended to the PIUs progressively and as needed.
(f) Appointment of an auditor acceptable to IDA to carry out annual audits according to the
International Standards on Auditing and the Bank/IDA guidelines (e.g. Financial, Accounting,
Reporting and Auditing Handbook "FARAH")
Timetable. Assuming a board presentation on December 2000, the Government of Yemen (GOY), would
be held to the following schedule for implementing the minimum financial management requirements over
the next six months.
Action                                      Output                   Responsibility    Target date
1. Recruitment of the PMU manager and PlUs  Contracts acceptable to IDA  GoY /OC       January 31, 2001
managers
2. Preparation of TOR for the PMU and PIU staff  Detailed job position  PMU manager/OC  February 15, 2001
to be recruited                            description and TORs
3. Recruitment of the PMU staff and core staff of  Contracts acceptable to IDA   PMU manager/OC  March 15, 2001
4. Organization of the Project Management Team  Organization Chart and job   PMU manager/OC  March 15, 2001
(PMU and PIUs)                              description
5. Preparation of TORs for consultants: (i)  TORs and bidding documents PMU manager    April 30, 2001
specialist in management information system (ii)  for selection of consultants
specialist in accounting and financial management (FMP Manual, Assistance to
(iii) auditor                              PMU and Audit)
6. Appointment of the MIS consultant and   Contract for short term   PMU manager       May 15, 2001
launching of the assignment                 consultant
7. Acquisition of the needed hardware      Reception of the equipment  PMU manager     June 30, 2001
8. Developing of the financial management  Draft of the FMPM to be   PMU manager &    June 30, 2001
procedures manual                          submitted to OC and IDA   Consultant
9. Acquire and customization the software for  Reception and installment of PMU manager &   June 30, 2001
accounting and reporting                   the package               consultant
10. Appointment of an independent auditor  Contract for short term   PMU manager/OC  June 30, 2001
consultant
- 82 -



C. Improvements
Actions. After the implementation of the needed financial management system, the PMU manager would
finalize the management information system and, more specifically, the financial and monitoring reporting
system. The complementary actions aim at allowing, the issuing of the PMR acceptable to IDA on a
quarterly basis. These are the following:
(a) Hiring of a short-term consultant to assist the PMNU during the first twelve (12) months. This
consultant who should be a highly qualified accounting and financial specialist would review on a
weekly basis accounting and reporting records related to the project and address the errors and
insufficiencies. This consultant would also train PMU staff involved in project implementation at
the central and governorate levels. Special TORs have to be issued and submitted to IDA for
approval.
(b) Development of training program. This action which aims at improving the capacities and skills
of the project team, should include as needed, specific training sessions for procurement,
disbursement, accounting, project management, and financial management. The program should
include all staff involved in project implementation at the central and govemorate levels. The level
of each staff member in terms of capacity, background, and experience has to be taken into
consideration in order to meet the training needs.
Time table. Assuming an irnplementation of the minimum requirement by June 30, 2001, the PMU
manager would be responsible to the OC, to comply with the following schedule, which aims at introducing
the needed improvements over a period of six months.
Action                                     Output                   Responsibility    Target date
11. Issuing of a simplified PMR for the I st quarter Simplified PMR  PMU manager &   August 15, 2001
consultant
12. Program of Training of the PMU staff based on Program: contents and  PMU manager &   August 15, 2001
needs assessment                           timetable                consultant
13. Hiring of the short term specialist in  Contract for short term  PMU manager     September 30,
accounting and financial management        consultant acceptable to IDA              2001
14. Issuing of the I st full PMR           PMR to be submitted to IDA  PMU manager &   November 30,
consultant       2001
15. Training program Assessment            Training performance report PMU manager &   December 31,
consultant       2001
16. Evaluation of Financial Management System   Financial management  WB team        December 31,
assessment report                         2001
17. Issuing of the 2nd full PMR acceptable to IDA  PMR to be submitted to IDA  PMU manager  December 31,
- 83 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category               [Cs              NCO            ther .1         N.B.F.        Total Cost
1. Works                                0.00            17.50            1.50            0.00            19.00
(0.00)          (13.20)          (1. 10)         (0.00)         (14.30)
2. Goods                                0.60             0.50            0.50             0.00            1.60
(0.60)          (0.45)           (0.45)          (0.00)          (1.50)
3. Services                             0.00             0.00            2.80             1.00           3.80
(0.00)          (0.00)           (2.80)          (0.00)          (2.80)
4. Incremental Operating                0.00             0.00            5.00             0.00           5.00
Expenditures
0.00)           (0.00)          (1.40)          (0.00)          (1.40)
Total                                0.60            18.00            9.80            1.00           29.40
(0.60)          (13.65)          (5.75)          (0.00)         (20.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national and international shopping, direct
contracting, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the Project Management Unit (PMU) and
the PlUs, services of contracted staff of social mobilization tearn (SMT), training, technical assistance
services, and incremental operating costs related to managing the project.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure Category   Contract Value      Procurement method      Contracts Subject to Prior Review
Threshold
(US $ thousands)
1. Works            >1 00                NCB                     First three packages & all subsequent
contracts larger than US$0.20m.
<100                NCB (simplified)        First three packages for each branch
office.
<=10                Direct Contracting      All
2. Goods            >-400                ICB                     All
>50                 NCB                      First three packages and all subsequent
contracts larger than US$0. Im.
<50                 NSIIS                   First 3 contracts.
<5                  Direct Purchase         All
- 84 -



3. Services        >100               QCBS                  All
<100               QBS/LCS/FBS,CQ        First three RFP and then all TOR and
cost estimate,
_<50               SS                     All
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$20 million (IDA).
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits).
- 85 -



Table B1- Procurement Plan (First Year Initial Plan)
Descipwon              TIypc'       No of      Estimated    Pn tromeo      Pnior/Post                  Estimated Schodole (mo=tls'year)
sliceslit-es  cost         Method         Review
r/sb       (US 5)                                    Pre-      IFBIRFP       Bid       Contsnot   Contr.et
pkagcsg                                            q"ificuaio               opening      Aad       Ctmpletion
Works
I.Pilot Water supply projects    CW            6        700,000        NCB            Prior                   3/01        4/01        6/01        12/01
2. Demonstration Latrines        CW            3          500            DC           Prior                                           4101        5/01
3. Block Latrines                CW            3         1300            DC           prior                                           4/01        5/01
Goods
1. Household Latrines             G            3        36,000          NS            Prior                   4/01        4/01        4/01        4/02
2. Equipment for PMU  &           G             I       95,000          NCB           Prior                   2/01        3/01        4/01        8/01
branch offices
3. Vehicles  for PMU  &            G           1        90,000          NCB           Prior                   2/01        3/01        4/01        8/01
branch offices
4.  Testing equipment for          G            1        16,000          Is           Prior                    4/01        5/01       7/01        11/01
branch offices
5.  Truck   mounted  test          G            1       150,000         ICB           Prior                   4/01        6/01        8/01        12/01
pumping equipment
Services                                                                                                         __        _
I. Recruitment of PMU staff       IE                    100,000         WB            Prior                   12/01                   2iOI
and core staff ofPlUs                                                Guidelines
2. Recruitment of SMT             IE                    50,000          WB            Prior                                           4/01        4/02
d______________________                                         Guidelines
3. 2"  training session for       TA                    25,000          CQ            Prior                                           7101        8101
SMT                                                                    _ __
I CW: Civil Works, G: Goods, IE: Incremental Expenses, TA: Technical Assistance
- 86 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million          Financing Percentage
Works                                      13.00                         75%
Goods                                      1.40           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost); and
90% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Services                                   2.80           100% of foreign expenditures and 80%
of local expenditures
Recurrent costs                             1.20           100% until December 31,2002; 70%
until December 2003, 40% until
December 2004 and 0% thereafter
Refunding of the project Preparation       0.60
Advance
Unallocated                                1.00
Total Project Costs                        20.00         __
Total                                      20.00
- 87 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Project Schedule                                :Planned                         Actial
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       18                            32
First Bank mission (identification)              02/15/98                      02/15/98
Appraisal mission departure                      05/08/2000                    05/06/2000
Negotiations                                     11/06/2000                     11/06/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    04/30/2001
Prepared by:
Peter Koenig, TTL
Preparation assistance:
Marie-Laure Lajaunie, Economist, MNSRE
Samia Msadek, Financial Management Specialist, MNSRE
Hadi Abushakra, Lawyer, LEGMN
Robert Boydell, Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Engineer, Consultant
Khadija Bourarach, Social Scientist, Consultant
Naji Abu-Hatim, Project Officer, WB Office Yemen
Afif Al Saqqaf, Financial Management Specialist, WB Office Yemen
Majed El-Bayya, Procurement Specialist, WB Office WBG
Chris Ward, Pr. Project Officer, WB Yemen
IWACO/Aquatech consultant team for Project Preparation in the field (4/1 to 11/30/99)
Anwer Sahooly Chairman, Technical Secretariat for Water Sector Reform, Sana'a, Yemen
Walid Othman (GAREW Aden), Environment Consultant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Speciality
Peter Koenig                       Sr. Water Resources Specialist, TTL
Chris Ward                         Pr. Operations Officer, WB Office Yemen
Marie-Laure Lajaunie               Economist
Naji abu-Hatim                     Operations Officer, WB Office Yemen
Afif Al Saqqaf                     Financial Management Specialist, WB Office Yemen
Majed El-Bayya                     Procurement Specialist, WB Office WBG
Samia Msadek                       Financial Management Specialist, MNSRE
Josephine Salang                   Program Assistant
Hadi Abushakra                     Lawyer
Robert Roche                       Peer Reviewer
- 88 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
The draft Project Implementation Manual PIM was discussed during appraisal and negotiations. It would
be up-dated and presented for final discussion and comments at a Project Launch workshop, tentatively
scheduled for early 2001.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
- Details of Economic and Financial Analysis
- Demand and Willingness to Pay Assessment
- Social Assessment prepared for the WB-UNICEF Child Development Project
- Environmental Survey and Risk Mitigation plan
- Procurement and Financial Management Assessments
C. Other
- Project Preparation Report (IWACO)
*Including electronic files
- 89 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
1 5-Oct-2000
Difference between expected
and actual
Orginal Amount in US$ Millions             disbursements
Project 10     FY   Borrower                         Purpose                                        IBRD       IDA        Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P005904        1993 Yemen, Republic              BASIC EDUCATION                                       0.00      19.70        0.00       3.46        3.33       2.46
P005911        1994 Yemen, Republic              EDUCATION SECTOR                                      0.00      33.00        0.00      18.16       16.67       7.72
P005910        1993 Yemen, Republic             FAMILY HEALTH                                          0.00      26.60        0.00      10.90       12.32      12.14
P048522        1997 Yemen, Republic              FLOOD EMERGENCY                                       0.00      30.00        0.00       5.32        7.38       0.00
P005836        1992 Yemen. Republic             LAND & WATER CONSERV                                   0.00      32.80        5.55       0.57        4.61      -0.31
P062714        2001 Yemen, Republic              RY - IRRIGATION IMPROVEMENT                           0.00      21.30        0.00      21.08        0.00       0.00
P050483        2000 Yemen, Republic              RY-CHILD DEVELOPMENT                                  0.00      28.90        0.00      27.80        0.00       0.00
P050706        2000 Yemen, Republic              RY-CIVIL SERVICE MODERN                               0.00      30.00        0.00      28.82        1.24       0.00
P057915        1999 Yemen, Republic              RY-LEGAL & JUDICIAL DfV                               0.00       2.50        0.00       1.88        0.31       0.00
P005806        1991 Yemen, Republic              RY-MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT                               0.00      35.80        0.00       4.51       -3.64       1.76
P049735        2000 Yemen, Republic              RY-PRIVATIZATION SUPP.                                0.00      10.90        0.00      10.89        2.75       0.00
P060132        1999 Yemen, Republic             RY-PUBLIC WORKS II                                     0.00      50.00        0.00      33.43        9.30       0.00
P050530        1998 Yemen, Republic              RY-SANAA EMERG. POWER                                 0.00      54.00        0.00      33.46       19 65       0.00
P005907        1999 Yemen, Republic              RY-SANA'A WSISANITATION                               0.00      25.00        0.00      15.23        0.60       0.00
P068830        2000 Yemen, Republic             RY-Second Social Fund for Development                  0.00      75.00        0.00      74.34       4.02        0.00
P043367        1997 Yemen, Republic              RY-TAIZ WATER SUPPLY PILOT                            0.00      10.20        0.00       4.01        4.70       4.60
P041267        1996 Yemen, Republic              RY-TRANSPORT REHABILITATION                           0.00      37.00        0.00      16.02       19.29      11.85
P005902        1998 Yemen, Republic              S.GOVAGRI PRIVATIZA                                   0.00      24.70        0.00      20.44       11.09       0.00
P039171        1998 Yemen, Republic              SEEDS & AG. SERVICES                                  0.00      12.50        0.00       6.48        2.34       0.00
P041199        1997 Yemen, Republic             SOCIAL FUND DEVPT                                      0.00      30.00        0.00       2.80      -10.53       0.00
P005912        1996 Yemen, Republic              VOC. TRAINING                                         0.00      24.30        0.00      14.25       13.67       1.20
Total:        0.00       614.20         5.55      353.85     119.10      41.42
- 90 -



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
1 5-Oct-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                          Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval         Company                          Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1999                ACSM                            12.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     8.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
1998                Radfan                           3.80     0.00     0.00     0.00     3.80    0.00     0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:          15.80     0.00     0.00     0.00    11.80      0.00     0.00     0.0(
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval         Company                            Loan    Equity       Quasi     Partic
Total Pending Commitment:           0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
- 91 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN: RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
M. East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              & North      Low-
Yemen      Africa   Income       Development diamond
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                         17.0        291     2,417                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas mathod, UJS$)                      350      2.060       410
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                          5 9       599       988
Average annual qrowth, 1993-99
population (%)                                           2.9        2.1        1.9
Labor force (%)                                          3.4        3 0        2.3  I                                     Gross
recent                                                       ~~~~ ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~per  ,IL  primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                                  capita                         enrollmenl
Poverty M% of oputation below national Povert  tine)
Urban population (% of total population)                  24         so        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          56         68        60
Infant mortality (per t,OOC live births)                  82         45   :   77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                46         15        43                 Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (16 of Population)        39         71        64
Illiteracv (% of population agoe 15+                      55         36        39
Gross Drimary enrollment (M of school-age Population)     70         95        96             -     emen, Rep.
Male                                                   100       102        102                   Low-income group
Female                                                  40         88        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       19919 1999
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                               ..        .        6.0        6.8
Gross domestic investment/GDP                              .       26.7       20.9                      Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                          ..      26.8       36.9
Gross domestic savinnslGDP                                  .      14.3       12.8
Gross national savinqstGDP                                ..       29.1      22.9
Current account balance/GDP                       ,                 -4.3       1.5      Domestic
Interest pavments/GOP                                      ..       0.7       1'0        o                           Investment
Total debt/GDP                                             ..      69.1                Savings
Total debt service/evPOrtS                                 ..       4 2
Present vatue of debtlIGOP                                 ..      52.4
Present value of debt/exports                    ,,        ,,     104,9
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989^99      1998       1999   1999-03
(average rannual growth)
GDP                                     ,       30       4.8        2.2        5.0                 Yemen, Rep.
GNP Per capita                                 -1.6      5 0        -3.9       2.2                    Low-income group
Exports of goods and services                  10.2     -5.2       21.1        0.61
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998       1999      Growth of Investment and GOP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                             30
Agriculture                                                ..      20.2       16.1
Industrv                                                  ..       35.4       46.2     is _
Manufacturin.                                             ..      12.2      10.4                         y
Services                                                           44.4       37.7                               9
Private consumption                              ,,                70.4       71.9    -15
General government consumption                   ..        ..      15.3       15.3                   GD1    _GDP
Imports of aoods and services                     ..       ..      43.2       45.0
1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999      Growth of exports and Imports (16)
faverage annual growth)
Agriculture                                               5.0      13.7        0.0    60 T ,
Industrv                                                 7.8        1.8        2.9    40-
Manufacturing                                   .       4.2        0.8       1.0     2
Services                                         ..    -1.8         1.0        3.4
Private consumption                               ..     0.6        3.6        2.5    -20  a9        m
General government consumption                   ..    -1.4         8.3        0.3       . 
Gross domestic investment                         ..     7.7       10.9       -4.4    .40
ImDorts of qoods and services                     ..     1.7       -1.6       14.5            - Exports    -Imports
Gross national product                            ..     2.0        8.0       -1.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comDared with its income-aroup averaae. If data are missing. the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 92 -



Yemen, Rep.
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prces                               1979     1989       1998      1999      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                           80
Consumer pnces                                                                                   ..126 12.2  9.6  60
Implicit GDP deflator                            ..      ..       -9.3     26.8      40         r
Govemment finance                                                                    2
(% of GDP, includes cunrent qrants)                                                   0
Current revenue                                 ..       ..       28.0     32.4    -20       94   95   96    97   09    9
Current budget balance                           ..      ..        0.0       5.7               'GDP deflator  .    CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..       ..       -6.4      0.1
TRADE
1979     1989      1998      1999      Exportand import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..       ..    1,501      2,467      3.00
Crude oil (government share)                  ..        ..       471      993
Crude oil (company share)75                                              113       2.
Manufactures                                                      87      144
Total imports (cif)n.                                     .      2,201    2,442
Food                                                             77       87       1
Fuel and enerqy                         7117                               176         I
Capital goods47                                                           52
93   94  95  96   9    9 9
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..      ..        79       102
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..       ..        76       105                 O Exports      U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..      ..       103        97
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989      1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ mililons)
Exports of goods and services                   ..       ..      1,724    2,640      10-
Imports of goods and services                   ..       ..    2,818      3,103
Resource balance                                        . ..   -1,094      -463   o   ,          t, , I          I -
Net income                                       ..      ..      -412      -747
Netcurrenttransfers                             ..       ..      1,250    1,314      10-.
Current account balance                         ..       ..      -256       104    -20
Financing items (net)                           ..       ..       -61       355          L
Changes in net reserves                         ..       ..       317      -459    -30 
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..       ..       995     1,504
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)                 ..      ..      135.9    155.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                       Composition of 1998 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         1,174    5,593      4,138
IBRD                                          ..       ..         ..       ..                      G:213
IDA                                         109      546      1,075     1,216              F:178
Total debt service                              58      262       125
IBRD                                          .
IDA                                           1        6         18        21
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             186      136        125                                                C:336
Official creditors                          138       143        91        ..         E: 1.891
Private creditors                           142      228
Foreign direct investment                    23        ..      -210
Portfolio equity                              ..
World Bank program
Commitments                                  47       31         60       138      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                20       44        122       173      B-IDA    D-Other multilateral  F -Private
Pfincipal repayments                          0         2        11        12      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Netflows                                     20       41        111       161
Interest payments                              1       4          7         8
Net transfers                                19       38        104       153
Development Economics                                                                                                  9112/00
- 93 -






IBRD 30659
42'                            44A                             46                                                               TT5                              52  5c*                         4-   rk    w&od b,
YEMEN                                                                    SAUDI  AR-ABI
RURAL WATER SUPPLY & SANITATION PROJECT                                                           SAD  ARBI 
= PHASE I GOVERNORATES                 -      PRIMARY ROADS                                                   _f - -  0Soddo o,h S-wqqoh    .       \
=PHASE 11 GOVERNORATES                   _   SECONDARY ROADS                                                                                                                                       i - -  1I
o  SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES             WADIS                                         /                                      ,
f GOVERNORATE CAPITALS      /            -      N      O                                / '
  NATIONAL CAPITAL                  -     G -   OVERNORATE BOUNDARIES              I            ,      ,            ,                                                        OMAN
41$                 t ~~~~~~AIRPORTS                     -       INTERNATIONALSBOUNDARIES              /                 '        ;     ,   \ .             !, 
' '.L PORTS                                                                                          , /
Th-n,d                                         H.booA
0   s \           r _, _ ~~~ToZ=hr=n                                                         s  o- ITh                             m S                 /           / ~
AL-MAHRA
SA jAH                                                                                RAMOUT                 /            -                     M j                                        ;
"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
N                                                                   i
N   N,  V              E01 N\ SA JInlh,h  -1^.:  .i                 i                                   Mo gi'h  o *oro  d   Al Ghoyd_ __o  hQ  
1104~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
K    ~~~~~"   obo~~~~~~~~~!f~~~~~9I~~~~~IA    F  LBEIDA ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~Ac
NJ~~~~N
Gulfu of  Adn
;  0 0 g > tRfl . i>DhamaT ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ +,a, ~~0                                         3-*                                                                             0     5  t  N  0i:\9(
LE'E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G
X 0 0 ;; 2 00 ;\ . _- SSi ....... Nabirneida;i; ............................................ / v U A; f O f f A d e iQn p                                           SECEME
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~ /p  75  10 it+AZX3_   :SS3
ETHIO PIA  -sfj0= - r0;>;'Li', ;i QAilhT--  >S+ 
4) , JIBOUTI                                                                                                                                                          5i ii^:..  s,,;>.i.i2: ..ri ;. 1  t:ir .s',:D     :  d OEME



