Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H351-YEM 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated February 25, 2008 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H351-YEM 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated February 25, 2008, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
YEMEN (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to 
the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Recipient and 
the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to 
twelve million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,600,000) 
(“Financing”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  The Recipient’s Representative for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this 
Section is the Minister of Planning and International Cooperation. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article 
IV of the General Conditions. 
Page  3
2
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
3.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the 
Recipient shall ensure that, annually, and commencing Fiscal Year 2001, until 
completion of the Project, counterpart funds, in an amount equivalent to sixteen 
percent (16%) o
f
the Project’s approved annual budget, shall be allocated in the 
relevant budget of MWE and transferred to the Project Account. 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
(a) 
A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that any of 
the measures provided for under the Policy Statement will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the 
date of this Agreement. 
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Planning and International 
Cooperation. 
Page  4
3
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation 
P.O. Box 175 
Sana’a 
Republic of Yemen 
 
Facsimile: 
 
9671 250 665 
 
9671
250
605 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
AGREED at Washington, District of Columbia, United States of America, as of 
the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 
 
By /s/ Abdulwahab Abdulla Al-Hajjri    
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Daniela Gressani 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in expanding sustainable 
rural water supply and sanitation service coverage in the Project Area. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part A
:
Rural Water Supply
Carrying out a demand-responsive, participatory and community-managed 
program, consisting of the provision of goods and the execution of civil works, to 
increase the supply of water in the Project Area through, inter
alia
,
the construction and 
rehabilitation of wells, rain water catchments and water supply schemes. 
 
Part B
:
Rural Sanitation and Hygiene Education
Carrying out a program, consisting of the provision of goods, training and 
consultants’ services, to improve rural sanitation and hygiene behavior in the Project 
Area through, inter
alia
,
the construction of household sanitation systems, the design of a 
school hygiene education program and the training of local health promoters. 
 
Part C
:
Project Management Support
Support to the PMU, PIUs and SMTs, through the provision of consultants’ 
services, goods and training, to strengthen their Project implementation capabilities, and 
assist MWE in the development of a rural water supply policy, strategy and long-term 
investment program. 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
The Recipient shall vest the overall responsibility for the implementation of the 
Project in MWE which shall carry out the Project through an autonomous PMU 
established within MWE. The said PMU shall be supported by Project 
Implementation Units located at each of the Governorates within the Project 
Area. MWE shall cause the PMU and the PIUs to carry out the Project in 
accordance with the Environmental Management Plan.  Except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient may not amend or waive any 
provision of the Environmental Management Plan if, in the opinion of the 
Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the 
carrying out the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
2. 
For purposes of ensuring proper coordination and execution of the Project, the 
Recipient shall maintain the PMU within MWE with professional staff in 
adequate numbers whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference shall 
be acceptable to the Association.  The PMU shall operate independently under 
the auspices of the Oversight Committee and shall be administratively 
accountable to MWE.  The Oversight Committee shall be chaired by the Minister 
of Water and Environment and the head of the General Authority for Rural Water 
Supply Projects shall be the deputy chairman of the said Oversight Committee.  
The PMU shall seek approval of the Oversight Committee in relation to decisions 
pertaining to: (i) the finalization of annual work programs for the Project; (ii) the 
finalization of annual budgets for the Project; (iii) employment of senior PMU 
staff; and (iv) the procurement of goods, works and services under contracts 
whose value exceeds the equivalent of $250,000.  The functions of the PMU 
shall include, inter
alia
,
responsibility for: (i) the procurement and disbursement 
processes under the Project; (ii) monitoring Project performance and 
implementation progress in accordance with the targets and indicators agreed 
upon between the Recipient
 and the Association; (iii) training of SMTs’ staff; 
(iv) preparation, for submission to the Association, of annual work programs and 
updated procurement plans; and (v) preparation, for submission to the 
Association, of the reports referred to under Section II of this Schedule.  Key 
staff of the PMU shall consist of a manager, a social scientist, a procurement 
specialist, an accountant and an administrative officer. 
3. 
The responsibilities of the PIUs shall include: (i) the physical planning, 
implementation and supervision of the Project and of the procurement and 
Page  7
6
disbursement processes thereunder; and (ii) the super
vision of the SMTs’ 
activities. 
4. 
The PMU and/or the PIUs shall: (i) carry out any Sub-project under a Tripartite 
Sub-project Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
sound technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental and social 
standards and practices satisfactory to the Association, including in accordance 
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to recipients of 
Grant proceeds other than the Recipient; (ii) provide, promptly as needed, the 
resources required for the purpose of this Project; (iii) procure the goods, works 
and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
the provisions of this Agreement; (iv) maintain policies and procedures adequate 
to enable it to monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to 
the Association, the progress of the Sub-project and the achievement of its 
objectives; (v): (A) maintain a financial management system and prepare 
financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Association, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Sub-project; and (B) at the 
Association’s or the Recipient’s request, have such financial statements audited 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association, and 
promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the Recipient and the 
Association; (vi) enable the Recipient and the Association to inspect the Sub-
project, its operation and any relevant records and documents; and (vii) prepare 
and furnish to the Recipient and the Association all such information as the 
Recipient or the Association shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing. 
5. 
The main functions of SMTs, as intermediaries between the PIUs and the 
Beneficiaries, shall be to: (i) raise awareness in the Project Area about the 
benefits to be realized under Part B of the Project; (ii) help Beneficiaries choose 
and design suitable water sanitation systems that conform to their needs; (iii) 
provide hygiene education, and technical and administrative training to 
Beneficiaries; (iv) assist the Beneficiaries in the creation of WUAs; and (v) put 
Beneficiaries in contact with private entrepreneurs to ensure the provision of 
spare parts and the operation and maintenance services. 
B. 
Selection Procedures and Criteria 
1. 
The Recipient shall select Districts in the Project Area in accordance with the 
District’s poverty alleviation needs (under the definition of “poverty” adopted by 
the Recipient under the social assessment carried out as part of the preparation of 
the Project).  Communities shall self-select by expressing their demand to 
Page  8
7
participate in the Project and undertaking to assume the obligations referred to 
under paragraph 5 of this Section B. 
2. 
The Recipient shall mount a campaign throughout the Districts selected pursuant 
to the provisions of paragraph B.1 above to advertise the Project and explain to 
the Project Area’s population the benefits that shall derive therefrom.  Means to 
advertise the Project shall include flyers, radio messages and meetings with 
communities during which eligibility and selection criteria shall be explained.  
Communities shall be given a deadline to register their interest with either the 
respective PIU, the District or the Governorate.  Communities, registered 
pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph, shall be visited by an SMT for a 
detailed explanation of the Project, including their obligations and benefits 
thereunder. 
3. 
Without limiting the generality of sub-paragraphs 1 and 2 of this paragraph B, 
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no Beneficiary shall receive 
financing under Part A and/or Part B of the Project unless the Beneficiary shall 
have first established a WUA which shall have subsequently entered into a 
Tripartite Sub-project Agreement. 
4. 
A Tripartite Sub-project Agreement shall provide, inter
alia
,
for: (i) the WUA’s 
commitment to the objectives of the Project and to undertake to conduct its 
operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial standards and practices; 
(ii) the WUA’s obligation to exercise its rights under each Tripartite Sub-project 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the 
WUA; (iii) the WUA’s obligation to duly perform all its obligations under the 
Tripartite Sub-project Agreement, and not take or concur in any action which 
would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving the 
Tripartite Sub-project Agreement; (iv) the WUA’s obligation to promptly inform 
the respective PIU or PMU of any condition which interferes or threatens to 
interfere with the accomplishment of the purposes of the Project or the 
performance by the WUA of its obligations under the Tripartite Sub-project 
Agreement; and (v) the WUA’s obligation to collect from the Beneficiaries 
charges in amounts adequate to cover the cost of operating and maintaining the 
Sub-project in full.
 
5. 
A Sub-project under Part A or Part B of the Project shall qualify for financing out 
of the proceeds of the Financing only if the PIU in whose territorial jurisdiction 
the Sub-project is located shall have determined that: (a) the Beneficiary has 
undertaken to participate in the design of the Sub-project, contributed at least five 
percent (5%) of the total estimated cost of the Sub-project in cash or in kind, or a 
combination thereof, and, subsequently, paid one hundred percent (100%) of the 
operation and maintenance costs of the Sub-project, together with an additional 
amount to establish a small fund for minor repairs and the purchase of spare 
Page  9
8
parts; (b) water is proven to be available in sufficient quantity and adequate 
quality in the location where the Sub-project shall be expected to take place; and 
(c) the estimated cost of carrying out the Sub-project shall not exceed the 
following per capita investment ceilings (in 2007 prices) for minimum service 
levels: (i) $135 equivalent for new systems or for a system where a previously 
built acceptable borehole or well is available; and (ii) $80 equivalent for the 
rehabilitation of an existing system, provided, however, that said ceilings may be 
exceeded if the Beneficiary shall be willing to incur the incremental cost of 
carrying out the Sub-project. 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than one month after the end of the period 
covered by such report. 
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than Jun e 30, 2010.
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project Report not later than 
forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim financial 
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Page  10
9
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
 
(b)  Shopping 
 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
 
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding under this 
paragraph shall be those set forth in Law No. 23 for 2007, concerning 
Page  11
10
 
Government Tenders, Auctions and Stores, and its Regulations, subject to the 
following additional procedures: 
 
(i) 
a Recipient-owned enterprise in the Republic of Yemen shall be eligible 
to bid only if it can establish that it is legally and financially autonomous, 
operates under commercial law, and is not a dependent agency of the 
Recipient; 
 
(ii) 
bidding (or pre-qualification, if required) shall not be restricted to any 
particular class of contractors or suppliers, and non-registered contractors 
and suppliers shall also be eligible to participate; 
 
(iii) 
tenders shall be advertised for at least two (2) consecutive days in two 
(2) local newspapers of wide circulation; 
 
(iv) 
prospective bidders shall be allowed a minimum of thirty (30) days for 
the preparation and submission of bids, such thirty (30) days to begin 
with the availability of the bidding documents or the advertisement, 
whichever is later; 
 
(v) 
until national standard bidding documents acceptable to the Association 
are available, bidding documents approved by the Association shall be 
used, and may be prepared in Arabic; 
 
(vi) 
registration shall not be used to assess bidders’ qualifications; 
qualification criteria (in case pre-qualification was not carried out) and 
the method of evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be stated 
in the bidding documents, and before contract award the bidder having 
submitted the lowest evaluated responsive bid shall be subject to post-
qualification; 
 
(vii) 
a foreign bidder shall not be required to register or to appoint an agent as 
a
condition for submitting its bid and, if determined to be the lowest 
evaluated responsive bidder, shall be given reasonable opportunity to 
register, without let or hindrance; the registration process shall not be 
applicable to sub-contractors; 
 
(viii) 
all bids shall be submitted in sealed envelopes and may be submitted, at 
the bidder’s option, in person or by courier service; 
 
(ix) 
all bids shall be opened at the same time in a public bid opening which 
bidders shall be allowed to attend and which shall follow immediately 
after the deadline for submission of bids; 
 
Page  12
11
 
(x) 
evaluation of bids shall be carried out in strict adherence to the criteria 
declared in the bidding documents and contracts shall be awarded to the 
lowest evaluated responsive bidder, without resorting to the rejection of 
bids above or below a certain percentage of the pre-bid estimate (bid 
price bracketing); 
 
(xi) 
no bidder shall be requested or permitted to modify its bid after the bid 
closing date shall have elapsed and bids submitted after the deadline for 
submission of bids shall be returned to the bidder unopened; 
 
(xii) 
post-bidding negotiations with the lowest or any other bidder shall not be 
permitted; 
 
(xiii) 
under exceptional circumstances, the procuring entity may, before the 
expiration of bid validity, request all bidders in writing to extend the 
validity of their bids, in which case bidders shall not be requested nor 
permitted to amend the price or any other condition of their bids; a 
bidder shall have the right to refuse to grant such an extension without 
forfeiting its bid security, but any bidder granting such extension shall be 
required to provide a corresponding extension of its bid security; 
 
(xiv) 
price adjustment provisions may be included in contracts for works with 
a
duration of more than one year;  
 
(xv) 
rejection of all bids is justified when there is lack of effective 
competition, or bids are not substantially responsive, however, lack of 
competition shall not be determined solely on the basis of the number of 
bidders; and 
 
(xvi) 
each contract financed from the proceeds of the Grant shall provide that 
the contractor or supplier shall permit the Association, at its request, to 
inspect their accounts and records relating to the performance of the 
contract and to have such accounts and records audited by auditors 
appointed by the Association. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consulta
nts’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Page  13
12
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  Least Cost Selection 
 
(b)  
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(c)  Single Source Selection 
 
(d) Individual Consultants 
 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated (expressed in 
SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1)  Goods 
400,000
100% 
(2)  Works 
10,600,000
85% 
Page  14
13
 
Category 
 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated (expressed in 
SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(3)  Training 
300,000
100% 
(4)  Consultants’ Services 
1,100,000
100% 
(5)  Unallocated 
200,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
12,600,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2009. 
Page  15
14
 
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Beneficiaries” means communities within a District (as this term is hereinafter 
defined), selected pursuant to the provisions of Section I.B. of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, which shall receive financial support from the Recipient under the 
Grant to carry out Sub-projects (as this term is hereinafter defined); each a 
“Beneficiary”. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
5. 
“District” means an administrative division of a Governorate (as this term is 
hereinafter defined). 
6. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Recipient’s plan, dated 
May 16, 2000, and updated on November 30, 2007, as such plan may be updated 
from time to time by agreement of the Recipient and the Association, for 
implementation of the Project in accordance with certain institutional, mitigating 
and monitoring measures to offset or reduce adverse environmental impacts to 
acceptable levels. 
7. 
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Recipient commencing on 
January 1and ending on December 31. 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
9. 
“Governorate” means an administrative division of the Republic of Yemen. 
10. 
“MWE” means the Ministry of Water and Environment of the Recipient. 
11. 
“Operations Manual” means the Recipient’s Operations Manual, agreed with the 
Association and dated December 11, 2007, for the carrying out of the Project, as 
Page  16
15
 
the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the 
Association. 
12. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development credit agreement for a 
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project between the Recipient and the 
Association, dated December 22, 2000, as amended to the date of this Agreement 
(Credit No. 3450). 
13. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
14. 
“Oversight Committee” means the Committee whose main responsibility shall be 
to oversee the implementation of the Project. 
15. 
“PIUs” means, collectively, the Project Implementation Units to be established in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement at 
each Governorate within the Project Area; each a “PIU”. 
16. 
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit to be established in accordance with 
the provisions of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to of this Agreement. 
17. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
18. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated December 11, 2007, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
19. 
“Project Account” means the local currency deposit account to be opened by the 
Recipient in its Central Bank and to be maintained throughout the life of the 
Project, in which the counterpart funds referred to under Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement shall be regularly deposited. 
20. 
“Project Area” means the Governorates of Ibb, Abyan, Hajja, Lahej, Amran and 
Al-Dhale’e or such other Governorates as may be agreed from time to time by 
the Recipient and the Association. 
21. 
“SMTs” means Social Mobilization Teams, the multi-disciplinary teams 
consisting of local experts whose main role is to intermediate between a PIU and 
one or more Beneficiaries, and design a hygiene education campaign under Part 
B
of
the Project. 
22. 
“Sub-project” means a specific development project to be carried out under Part 
A
or Part B of the Project which the Association shall consider to be eligible, 
Page  17
16
 
pursuant to the criteria referred to under paragraphs Section I.B of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, for financing under the Project. 
23. 
“Tripartite Sub-project Agreement” means a written agreement among a 
Governorate in the Project Area, PMU or a PIU, and a WUA (as this term is 
hereinafter defined) pursuant to which the WUA (as this term is hereinafter 
defined) shall undertake to carry out a Sub-project in accordance with terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including those provided for under 
Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
24. 
“WUAs” means Water User Associations established under Law No. 11 of the 
Recipient, dated July 11, 1963, as the same may be amended from time to time; 
each, individually, called “a WUA”.
 
