Annex 2
Attachment V
Republic of Yemen                         E-349
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Summary of the Environmental Review
As part of the preparation of the Yemen Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
an environmental review was undertaken. Field visits to the three pilot governorates
of Ibb, Abyan and Hajja. The Review assessment procedure was consistent with the
provisions of Operational Directive 4.01 Annex E, "Environmental Assessment".
The Project was reviewed and designated Environmental Category B as there are no
major adverse environmental issues involved. Furthermore, there are no land
acquisition, involuntary resettlements, indigenous people or cultural heritage issues
involved and there is no impact on international water ways. This annex
summarizes the main findings of the review, makes recomrriendations for certain
environmental issues to be addressed as part of the proposed project and proposes a
number of environmental mitigation and monitoring measures.
Introduction
This summary focuses on what were seen to be the main areas of environmental
concern i.e. Excreta and Wastewater Disposal, Gray Water (or sullage) Disposal,
Reuse of Dried Sludges and Effluent, Sanitary Protection of Wells and Boreholes,
Water Quality Testing and Surveillance, Solid Wastes Disposal and Storm Water
Drainage.
Excreta and Wastewater Disposal
Rural Areas: In the rural areas visited, only a small percentage of house holds had
some form of latrine, of those few with latrines either inside the house or in a
separate building, most used a pour-flush system, which consists of a squatting pan,
usually ceramic, connected to an external cess pit. After use, the pan is flushed with
water using a hand held small pan or bucket. Other households in hilly areas were
seen to pipe the waste water down the hill side to soak away in the valley below.
Generally the latrines or cesspits are not emptied when full, they are covered with
sand, and the villagers dig a new pit. Sometimes, irresponsible households were
seen to allow the wastewater to continue to overflow on pathways and fields.
Sanitation coverage in some areas is less than 10% and the resulting indiscriminate
defecation in the fields nearby communities poses a serious environmental/health
issues. A major project objective is to isolate excreta and its accompanying health
risk from the general environment. Most of the Project villages fall into this low
coverage category as they are mainly small with an average population of less that
3,000. In the project areas visited the soils were mainly homogeneous and the
ground water was at great depth so the likelihood of ground water pollution from
onsite sanitation systems is low.
Rural Schools and Clinics: Many rural schools and clinics had no sanitation
facilities. Of those that did have facilities, these included pit latrines, cess-pits and
septic tanks, these are maintained individually by the administrative personnel,
however little attention is given to this issue. This could be improved by making
contracts with private individuals to maintain the facilities.
05/16/00



Large Villages and Small Towns: In the in the more densely populated areas such as
large villages and small towns (3,000 to 10,000 population), also rely on "on-site"
disposal through latrines and cesspits. Sanitation coverage is higher in these areas,
up to 60% causing potential surface and groundwater contamination problems. At
the Governorate and district level the responsible body for emptying the cesspits
and septic tanks in urban areas is the Municipality which is under the Ministry of
Construction and Urban Planning. A number of the larger municipalities operate
sanitation vacuum tankers. The wastes are theoretically disposed of in waste
treatment plants or stabilization ponds if they exists (Ibb and Al Baida, for
example), or more generally the wastes are clumped in a valley or wadi in a non-
residential area. Charges are not usually levied, but in some cases, the municipality
is charging for extending the service outside of the town to nearby villages. The
emptying of pit latrines and cesspits in these more densely populated areas can be
improved, if the responsible and concerned authority can provide an emptying
service using a vacuum tanker. The costs could be covered by user charges.
However a major issue that should be addressed is to how to provide facilities
where septic wastes can be emptied and treated.
Extending Emptying services into Rural Areas: The possible extension of
emptying services to rural areas depends on a number of factors: The willingness of
the municipality to extend its services and thie availability of equipment, how much
are the villagers willing to pay for this service, and the accessibility of the villages. .
A good example is the Municipality of Ibb, which provides an emptying service,
and charges between 1,000-5,000 YR (US$ 6 to US$ 31), depending on the distance
from the town. However, they only have one vehicle which is insufficient to serve
more that a small area of the Governorate. Much of this burden would fall on the
public sector who have a more important role in providing health and hygiene
education so that communities understand the health implications of excreta, sludge
and wastewater disposal. Potential may alsc, exists in the private sector, which can
more readily employ people from the rural areas, provide the required equipment, if
they can be persuaded that it could be a profitable investment. However, emphasis
should be placed on introducing sanitation technology into the remote rural areas
that does not require mechanized emptying, such as alternating twin pit latrines and
deep (long life) pit latrines.
Gray Water Disposal
The majority of village households have no proper means of gray water or sullage
disposal. It is usually piped away from the sink to the outside where it is allowed to
soak into the ground, or if no sink exists, the waste is thrown onto the ground. Also,
in general, the spillage from public stand posts or water points is allowed to pond on
the ground, forming a stagnant pool where animals come to drink churning the area
into a mud bath. Increasing water supply service levels in a village can exacerbate
this problem unless the problem is addressed.
The disposal of gray water at the household level can easily be improved by
households constructing simple sanitary "soak-aways". Similarly, providing a
concrete apron around a stand post, with a drain to channel the waste water to an
animal trough or to an area of vegetation, can improve the surrounding area.
Reuse Of Dried Sludge & Effluent
Since this project is primarily focusing on mtral areas with rather dispersed housing
clusters, most of the sanitation installations will be on-site facilities (pit latrines,
septic tanks), with on-site sludge maturing techniques that will not require extensive
emptying services. Excreta that has been contained in a pit latrine for two years or
05/16/00



more is safe as all pathogens, including worm ova, will have died off and is safe to
use as a soil conditioner.
However, in a very few cases, where justified by population density and water use,
communal septic tanks or oxidation ponds may be built as demonstrations. Before
using sludges from these sources as a soil conditioner or fertilizer tests would be
required to ensure that there was no health risk. Current practice of effluent disposal
from treatment plants in some places in Yemen has been to let the effluent run into
open ditches or other natural drains. Farmers have used the effluent for irrigation at
their own initiative and without concern about the quality of the water. This is an
indication that there is a demand for agricultural reuse of wastewater in some areas
due to shortages of water and potential savings in fertilizer and pumping costs.
Villagers also expressed interest in using latrine emptying and septic tank sludge as
fertilizer (although this is not a common practice) because they believe that artificial
fertilizer can cause damage to soils and plants and prefer natural fertilizer. A good
example is in lbb , where the farmers use dried sludge from the treatment plant as
fertilizer.
The hygienic use of matured latrine contents manure and septic tank sludge as soil
conditioner or fertilizers can be introduced into villages through demonstration and
education programs. Septic tank and oxidation pond sludges need treatment in
waste water treatment plants or be allowed to "mature" over time in drying beds.
However, appropriate guidelines and controls are needed for the reuse of treated
wastewater. The technical and maintenance responsibilities for treatment facilities
would be under the concerned municipalities. However, GAREW at least initially
should take responsibility for introducing waste water and sludge quality testing.
This would include the adoption of safe effluent quality standards, restriction on
crops where reuse is allowed so as to exclude vegetables that are eaten raw, control
on exposure of farm workers and promotion of hygiene, and monitoring and field
surveillance of wastewater reuse in accordance with WHO standards as discussed
below in the mitigation and monitoring plan.
Sanitary Protection of Wells and Boreholes
Buckets and ropes are used to draw water from open wells. The buckets and ropes
are often laid on the ground where they can pick up contaminants which are then
introduced back into the well. Spillage from the buckets is often allowed to pond on
the ground. The areas around the well are not usually fenced, and the wells are left
open to the elements. Similarly, the spillage from public stand posts or water points
is allowed to pond on the ground, forming a stagnant pool where animals come to
drink churning the area into a mud bath. This can easily be improved by providing a
concrete apron around the well stand post, with a drain to channel the waste water
to an animal trough or to an area of vegetation. In the case of drilled boreholes it is
very important to solidly grout between the ground and the borehole liner at the
surface to prevent infiltration of polluted surface and spillage water into the aquifer.
Water Quality Testing and Surveillance
In general, limited water testing facilities are available at the Governorate or
districts level. However, GAREW HQ and three GAREW Branches (Ibb Aden and
Dhamar) and the NWSA Branch in Hajja have water testing equipment. GAREW
branches only have the facility to carry out chemical tests. Present practice is to test
each borehole after it has been drilled for chemical pollutants. Most borehole are
deeper than 150 meters and the occurrence of pollution is rare. Occasionally,
GAREW will carry out bacteriological tests on shallow boreholes and open dug
wells or if the community report a problem with their water quality.
05/16/00



Water quality surveillance can be improved by providing each GAREW Branch
with portable water testing kits for both cheniical and bacteriological tests. Water
quality should be tested after the development of a new source and on a regular
basis thereafter and in response to any signal from a community that their water
quality has changed.
Solid Wastes Disposal & Storm Water Drainage
In most villages the disposal of solid wastes is a very obvious problem, as paper and
plastic wastes are indiscriminately strewn around the streets and disposal facilities
are not provided. Flooding from storm water was not seen to be a major problem
although some villagers reported occasional flooding problems during heavy rains.
In some areas where storm water drains had been provide solid wastes were a major
contributing factor to the blocking of these drains. Solid waste disposal can be
greatly improved through hygiene education and this issue should be included in the
proposed campaign which will promote improved collection and disposal in waste
pits to be dug by the community.
Recommendations
The main issue to be faced is poor excreta disposal facility (latrine) coverage. The
project should have an intensive and vigorous environmental sanitation component
to improve coverage and to address the other important issues of waste water
disposal, solid waste disposal and storm water drainage. The sanitation component
should have two main parts, i) a sanitation promotion campaign, and ii) physical
support to the construction of household and community based excreta disposal
systems. This should be reinforced by health and hygiene education.
Sanitation promotion campaign. Social Mobilization Teams should work with
village water user associations and individuals to promote on-site latrine
construction and the development of village environmental action plans. These
village plans would include identifying environmental problem in the village and
mobilizing local resources to address them e.g. constructing rainwater drainage
channels, identifying sites for the disposal of solid wastes and digging waste pits. In
support of the promotion campaign demonstration latrines could be constructed at
strategic locations such as village centers, schools and clinics. Latrine builder
training courses can be organized and the graduates given certificates of attendance.
Also the use of household soakaways for sullage (wastewater) disposal should be
demonstrated and promoted. Other components of the promotion campaign will
include fencing around and protecting wells to keep animals from polluting the
source, concrete aprons and drainage channels around public stand posts etc.
Latrine construction. The project should provide incentives for families or
communities to construct the sanitation facilities. These incentives could include the
provision of a porcelain pan and two bags of cement for each household. The
principle that no household would be allowed to have a water connection until a
latrine had been constructed should be applied. The Ventilated hmproved Pit (VIP)
latrine and the pour-flush toilet are technically acceptable latrine designs that will
reduce the need for regular maintenance.
Schools Sanitation. Were ever possible schools and clinics will be provided with a
good standard of sanitation i.e. a pour flush latrine with facilities for hand washing.
This will be a key demonstration strategy in the health & hygiene campaign.
Health and Hygiene Education. A health and hygiene education campaign should
be staged in the project villages that will seek to i) impart knowledge and increase
awareness of the need to improve hygiene practices, ii) promote good practice of
collecting storing and using water, iii) improve hygienic practices for safe excreta
05/16/00



disposal, and iv) promoting environmental improvements through solid and wastes
management and disposal.
Pit Latrine Emptying and Sludge Disposal in More Densely Populated Areas. The
project should devise a strategy to improve and introduce a system for the hygienic
emptying of latrines and septic tanks in the more densely populated areas. This
could include expanding the services from local municipalities and/ or involving the
private sector. The hygienic use of matured latrine emptying and sludges as soil
conditioner or fertilizers can be introduced into villages through demonstration and
education programs. However, appropriate guidelines or controls are needed for the
reuse of treated wastewater. These include the adoption of safe effluent quality
standards, restriction on crops where reuse is allowed so as to exclude vegetables
that are eaten raw, control on exposure of farm workers and promotion of hygiene,
and monitoring and field surveillance of wastewater reuse.
Protection of Ground Water Sources. During the intensive campaign to promote
latrine building, one important issue that will be taken into account is the possible
pollution of ground water sources. A number of research studies have confirmed
that pathogens and other pollutants do not travel far from a pit latrine or septic tank
in homogeneous soils particularly as the volumes of water involved are very low.
However, the risk of pollution relates to the nature of the soil and the depth of the
ground water and each site should be assessed before construction to ensure that
there is no water pollution potential. Good current good practice adopted in many
countries is that latrines or septic tanks should not be located within 50 meters of a
well or borehole.
Sanitary Protection of Boreholes and Wells. Standard drawings will be provided
that indicate the measures required for the sanitary protection of boreholes and
wells that prevents surface run-off from re-entering wells carrying pollution with it.
These measures should include: fencing, aprons and spillage water drainage
channels, separate animal drinking troughs. Also in addition, open wells require
parapets, hygienic windlass and buckets, and covers.
Water Quality Monitoring. All GAREWS branches will be provided with water
testing equipment to improve water quality monitoring. This should comprise of
portable equipment that can measure both chemical and biological pollutants. Water
quality testing should occur after the development of a new source and at regular
intervals thereafter. In addition testing should occur whenever a village detect a
change in their water quality which they should report to the nearest GAREW
Branch. GAREW will train and assign water quality technicians to each of the
project branches.
Water Quality Monitoring Parameters: The basic water quality monitoring
parameters include:
-  pH and Salinity
-  Biological Oxygen Demand
-  Chemical Oxygen Demand
-  Total Coliforms
-  Fecal Coliforms
Mitigation & Monitoring Plan
The Project as a whole is in essence an environmental improvement initiative.
However, in order to combat any potential negative impacts an environmental
mitigation and monitoring plan has been prepared. The plan together with water
05/16/00



quality monitoring parameters is detailed in the Project Operational Manual, and is
summarized below;
Ground Water Pollution - Mitigation. As discussed above the likely hood of ground
water pollution from pit latrines or septic tanks is small. However, ground water
quality testing should take place when a new borehole is drilled or when an old well
is upgraded and at regular intervals there after, particularly those in the vicinity of
latrine and WHO standards should be applied (i.e. WHO Guidelines for Drinking
Water Quality as revised in the 1993 edition). Before any latrines are constructed
the soils at the site should be inspected and the depth of ground water assessed to
ensure that there is no potential for pollution. In addition, latrines or septic tanks
should not be located within 50 meters of a well or borehole. Water quality testing
equipment will be provided through the pro ject and appropriate training given.
Communities will be trained by the SMTs to alert local Govemorate staff of any
changes in water quality, this will trigger an immediate water test..
Use of Waste Water - Mitigation: There is a possibility that one or two waste
stabilization ponds may be constructed by the project for demonstration purposes in
more densely populated areas and the treated waste water used for irrigation if the
demand exists. Criteria for site selection wi]ll be developed as part of a limited
environmental assessment to be undertaken before construction. If waste
stabilization ponds are constructed, before the waste water is allowed to be used for
crops it will initially be tested by GAREW staff to ensure that it complies with the
World Bank and WHO standards (i.e. The World Bank's Pollution Prevention and
Abatement Handbook and WHO Guidelines for the Reuse of Waste Water 1989).
These standards will be documented in the Project's Operational Manual.
Governorate staff will be responsible for any subsequent monitoring. Workers
handling these waste will be give training and appropriate protective clothing and
equipment by GAREW.
Use of Dried Sludge - Mitigation: Dried sludge may be sold to farmers as soil
conditioner or fertilizer if the demand exists. However, before sales, regular
analysis of the dried sludge will be undertaklen, initially by GAREW staff, to ensure
that it complies with WHO standards as mentioned above. In addition, a formal
"rural waste-water and sludge disposal and reuse policy" will be developed in
coordination with the Sana'a Water and Sewerage Project. This policy will set out
good standards of practice and monitoring and define roles and responsibilities.
Eventually, Governorate staff would assume this monitoring duty. Workers
handling these waste will be give training and appropriate protective clothing and
equipment by GAREW.
Costs and Responsibilities: The cost for these environmental mitigation and
monitoring measures have been included in the project cost. GAREW staff would
be responsible for the initial implementation of the mitigation initiative i.e. testing
and monitoring overseen by the PMU. Subsequently, the responsibility for regular
monitoring may fall upon the local government i.e. the Governorate under the
provisions of the new Local Government legislation.. The responsibility and
supervision for emptying of pit latrines or septic tanks, as well as removal and
treatment of sludge will be at the Governorate or district level, even if the actual job
is carried out by a private entrepreneur. Should the Project work in a small town in
which there is a need to empty cess pits and septic tanks, it would be conditional
that the local authority provide a suitable vacuum truck (approx. $35,000) or
contract a private sector service provider.
05/16/00



Conclusion
One of the overall goals of the project is to significantly improve the environmental
conditions in rural areas and thereby improve the health and quality of life for the
rural inhabitants. This will mainly be achieved by improving drinking water quality
and quantity and by reducing indiscriminate defecation and isolating human excreta
from the general environment. Water quality and quantity will be improved through
the construction and rehabilitation of water schemes and by introducing water
quality testing. Excreta disposal will mainly be improved through the promotion of
a program of latrine building. In addition, by providing a supporting health and
hygiene education campaign, hygienic behavior will be improved which will ensure
the maximum benefits from the investment will be obtained. The environmental
review concludes that the project will generate very positive environmental impacts.
Moreover, with the proposed mitigation measures, the project does not present any
significant environmental risks.
Environmental Mitigation Plan and Costs
Item              Potential Negative  Mitigation      Implementation    Monitoring         Costs
Impact            Measure           Responsibility    Responsibility    US$
Ground water      Pollution of the  Ground water      GAREW              Initially PMU     Included in proje
Pollution from Pit  underlying aquifer. quality testing at               Local Govn't in    budget US$15,0(
latrines                            source                              future.
development and
regular intervals.
Soillsite inspection
before latrine
construction.
Latrines to be more
than 50 m from
wells.
Use of Wastewater  Transmission of    Regular testing of  GAREW          Initially PMU     Included in proje
Pathogens to crops. wastewater to                      Local Gov't in   budget US$4,OOC
ensure pathogen                     future.
free.
Use of Dried      Transrnission of    Regular testing of  GAREW          Initially PMU     Included in proje
Sludge            pathogens to crops. sludge to ensure                   Local Gov't in    budget US$4,OOC
pathogen free.                      future.
05/16/00



Environmental Monitoring Program
Item                 Monitoring Parameters;         Monitoring Frequency           Monitoring Locations
Ground Water         pH and salinity                At the development of          Boreholes
Quality              BOD                            a new source.                  Open Wells
COD
Total coliforms
Fecal coliforms
At the rehabilitation of
an existing source.
Each six months
there after.
When ever the commu-
nity signal a change
in water quality.
Waste Water          As above.                      At commencement of            At effluent discharge
Quality                                             reuse.                        point.
Each six months               At point of use.
there after.
Dried Sludge         As above plus                  At commencement of            At point of sale or
Quality              microscopic exam.              distribution.                 distribution.
for viable ova.
Each six months
there after.
World Bank User
\\StreetTalk\Projects@Files4@MNA\yemen\re\5906\APPR\EMPINFOSHOP.DOC
05/15/00 8:59 AM
05/16/00



