Environmental
Assessment/Analysis
Reports                        _____
Report EOOt4
Moabiu -
Gas .Engineernmg
E Category B
Environment Report
Octber
This report has been prepared by the Borrower or its Consultant



*     J
ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT
PANDE ENH EXPLORATION AREA
by
Paul Dutton, MSc
Consultant Ecologist
&
Sheila Ramsay, MA
Social Scientist
Bazaruto Archipelago
2 October 1993



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
1.    Terms of  reference   .................................    1
2.    Specific details  required   ..........................                      1
3.    Locality and general  description of  the Pande
Exploration Area  ....................................    2
4.  Historic background ..................................  1
5.  Vegetation and Habitats ..............................  2
6.    Surface hydrology  ................................                          4
7.    Wildlife  ............................................    5
8. Avifauna .....................................  7
9.    Fresh water fish ..........................,. .....  10
10.  Herpetofauna ........................................  10
11. Ariculture ...........  11
12. Recommendations ...........  12
13.  Acknowledgements ....................................  14
14. References ........................... 15
Figure 1: Locality map .1
Photographs: .16



ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT: PANDE ENR EXPLORATION ARR&
1. Terms of reference:
To provide ecological information for the World Bank/
IFC/N.I.G.A. to augment the Smedvig report done on belhalf of ENH
in the Pande area of the Inhambane Province of Moqambique.
2. Specific details required:
- present situation of vegetation i.e. habitats
- list of dominant plant species
- present status of wildlife
- list of dominant wildlife species
- surface hydrology
- total area lying fallow
- total area under cultivation
- types of crops
3.  Lccality and general description of the Pande
exploration area:
The area is situated on the eastern littoral of the Inhambane
Province extending up to the Save River, 200km south of Beira
city and 600km north of the capital city of Maputo (Figure 1).
The climate is transitional between moist and arid tropical
environments with an annual rainfall less than 800mm (Atlas
Geografica de Moqambique 1980).
The surface geology is derived from the tertiary/quaternary
period when sands were transported by major river systems which
once drained the interior (i.e. present day Botswana). The soils
are mainly sandy. Soils with a higher clay fraction support
hydromorphic grasslands and seasonal pans (depessions) which
retain rain water.
Coastal sand dunes, supporting salt and wind tolerant pioneer
plant species, abut onto sandy beaches dissected by dendritic
mangrove  estuaries.   Inland   the  vegetation   ranges   from
hydromorphic grassland to savanna and closed canopy woodland
giving the area its vegetational mosaic character.
4.  Historic background:
Early exploratory investigations of the area by various foreign
interests indicated the presence of substantial reservoirs of
natural gas. During this period, gas field number 4 ignited and
burnt for 18 months. between October 1965 and 14 April 1966
(Mario Marques pers comm.).
Subsequent wells were sunk up to the present and these are
presently supplying gas to Vilankulo. a coastal development node
lOOkm to the south.
The local people are part of the Shangaan ethnic group whose
language is Xitswa.
1



TANZANIA
MALAWI(    MOQAMB IQUE
e111~~ ~ ~   11   2Dt3O,Do1 
,Of~    ZIMBABWE
44-'
Maputo
0  103  201  300  403  5OD Is
Figure 1: Map of Mogambique indicating ENH's exploratory
area, Parque Nacional do Zinave and tie proposed
coastal conservation/tourism zone..
l



5.  Vegetation or habitats (Wild & Fernandes, 1967;
Palgraves, 1983):
There are twelve distinct habitats in the area. viz;
- coastal littoral with mobile sand dunes supporting sparse
salt and wind tolerant vegetation (photo 1)
- mangrove estuaries (photo 2)
- Save river and associated floodplain
- hydromorphic grasslands with palm and termitera thickets
(photos 31
- seasonal   pans   (small   depressions   with   rain   fed
water)(photo 41
- savanna grassland (photo 5)
- deciduous miombo/dambo*  woodland (photo 6)
- mesic miombo/dambo woodland
- Mopane Colophospermum mopane woodland
- Cimbiri Androstachys iohnsoni woodland
- blow-out area caused by 1965 gas explosion (photo 7)
- fallow slash  and  burn  agricultural  fields  (machambas)
(photc 8 
* miombo/dambo :s a Zambian term for Brachystecria woodland and
associated high water table grasslands and pans.
5.1. Mobile coastal sand dunes with sparse, salt and
wind tolerant vegetation:
Coastal dune pioneers are represented by Scaevola thunbercrii,
Ivomoea brasiliensis, Canavalia maritima merging with the dune
sedge C.iverus maritima and grass Sporobolus vircrinicus. These
species are replaced by shrubs such as Helichrysium kraussii,
Pavetta e-Ientula, Mundulea sericea. Ochna beirensis, Euclea
schimperi, and thence to more robust trees such as Annona
senecalensis, Dovyalis loncispina, Mimusops caffra etc.
5.2. Mangrove estuaries:
The coast contiguous to the exploration area has extensive areas
of mangrove swamps, comprising at least six species:
Indian mangrove Ceriops tacal
Red mangrove Rhizophora mucronata
Black mangrove Brucuiera gvmnorrhiza
White mangrove Avicennia marina              -
Sonneratia Sonneratia alba
Springtide mangrove Lumnitzera racemosa
5.3. Save river and associated floodplain:
The Save river is broad, mainly dry during winter, with intact
riverine forest dominated by SyzVyium quineense. Ficus sycomorus,
Mimusops obtusifolia, Trichilia emetica,
Rauvolfia caffra, Diospyros mespeliformis and Kigelia africana.
The lower banks are protected by a dense growth of the shrub
Grewia sulcata.
2



The associated aluvial floodplain resembles open parkland with
large  specimens  of  Sterculia  roaersii.  Kigel ia  pinnata,
Lonchocarpus capassa and Acacia albida.
Summer rains cause the river to overspill its banks to fill
depressions along its margins. These depressions or pans support
water lilies Nym2haea sp. and emergent vegetation and are
excellent habitat for water fowl. The non-indigenous floating
aquatic Salvinia. which is creating problems in neighbouring
countries, has invaded many of the shallower depressions.
5.4.  Hydromorphic  grassland  with  palm  and  termitera
thickets:
Soils, more clay than sand, support grassland with large knob
thorn acacia trees Acacia nicrescens and isolated zlumps of palm
thickets comprising Hy2haene crinata and Phoenix reclinata. Areas
of high salinity support grass species such as Svorobolus
virginicus, sedae Juncus kraussii, and salt plant Salicornia
perrieri.
5.5- Savanna:
The majority ot the exploration area is dominated by savanna
reprenting a wide variety of robust tree species such as baobob
or mbondeiro Adansonia dicitata and others like CordOyla africana,
Sterculia rogersii,  Kicellia  pinnata,  Lonchocarpus capassa,
Sideroxylon inerme. Sclerocarva caffra. Albizia versicolor, and
Combretum imberbe. Smaller edible fruit bearing trees include the
monkey apple Strvchnos spinosa. S. innocua. and the toad tree
Tabernaemontana elecans. In winter, a striking feature of the
savanna is the burning bush creeper Combretum Paniculatum with
.  its profusion of red flowers.
This savanna habitat produces some of Morabique's most valuable
hard woods such as massassa Pterocarpus ancolensis. panga panga
Millettia  stuhlmannii.  pod  mahogany  or  chamfute  Afzelia
quanzensis,  blackwood  Dalbercia  melanoxylon.  and sandalwood
- Spirostachvs africana. Unfortunately this valuable resource is
being exploited without consideration for its its sustainablity.
Furthermore, export of uncut logs is being favoured instead of
first satisfying the national woodworking industry which provides
employment opportunities and extended export earnings.
Another feature of the savanna are the thickets on termite mounds
(photo 9) dominated by tall trees such as wild tamarlnd
Tamarindus  indicus,  Diospyros  mespeliformis  and  Mimunops
obtusifolia. The base of these termiteria thickets support dense
clusters of Salvadora persica a plant which the local people use
as an inhalant for relieving asthma.
Dominant tall grass species of the savanna understory are
Cvmbovocon sp. and Hvparrhenia sp. and form the principal source
of combustible material to feed fires which frequently rage
through the savanna.
3



5.6. Miombo/dambo woodland:
Two species of trees Brachysteaia speciformis and Julbernadia
qlobiflora with canopies of even height (> lOm) dominate this
type of woodland. This habitat is characterized by deciduous or
evergreen foliage depending upon the soil's water retention
capacity.
i  major feature of miombo are the dambos or seasonal pans (small
lakes) (photo 4) which are remnants of larger water bodies
resulting from past periods of higher rainfall. These pans
support a great variety of water birds and provide drinking water
for most of the area's wildlife.
5.7. Mopane Colophospernmum mopane woodland:
This type of habitat, on impervious soils of high sodic content,
is dominated by this one species.
5.8.  Cimbiri Androstachvs johnsonii woodland:
Like the previous habitat, one species dominates. These
mono-specific patches occur on calcium rich, red sandy soils.
5.9. Gas well No. 4 crater:
Explosion, ignition and subsequent flooding of No. 4 well
resulted in a depression approximately 4Dm deep and lOOm in
diameter. The subsequent fire, which burnt for 18 months, totally
denuded the vegetation over an area of about 250 OOOm' and
sterilized the surrounding soil (photo 10). However, natural
plant succession is taking place (photo 11) by plants such as
Sesbania sp., Asclepias sp., Grewia sp., Cyperus sp.. and the
dangerous invader weed Lantana camara  which is associated with
f  disturbed   soil.   Grasses   are   represented   by   Urochloa
mosambicensis,  Dactvloctenium  aecivptium,  Panicum  natalense,
Melinis nervialumis, Cymbopogon excavatus. Chloris sp. and
Androyoaon sp.
6. Surface hydroloy:
,The area's main source of surface fresh water emanate from:-
-' '-   Rio Save which is reduced in winter to about 1% of its
normal summer flow, November to March, rises in Zimbabwe.
floodplain lakes which derive their water when Rio Save
i      spills its banks, November to March.
- ',- Rio Govuro which maintains a constant flow of water
throughout  the year  from  an underground  fossil  river
system.
-   Dambos (wetlands) in the savanna and miombo which are
maintained by rain water.



7. Wildlife:
The wildlife situation in the general area is in a critical state
having been the main source of red meat protein for the various
military factions for the past 15 years (photo 12). Elephants,
buffalo and hippo, once common in the region. have been hunted
to near extinction.    Likewise,  species  considered  rare in
Mogambique such as giraffe, roan, tsesebe, Niassa wildebeest and
ostrich are, from recent accounts and preliminary surveys (Dutton
& Ramsay, 1993) critically threatened with extinction. Military
weapons, widely dispensed during this tragic period of conflict,
have been the main cause of destruction.
Parque Nacional de Zinave, which abuts on the western limit of
the ENH exploration area (Figure 1), once supported a rich
biodiversity in wildlife species. Zinave, with a luxury camp,
attracted lucrat3v.e international tourism. Furthermore, wildlife.
apart from its tourism value, provides the local population,
using traditional hunting methods (photo 13), with its main
source of protein.
Predators suct as lion, leopard, hyena. jackal are all recorded
- for the area, Lut now all are severely depleted because of
hunting pressure and the paucity of prey species.
Probably the last remaining population of dugong (the mythical
mermaid) Ducong ducon on the entire east African coast occur in
the shallow marine environment east of the ENH exploration area
(Dutton & Zolho 1990).
On the positive side, the area, in general, is still ecologically
viable and with proper management arnd control of resource use,
^ can be rehabilitated to its former richness in biodiversity
t (refer recommendations).
* .,
W The following list of 104 mammal species have are recorded for
x the general area (Smithers & Tello 1976, Smithers 1983):
Fourtoed elephant shrew  Petrodromus tetradactylus
X Shortsnouted elephant shrew Elephantulus brachvrhynchus
Lesser red musk shrew Crocidura hirta
Yellow golden mole Calcochloris obtusirostris
.t Wahlberg's epauletted fruit bat Epomophorus wahlberqi
Peters epauletted fruit bat Epomophorus crvpturus
p Angola freetailed bat Tadaria condylura
* Little freetailed bat Tadarida pumila
t Schreiber's longfingered bat Miniopterus schreibersi
Lesser longfingered bat Miniopterus  fraterculus
p Schlieffens' bat Nvcticeius schlieffeni
Banana bat Pipisstrellus nanus
r Great brown bat Scotophilus aicas
Yellow house bat Scotophilus niarita
Lesser yellow house bat Scotophilus viridis
Damara wooly bat Kerivoula arcentata
Ethioian slitfaced bat Nycteris aethiopica
EgyPtian slitfaced bat Nycteris thebaica
5



7. Wildlife:
The wildlife situation in the general area is in a critical state
having been the main source of red meat protein for the various
military factions for the past 15 years (photo 12). Elephants,
buffalo and hippo, once common in the region, have been hunted
to near extinction.    Likewise,  species considered  rare in
Mocambique such as giraffe, roan, tsesebe, Niassa wildebeest and
ostrich are. from recent accounts and preliminary surveys (Dutton
& Ramsay, 1993) critically threatened with extinction. Military
weapons, widely dispensed during this tragic pariod of conflict,
have been the main cause of destruction.
Parque Nacional de Zinave, which abuts on the western limit of
the ENH exploration area (Figure 1), once supported a rich
biodiversity in wildlife species. Zinave, with a luxury camp,
attracted lucrative international tourism. Furthermore, wildlife,
apart from its rourism value, provides the local population,
using traditional hunting methods (photo 13), with its main
source of protein.
Predators such as lion, leopard. hyena, jackal are all recorded
for the area. !?ut now all are severely depleted because of
hunting pressure and the paucity of prey species:
.Probably the last remaining population of dugong (the mythical
merxaid) Dugona dugon on the entire east Atrican coast occur in
the shallow marine environment east of the ENH exploration area
* (Dutton & Zolho 1990).
* On the positive side, the area, in general, is still ecologically
viable and with proper management and control of resource use,
can be rehabilitated to its former richness in biodiversity
(refer recommendations).
i  The following list of 104 mammal species have are recorded for
the general area (Smithers & Tello 1976, Smithers 1983):
Fourtoad elephant shrew Petrodromus tetradactylus
Shortsnouted elephant shrew Elephantulus brachvrhvnchus
Lesser red musk shrew Crocidura hirta
Yellow golden mole Calcochloris obtusirostris
. Wahlberg's epauletted fruit bat Epomophorus wahlbergi
Peters epauletted fruit bat Evomaphorus crvoturus
Angola freetailed bat Tadaria condylura
i Little freetailed bat Tadarida Pumila
: Schreiber's longfingered bat Miniopterus schreibersi
S Lesser longfingered bat Mini opterus  fraterculus
t Schlieffens' bat Nycticeius schlieffeni
. Banana bat Pipisstrellus nanus
e Great brown bat Scotophilus gicas
4,Yellow house bat Scotophilus nicrita
Lesser yellow house bat Scotophilus viridis
z Dasara wooly bat Kerivoula arcrentata
Ethioian slitfaced bat Nycteris aethiopica
Egyptian slitfaced bat Nycteris thebaica
5



Hildebrandt's horseshoe bat Rhinolophus hildebrandti
Lander's horseshoe bat Rhinolophus landeri
Bushveld horseshoe bat Rhinolophus simulator
Commerson's leafnosed bat Hipposideros commersoni
Sundevall's leafnosed bat Hipposideros caffer
Persian trident bat Triaenops persicus
Bushbaby Galago crassicaudatus
Nightape G. senegalensis
Chacma baboon Papio ursinus
Samango monkey CercoPithecus albogularis
Vervet monkey C. Pyvervnthrus
Pangolin Manis temmincki
Spotted hyaena Crocuta crocuta
Cheetah Acinonyx iabatus
Leopard Panthera Pardus
Lion P. leo
Caracal Felis caracal
Serval F. serval
Wildcat F. libyra
Hunting dog Lvcaon pictus
Sidestriped jackal Canis adusus
Clawless otter Aonyx capensis
Honey badger Mellivora capensis
Striped polecat Ictonyx striatus
Civet Viverra civetta
Largespotted genet Genetta tigrir.a
Large grey mongoose Herpestres ichneumon
Slender mongoose H. sanciuineus
Whitetailed mongoose Ichneumia albicauda
Water mongoose Atilax paludinosus
Banded mongoose Muncros muncro
Dwarf mongoose Helocale parvula
Antbear OrycteroPus afer
Elephant Loxodonta africana
Tree hyrax Dendrohyrax arboreus
Dugong Ducona duaon (coastal)
Burchell's zebra Eauus burchelli
Bushpig Potamochoerus porcus
Warthog Phacochoerus aethiopicus
Hippopotamus Hippopotamus amphibius
Giraffe Giraffa camelopardalis
Grey duiker Sylvicapra grimmia
Red duiker Cenhalophus natalensis
Suni Neotracius moschatus
Oribi Ourebia ourebi
Steenbuck Raphicerus campestris
Sharp's grey buck Raphicerus sharpei
Kudu Traoelaphus strepsiceros
Nyala Tracrelaphus ancrasi
Bushbuck Tracelaphus scriptus
Impala Aeovceros melampus
Reedbuck Redunca arundinum
Waterbuck Kobus ellipsiprymnus
Sable Hippotracus niger
Eland Taurotracus oryx
Buffalo Syncerus caffer
6



Blue wildebeest Connochaetes taurinus taurinus. C.t. iohnstoni
Lichtenstein's hartebeest AlcelaPhus lichtensteini
Scrub hare Leous saxatilis
Cape hare LePus caDensis
: Hottentot molerat Crvptomvs hottentotus
Porcupine Hystris africaeaustralis
Spring hare Pedetes caoensis
Rock dormouse GraPhiurus Platvops
Dormouse Graphiurus murinus
Sun squirrel Heliosciurus rufobrachium
Bush squirrel Paraxerus cepapi
Red squirrel Paraxerus palliatus
Greater cane rat Thryonomys swinderianus
' Creek rat Pelomvs fallax
; Spiny mouse Acomys spinosissimus
Single striped mouse Lemniscomvs criselda
. Mogambique forest mouse Thamnomvs cometes
Forest mouse T. dolichurus
Pygmy mouse Leggada minutoides
Rudd's mouse Uranomys ruddi
Multimammate mouse Praomys natalensis
Blacktailed tree rat Thallomvs paedulcus
Red veld rat Aethomys chrysophilus
Lesser gerbil Gerbillurus vaeba
Peters' gerbil Tatera leucoQaster
* Giant rat Cricetomvs cambianus
Pouched mouse Saccostomus campestris
..: Grey pygmy climbing mouse Dendromus melanotis
.   Lesser chestnut climbing mouse D. mystacalis
Fat mouse Steatomys pratensis
8. Avifauna:
A total of 424 different birds are reported to occur in the
; general area (Maclean 1985).
The following is a preliminary bird checklist of  indicator
species for the habitats previously described.
;;     8.1. Coastal littoral:
. White pelican Pelecanus onocrotalus
-- Pinkbacked pelican P. rufescens
s Reed cormorant Phalacrocorax africanus
Greater flamingo Phoenicopterus ruber
; Lesser flamingo P. minor
' African fish eagle Haliaeetus vocifer
Osprey Pandion haliaetus
Turnstone Arenaria interpres
t Crab plover Dromas ardeola
Greyheaded gull Larus cirrocephalus
C Caspian tern Hydroprocne caspia
Swift tern Sterna beraii
Mangrove kingfisher Halcyon seneQaloides
Wetlands (excluding the Save River):
Dabchick Tachybaptus ruficollis
7
:f



} White pelican Pelecanus onocrotalus
Pinkbacked pelican P. rufescens
Whitebreasted comorant Phalacrocorax carbo
Grey heron Ardea cinerea
6 Goliath heron A. Qoliath
t Great white egret Eqretta alba
Little egret E. garzetta
Openbilled stork Anastomus lamelligerus
.   Saddlebilled stork Ephippiorhynchus senegalensis
Y Yellowbilled stork Mvcteria ibis
i Sacred ibis Threskiornis aethiopicus
Hladeda ibis Bostrychia haaedash
African spoonbill Platalea alba
*-  Whitefaced duck Dendrocvana viduata (1 000 counted 24/9/93)
-!Whltebacked duck Thalassornis leuconotus (400)
Egyptian goose ALopochen aecrvPtiacus
Hottentot teal Anas capensis
; Redbilled teal A. ervthrorhvncha
] Pygmy goose Nettapus auritus (400)
K Rnobbilled duck Sarkidiornis melanotos
Spurwinged goose Plectropterus cambensis (500)
African fish eaqle Haliaeetus vocifer
African marsh harrier Circus ranivorus
. African jacana Actophilornis africanus
:. Lesser jacana Microparra capensis
. Blacksmith plover Vanellus armatus
.z Moorhen Gallinula chloropus
*s Ethiopian snipe Gallinacro nicripennis
{ . Pied kingfisher Ceryle rudis
-Z     8.2. Grassland:
'  Cattle egret Bubulcus ibis
J  Martial eagle Polemaetus bellicosus
Blackbreasted snake eagle Circaetus aallicus
t: Peregrine falcon Falco peregrinus
.' Dickinson's kestrel F. dickinsoni
-Common quail Coturnix coturnix
.  Kori bustard Ardeotis kori
C Blackbellied korhaan Eupodotis melanacaster
M Marsh owl Asio capensis
Palm swift Cypsiurus parvus
Flappet lark Mirafra rufocinnamomea
Pinkthroated longclaw Macronyx ameline
_  Yellowrumped widow Euplectes capensis
8.3. Savanna:
^ Ostrich Struthio camelus
' Cattle egret Bubulcus ibis
Marabou stork Leptoptilos crumeniferus
Secretarybird Sagittarius serpentarius
Hooded vulture Necrosyrtes monachus
Whitebacked vulture Gyps africanus
Tawny eagle Acruila rapax
Brown snake eagle Circaetus cinereus
8



Dark chanting goshawk Melierax metabates
Crested francolin Francolinus seohaena
Helmeted guineafowl Numida meleanris
Doublebanded sandgrouse Pterocles bicinctus
Redeyed dove Streptopelia semitorpuata
Cape turtle dove S. capicola
Emeraldspotted dove Turtur chalcospilos
Brownheaded parrot Poicephalus crvptoxanthus
Grey lourie Corythaixoides concolor
Diederik cuckoo Chrysococcyx caprius
Wood owl Strix woodfordii
Giant eagle owl Bubo lacteus
Moqambique niqhtjar Caprimulcus fossii
Redfaced mousecird Colius indicus
Little bee-eater Merops Pusillus
Greater honeyquide Indicator indicator
European swallcow Hirundo rustica
Lesser striped swallow Hirundo abyssinica
Forktailed dronqo Dicrurus adsimilis
Pied crow Ccr::s albus
Sombre bulbul .-Andropadus imoortunus
Whitethroated robin Cossypha humeralis
Blackheaded analis ADalis melanocephala
Longtailed shrike Corvinella melanoleuca
Greyheaded busn shrike Malaconotus blanchoti
Glossy starlinq Lamprotornis nitens
Redbilled oxpecker Buphaaus erythrorhvnchus
Purplebanded sunbird Nectarinia bifasciata
Redbilled quelea Ouelea auelea
Lemonbreasted canary Serinus atroaularis
8.4. Miombo/dambo/Mopane woodland:
Cuckoo hawk Aviceda cuculoides
Bat hawk Macheiramphus alcinus
Longcrested eacle Lophaetus occinitalis
Lizard buzzard Kaupifalco monogrammicus
Gymnogene Polyboroides tvous
Bluespotted dove Turtur afer
African cuckoo Cuculus cularis
Pearlspotted owl Glaucidium Perlatum
Pennantwinged nightjar Macroditteryx vexillaria
Woodland kingfisher Halcyon seneQalensis
. -                 Rackettailed roller Coracias sPatulata
Little spotted woodpecker Campethera cailliautii
Blackheaded-oriole Oriolus larvatus
Oliveheaded weaver Ploceus olivaceiceps (endemic)
8.5. Riverine:
Darter Anhinqa melanoaaster
Greenbacked heron Butorides striatus
Blackcrowned night heron Nvcticorax nvcticorax
Whitebacked night heron Gorsachius leuconotus
Hamerkop Scopus umbretta
Hadeda ibis Bostrychia hacedash
9



Yellowbilled kite Milvus migrans
Bat hawk MacheiramDhus alcinus
Bateleur Terathopius ecaudatus
Natal francolin Francolinus natalensis
African finfoot Podica senegalensis
Whitef ronted plover Charadrius marginatus
Water dikkop Burhinus vermiculatus
African skimmer Runchops flavirostris
Green pigeon Treron calva
Purplecrested lourie Tauraco corphvreokophus
Green coucal Ceuthmochares aereus
Burchell's coucal Centropus superciliosus
Pel's fishing otl Scotopelia peli
Narina trogon Analoderma narina
Giant kingfisher Ceryle maxima
Trumpeter hornbill Bycanistes bucinator
Heuglin's robin CossXpha heuclini
Paradise flycatcher Terpsiphone viridis
African pied waatail Motacilla acuimo
Chestnutfronted helmetshrike Pricnops scopifrons
9.  Freshwater tish:
The following is a partial list of fish recorded for the Save
river,  associated  floodplain  lakes  and  rain-fed  seasonal
depressions.
Cornish-jack Mormyrops deliciosus
Tiger-fish Hydrocynus vittatus
Spot-tail Alestes so.
Minnow Barbus spp.
Red-spotted mudsucker Labeo rubroounctatus
Mudsucker L spp.
Catfish or barbel Clarius spp.
Bream or kurper Tilaoia mossambica
Redbreasted bream T. melanopleura
Makreel or silver barbel EutroDius depressirostrus
Squeaker Synodontis sp.
Freshwater eel Anciuilla sp.
Indian ocean tarpon Megalops cyprinoides
Lung-fish Protopterus annectens brieni
Kill fish Nothobranchius rachovii
10. Herpetofauna:
Five species of marine turtle occur in the contiguous sea
environment, three* of which nest on the nearby islands of the
Bazaruto Archipelago.
Olive ridley turtle Lenidochelys olivacea
Loggerhead turtle Caretta caretta* (photo 14)
Hawksbill turtle Eretmochelys imbricata
Green turtld Chelinia mvdas*
Leatherback turtle Dermochelus coriacea*
10



Crocodile  Crocodvlus  niloticus.   and  water  monito  Veranus
:   niloticus.  the Eastern hinged  terrapin  Pelusios castanoides
castanoides, and P. subnicer occur in the river and lakes.
The terrestrial habitats support a large %!ariety of other
reptiles including;
Bush monitor lizard Varanus albiaularus,
Black mamba Dendroaspis polvlepis
Green mamba P. augusticeps
Python Python sebae
Puffadder Bitis arietans
Night Adder Causus rhombeatus
Forest cobra Naia melanoleuca
11. Agriculture:
1.1. Fallow agricultural fields (machambas):
The recent busn w,ir caused most the populaticn to abandon their
slash and burn ishiftingj type of agricultural lands in search
of security. '!ow after 15 years the fallow fields have well
developed secondary vegetation comprising mainly large leaf
*  Combretum spp (photo 8). The total area lying fallow is small,
covering approximately l-k of the ENH exploratory area.
11.2.  New agricultural lands:
Residents (approximately 2 728 according  to the current ENH
survey) have only recently started returning to their lands, with
the result that very little area is presently under cultivation
(< 1).
11.3.  Crops:
Planted crops in the savanna habitat comprise mainly maize,
millet, sorghum, and melons. .:hile in the areas of high water
table (nearer the coast) sweet potatoes. cassava. bananas, pawpaw
and sugar cane are grown. However, the local residents have a
long history  of  deriving  food,  medicine,  and  fibres  from
indigenous species.
;  Typical wild fruits are: mahlala Strychnos spinosa. kuakwa S.
innocua, makanye Sclerocarva caffra, mbondeiro Adansonia dicritata
(photo  15),  tjinzo  Hvphkene  natalensis.   titjinzo  Phoenix
reclinata,  tikuri  Syzvqium  cordatum.  madokomelo  LandolPhia
kirkii, hlanzo Mimusops caffra and many others.
Alcoholic drinks are made from the sap (uchemal of the palm
Hyphaene natalensis and fruits of makanye Sclerocarva caffra,
mphimbi Garcinia livingstonei, titi Artabotrvs brachypetalus and
many other species.
"Toothbrushes" with anteseptic qualities are made from hangula
Euclea schrimperi, and the hlehlu creeper serves as a shampoo or
soap.
-              ~~~~~11



Indigenous plantrs .ith curative properties for treating physical
and mental ailmnnts are too nuimerous to list . For Pxample Aloe
leaves serve as a strong antiseptic, leaves of
Salvadora persira relieve asthma. roots of Hvphaene natalensis
neutralize the rIradlv ztina of a stonefish Svnanceia verrucosa.
|  Fibres derivod  from  the  palm  Hvuhaene  natalensis  and  the
Sterculia roaersii tree are utilized to produce rope, baskets,
sleeping mats etc.
Robust water *-'ntainers, hee hives and cloth are produced from
the bark or thoe "ilbernadia olobiflora tree.
12.  Recommendations:
*  Although nnto  :irt ' t our brief  *-:e w.ould  like to make the
followinq slaqnocrions and recommendations:-
1.  That F:.E   s   e principal developer in the area, play a
pivotal role    isslstina with the rehabilitation process and
conservation    Th'e wildlands resource by,
a)   Facfl:'atina  environmental  studies  using  regional
experts.  :ncLu'fina Mocambique's  bioloay  and  social  science
faculties of Urilversidade Eduardo !'ondlane.  wzho are familiar
with African environments and social systems .
b)  Assisting in the rehabilitation of Parque Nacional de
Zinave  (Figure  1) w.hich  is  contiauous  with  their  area of
exploration.
c)   Providing  logistical  and  financial  support  for a
conservation officer to assist the Direccao Nacional de Florestas
e Fauna Bravia Jith conservation extension,  and to control the
poaching of wildlife and timber. Senhor Andre Chinoce Macuiane,
member of the ENH staff, would be an ideal candidate for this
, important responsibility, because of his profound knowledge of
the environment and its natural resources.
d)   Creating a nature  reserve w.-ihich w-zill include Lake
Chemeja (boundaries to be established after proper ground
surveys). ENH can develop a small rustic camp overlooking this
outstanding lake (refer section 5.6) to accommodate visitors.
Local residents living next to Lake Chemeja, such as Inocence
Farieda, Nordim and Justino Eban. should be appointed trustees
and beneficiaries (IUCN 1980; Cernia 19857 Tinley 1991; Brandon
1992; Wells 1992) of this proposed nature reserve.
e)   Gas well  No.  4   crater.  .e  regard as posing no
I ecological threat to the immediate environment. In fact it should
be promoted as a tourist attraction  (photo 16). The rusting
perimeter fence should be removed. Natural plant succesion should
I be allowed to re-v,eaetate the area. However. the invading Lantana
I weed should be removed from the environs of the crater and burnt.
12



A coastal strip. e?ast of the ENH explcration area, of at least
5km wide includinn Pio Guvuro extendinn from the Save River to
Inhassoro IFiqtirP 1). should be 'jesimnated and proclaimed a
"Green  belt"  .:I accommodate  conservation  and  recreational
facilities.
ENH should urqe Fhe district authority to prohibit mechanized
bush clearing '-rerations similar to the one near Panda 1.
Physical and  -srhetic  impacts of the  .arious .:ells on the
natural envirnmrTI'~nt are limited to relatively small areas once
the drillina .nd -appina operations have been completed (photo
17    ). However. 1'his situation .ould change drastically if gas
was to be laid {rn in the exploratory area- Careful planning for
peri-urban deveIc:nment would then be a priority to avoid
socio-ecolocical :roblems from developing. Supplying gas to the
centres of T:ih.,--r,ro and Vilankulo, to encourage development
I  there, is a SoU dtl fecision.
The main camp  *'D '  ! should receive the attention of a regional
landscape caro-nr-r -  alve it an envircnmental "face-lift". The
*  use of local :'ldionous trees and plants. bird baths etc will
give the camp -l   n tranquil character. Pleasant suroundings are
-  known to impro:' !,.e efficiency and wzell being of the people who
work in this rno -if environment (Pamsay 19891.
I Finally, ENH should include in its budgetry requirements from the
World Bank, additional contingency funding to accommodate these
conservation issues. as part of the Bank's Global Environmental
Facility commi tment.
i  Estimated expenditure for one year .:ould be (SUSL:-
i  Environmental and Resource Surveys  ....       .............. 30 000
Logistical assistence for Parque Nlacicr.al do Zinave .2 25 000
r  Annual salary for principal conservation officer ..--- 10 000
Annual salary tfr asssistant conserva-icn officer  ....  5 000
Contigency expences ............. ..     ................... 10 000
TOTAL ............................................ SUS 80 000
I
I'
;                        ~~~~~~~~~13



13.  Acknowledqements:
Our grateful thanks to Engineer !!ario i-'arques tor inviting us to
do undertake  this  preliminary  ecological  study of  the ENH
exploration area.
Thanks aLso f- riroduction engineer Victor Julien and officer
Andre Chinoce !-'achuiane for their assistance.
i  Paul Dutton.    -                               Sheila Ramsay, MA
Consultant E :o! !)Tist                        Social Scientist
I Arquipelago cdo Eazaruto
29 de Setembro 1993
14



13.  References:
;Atlas {;ooqrafico Pepublica de- "-ocambique.  1980.  Vol.l.
Hinisterio da Etlucacao.
Brandon. 1a92. People and Parks. rhe Wlorld Bank. World
Wildlife Fund and USAID. W-lashington, DC.
Cernea, ".  d. 1985. Putting people first: Sociological
variables in rural development. New York in   Wells, M. K.
Coates Palqrave. K. 1983. Trees of Southern Africa. C.
Struik Publishers. Cape Town.
Dutton. T.P. .and R. Zolho. 1990. Conservation Master Plan
for sustainable rdevelopment of the Bazaruto Archipelago. Report
commissioned  t:.  .WF(International)  for  the  tMinisterio  da
Agricultura. "-hcambique.
Dutton. -   mnd S.A. Pamsay. 1993. Preliminary ecological
survey of Parq'xe Nacional de Zinave. Peport for DNFFB.
Internart-3nal Union for Conser';ation of Nature and Natural
Resources  I hTUCN . 1980. W.orld conservation strategy:  Living
resource conservation for sustainable development in  Wells, M.
!    K. Brandon. 1992. People and Parks. The l!orld Bank. World
Wildlife Fund. USAID.
Tello, J.L. & T.P. Dutton. 1979. Reconhecimento Ecologico
da Regiao Povuma'Lugenda. em Vista a Creacao r3e uma Parque
Nacional/Internacional.
Maclean, 5.L. 1985. Robert's Birds of Southern Africa. The
Trustees of the John Volker Bird Book Ftund. Cape Town.
Ramsay,  S.  1989.  The  therapeutic  use  of  ':ilderness.
Unpublished document presented at the Southern African Wilderness
Conference. Technikon Natal, Durban.
Smithers R.H.N. & J.L.P. Tello. 1976. Checklist and Atlas
of the Mammals of M-lozambique. National M-luseums and Monuments.
Salisbury.
Smithers R.H.N. 1985. The Mlammals of the Southern African
Subregion. University of Pretoria.
Tinley, K.L. 1991. Stategy for the most beneficial usage of
Mo;ambique's Wilderness Resources. FAO/UN Contract DP 9/7
MOZ/86/003.
Wells, M. & K. Brandon. 1992. People and Parks. The World
Bank, World Wildlife Fund, USAID.
Wild,H. & A. Fernandes. 1967. Flora Zambesiaca, MO.
Collins, Salisbury.
15



-~~~~~~~                                     - a.
I. _
- --     =.     ^.- .':5 -  - -'     -.e _!TH  oxictraor-z
-       =    ~      -          -se 
*~~~~ - -              '.C'
Cl _ . -                         . ..-  _  .
0ho1c '  -¢>areo* --ommuni-ies in the Save River Delta.
-:01-is 21'5 -*-thit ENH rixpv oratorv area
-zae r,'216
16



; ~~~~~~~~-   . , .    - - 
- easonal   akes   -ans   -ed tv rain r-water
l7



-,rs _10st-   the EFH a- -
t-e - -ivanna -'massland habita *'hich
-~ ~ ~~~~~es:zs -                   he *vE a rea. *'
Photo <- 1eciduous M'ioinbo woodland
18



Photo 7:    Crater at blown out well No. 4.
_|-L~~~~~~~~~~0
Photo 8: Fallow argriculture field showing natural
plant succession after 12 years, mainly by
broad leaf Combretum spp.
19



-A
- .                   a
iF..~~~~-             t       --                          -so
C -. - ;
t;_    ~~~-            -       .-z         ^         :~- -
_~~~~~ ~         ~~~~~                             -'>       'N'>_ts_,¢+t   r
Photo 9: Typcal. termitera thicket, indicating
/ater-!ogging soils during the wet season. November
to March.
~ -'
_                    -;            -     e  ;X -   _   : z   2_
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--  } s 
,- ~ -        r~-#   -. -          -- 
;&      +     -i ;  '      '             -      -  -
~~    ~ -r. *' - , .-  - :
Photo 10: No. 4 well crater - a tourist attraction.
20



photc 1.1: Natural plant succession at the crater
after 31 years.
-. -.3
Photo 12: Rangers   at   Parque  riacional   do   Ziniave
indicating the presence of bones from wildlife
resulting from the militarY's occupation.
21



0 
AAr
gathrers  A-utr-erPne  o4    ipaig-
>~~~~~~~              C
. .            -
Helmeted Guineaf owi Numnida mneleaciris he had shot witl=irl
bow & arrow.
22



Photo 14: Tourists on Bazaruto Island watching
Loggerhead turtle Caretta caretta hatchlings
Pmerging from a nest during November 1992.
Photo 15: Mbondeira Adansonia dicritata, an important food
tree for the local people.
23



...  I S| |.                     -    * 
7-                                  -
I                        -
-         7        - 
*  ".                                       -  x -.<rST-
w~~~~~ --- - -!f -
----S '..- S   < 
Photo 16:  The blown  out crater of Ppinde No. 4 could
be regarded as a tourist attraction.
- -~   - . a, % WS ~, ,,1, .2'.
-     -  :, , ..  .. 
_ ~ ~  ~  - , '    -*            - 
. -        .~ ..               .            .
Photo 17: One of the wells supplying gas to Vilankulo.
Impacts on the ecology and aesthetic values of
the general area are very localized.
24



.. *, 
PANDE AREA:
A    ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARIES
area: +    42Km x 37 Km
B    PANDE FIELD
Where Pande wells are loca;ed
area: +    15 Km x 30 Km
C    WORKING AREA
including actual seismic programme
area: I   43Km x 82 Km
POPULATION OF "PANDE AREA7
According to a survey carried out 2 years ago the concentration of people in main
areas is the following:
1.   Aldela de Pande                  2484 Inhabitants
11.   Pande 1                         1171
Ill.  Cobngue                         721
IV.  Machavo                          704        a
V.   Maluvane                          132 
Close to the sea side there are few populated areas but the number of inhabitants on
each area is always changing. Normally they are families, in the african sense of the
word (grandparents, parents, undes, sons,nephews...)
From these tipe of fishing villages we can mention Mazadeja (Northem side);
Mucondo; Mutucue
lhe big Cents of *Pande Area" (1.11111, and V)
Wth exception of Pande 1, and according to the old people of Pande (ENH workers
inherited from Gulf Oil) all other concentions of people are prior to ENH activities.
Most of them inherits the name of the irdgenous chief of the area.



The people living around Pande 1 (ENH base at Pande) not only benefits of a small
seasonal lake existing there, but also any time they need E-NH provides fresh water
from the well in the base camp.
In all the area there a considerable number of people (families) who use to move from
place to place.
Normally, when drilling actvities take place, around the area at least 3 to 5 families
settled down next to the Well.
Also in the area where ENH perform his activities, but outside OPande Administrive
area! (in particular seismic survey being carried out now) there are other important
spots with a relative high population densities:
Macovane, 2 Km east of National Road ng1, around 35 Kn South of Pande
base camp.
Maimelane, next to the National road n°1, 15 Kn South from coassing of
Inhassoro rad.



*_ ,,  a88 :' .-. ;F  -, ~ ~  ~       ~      ~        M
;    ;  ;;  * * ,: ;-;
......~ ~ ~ ~ .. v...
8 . . ,. 'S @9 g . \ - ,3 _,_~~~~~~~~~~
!At
.g    t .   _  ;  .   . t -      t-> , b  -g        \        N              -~~~~~~~~~~~~so:Wq
_ e  <5 X - , t t- t26~~~~~~~~~~ALOERADOPOPNUACIONA S
< ._ -v _ v < t,at_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~726                                            _       1171
*g__ bt t S _ - L~~~~~~~~~~~ rnt"nmF                                              '       7AR '77
_ t *. .. r - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAr O                                                  232                704
t   t  *_  _ _-    _    %         FtAl IINF                  1~ ~ ~~~~~~ L  -1 tX
,   .   A           t                           \}         F     l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAAnJ  NlA             NIA
- _ r _ \ _s -~~~ ^ . ._., r- lœllrnNnn N~~~IA                                                                   MINA_
, _ . . . -tR- - ' | Ft^Pt~X                                   MAR07A                     urA            N/A
.  -  - '---  -  ---1  -   -4-'-                  ~~~ESELAU. l:ZSQNe       |



I                               v                                  - t , 5 l.x _ §z9I
CAIeo -"--.----- --------.
1B10_*3A|§l    I-I            J.                    4
tj~- f l Xi                                                                                        J
-I -^
,~~~~~~~~~I !~I/~~ZK      , 



PADE PHUO.ECT DEVELOPOME
ENVIROINMAL EVALUATIONS
Table of Content
Section:                                                Page:
0.            Summary and Conclusions                            1
1.           Introduction    .     .      .      .      .       3
1.1           Desmiption of my own mission  .    .      .       4
2.            Issue of Environmental Inpact .    .       .      5
2.1          Impact on Flora and Fauna        .          .      5
2.2          Impact on Population   .     .      .       .      5
2.3           Proposals for Mitigation Steps   .  .      .      6
3.            Populadon in the Ara  .     .       .      .      8
3.1           Historical Relocation    .  .      .       .      8
3.2           Local Intmrviews         .      .          .      9
3.2.1         A Family Intview     .      .      .       .      9
3.2.2         Aldeia Town Council Interview  .   .       .      11
4.            Flora and Fauna in the Pande Region    .   .      14
4.1           Vegetadon or Habitats  .    .      .       .      14
4.2           Wildlife      .      .      .      .       .      14
4.3           Agriculture    .     .      .      .       .      14
5.            Seismic Programme    .      .      .       .      16
5.1          Impact on Flora and Fauna    .      .       .      16
5.2          Impact on Population   .     .      .       .      17
6.            Drilling Programme    .     .      .       .      18
6.1           Old drilling Programme .    .      .       .      18
6.1.1        Impact on Flora and Fauna           .       .      18
6.1.2         Impact on Population   .    .       .      .      19
6.2           Planned drilling Prgramme   .      .       .      19
6.2.1        Impact on Flora and Fauna    .      .       .      19
6.2.2         Impact on Population   .    .       .      .      20
7.            Conclusion    .      .      .       .      .      21
Encl.: -      Envnmental Report, Pande ENH Exploration Area by Paul Dutton.
-    Report on Chemicals stored at Pande Base Camp by SOEKOR (PTY) Ltd.
-    Map of Seismic Exploration Programme.



EYMRQI&NTAL EVUAT
Table of Content
Section:                                               Page:
0.           Summary and Conclusions                           1
1.           Intrduction                 .      .             3
1.1          Description of my own misson  .       .          4
2.           Issues of Environmental Impact .          .      5
2.1          Impact on Flora and Fauna       .      .         5
2.2          Impact on Population        .          .         5
2.3          Proposals for Mitigation Steps  .      .         6.
3.           Populaionin the Area               .      .      8
3.1          HistorilRelocation   .      .      .      .       8
3.2          Local Iterviews                        .         9
3.2.1        A Family Inteview        .      .         .      9
3.2.2        Alida Town Council Interview  .    .      .      11
4.           Flora and Fauna in the Pande Region    .  .      14
4.1          Vegetation or Habitats      .      .      .      14
4.2          Wildlife             .      .      .      .      14
4.3          Agriculture              .         .      .      14
5.           Seismic Programme                         .      16
5.1          Impact on Flora andFauna    .             .      16
5.2          Impact on Populati       .      .         .      17
6.           Drilling Programme       .      .      .         18
6.1          Old drilling Programme .           .             18
6.1.1        Impact on Flora and Fauna   .      .      .      18
6.1.2        Impact on Popula     .      .      .      .      19
6.2          Panned driing Programme    .       .      .      19
6.2.1        Impact on Floa and Fauna    .      .      .      19
6.2.2        Impact on Popuon   .        .      .      .      20
7.           Conclusion    .      .      .      .      .      21
End.: -        I    ot Report, Pande ENH Exploraton Area by Pal Dutn
Report on Chemicals stoed at Pande Base Camp by SOEKOR (PTY) Id.
Map of Seismic ExplratiDo Programme.



1
0.     Summary and Conclusions
This report reflects environmental impact observaions from a mission to the Pande
Gas Development Project in Mozambique. The report includes findings from studies
prepared on chemicals left over from past operations and on the flora and fauna in
the Pande region.
A pre-investment engineering project includes 1200 kn of seismic to verify the size
and locaton of the gas field, three exploration drillings, and a number of studies to
verify and support the study.
An environmental overview of the complete development project, as seen today,
concludes that no material environmental damage will occur if careful planning is
followed.
The mission and the other studies verified that damage caused by past operations in
the area is limited to local lack of clean up of old exploration sites and one major,
but local, blow out crater caused by the blow out and fire at Pande 4.
The clean up of the old exploration sites can easily be carried out and will result in
elimination of the impact from these operatons.
The area around Pande 4 will be more difficult to reclaim as the impact from the
blow out is serious. The situation has stabilised and vegetation has slowly strted to
reclaim the area. However, due to salt water c on  of the surface soils the
process is very slow. Development of a plan that could speed up the process is
therefore included as a proposed component of the engineerng project
The basif cs  of environmental damage from previous operations are sloppy
engineeng and management.
A seres of mitigation steps are therefore proposed focusing on institutional
strengthning of ENH in combination with setting up standards for preparation of
Risk Assessments (RA) and Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA).
Further, improvements to the organisational set up have been proposed with wel
defined re   b         for independent safety and environmentl monitoring.
No negative social impact has been identified from the ENH opeations. ENH's
relations with the local rsdents was found to be good. To avoid later negative
socio-ecologial impacts from the development project, a scheme for coordinated
planning in cooperaton with the local population and their representatives is
prposed.
Based on the mission and the enviro al overview study, it is propcaed to let the



3
Introduction
This report presents environmental impact observations made during a mission to the
Pande Gas Development Project together with findings of reports prepared by other
consultants.
This report does not include a complete Environmental Impact Assessment but
defines the present status and defines the necessary assessments and actions to be
tken through the development of the project.
The pre-investment engineering project covers 1200 km of seismic to verify the SiZE
and locadon of the gas field, three exploration drillings, and a number of studies to
verify and support the study. The environmental impact of the engineering project
will therefore be low.
However, recommendations are given to limit the impact. Some of the
recommendations are further meant to initiate developments internally in ENH to
ensure a proper environmental and safety policy throughout the pmject development
Ihe development project to follow, but not covered by this report, includes
stablishment of production wells, gas trmnt facilities and a pipeline to Maputo
in the south of Mozambique and Johannesburg and Durban in South Africa.
An environmenal overview study has been prepared for the complete development
project, as seen today. This report concludes that no material environmental damage
wiRl be foreseen if careful planning is followed. The overview study does not include
a later expansion of the project with a branch of the gas pipeline to the Natal
province in South Africa
A report focusing on the impact on flora and fauna from the past and present
activities was done by Mr. Paul Dutton an consulting ecologist engaged by EN. His
Envinmental Report for the area has been compared with my own field
observations and this has not led to important corrections. -he outcome of the work
is given in Chapter 4.
The impact of the project on the culture and development of the population in the
area was done by interviews with local residents and selected extracts are given in
section 2.2.
A report prepared by SOEKOR (PMY) Ltd on chemicals stored at Pande base camp
has been used as background material for comparison with my own field
observations to give an evaluation of the impact of the past activities in respect of
lack of proper handling- and clean-up procedures.



4
1.1    Description of my own mission
The mission was canied out as an intensive inspection and interview program in the
period 6/10 to 12110 1993. Most of the time was spent in the area around the Pande
Base camp.
The base camp in Vilankulos was only visited at the end of the mission for a short
inspection and discussion with ENH officials from Maputo.
The decision for spending the main time in the Pande area was that the base camp
in Vilankulos is part of a large urban society and does not have any major influence
on the life there and no significant impact outside the town.
The time spent in the Pande area was split between the following activities:
* inspections at old drilling sites to evaluate impact from former activities
including the clean-up practice previously used.
* inspection of old seismic lines to evaluate the impact imposed on the flora
and fauna.
* insection of present operational pracice in the base camp.
* inspection of preparations for start up of new exploration drillings.
npection of present practice for clearing of seismic lines and shooting of
same
- mntervewmg local city council members and a local fanily to be able to
describe the present and expected future impact of the project on the
cultural development in the area.



5
2.    Issues of Environmental Impact
Looling on the overall impact of the exploration program on the flora and fauna and
populaeon in the area it can be concluded that the most important need for
improvement will be setting up good internal and intenationally respected
engineering and management standards to avoid repetition of mistakes or pollution
problems, as all the negative impact that have been identified from the previous
operations appear due to lack of good engineering and management standards.
Institutional improvements of ENH are included below in proposals for mitigation
steps.
2.1   Impact on Flora and Fauna
The main environmental impact in the past was due to the civil war and not ENH
activities.
The soldiers need for red meat protein nearly led to extinction of the bigger
mammals, but this population is expected to return to normal.
The impact from the previous Pande gas field exploration activities is limited to poor
local clean-up around the exploration drilling sites and the impact around the Pande
4 blow-out site.
Clean-up around the explorafon sites has to be carried out, and the local vegetaion
can therafter return to normal.
On the Pande 4 site, which has a major crater, it will be more complicated to
reclaim the land. A soil balance calculation will have to be carried out before a
realistic land reclamation approach can be set up.
The planned and ongoing seismic shooting and the planned three exploration wells
wil only have marginal and very local impact on the flora and fauna given that
proper and prompt stndards for clean-up-will be followed. Measures to ensure ths
are included in below given proposals for mitigation steps.
2.2   Impact on PopWation
The ngative impact on local living conditions in the past has been due to the civil
war and not the ENH activities.
ENH has been the main employer and proector in the area
ENH has prevously drilled water wells for the local population and is at the moment



6
ooperatng with the Norwegian aid organisation NORAD on upgading the water
well coverage in the area.
The relaion between ENH and the local population and their representatives seems
to be good. However, full development of the project could later result in conflicts.
Proper planning and information programs will therefore have to be prepared in
cooperation with the local representatives. Ways to ensure this are included below
in proposals for mitigation steps.
2.3    Proposals for Mitigation Steps
Set up a long term plan for the reclamation of the Pande 4 area,
*    Set up plans for proper clean-up of the old exploration sites,
*    Set up Good Planriing and Engineering Standards (GPES) to be followed in
the future planning, engineering and site work. The GPES shall be planned
in cooperation with a well respected company with intenational experience
in this field and shall as a minimum include:
-    Definition of engineering standards to be followed. These standards
can be chosen in coopraion with e.g. Norwegian Petroleum
iectorate (NPD-standards), American Petroleum Institte (API-
stadards) or other respected organisations,
-    Procedures for prompt cleaning up during field activities,
-    Procedures for handling of chemicals.
*      uStndards for preparation of Risk Assessme n s (RA) before physical
actvities are initiated,
*    Standards for preparation of Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA) as
part of project preparation,
*    Preparation of an organiional set up with well 1i fined responsibilities for
an independent safety and environmental monitoring division reporgtg
directy to the top management,
*    Set up milestones where a pre-defined standard of clean-up on the la
cxplored site should be achieved before the finances for the next ecploration
drilling is released.
*    Inimate planning work to inform and coordinate with the local population
and their representatives to avoid socio-ecological problems from the
development project,



7
*    Set up a nature conservation plan, in cooperation with governmental bodies,
the local population and NGO's, to minimize conflicts of interest during the
investment phase of the project.



8
3.    Population in the Area
The Pande area has a very low populaton density, with an actual estimated total
population of about 5,200 in an area of more than 1200 sq. kIn, resulting in a low
population density of approx. 4 inhabitantstsq. km.
The number of inhabitants was given by ENH after collection of data from the local
village leaders who are in charge of controlling the area. See Figure 3.1.
3.1    Historical relocations
Before Mozambique became independent in mid 1970's the population in the Pande
area lived in decentralised settlements. After independence, the war with Renamo
began in 1980 and the population concentrated around the Pande project area to
obtain protection.
hs  decided to leave the area and ended up mainly in the major local towns or
went to Maputo. This population did not become refugees in the more safe African
States.
mhe dislocation meant that the remainig populat  in this peiod lived very
concentrated around the base camp in Pande, as the camp was protcted by a smal
number of National Force soldiers.
In 1988 ENH decided to make fui..'ier seismic invgations and exploration drillings
in the area and it became necessary to ensure better propection of the gas field.
EN therexfore paid for the employment of its own anny. At its peak, this army
consisted of 1000 men, equal to two battalions one located around Vilankulo and one
located in the Pande area.
The ENH army protected the whole Pande area including the base camp, the seismic
shootng lines and the test drillings, including the new Pande 6 well prepared for
production and the Pande 7 well that is producing gas for Vilankulo.
The new protection of the area meant that the fields used for agriculura purposes
could be located further out from the Pande base camp. However, the populatim stilt
stayed overight in the village near the base camp for protection.
Since the cease fire started in 1992, the total area has become safe, and the ENH
army is not in force any more and is awaiting govermental orders for dis-arming.
The former incentives for staying near the base camp are therefore not valid any
more and the population has slowly started to move out. There is however still some



9
reluctance to move out due to a fear that the civil war could come back.
3.2    Local Interviews
A number of people in the Pande area were visited and interviewed for verification
of information given by ENH and for obtaining new information about traditional
behaviour. The ENH information was confirmed by the interviews.
3.2.1 A Family Interview
The family interviewed is living in the village just outside the Pande base camp.
The family was an old family in the area pointed out for the interview by other
members in the village due to the criteria of having lived long in the area.
The inteview was carried out with the father, as the family structure among the
Matsua people means that only the father can talk on behalf of the fauily.
E    :istory
The people in the area speak Matua, which is a dialect of the Tsonga
language. Tsonga is spoken from Maputo in the south up to the Save River
in the centre of Moabique and in some parts of South Africa. Matsua is
spoken in an area of several hundred kilometres around the Pande area.
Before independence the area was much more populated than today, and
families lived spread out in the area.
A family normally consists of all generations alive, typically including
grandparts, father and mother, and children.
The traditional way of life of Matsua families is as a completdy
independent agricultural based unit preferably at a remote and isolated spot.
Hunting was and is used for getting meat The hunting principle is to burn
of a piece of land to make it open and then set up traps far anima likM
iVpala, gazele, birds, monklys. Hunting by shooting is not normaL
Animal husbandry is unusual, except for goats and chickens, due to the dry
conditions in the area, and the connected problems with getting enough
water.
There have been some people living in the area with nomadic tendencieL



10
They are farmers belorging to the same Matsua group, but look for new
and better land from ame to time.
After independence the war came and the area was heavily influenced by it.
Many families fled to the major towns, e.g. Inhambane, in this part of
Mozambique or to other major cities like Maputo. The families that fled did
not leave for other countries due to the long distances to the border.
Some of the families that fled took all family members with them, other
families left some members in the area.
Trade in the area has been very sparse due to the war and the fact that the
people had their normal trade substituted by intenational aid organisations
e.g. import of clothes.
Social organisation:
From former times, the families organised in groups of 10 families who
selected a leader. The leaders of the different family groups are then caed
together if a dispute arises.
Conflicts or disputes concerning location of fields are quiet common but
also relatively easy to solve due to plenty of land being available and the
common understanding of what is needed for individual families.
Expetations for the future:
Due to the peace treaty people have started coming back from the towns,
however it is difficult to estir.mate how many will come back.
It is not expected that there will be any refugees coming back from
neighbouring counties. However, the development of the gas field nught
give work to Mozambican work forces that were formerly employed
elsewhere in Mozambique or South Africa.
At the same time people have slowly sed moving out to sette down on
indvidual isolated spots, as they like to live tiat way.
The whole Pande region must therefore be expected to become poplated
by families living in a dispersed way. The populaion density is expected to
be low.
Concerning socio-political organisation, the system has to be changed
according to the peace treaty. New election procedures have to be adopted
under UN supervision.



11
3.2.2  Aldeia Town Council Interview
Aldeia is the name of the nearest town located a few kilometres from the Pande base
camp on highway One.
Aldeia town council represented by the Mayor and a number of the leading men in
the village was visited.
History:
The mayor explained how the population had lived dispersed over the Pande
area until independence and the war. There was no one who knew how big
the population where at that point in time.
The village of Pande was founded by the Frelimo forces to create a safe
place and at the same time establish a hospital and a school.
At the outbreak of the war a truck was sent out by the government Frelimo
forces to bring the people into the city. A high number of people decided
to leave due to the heavy fighting going on in the area.
How many people left was not recorded but the mayor expeted tt around
25% of the populadon had left during this period.
The present situation was discussed.
The population is slowly leaving the village to move back to their original
settlements all over the Pande area. Some of the people who left during the
war are commg back to live in their old settlements.
The administratko in the village will be according to the new rules to be
followed. At the moment the administradon is supporting those who want
to move back to their original settlements, mostly by favounng them when
NGO aid supplies arrive. They get first priority due to the low possibility
for obtaining clothes etc. from other channels because they are isolated.
Most families who are leaving the village are leaving their children behind
in their old comges, due to the uncertainty about the stability of the peace
treaty. On the positive side, the children can continue in the school for an
indefinite time.
The past exrienc with ENH has been good, as ENH gave protectio
duing the civil war, helped with trnspron problems, made the eisting
drinking water wells, etc. The population is therefore positive towards
ENS



12
During the Gulf-Amoco period the area had a national police posL They did
not remember any problems from this period.
There have been some problems in the area, but they were mostly related
to the presence of the army. The local population, which seems very
peaceful, is afraid of weapons. The presence of 500 armed mens, and the
war, created a general fear.
Social aspects:
The major problem for the authorities in the village seems to be alcohol
related disturbances. The mayor clearly expressed the wish to have a local
post of the national police. He did not consider nightly disturbances due to
drunk people a problem that could be solved by the civil authorities.
The mayor was directly questioned about his view and concerns relating to
an expansion of the activities at the Pande gas field with more trafiic and
more outside staff in the area.
From the past expenence it was his opinion that it would only have one
significant impact (due to the size of the area) and that would be more
employment. Lack of employment possibilities is a problem in the area, as
the farm products are mainly used in the area and therefore do not
contribute to trade allowing other products to come in.
The main problem in the area is lack of water. NORAD is at the moment
financing a water well program. The visit to the local authorities was used
to discuss differences in prionty of new well location possibilities between
local and county authorities.
The following comments and questions are raised from the interviews.
The mayor's description of the relation between ENH and the local populaton as
positive seemed to be verified during all stops. Very often the permanent ENH staff
- - -           cknew the local people welL
Concerning the fear of the local army units it must be mentioned that the umts were
only supported by ENH, but were under die control of the national army and
reported to a geneal in the national army, not to ENH.
It was not clear whether the creation of Pande village was an initiative taken
according to the communist ideal of getting the population under control, as done
with soviet farmers, with the war being a good excuse to speed up the process. The
reason for the doubt is that there was another school, with good buildings, in a
nearby part of the area



13
A-<~~~A
A~~~~.  I-                       V~ic R 
;iLwS
^  | X . 7_ S ,s b                       LI MITES DE PANOE 
A_LOMERAOO  POPULACIONAIS.
f      ALuIA                713 E4q4
_-  *-.r                                     .F                712
...  .  "    >       ._       ,    Z  _ _  J   r q t nN ~aF               7;7s7  
. '   t-      "     _       , _  >;    ii z    u U                       7R2             70X_AMF 
X  -  _  >   .  *t    _         M        *^VXlf ll:               b1vV            1 >~~~~MI
"s   .  <  ~~~~~- *_ = r_.t . !1~~~~~~~M ARQ lN
-;-- ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~~ M14k7                           M ,_A .MIoAr



14
4.     Flora and Fauna in the Pande Region
The Pande exploradon area is situated in the eastern littoral of the Inhambane
Province extending up to the Save River, 200 kan south of Beira city and 600 km
north of Maputo. See figure 4.1. The climate is transitional between moist and arid
trpicl environments with an annual rainfall less than 800 mm. The surface geology
is mainly sandy soils. Soils with a higher clay fraction support hydromorphic
grasslands and seasonal pans which retin rain water.
The inland vegetaion ranges from hydromorphic grassland to savanna and closed
canopy woodland giving the area a vegetational mosaic character due to the
geological and climatical conditions.
4.1    Vegetation or Habitats
Twelve distinct habitats have been identified in the area.
The coastal ara contiguous to the exploration area has extensive areas of mangrove
swamps, whereas the majority of the exploron area is dominated by savanna
repenting a wide variety of robust tree species including baobob. Other habitats
include a number of different woodlands. For more details see enclosed
Environmental Report prepared by Paul Dutton.
4.2    Wildlife
The wildife situation in the area is in a critical ste having been decimated as the
main source of red meat protein for the vanous military units for the past 15 years.
Elephants, buffalo and hippo, once common in the region, have been hunted to near
extinct   Predators such as lion, leopard, hyena and jacal are all severely depleted
because of the hunting pressure
On the posifive side, the area, is generally still ecologically viable. With proper
management and control of resource use, it can be rehbilitated to its former richness
in biodiveity.
4.3    Agicultue
The population density in the area is very low and less than 1% of the land is
presently under cultivation.
The crops planed by the farmers are typicl crops for this ,r of the world and do



15
not have any impact on the surroundings.
The local residents have a long history of deriving food, medicine, and fibres from
indigenous species.
TANZANIA
MALAWI           mogAMBIQUE
A_ \ A f~~O(ABI
ZAMBIA
Saae Riyer /
laziaroto Archipelago
SOUTH AFRICA 
I 100 200 300 401 500 to
1 . .  .  .   p
FTure 4.1: Map of Moz e indicating ENH's explary area, Parque Namonal do
Zinave and a proposed coastal consrvation/tourism zone.



16
5.     Seismic Programme
The seismic programme includes tiLe shooting of approximaey 900 km of seismic
lines m a network covering the Pande, West Pande, Temane, and Inhassoo area A
map showing the first 850 km of the shootings, as planned, is enclosed.
5.1   Impact on Flora an  :auna
To carry out the seismic shooting, lines have to be cleared for laying out the seismic
measuring probes as weil as for allowing the vibrators to move in the landscape.
For earig the approximately 3 metre wide lines, bulldozers are used to remove
bushes and minor trees. Damage to major trees is avoided, as the seismic programme
can allow for curves in the lines Special landscape structures are also avoided if
found on the lines.
Thus the damage to the flora in the area is significantly limited. Old seism  lines
were inspected and lines that were prepared just few years ago were difficult to find.
The fauna in the area did not seem to be infuee by the seismic activities as the
long distance between the different working spots avoided build-up of stress factors
where animal avoiding one set of activity would be influenced by the next.
Further the wish for easy and smooth shooting of the lines meant, as described
above, at any special landscape structure that could shelter special species would
be avoided if at all possible.
Seve   days used for random inspection of the seismic lines verified that the
priciple of avoiding major landscape structures had been followed.
It was also found tat the landscape was of a genral flat charact allownmg for
rainfall to be absorbed locally in the ground, so that no erosion problems were found
in old or new seismic lines.
As the area covered by the sesmic shooting is large, it was not possible, even
though seveal days were used, to inspwect more than a fraton of the total lines. The
land ispections was carried out during travel in between the diffent working spots
in the Pande area.
At the end of the mission an airborne inspecton was mried out folowing one of the
Temane lines and verified that no major dirence could be idenftfied between what
has been inspected on the land and what could be seen from the air.



17
5.2   Impact on Population
According to the histoical descriptions for the area given both by the ENH staff and
veuified by local interviews, the presence of ENH influenced the population
signifiantly in the period after the independence in a positive way as ENH was main
employer in the area, supplier of fresh water wells and protector during the civil
war.
By ENH employing local people, there were higher import possibilities for goods for
the local population. The leaders in the nearby village considered this very
important, as other local products did not give any major contribution to trade
activities.
The water wells drilled by ENH have been important for obtaining fresh water in the
area However several of the wells in the nearby village had problems with the
manual pumps. A NORAD program for water well improvement in the area, just
started in cooperaton with ENH, will be of importance for keeping proper fresh
water supplies.



18
6.     Drilling Programme
6.1    Old driling Programme
All wels, except nos 3 and 5 which are abandoned and are not visible any more,
were visited either by myself or by other inspection teams and the area around them
inspected.
Several of the wells were completely abandoned with only slight indication of actual
positions. No environmental effects could be observed around those wells.
Other wells had a small concrete pit with the christmas-tree, waiting for possible re-
opening after drilling out an installed concrete plug. Existing wells were mostly
fenced, however, a number were missing both fences and proper clean up of the old
drilling site.
The last well drilled still had the old rig stopped on top without any clean up.
It can, therefor-, be concluded, that the old exploration program had been stopped
without bringing the necessary technical and environmental actions to a complete halt
at all locations.
6.1.1  Impact on Flora and Fauna
Some of the previous exploration drilling.sites have not been properly cleaned after
end of drilling activities. Those sites contains both spills of chemicals used as well
as broken wires, worn out drill bits, and other scrap mateials. The SOEKOR report
has shown that a lot of unused chemicals have been left over from the operations,
most of them at the base camp.
This is unacceptable from an environmental point of view as the left-over materials
and spills can cause injuries to humans or espeay to animals.
Ihe clea-up of these sites should be rather simple. The chemical spills are easy to
collect or deposit due to the low toicity of the chemicls used, and the scrap
matials can be collected by simple manual ways and mostly sent away as scrap
metal for recycling.
Clea up of the Pande 4 site is much more complicated due to the blow-out and fre
which damaged the area up to 1,000 metre from the initial blow out spot.
The most important for the preset project must be to prevent repetion of this
disaster.
ComphMel e cnwt of the damaged land will be cosdy, and a realistic approach



19
will have to be applied.
The Environmental Report of the Pande ENH Exploration Area recommends that the
area be maintained as it is and be promoted as tourist attraction. This cannot be
recommended as ENH should focus its limited manpower on prqoject development
and operaion rather than such dubious fringe activities.
Visual inspection of the crater supports the conclusion that the damage around the
crater has stabilised, and the vegetation is slowly coming back.
It is therefore recommended that bulldozers/scrapers be used to fill the salt water
contaminated soil and sand layer from the last blow out into the crater. After this
transfer of conind material a general levelling out of the area could be carried
out It wil be necessary to calculate a total soil balance over the crater area before
starting moving uncontaminated soil around. The area could eventually end up as a
rain season lake due to the lack of filling materials.
6.1.2  Impact on Population
The impact of the old exploration program on the populatiom is very similar to the
effect of the sesmic program as described in section 4.2.
The protection given by ENH to the local population during the civil war was the
basis for the population to stay in the area, otherwise, it is likely that the population
would have had to leave the area.
6.2    Planned drilling Programme
A further three exploratLon wells are planned to be carried out after analyzing the
result of the seismic programme. The exact locations for the wells have not been
selectd yet.
6.2.1  lIpact on Flora and Fanna
To carry out the new drilling program it will be necessary to clear new access-roads
to the selected drilling sites. The flora and fauma have shown their ability to recover
afer the previous drlling activities, even though the old equipment demanded very
wid roads as the dng  rig could not be take apart.
The impact from new access roads would be highly dependent on a proper planning
of the coming drilling acdvities to avoid clearing unncessary roads.



I
20
It is therefore recommended that the complete exploration program be planned
together with a tansportation program for the equipment. It is also recommended to
use new modulised rigs that can be transported without excessive clearings of access
roads.
An indirect effect of the protection from ENH and the peace agreement has been that
the population is moving out of the villages and spreading out in the area. Hunting
for monkeys and other small animals has increased and according to local hunters
their numbers will decrease. On the other hand large animals like elephants are
expected to come back after nearly total extinction during the civil war.
6.2.2  Impact on Populaton
The impact from the engineering project on the local population is limited to creating
a number of new jobs, which will result in a major but short term economical
improvement for the population.
It is not likely that the sites to be sulected for the throe epatin wells will conflict
with any local settlement interests. Should a preferred site be occupied by a new
setler, it should be relatively easy to define an economical comeion that will
make it attive to re-settle. Alternatively, a minor change of the prefered
exploration site should be possible.



21
7.     Concusion
The environmental impact from the previous operations at the Pande gas field has
not ben severe. However, some recaimadon work combined with a better standard
of opeation and clean up will be needed if the situation is to improve instead of
gettng worse.
Migatio steps to be followed has therefore been developed, the main ones being:
*    Reclaation of the Pande 4 area,
Proper clean ip of the old exploration sites,
*    Good Planning and Engineering Standards (GPES) to be followed in fte
future, including:
-    Defition of enging standrds to be followed e.g. Norwegian
Petroleum Directorate (NPD-standards) or American Petroleum
Insttut (API-sandards),
-    Prompt claning up during field activities,
-    Chemical handling procedures.
-    Risk Assessments (RA) to be prepared before physical activities are
initiated,
*    Environmental Impact AssessmS (EIA) to be part of project preparda ,
*    BEsablishing a unit with wel defined responsibilites for independent safety
and envirnmental monitoring and reporting direcdy to the top management,
*    Cleaning up the last explored site before the next exploration drilling is
autwrizd.
*    Providig information to and coorg with fte local population to avoid
so- o-eical problems from the development prqect,
*    Preparing a nature conservatio plan to mmimiz conflicts of interest dug
te investmt phase of the project.
If these mittioEn steps are followed properly it is my oppinion that the project can be
developed wihout any unacle issues of envimmental impact



MKT NO:R83/PROJECT NO: 124
ENH MOCAMBIQUE
REPORT ON CHEMICALS STORED AT
PANDE BASE CAMP
October 1993
PREPARED FOR:                                 PREPARED BY:
EMPRESA NACIONAL                              SOEKOR IPTY)Ltd
DE HIDROCARBONETOS DE MOCAMBIQUE (ENH)        Frans Conradie Drive 151
Avenida Fernao de Magalhaes 34.               P.O. Box 307
P.O. Box 4787                                 PAROW
MAPUTO                                        CAPE TOWN
7500
Tel:  (092581) 4276341429456                  Tel:  (02721) 938-3911
Fax:  (092581) 30931                          Fax:  (02721)938-3424
S   R



CONSULTANTS REPORT
This report has been prepared as a consulting service by Soekor (Pty) Ltd to
Empresa Nacional de Hidrocarbonetos de Mocarrbique (ENHI. While every
effort has been made to ensure that the interpretations presented are the
best that can be derived from the information available, Soekor makes no
warranty as to the value or validity of the interpretations presented and
accepts no liability for interpretations or inferences drawn therefrom or for
actions taken by the client ont he basis of any such inferences or
interpretations.
COPYRIGHT
Soekor (Pty) Ltd is the owner of the copyright in this report. No part of this
publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or language, or by
any means electronic, mechanical or chemical, including photocopying,
recording or any information storage and retrieval system, without
permission in writing from Soekor (Pty) Ltd. Soekor has authorized ENH to
make copies of this report for their own use.
SKOR



ENH MOCAMBIQUE                                     Project No: 124
REPORT ON CHEMICALS STORED AT PANDE BASE CAMP
OBJECTIVES
1.   To provide an inventory of drilling fluid and cement chemicals
and their location at the Pande base camp.
2.   To advise on the disposal or the retention of these chemicals
for future drilling operations.
3.   To suggest possible alternative uses for selected chemicals
4.   To carry out analyses to identify chemicals of uncertain
composition.
E5EF:



ENH MOCAMBIQUE                                     Project No: 124
Pagel of 7
REPORT ON CHEMICALS STORED AT PANDE BASE CAMP
CONTENTS
1.0  INTRODUCTION
2.0  FUTURE DRILLING PROJECTS
3.0  CHEMICAL USES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
3.1  CMC - Carboxy Methyl Cellucose
3.2  Baryte
3.3  Sodium Bicarbonate
3.4  Calcium Chloride
3.5  Graphite
3.6  Salt
3.7  Bentonite
3.8  Cement and Bentonite
3.9  Baroid - Cellex
3.10 Baroid - Q Broxin
3.11 Lignosulphonate
3.12 Caustic
3.13 Chemicals - ExPande- 11
3.14 Cement Additives
3.15 Gypsum
4.0  CHEMICAL ANALYSES
ANNEXURE
1.   Table of Chemical Inventory
2.   Chemical Location Maps
3.   Product Information
4.   Results of Sample Analysis
O;F
<                                                       ,J~~~~



ENH MOCAMBIQUE                                      Project No: " 24
Page2 of 7
REPORT ON CHEMICALS STORED AT PANDE BASE CAMP
1.0  INTRODUCTION
A chemical stock count was conducted at the Pande base camp from
23-24 September 1993.
The objectives of this exercise were to:
1.   Supply ENH with a chemical inventory;
2.   To advise ENH on the disposal or retention of these chemicals;
3.   To suggest possible alternative uses for selected chemicals.
Five chemicals were unidentifiable and samples were taken and
analysed in Cape Town. The results of this analysis are attached in
Annexure 4.
2.0  FUTURE DRILLING PROJECTS
It is strongly recommended that prior to any furthe drilling activities,
an experienced drilling fluid consultant be mobilise-J to inspect the
available chemicals and to assess the possibility of designing an
effective drilling fluid programme utilising the chemicals presently
available at the Pande base camp. He should also be capable of
advising on disposal and/or alternative markets for possible sales.
3.0  CHEMICAL USES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
3.1  CMC - Carboxy Methyl Cellucose
C.M.C is a water soluble polymer which is used in drilling fluids as a
viscofier and filtrate controller.
It is non-toxic.
It is recommended that the CMC be sorted and the undamaged
material stockpiled for possible future drilling operations, or for sale or
alternative use.
cm



ENH MOCAMBIQUE                                       Project No: 124
Page3 of 7
REPORT ON CHEMICALS STORED AT PANDE BASE CAMP
Alternative uises:
Detergents, soaps, food products leg, ice cream), textile industry,
paper, paint, cosmetics.
3.2  Baryte (Barium Sulphate)
Baryte is a non-toxic, inert substance used for weighing up drilling
fluids. There is a necessary requirement for baryte in future drilling
programmes, and the stock at Pande should be kept until no longer
required. Formation over-pressures are difficult to predict and it is
advisable to be well prepared.
The baryte stored at the Pande-1 1 wellsite, should be returned to the
base camp.
Market prices of baryte vary from $120/ton to $185/ton.
Alternative uses:
Paints, textile industry, rubber, plastics.
3.3  Sodium bicarbonate
Used to treat out cement contamination from drilling fluids.
Recommended to retain for future drilling operations.
Alternative uses:
Manufacture of effervescent beverages, baking powder, treating
wool, fire extinguishers, pharmaceuticals.
SO5K-



ENH MOCAMBIaUE                                       Project No: 124
Page4 of 7
REPORT ON CHEMICALS STORED AT PANDE BASE CAMP
3.4  Calcium chloride
Used in drilling fluids to stabilise clays
Recommended to retain for future drilling operations.
Alternative uses:
Concrete conditioning, paper industry, pharmaceuticals.
3.5  Graphite
Occasionally used in drilling fluids to reduce friction (pump) pressures
and to improve hole slickness.
Recommend to await advice from drilling fluid consultant.
Alternative uses:
Lubricants, paints, seal rings, pencils, self lubricating bearings.
3.6  Salt (Sodium chloride)
Used in drilling fluid to stabilise clays.
Recommended to retain for future drilling operations
Alternative uses
Table salt, metallurgy, food preservative, soap manufacture.
herbicide, fire extinguishing.
3.7  Bentonite
Used in drilling fluid as a viscofier and filtrate controller.
Recommended to retain for future drilling operations.
cr
6



ENH MOCAMBIQUE                                       Project No: 124
Page5 of 7
REPORT ON CHEMICALS STORED AT PANDE BASE CAMP
Alternative uses:
Cement extender (in oil well cementing), cosmetics, polishes,
ceramics, food additive.
3.8  Cement and Bentonite (mixed)
Recommended to be analysed for possible use for an extended
cement slurry in future drilling operations. Soekor has the necessary
resources to conduct this investigation.
3.9  Baroid - Cellex
This is an organic polymer (sodium CMCI
This chemical should be stock piled with the other usable CMC, for
possible future use. Lab test should be performed on the substance to
substantiate its properties. Soekor would be able to assist with this.
Recommended to await advice from drilling fluid consultant.
3.10 Baroid - Q Broxin
This is a ferrochrome lignosulphonate, used in drilling fluids as a
thinner and fitrate controller.
It is recommended that this substance is retained to await for advice
from drilling fluid consultant.
3.11 Lignosulphonate (Russian supplied)
This is a lignosulphonate, used in drilling fluids as a thinner and
filtrate controller.
6
<           .                 __             _~~~~~~~~~~~s~fc



ENH MOCAMBIQUE                                      Project No: 124
PageB of 7
REPORT ON CHEMICALS STORED AT PANDE BASE CAMP
It is recommended that this substance is retained to await for advice
from drilling fluid consultant.
3.12 Caustic (Sodium Hydroxide)
Used in drilling fluids as ph controller.
To be retained for future drilling operations
3.13 Chemicals - Ex Pande - 11
These chemicals include:
Polymers (HIPACI
Polymers (Antisol)
Borewell - C (Lignosulphonate)
Bugbuster (Bactericide)
Microbiocide (used in completion fluids)
To be retained for future drilling operations:
3.14 Cement Additives
These include CFR - 2. CFR - 3 and Hallad - 22. The. should be
retained for future drilling operations.
3.15 Gypsum
Used in drilling fluids to stabilise clays. To be retained for future
drilling operations.
_ .~~~~~
saEED;~



ENH MOCAMBIQUE                                      Project No: 124
Page7 of 7
REPORT ON CHEMICALS STORED AT PANDE BASE CAMP
4.0 CHEMICAL ANALYSES
The chemical stored outside at the Pande base camp have been
analysed. The white powder (approx 357 drums) has been identified
as Calcium Chloride - Annexure 4, Sample 4.
The liquid in the other containers, (approx. 71 drums) appears to be a
pre-prepared drilling mud - Annexure 4, Sample 5. This should be kept
pending the advise of a drilling fluid consultant.
Sample #1, - Location store #2 Area A, was analysed as Sodium
Bicarbonate.
Sample #2, - Location store #4 Area E, was similar to Sample #1
(Sodium Bicarbonatel.
Sample #3, - Location store #4 Area C, was analysed as
lignosulphonate.
.                                     b~~~~~~~~sEa



I  I
ENH MOCAMBIQUE                              Project No: 124
REPORT ON CHEMICALS STORED AT PANDE BASE CAMP      -
ANNEXURE 1
1 .
I
,             __~~(



CHEMICAL INVENTORY
STORE LOCATION
DESCRIPTION:.             1    2    3        4        5         6       Outside  Panda - II Total
CMC                       33T  2T.                    6,6T      .       .        .          41L,6T
Barite                    -     90T |        .        245T      6,25T            29         370T
Bentonite and cement (loose                  I S 15T  .         0,5 T                       15,5T
Bentonite      ___. _                                 16T       .1.T_            .          16T
Caustic                                      600kg    2200kg  .           .                 2,8T
Gypsum                    .                           7.5T-                      .          7,5T
Sodium Bicarbonate         _                  2T      3T                           _        5,OT
Salt (NaCL)                                                     IOT                         1 O.OT
Graphite                  ._._._.   115T                         3T    .                    4,5T
Nut plug Loss circ. mat.l                    18T     .                  - .  .   .          18T
LMgnosulphonate                              0,5 T                                          0 .  0,5T
Hioac Polymor                                1   kOOkn  .       .                .          1 T  _                 Z
LoRac polYmer lAntisol)   .                  5450kg                                         5,45T                  x
Bug Buster    _                              2501     .         .       .          _        2501
Borewell C                                   1 000kg                                        I    T                 m
Microblocide                                 251 .         .                                251
Calcium chloride          .    .    .        .        .         .       9 T      .          ST
Q-Boxin ILlonosulphonatel   .    .    .      .        4,4T      .       .        .          4,4T
Cellex (Polymer)          .                           4A4T      .       .                   4,4T
Cement Class A          .                                        0T                         I _  .   1 OT
CFR 3 ICement Dispersant)                             . 1.k             . _                 100kg
Hallad - 22 (fluld loss addl_                6001bs   .    _  .         .        .          6001bs
CFR 2 (Cement Dispersant)   _        6001b      =        =        =                         600lbs
T- Tonnes
V ~~~.,._



0~ ~~~~~~ 1
ENH MOCAMBIQUE                               Project No: 124
REPORT ON CHEMICALS STORED AT PANDE BASE CAMP
ANNEXURE 2
,,
v . 



STORE LAYOUT @ PANDE BASE CAMP
FRONT END
iOmH
i3m    #2
o                         X       2X5m      4       2Xm 25ZS                    96
Mm               SAm               Um 
REAR END
................. ... ...
FOR                                                       gienerator shack
a
n1



STORE  #1
Store #11 Is filled with approx. 33 tons CMC
Sacks ore broken and the chemical Is damaged
This CMC was supplied by the Russians as a viscofier
for drilling muds
lOin
5m



STORE #2
A
.          SU                       Approx. 1.1 Tons CMC mixed with
i  t                     approx. 1.5 tons sodium bicarbonate *
93m 8   j  ,                          ~~~~~~~~Approx. 1 ton of CMC (In broken bogs)
.          I
,  @                      ~~~~~~~~Approx. 90 tons barite
5m                      This was Sample #1 identified as sodium bicrbonate
_   _                                                                     _ _                2~~~a 
*  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
I  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



l                                                                                              -~~~~~~~~~~~G
STORE #3
A
6 * 100 lbs CFR-2 (Drums)
Holiburton cement dispersont
Infinite shelf life if powder Is In sealed bogs
GENERAL DRILLING
EQUIPMENT
1Bm  iI
8.5m
J.



STORE #4
A Approx. 15 tons loose bentonite mixed
,                        .           with cement
A                                         B |  3  Approx. 18 tons nut plug - broken bogs
I       i
I       I                         C  Approx. 0.5 tons lignosulphonate (Sample #3)
. .---------------!
D .              D  Chemicals from Pande- 11 drilling project
BUG BUSTER 10 X 251
MICROBIOCIDE ANIKEM 7AN215 1 X 251
25m                  .                                        ANTISOL LO-PAC POLYMER 218 X 25kg
HI-PAC POLYMER 40 x 25kg
B      ',       .                                CAUSTIC 24 x 25kg
.       .                                BOREWELL-C (LIGNOSULPHONATE) 40 x 25kg
Ifi  F    ............          CMT ADD HALLAD-22 6 x 1001ba
CWT ADD CFR-3 4 x 25kg
E Approx. 2 tons sodium bicarbonate
',--- -  E                   (Sample #2)m **
Sample #2 identified as NoHC03
* Sample #3 identified as a lignosulphonate
8.5m                              used as a drilling fluid dispersont and
filtration control agent
..



STORE #5
A Approx. 155 tons Boryte (Mocobar)
,  r          B  Approx. 2.2 tons CMC
.             C  Baroid "Celex" (polymer) 200 x 22kg
-------------              Boiroid G-Broxin (lignosulphonote) 200 x 22kc
D !           D  Bentonite 400 x 40kg
...................  E  Caustic Soda 22 x 100kg drums
F Approx 90 tons Baryte
A       i                               G Approx 4.4 tons CMC
*          I                      ........ H Approx 7.5 tons Gypsum
25m                           a r  4  F            I  Approx 3 tons sodium bicarbonate
J Approx 1.5 tons graphite
,   E 
*      1       H
B          IEI.* 
I      *   IS _  
8.5m



<)
STORE *6
A Approx 0.5 tons of loose cement & bentonit
A                                        B Approx 10 tons salt (NoCI)
C Approx 3 tons graphite (loose)
D Approx 10 tons cement (loose)
E Approx 6.25 tons Baryte
25m  --
...........,..........
8.5m
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
B~~              ~ _E
a  a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



I
E 13MOCAMBIQUE                                Project No: 124
REPORT ON CHEMICALS STORED AT PANDE BASE CAMP         -
ANNEXURE 3
I       -                           .                   '          J



NL EBaroid
Drilling Fluids Products
U
CELLEX®
Organic Polymer
CELLEX0 organic polymer is sodium  carboxymethylcellulose in the form  of a
white granular powder produced in Regular and High Viscosity grades.
Recommended Uses                          small amounts it mixes quickly to improve drilling
Rapidly decreasing filtration rate and cake thick-  fluid properties.
ness in fresh or brackish water-based drilling fluids  Versatility. CELLEX is effective in hard and salty
(Regular grade).                                    waters.
Increasinghole-leaningcapabliltiesof low-solids     Environmental acceptability. In water solution
water-based fluids (High Viscositv grade).          CELLEX  organic polymer is colorless odorless,
Promoting hole stability in water-sensitive farna-    tasteless and nontoxic. It does not frment.
tions.
Recommended Treatment
Major Advantages                          See table.
Efficiency. CELLEX° is a fully active material. In
Approximate Amounts of CELLEXe6 Organic Polymer'
Added to Fresh or Brackish Water-based Fluids
Ibiloo gal        lbIbbl          kgIm-
To improve performance (better hole cleaning          0.17-3.5         0.3-1.5          0.8-4
thinner filter cake, increased hole stability)
Method of addition: Sift slowly into a jet mixer or into the vortex of a high-speed stirrer.
'For maximum viscosity, use High Viscosity grade CELLEX0 organic polymer.
Packaging                                          Availability
CELLEX0 is packaged in asphalt-laminated paper     CELLEX° organic polymer may be purchased from
bags containing 50 pounds (22.7 kg).               any NL Baroid Service Center or from the Houston
plant.
*ecwamUucmoSUaI aiNd"PrCh.yMuISCOrr. ePtdJMaal idbaWma3.uhrmor . uduw.wm,cmnwturcmasur
IDs       iPxb IOwinllmmpm  Pmve=uffli  l = .1kaI_nda'Mig tusuo.
U~gTlactuUbI  _bma _nuWaci.arckagngwddaf,mgd.E EzagWs  ._ 3h e0aCuflI.hlwunoi hordi t    sCNUdDNby alasld9wh.
-uw zamI E   thsnrueggbsdtobeacCmal. Negum,angcln* Mrca_waua. Imow
ELisan.geudUii,of M.kh3w,Ukwi hI
Comshr 1NLE_.                                                                             a_i n"bMUsA
NL BarIdINL Industries. Inc.. P.O. Box 1675. Houston. Texas 77251



ML Baroid
Drilling Fluids Products
Q-BROXIN®
Thinner and Filtration Control Agent
Q-BROXIN0 thinner and filtrate controller is ferrochrome lignosulfonate prepared by an
exclusive process. It is a dark brown, nonhygroscopic. cold-water soluble. free-flowing
powder which does not cake. Q-BROXIN itself is stable at temperatures encountered in
most drilling, although lignosulfonates as a class begin to degrade at temperatures
approaching 375°F (190°C).
Q-BROXIN thinner and filtration control agent is the most universal mud-treating agent
presently in use. It has been used successfully and economically to treat a wide variety of
muds everywhere rotarv wells are drilled in the free world.
Recommended Uses:                                  Salt, Brackish, and Contaminated Water Muds
Freshwater Drilling Fluids                            Thinning of freshwater muds, saltwater and sea-
Highly efficient thinning oe freshwater muds,    water mnuds. muds containing lime or calcium chloride.
a ndi muds affecaed by various contamrnmants.
Effective control ot filtration from freshwater    See Recommended Treatments.
muds.
Effective thinning and filtration control even in
the presence of water-soluble contaminants such as salt.    Major Advantages:
gypsum. anhydrite. and cement                      Versatility
Compatibility with other thinners and filtration   Q-BROXIN thinner reduces the gels and viscosity of
control agents.                                     many types of mud.
Freshwater Mud:
Seawater Muds                                         Q-BROXIN thinner and filtrate controller performs
Preparation, maintenance, and treatment of sea-    better than other thinners. especially in the presence of
water muds.                                        contaminants.
EfficIent thinning in seawaier muds having a pH  Salt and Seawater Mud:
range of 7 to 12.                                    Thinning with Q-BROXIN thinner is effective at lower
Thinning efficIency which is not adverseiy affected    pH than other thinners.
by soluble caiclum and magnesium salts. In fact. above    Gyp Mud:
pH 10. the soluble magnesium salts in the seawater are  The performance of Q-BROXIN thinner is outstanding
precipitated. However, precipitation of the divatent mag-   in this type of mud.
nesium cations reduces the shale inhibition property of   Uime-treated Mud:
the mud. Where maximum shale inhibition is desirable. a  Q-BROXIN thinner is supenor to quebracho in per-
pH of less than 10 should be maintained.            formance in the presence of salt and sulfate contamina-
Control of filtration rates in these driling fluids.  tion and equivalent to quebracho in uncontaminated
mud.
Gyp Muds                                           LUmertreated-mud Breakovers:
Eective thinning of gyp muds or muds contami-      The viscosity and gel peak of breakovers can be con-
nated with anhydrite.                              trolled by usirm. Q-BROXIN thinner. especially in muds
Superior filtration control in gyp muds or muds    contaminated with sak.
contaminated with anhydrite.                        No Problems with Overtreatment
Control of gels in muds-containing gypsum.         Q-BROXIN  thinner does not cause mud to thidcen
A.SLBMR.D_SUVf1.0 c.d Hd. In.
Qzl 1Ub.mmb rd L __jm bc.                                                                     3
Q43OX3b_Is _dCI Pce Op                                                                            5AS.
NL Barid
PO. Box 1675. Huson. Texas 77251



drastically due to overtreatment The mud can be pre.  Add ihe thinner and the gypsum through the mixing
treated for anticipated cont.oinnts. resuliing in saving    hopper and the caustic soda through the chemical baral e
rig time that would otherwise lie used for mud.    in one or two circulations ot the drilling fluid
conditioning when the conaminanis are encountered.    Salt or Brackish Fluids:
Because of this, accidental overtreatment does not waste  To make a saltwater or brackish-water mud using
materials.                                          Q-MIX' viscostlier and filtration controller. begin by
Quick Release at the Surface                        adding to fresh water. in order of addition;
Because of the effectiveness of 0 BROXINs thinner in  25 to 35 lb/bbl (71 to 100 kg/m') of AQUAGEL
maintaining low gels, gas and cuitinqs are released from  gellant
the weighted muds used for d*eep dllimnq where high  3 to 5 lb/bbl (8.6 to 14 3 kg/m'I of Q-BROXIN
pressures and sloughing shale are problems              thinner
Savings on Emulsifiers                                1/ to I lb/bbl (1.4 to 2.9 kg/m') of caustic soda
Q-BROXIN thinner is an eltectiue emulsifier. No other    Add enough of this mixture to achieve the desired prop-
emuLsifiers are needed when oil it , dded lo a drilling fluid    erties.
treated with Q-BROXIN ihinner and filtration control  Pilot-test. You should find that between 5% and 40%
agent.                                              by volume of Q-MIX viscosifier and filtrate controller will
Easy Rheological Control                            be needed. For saturated saltwater mud, add the Q-MIX
Because drilling flutds treated withi U BROXIN thinner    mixture first: then add the salt.
will tolerate large increases in dissoiv.-ti sailt. mud prop-    Seawater Mud:
erties are easier to control durinq ali ,.alitr saltwater flows  To treat seawater mud. add from 3 to 8 pounds of
or the drilling of salt or anhydTite ':'.vinuis in mud mate-    Q-BROXIN thinner and 1 to 3 pounds of caustic soda per
rials and rig time result. and ihere is l.e. hole troubie  barrel of mud (8.6 to 22.8 kg of Q-BROXIN and 2.85 to
Compatibility with Calcium inhibition               8.6 kg of caustic soda per cubic meter of mud). Add
Q-BROXIN thinner does nnl r.auce ine calcium ion    through the hopper or chemical barrel.
concentration in the mud filtrate as a.o most other chem-    Making ime Mud:
ical thinners: therefore. Q-BROXIN is . more suitable  To prepare iime mud. add I to 4 lb/bbl (2.85 to 11.42
thinner where calcium is carried in ihe mud to inhibit   kg/m') of Q-BROXIN thinner and I to 3 lb/bbl (2.85 to
swelling or hydration of shales                     8.55 kg/m') of caustic soda. Add through the mixing
Wide General Application                            hopper. Add 2 to 5 ib/bbl (5.7 to 14.26 kg/rm) of imre.
Q-BROXIN thinner is convenieni tbecause of its wide    Add Lhrough the mixing hopper.
application as a general utilitv thinner and filtration con-    Controlling Saltwater Contaminadon:
troi agent.                                           To treat mud contaminated by a saltwater flow, if the
pHl of the mud is not high. raLse it to about pH 10 (alka-
Recommended Treatments:                             linity of filtrate. Pi. to about 0.5 rnl). If the drilling fluid
has been treated with Q-BROXIN thinner. increase the
Initial Treatments                                  amount of thinner.
IThe quantities of materials re:ommended are wide in  If the drilling fluid has not been treated with thinner.
range because of the vanation in field muds. For any    pilot-test with I to 6 lb/bbl (2.85 to 17.12 kg/tn) of
given mud the quantity to be used mav be determined by    Q-BROXIN thinner. If the pH of this drilling fluid is high.
pilot testing.                                      maintain it at 12 to 12.5 with caustic soda. and pilot-test
Freshwater Q-BROXIN Fluids:                         with Q-BROXIN thinner in additions of up to 6 lb/bbl
To prepare a Q-BROXIN thinner freshwater mud    (17.2kg/m) of drilling fluid.
simply add the Q-BROXIN thinner in the concentration  NOTE: Depending on the percentage of clay solids in
necessary to attain the desired thinning and filtration con-    the drilling fluid. dilutions of up to 30% with water may
trol. Caustic soda is usually added with the thinner in the    be required to effectively overcome the thickening caused
* - ratio of one part caustic to 10 parts Q-BROXIN thinner    by the saltwater flow. Using a mud centrifuge will reduce
and filtrate controler. Additions me-. be made through    the clay content and the amount of dilution required.
the chemical barrel or mixing hopper                Controlling Filtration:
Gyp Muds:                                             For filtration control. pilot-test concentrations of 2 to
To make a gypsum mud from a freshwater muw:. begin    15 b/bbl (5.7 to 42.8 kg/mi) while using caustic soda to
by determining the amount of dilution required by pilot-    maintain the pH at about 9.5 (Pf of about 0.3 ml) .
testing. Add water first or along with other materials.    MaIntenanceTreatmeents
Then add 3 to 6 pounds of gypsuim. 2 to 8 pounds of    Freshwater Fluids:
Q-BROXIN thinner. and 0.25 to 1 pound of caustic soda  To maintain a freshwater mud. add Q-BROXIN thinner
per barrel of mud (8.6 to 17. 1 kg of gypsum. 5.7 to 22.8    as needed to control the yield point and gels. For control
kg of Q-BROXIN. and 0.71 to 2.85 kg of caustic soda    of fintiton.use moreif needed.
per cubic meter of mud).



Maintain pl-I at about 9.5 (PI of about 0.3) by adding    Saltwater-contaminated Fluids:
caustic soda. Add water as required to maintal suitable  To maintain a mud coniaminated by a saltwatet flow.
solids concentration.                                add Q-BROXIN thinner as required to control gels. Addi-
Conventional Gyp Muds:                               tional Q-BROXIN thinner will help control filtrate loss.
For a gypsum mud made from a conventional fresh-    Add caustic soda as required to maintain the proper pH.
water mud. red mud. or lime mud, keep calcium ion con-    Add water as required to maintain the proper solids con-
centration in the filtrate above 500 ppm or 25 epm (500    centralion.
mg/i or 25 mol/m  ½2Ca + + I Keep excess gypsum in    Precautions
the mud-at least 2 lb/bbl 15 7 kg/m 'I Keep pH          Foaming may occur in low-solids or salty muds. A
between 8.5 and 10 (Pf of 0 1 to 0 5 ml) by addition of    defoamer should be added If necessary
caustic soda or lime.                                  If oil is added. the mud may foam  SURFLO  W-300
Add Q!-BROXINO thinner as needed for control of gels    defoamer or aluminum stearate (1 05 io 0.5 lb/bbi or
(50 to 150 lb or 22 to 68 kg per tour) To control filtra-  143 to 1 43 kg/rn' of mudl dissolved in diesel fuel is an
tion. use more thinner if needed Add water to maintain    effective treatment.
optimum solids concentration                            If the mud foams excessively. add an appropriate
Saltwater Fluids:                                    defoamer and eliminate mechanical causes of air entrap-
To maintain a saltwater mud. add caustic soda and    ment such as cascades in the surface system and mud
Q-BROXIN thinner in a weight ratio of I part caustic    guns which are not submerged.
soda to 4 parts Q-BROXIN thinner as required to control
yield point and gels. Best results are obtained by dis-    Packaging:
solving the Q-BROXIN thinner and caustic soda in fresh
water before adding them to the salt mud. Good solids  Q-BROXIN thinner and filtration control agent is pack-
control will. of course. require adding water.       aged in muliwali paper bags containing 50 pounds (22.7
Ume Muds:                                            kg).
To maintain a lime mud. add Q-BROXIN thinner to
control the gels and the yield point. Add caustic soda to    Availability:
maintian a Pf of 1 ml or greater. Add lime to maintain  Q-BROXIN thinner and filtration control agent may be
desired lime content. Add water as required to maintain    purchased through any NL Baroid Service Center or
optimum solids concentration                         from the Houston plant.
Bee.. mm~u~Im mi~caciwnuwa~ fr~cWuU uwmaasa~Imfrom th Ho.uston aIu~ plant.  @ueu~u.I
,ou,.ubiwuwmcam.Paremmr&nmi 0 madhWuig06Uus0~c
ThipgJUSEUUUdnU.nfiSUb*UiO'W.InI.Ew wIU ous..16  e'E.iay.WMai.bu3w5Ui'
¶pn1m,wU..,u.E.end.wUmb1wd1U_nu3 dnqmauh  lufawwayna.i_>._



D A T A   S H EE T
BWMudLkied
SAFE HANDLNG OF CHEMICALS fS.H.O.C.
E 4 P OPEATING COMPANIES
,N U-Ts-mPtiL5U GI p
COXPOSITION                           OLIVE GRANULES
PHYSICAL FORM & APPEARANCE            LIGHT AND DARK GRANULES
NO CHARACTERITIC ODOUR
PHYSICAL PROPERTIES                   DENS[TY:           700 - 800 KG/M3
.PH SAT SOLN:      4.5 - 6.0
PxRlICIE SIZE:    500 .,dM - 4II
EXPLOSION LIMITS: LEL - 40 GfM3 (FOR DUST)
REGISTRATION                          DOE CNS CATEGORY 0
TRANSPORT CLASSIFICATION              UN NO:  N/A
LABELLING
PACKAGING                             25 KG SACKS, 25 PER PALLET
FIRE & HAZARDOUS REACTIONS
a)  STABILITY                         NEPA GRADE NO.1
b)  EXTINGUISHING AGEN1TS             WATERSPRAY/CARBON DIOXIDE
c) SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS
SPILLAGE - EMERGENCY RESPONSE         SWEEP OR VACUUM
FACE MASK FOR DUSTY SITUATION
DISPOSAL - REGULATION REQUIREMENTS   INCINERATION OR LANDFILL
NOT TO BE DISPOSED OF IN SEWER



HEALTH & SAFETY INFORMATION AND FIRST AID
OCCUPATIONAL EXPOSURE LIMITS    TLV - TWA  10 MG/M3  TOTAL RESPIRASLE DUST
C(
RECOMMENDED
IRRITANT                                       PERSONAL
EFFECTS                TREATMENT              PROTECTION
SKIN
EYES            SLIGHTLY IRRITANT  IRRIGATE WITH WARM WATER    USE FACE AND NOSE
MASK IF REQUIRED
INHALATION      DUST - IRRIrANT    MOVE TO DUST FREE
ENVIRONMENT
INGESTION
TOXIC EFFECTS
ANY OTHER
SUPPLEMENTARY ADVICE TO PHYSICIAN
EXPERIMENTAL ANIMAL DATA
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA
REGULTORY REQUIREMENTS
ENVIRONMENTAL DFTA
STORAGE  - RECOMMENDED CONDITIONS      KEEP DRY
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS
APPLICATION     LOST CIRCULATION MATERIAL. NORMAL TREATMENT DEPENDS ON SEVERITY'
OF LOSSES. IF LOSSES ARE ANTICIPATED 3- 6 PPB FINE PLUG CAN BE
ADDED AS A PREVENTATIVE MEASURE. IF LOSSES OCCUR PILLS OF 10 - 20 PPB SHOULD BE
USED. FOR SEVERE LOSSES MEDIUM AND COARSE GRADES CAN BE USED, ALONE OR IN CON-
JUNCTION WITH OTHER LCM. NUT PLUG WILL DAMAGE MW) TOOLS IF CIRCULATED THROUGH
THEM.
CONTACT PERSON .... BILLY.COCHRANE ......... POSITION ... TECHNICAL.MANAGER.......
BW NU  LINIT                BW MUD LIMITED                     BW MU  LIMITE
ABBOTSVELL ROAD             HEWErT ROAD                        OIL BASE
WEST TULLOS                 GAPTON HALL INDUSTRIAL ESTATF      GREMISTA
ABERDEEN                    GREAT YARMOUTH                     LERWICK
AB1 4AD                     NORFOLK                            ZEI OPX
TELE:- 0224 879013          TELE:- 0493 601743                 TELE:- 0595 4722



D A T A    S H E E rT                           huUie
DATA  SHEET                     ~~~~BWMudLinited
SAFE HANDLING OF CHEMICALS (S.H.O.C.
E & P OPERATING COMPANIES
|      z       S A L T
COMPOSITION                              PURE DRIED VACUUM (PDV) SALT
SODIUM CHLORIDE
CAS NO:- 7647-14-5
PHYSICAL FORM & APPEARANCE               WHITE CRYSTALLINE SOLID
PHYSICAL PROPERTIES                      MP:          802;C
SG:          2.17
SOLUBILITY:  36 - 39 G/100 CC
REGISTRATION                             DOE CNS CATEGORY 0
TRANSPORT CLASSIFICATION                 UN NO:  N/A
LABELLING
PACKAGING                                50 KG SACKS, 20 PER PALLET
25 KG SACKS, 42 PER PALLET
1000 KG BAGS
FIRE & HAZARDOUS REACTIONS :-
a)  STABILITY                            STABLE - NON INFLAMMABLE
b)  EXTINGUISHING AGENTS                 NIA
c) SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS
SPILLAGE - EMERGENCY RESPONSE            SWEEP UP AND REMOVE TO TIP
DISPOSAL - REGULATION REQUIREMENTS



HEALTH & SAfETY INFORMATION AND FIRST AID
OCCUPATIONAL EXPOSURE LIMITS
RECOMMENDED
IRRITANT                                       PERSONAL
EFFECTS                TREATMENT              PROTECTION
SKIN            IRRITATION ON      WASH WITH WATER            AVOID CONTACT WITH
PROLONGED CONTACT                             THE SKIN ANO AVOID
HIGH CONCENTRATIONS
EYES            STINGING           IRRIGATE WITH WATER        OF DUST
INHALATION      INFLAMMATION DUE   REMOVE TO FRESH AIR
TO DUST
INGESTION       SEVERE INFLAMM-    INDUCE VOMITING AND GIVE
ATORY REACTION     LARGE AMOUNT OF WATER.
OBTAIN IMMEDIATE MEDICAL
ATTENTION
TOXIC EFFECTS
ANY OTHER
SUPPLEMENTARY ADVICE TO PHYSICIAN
EXPERIMENTAL ANIMAL DATA
ENVIRONISNTAL DATA
REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA
STORAGE  - RECOMMENDED CONDITIONS         KEEP COOL AND DRY
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS
APPLICATION     PREPARATION OF SALT SATURATED MUDS FOR DRILLING HALITE FORMATIONS
FRESHWATER WILL REQUIRE APPROX 125 PPB TO REACH SATURATION SOLU-
BILITY OF SALT IS HIGHLY TEMPERATURE DEPENDENT. ALSO USED FOR COMPLETION BRINES
UP TO 10 PPG.
CONTACT PERSON ....BILLY.COCHRANE .........  POSITION ...TECHNICAL.MANAGER.......
BV MUD LIMITED             BR  MUD LIMITED                    BN MUD LINITED
ABBOTSVELL ROAD             HEWErT ROAD                        OIL BASE
VEST TULLOS                 GAPTON HALL INDUSTRIAL ESTATE      GREMISTA
ABERDEEN                    GREAT YARMOUTH                     LERtICK
ABI 4AD                     NORFOLK                           ZEI OPX
TELE:- 0224 879013          TELE:- 0493 601743                TELE:-  0595 4722



D A T A   S H E E T
SAFE HANDLING OF CHEMICALS (S.H.O.C.)              BWMudLmited
E & P OPERATING COMPANIES
|C A L C I U      C H L O R I D E
COMPOSITION                            CALCIUM CHLORIDE - CACL2
CAS NO:- 10043-52-4
PHYSICAL FORM & APPEARANCE             OFF WHITE - ODOURLESS - POWDER
PHYSICAL PROPERTIES                    MP:             176-C
BULK DENSITY: 58 - 60 LBS/FT
VERY SOLUBLE IN WATER - HYGROSCOPIC
REGISTRATION                           DOE CNS CATEGORY 0
TRANSPORT CLASSIFICATION               UN NO:  N/A
LABELLING                              R 36                     IRRITANT
S 22, 24
PACKAGING                              50 KG SACKS
25 KG SACKS
FIRE & HAZARDOUS REACTIONS
a)  STABILITY                          STABLE
b)  EXTINGUISHING AGENTS
c)  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS
SPILLAGE - EMERGENCY RESPONSE          BRUSH UP AND DISPOSE TO CHEMICAL TIP -
HOSE DOWN AREA.
DISPOSAL - REGULATION REQUIRENEN-TS    CHEMICALLY APPROVED TIP



HEALTH I SAFM  INFORMATION AND FIRST AID
OCCUPATIONAL EXPOSURE LIMITS    8 HR TWA TOTAL DUST  m  10 MG/M3
RESPIRABLE DUST      a   5 MG/M3
RECOMMENDED
IRRITANT                                        PERSONAL
EFFECTS                TREAThENT               PROTECTION
SKIN           SLIGHT DEHYDRATION  WASH WITH WATER              VENTILATE & AVOID
DUST. WEAR DUST
RESPIRATOR IF
REQUIRED
EYES           IRRITANT            IRRIGATE FOR 10 MINUTES
GLOVES AND RUBBER
BOOTS SHOULD BE*
INHALATION     DUST - IRRITATING   REMOVE TO FRESH AIR          WORN WHEN
TO UPPER RESP.                                   REQJIRED
TRACT
INGESTION      PRACTICALLY NON-   RINSE MOUTH - GIVE 200 -
HARMFUL. MAY CAUSE  300 ML WARM WATER TO DRINK
NAUSEA
TOXIC EFFECTS  NOT KNOWN
ANY OTHER
SUPPLEMENTARY ADVICE TO PHYSICIAN
EXPERIMENTAL ANIMAL DATA
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA
REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS
ENVIRONMfElTAL DATA
STORAGE  - RECOMMENDED CONDITIONS       COOL DRY CONDITIONS - AVOID EXCESSIVE
VENTILATION - PRODUCT ABSORBS MOISTURE
FROM AIR
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS
APPLICATION     INCREASING DENSITY OF SOLIDS FREE WORKOVER FLUIDS
CONTACT PERSON .... BILLY.COCHRANE .........  POSITION ...TECHNICAL.MANAGER.......
BW MU  LIMITED             BD  MW LIMITED                      BW MUD LIMITED
ABBOTSWELL ROAD             HEWETT ROAD                        OIL BASE
WEST TULLOS                 GAPTON HALL INDUSTRIAL ES7ATE      GRENISTA
ABERDEEN                    GREAT YARMOUTH                     LERWICK
ABI 4AD                     NORFOLK                            ZEI OPX
TELE:- 0224 879013          TELE:-  0493 601743                TELE:- 0595 4722



D A T A    S H E E T                        WuLnk
DATA   SHEET                   ~~~~~BWMudLini~ted
SAFE HANDLING OF CHEMICALS (S.H.O.C.)
E & P OPERATING COMPANIES
S O D I U M    B I C A R B 0 N A T E
COMPOSITION                           SODIUM BICARBONATE NA HCO2
CAS NO:- 144-55-8
PHYSICAL FORM & APPEARANCE            WHITE ODOURLESS POWOER
PHYSICAL PROPERTIES                   S.G.: 0.98
SOLUBILITY (H20): 9% W/W
REGISTRATION                           DOE CNS CATEGORY 0
TRANSPORT CLASSIFICATION               UN NO: N/A
LABELLING
PACKAGING                             50 KG SACKS, 40 & 20 PER PALLET
FIRE & HAZARDOUS REACTIONS
a)  STABILITY                          STABLE - NON FLAIMABLE
b)  EXTINGUISHING AGENTS               N/A
c)  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS                DO NOT ALLOW TO MIX WITH ACIDS
C02 PRODUCTION HAZARDOUS IN ENCLOSED SPACE
SPILLAGE - EMERGENCY RESPONSE          SWEEP UP AND REMOVE
DISPOSAL - REGULATION REQUIREMENTS    NO SPECIAL REQUIREMENT



HEALTH & SAFE   INFORMATION AND FIRST AJI
OCCUPATIONAL EXPOSURE LIMITS    TWA 8 HR  -  10 MG/M3 TOTAL DUST
RECOMMENDED
IRRITANT                                       PERSONAL
EFFECTS                TREATMENT              PROTECTION
SKIN            NONE KNOWN         WASH WITH WATER             DUST LEVELS MUST
REMAIN LOW. USE
VENTILATION IF
EYES            DISCOMFORT                                     REQUIRED. USE
DUST MASK, GLOVES
AND GOGGLES IF
INHALATION      NONE KNOWN                                     DUST PREVAILS
INGESTION      NONE KNOWN
TOXIC EFFECTS
ANY OTHER
SUPPLEMENTARY ADVICE 10 PHYSICIAM
EXPERIMENTAL ANIMAL DATA       LDSO - 4220 MG/KG (RAT)
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA
REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA                        NON TOXIC
STORAGE  - RECOMMENDED CONDITIONS         DRY CONDITIONS
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS
APPLICATION     USED TO PRECIPITATE CALCIUM IN WATER BASED MUDS. NORMALLY USED
TO TREAT CONTAMINATION FROM CEMENT OR ANYHYDRITE. FOR SUCCESSFUL
TREATMENT MUD PH MUST BE ABOVE 8.3. NORMAL TREATMENT LEVELS DEPEND ON THE LEVEL
OF CALCIUM AND NORMAL TREATMENT WILL BE IN THE REGION OF 0.5 TO 1 PPB.
CONTACT PERSON .... BILLY.COCHRANE .........  POSITION ... TECHNICAL.MANAGER.......
B  MUW  LIMITED             BV KUD LIMITED                    BW NU  LIMITED
ABBOTSWELL ROAD             HEtEIT ROAD                       OIL BASE
VEST TULLOS                 GAPTON HALL INDUSTRIAL ESTATE     GREKISTA
ABERDEEN                    GREAT YARMOUTH                     LERWICK
ABI 4AD                     NORFOLK                           ZEI OPX
TELE:- 0224-879013          TELE:- 0493 601743                TELE:- 0595 4722



DA TA   S H E E T
BWMudLimted
SAFE HANDLING OF CHEHICALS (S.H.O.C.)
E - P OPERATING COMPANIES
G Y P S U M
COMPOSITION                            CALCIUM SULPHATE DIHYDRATE.  CAS04 2H20
CAS NO:-  10101-41-4   95% MIN PURITY
PHYSICAL FORM & APPEARANCE             WHITE POWDER
PHYSICAL PROPERTIES                    S.G:  2.32
P.H: 6.8 - 7.5
REGISTRATION
TRANSPORT CLASSIFICATION               UN NO:  N/A
LABELLING
PACKAGING                              25 KG SACKS/42 PER PALLET
50 KG SACKS/20 PER PALLET
FIRE & HAZARDOUS REACTIONS  -          NON FLAMMABLE
a)  STABILITY                          STABLE - INERT MINERAL
b) EXTINGUISHING AGENTS
c) SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS
SPILLAGE - EMERGENCY RESPONSE          SWEEP UP AND REMOVE
DISPOSAL - REGULATION REQUIREMENTS    DISPOSE IN ACCORDANCE WITH LOCAL REGULA-
TIONS



HEALTH & SAFETY INFORMATION ANO FIRST AID
OCCUPATIONAL EXPOSURE LIMITS
RECOMMENDED
IRRITANT                                        PERSONAL
EFFECTS                TREATMENT               PROTECTION
SKIN                                WASH WITH WATER              VENTILATE TO
REDUCE DUST
NUISANCE. WEAR
EYES            NUISANCE            FLUSH WITH WATER             GOGGLE: AND DUST
DUST ONLY                                       MASK IF REQUIRED
INHALATION
INGESTION
TOXIC EFFECTS
ANY OTHER
SUPPLEMENTARY ADVICE TO PHYSICIAN
EXPERIMENTAL ANIMAL DATA
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA
REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA
STORAGE  - RECOMMEi.ED CONDITIONS         KEEP DRY
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS
APPLICATION     GYPSUM IS A SOURCE OF CALCIUM IN INHIBITIVE CALCIUM BASED MUD
SYSTEMS. A VISCOSITY HUMP IS OBSERVED WHEN ADDING GYPSUM TO BEN-
TONIC MUD SYSTEMS. FOR THIS REASON SOLIDS AND MBT SHOULD BE KEPT AS LOW AS POSS-
IBLE. TREATMENT LEVELS RANGE 4 - 8 PPB TO MAINTAIN 600 - 1200 PPM CA IN FILTRATE
CONTACT PERSON ....B ILLY.COCHRANE .........  POSITION ... TECHNICAL.MANAGER..
BD  KUD LIMITED              BW MUD LIMITED                     ON MUD LIMITE
ABBOTSWELL ROAD              HEWEIT ROAD                        OIL BASE
WEST TULLOS                  GAPTON HALL INDUSTRIAL ESTAlE      GREKISTA
ABERDEEN                     GREAT YARMOUTH                     LERWICK
A81 4AD                      NORFOLK                            ZEI OPX
TELE:-  0224 879013          TELE:- 0493 601743                 TELE:-  0595 4722



DATA   S H E ET
SAFE HANDLING OF CHEMICALS (S.H.O.C.)             BWMudLUmed
E & P OPERATING COMPANIES
|     C A U S T I C   S 0 D A 
COMPOSITION                           SODIUM HYDROXIDE  N. ..;
CAS NO:- 1310-73-2
PHYSICAL FORN & APPEARANCE            WHITE PEARL/SOLID
PHYSICAL PROPERTIES                   DENSITY:  1200 KG/M3
M PT:    318"C
PH:       13.5
REGISTRATION                          DOE CNS CATEGORY 1
TRANSPORT CLASSIFICATION              UN NO:     1823     CLASS 8
IMO CODE: 8215
LABELLING                             R PHRASES: 35              CORROSIVE
S PHRASES: 2, 26, 37/39
PACKAGING                             50 KG DRUMS, 18 PER PALLET
25 KG DRUMS, 36 PER PALLET
FIRE & HAZARDOUS REACTIONS :-         NON FLAMMABLE
1 ADDITION OF CAUSTIC TO WATER IS ACCOMPANIED BY CONSIDERABLE EVOLUTION OF HEAT
AGITATION IS REQUIRED TO AVOID LOCAL BOILING AND VIOLENT SPURTING OF THE
LIQUOR.
2 SOLIDS FORM. IN CONTACT WITH MOISTURE OR WATER MAY GENERATE SUFFICIENT HEAT
TO IGNITE COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS.
3  CONTACT WITH THE FOLLOWING METALS CAN GENERATE HYDROGEN GAS WITH ITS ASSO-
CIATED HAZARDS:- ALUMINIUM, BRASS, TIN, ZINC.
4 CAN REACT VIOLENTLY OR EXPOSIVELY WITH MANY ORGANIC CHEMICALS. PARTICULARLY
CHLORINATED HYDROCARBONS.
SPILLAGE - EMERGENCY RESPONSE         SPILLAGES MUST BE DEALT WITH IMEDIATELY.
THE CAUSTIC MUST BE SHOVELLED UP AND PUT IN
TO-STEEL DRUMS FOR SUBSEQUENT DISPOSAL, WASHING THE AREA AFTERWARDS WITH COPIOUS
AMOUNTS OF WATER. SPILT MATERIAL MAY BE *NEUTRALISED' BY APPLYING EXCESS SODIUM
BICARBONATE.
DISPOSAL - REGUUTION 'QUIREMENTS    EMPLOY SPECIALIST WASTE DISPOSAL FiRMi



HEALTH & SAFETY INFORMATION AND FIRST AID
OCCUPATIONAL EXPOSURE LIMITS       TWA 8 HR  -  10 MINS  - 2 MG/M3
RECOMMENDED
IRRITANT                                               PERSONAL
EFFECTS                        TREATMENT              PROTECTION
KIN         BOTH SOLID & STRONG SOLUTIONS  DRENCH THE AFFECTED AREA         MUST BE KEPT
ARE PRIMARY IRRITANTS, WILL    WITH COPIOUS QUANTITIES OF    FROM CONTACT
RAPIDLY DESTROY THE TISSUE      BORIC SOLUTIONS OR WATER.      WITH SKIN AND
CAUSING CAUSTIC BURNS WHICH    CONTINUE TREATMENT FOR NOT    EYES. ATMOS-
ARE SLOW 70 HEAL AND LEAVE A   LESS THAN 15 MINUTES            PHERE LEVELS
SCAR                                                           OF OUST MUST
BE MINIMISED.
YES         CAN CAUSE SEVERE DAMAGE WITH   IRRIGATE 'JITH BORIC SOLUTION  DUST MASKS
PERMANENT IMPAIRMENT OR EVEN   OR WATER FOR AT LEAST 10 MIN  SHOULD BE USEO
LOSS OF VISION                  CONTINUE IRRIGATION UNTIL      CHEMICAL
MEDICAL ATTENTION IS CAN BE   GOGGLES, PVC
OBTAINED                       GLOVES, BOOTS
& APRON SHOULD
INHALATION   DUST OR CONCENTRATED MIST MAY  REMOVE TO FRESH AIR. KEEP        BE WORN
CAUSE DAMAGE OF THE UPPER       PATIENT WARM AND AT REST.
RESPIRATORY TRACT AND LUNG      ADMINISTER OXYGEN IF
TISSUE                          NECESSARY
NGESTION    CAUSES SEVERE DAMAGE TO THE    DO NOT INDUCE VOMITING. WASH
MUCOUS MEMBRANES OR DEEPER      OUT MOUTH WITH WATER AND
TISSUE OF THE MOUTH, THROAT    MILK TO DRINK, FOLLOWED BY
OESOPHAGUS AND STOMACH AND      1X ACETIC ACID (DILUTE VINE-
DEATH MAY RESULTS FROM          GAR) OR FRUIT JUICE
SUBSEQUENT PENETRATION INTO
VITAL AREAS
SUPPLEMENTARY ADVICE TO PHYSICIAN   ALL EXCEPT CASES OF VERY MINOR EXPOSURE SHOULD
OBTAIN MEDICAL ATTENTION FOLLOWING FIRST AID TREAT-
MENT ON SITE
TORAGE  - RECOMMENDED CONDITIONS  MATERIAL SHOULD BE STORED UNDER DRY CONDITIONS AND
CONTAINERS RESEALED AFTER USE
PPLICATION     FOR THE CONTROL OF PH IN ALL WATER BASED MUD SYSTEMS.  IT ALSO INCREASES
THE RATE OF HYDRATION OF CLAYS AND IS AN AID TO CORROSION CONTROL.
`AUSTIC SODA IS A STRONG ALKALI AND SHOULD BE USED WITH EXTREME CAUTION AS IT CAUSES
EVERE BURNS. NORMAL TREATMENT DEPENDS ON THE MUD SYSTEM AND THE REQUIRED PH
.ONTACT PERSON  .... BILLY.COCHRANE .........     POSITION  ...TECHNICAL.MANAGER.......
i MUD LIMITED                 BW MUD LIMITED                       BW MUD LIMITED
ABOTSWELL ROAD                HEWETT ROAD                           OIL BASE
*EST TULLOS                    GAPTON HALL INDUSTRIAL ESTATE         GRENISTA
BERDEEN                       GREAT YARMOUTH                       LERWICK
ABI 4AD                        NORFOLK                               ZEI OPX
TELE:-  0224 879013            TELE:- 0493 601743                    TELE:-  0595 4722



D A T A   S H E E T
BWMudLinited
SAFE HANDLIN3 OF CHEMICALS (S.H.O.C.)
E & P OPERATING COMPANIES
B W   C H R OM E   F R E E
COMPOSITION                           IRON LIGNOSULPHONATE
SERLA-SOL FE - P60
PHYSICAL FORM & APPEARANCE            BROWN POWDER
PHYSICAL PROPERTIES                   IRON:  6X
PH:    3
REGISTRATION                          DOE CNS CATEGORY 0
TRANSPORT CLASSIFICATION              UN NO:  N/A
LABELLING                             IRRITANT
PACKAGING                             25 KG SACKS/25 PER PALLET
FIRE & HAZARDOUS REACTIONS
a)  STABILITY                         THE PRODUCT WILL SUPPORT COMBUSTION
b)  EXTINGUISHIKG AGENTS              FOAM AND SAND
c)  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS               TREAT AS EXPLOSION HAZARD IF DUST IS
PRESENT
SPILLAGE - EMERGENCY RESPONSE         SWEEP UP AND REMOVE
DISPOSAL - REGULATION REQUIREENTS    DUMP IN ACCORDANCE WITH LOCAL REGULATIONS
FOR FLAMMABLE AND HAZARDOUS WASTE



HEALTH A SAFTIM NFORMATION AND FIRST AID
OCCUPATIONAL EXPOSURE LIMITS     TLV 8 HR      25 MG/M3
RECOMMENDED
IRRITANT                                      PERSONAL
EFFECTS               TREATMENT              PROTECTION
SKIN            IRRITANT - SKIN   WASH WITH SOAP AND WATER    USE LOCAL VENTIL-
RASH              APPLY SKIN LOTION           ATION.  WEAR
GLOVES, GOGGLES &
EYES            IRRITANT           IRRIGATE WITH WATER        DUST MASK
INHALATION      IRRITANT          REMOVE TO FRESH AIR
INGESTION       IRRITANT          INDUCE VOMITING AND
CONSULT PHYSICIAN
TOXIC EFFECTS
ANY OTHER
SUPPLEMENTARY ADVICE TO PHYSICIAN
EXPERIMENTAL ANIMAL DATA
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA
REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA
STORAGE  - RECOMMENDED CONDITIONS      KEEP AWAY FROM SOURCES OF IGNITION AND
EXCESSIVE HEAT
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS
APPLICATION    BW CHROME FREE IS A DISPERSANT GRADE MODIFIED LIGNOSULPHONATE FOR
USE IN WATER BASED DRILLING FLUIDS. THE PRODUCT CONTAINS NO HEAVY
METAL IONS, REDUCING TOXICOLOGICAL EFFECTS NOTED WITH ALTERNATIVE PRODUCTS. IT
IS USED PRIMARILY AS A DOSPERSANT IN MOST WATER BASED MUD SYSTEMS UP TO TEMPER-
TURES OF 300-F. IT ALSO ACTS AS A SECONDARY FLUID LOSS CONTROL ADDITIVE. BW
CHROME FREE IS BEST ADDED THROUGH THE MIXING HOPPER AT 5 - 10 MINS/SK. TREATMENT
IS NORMALLY IN THE RANGE FROM 2 - 8 PPB.
CONTACT PERSON ....B ILLY.COCHRANE .........  POSITION ...TECHNICAL.MANMAGER.......
BW MUD LIMITED             BW MUD LIHM DV MU LITED
ABBOTSWELL ROAD             HEBETT ROAD                       OIL BASE
WEST TULLOS                 GAPTOH HALL INDUSTRIAL ESTATE     GRENISTA
ABERDEEN                    GREAT YARMOUTH                    LERWICK
ABI 4AD                     NORFOLK                           ZEI OPX
TELE:-  0224 879013         TELE:- 0493 601743                TELE:- 0595 4722



D A T A   S H EET
BWMudc Uited
SAFE H.NDLING OF CHEM1CALS (S.H.O.C.)
E I POP.EJTING COMPANTES
C A L C I U M   L I G N O S U L P H O N A T E
COMPOSITION                            SERLA-SOL PC
MODIFIED CALCIUM LIGNOSULPHONATE
PHYSICAL FORM & APPEARANCE            MEDIUM BROWN POWDER
PHYSICAL PROPERTIES                    DENSITY:       600 KG/M3
P.H:           4.5
DECOMPOSITION: > 125'C
VERY SOLUBLE IN WATER
REGISTRATION
TRANSPORT CLASSIFICATION               UN NO:  N/A
LABELLING                              IRRITANT
PACKAGING                              25 KG SACKS, 25 PER PALLET
FIRE & HAZARDOUS REACTIONS
a)  STABILITY                          NON FLAMMABLE
b)  EXTIH6UISHING AGENTS               ALL SUITABLE
c)  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS                INCONPATIBLE WITH OXIDANTS
SPILLAGE - EMERGENCY RESrONSE          SWEEP UP AND REMOVE TO TIP
DISPOSAL - REGULATION REQUIREMENTS    DO NOT ALLOW TO PASS INT0 WATER COURSES



HEALTH & SAFETY INFORMATION ANO FIRST AID
OCCUPATIONAL EXPOSURE LIMITS
RECOMMENDED
IRRITANT                                        PERSONAL
EFFECTS                TREATMENT               PROTECTION
SKIN            SLIGHT IRRITANT    WASH WITH SOAP AND WATER    AVOID INHALATION
OF oUST. flLOVES
AND GOGGLES SHOULD
EYES            SLIGHT IRRITANT    IRRIGATE WITH WATER           BE WORN
INHALATION      SLIGHT IRRITANT
INGESTION       SLIGHT IRRITANT
TOXIC EFFECTS
ANY OTHER
SUPPLEMENTARY ADVICE TO PHYSICIAN
EXPERIMENTAL ANIMAL DATA       L050  > 16 G/KG (RATS)
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA
REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA
STORAGE  - RECOMMENDED CONDITIONS       KEEP DRY
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS
APPLICATION    CALCIUM LIGNOSULPHONATE IS A DISPERSENT GRADE MODIFIED LIGNO-
SULPHONATE FOR USE IN WATER BASED DRILLING FLUIDS. THE PRODUCT
CONTAINS NO HEAVY METAL IONS, REDUCING TOXICOLOGICAL EFFECTS NOTED WITH ALTER-
NATIVE PRODUCTS. IT IS USED PRIMARILY AS A DISPERSANT IN MOST WATER BASED MUD
SYSTEMS UP TO TEMPERATURES OF 300-F. IT ALSO ACTS AS A SECONDARY FLUID LOSS
CONTROL ADDITIVE. CALCIUM LIGNOSULPHONATE IS BEST ADDED THROUGH THE MIXING
HOPPER AT 5 - 10 MINS/SK. TREATMENT IS NORMALLY IN THE RANGE FROM 2 - 8 PPB.
CONTACT PERSON .... BILLY.COCHRANE .........  POSITION ... TECHNICAL.MANAGER.......
BV MUD LIMITED              BW MUD LIMITED                      BW MUD LIMITED
ABBOTSWELL ROAD             HEWETT ROAD                         OIL BASE
WEST TULLOS                  GAPTON HALL INDUSTRIAL ESTATE      GREHISTA
ABERDEEN                     GREAT YARMOUTH                     LERVICK
ABI 4AD                     NORFOLK                             ZEI OPX
TELE:-  0224 879013         TELE:-  0493 601743                 TELE:- 0595 4722



D ATA   S H E E T 
BWMud United
SAFE HANDLING OF CHEMICALS (S.H.O.C.)
E & P OPERATING COMPANIES
8 W   G E L
COMPOSITION                           SODIUM MONTMORILLONITE - WYOMING BENTONITE
PHYSICAL FORM & APPEARANCE            LIGHT GREY POWDER
PHYSICAL PROPERTIES                   S.G:          2.5
P.H:          8 - 8.5
FUSION TEMP: 1400-C
REGISTRATION                          DOE CNS CATEGORY 0
TRANSPORT CLASSIFICATION              UN NO: N/A
LABELLING
PACKAGING                             25 KG, 50 KG SACKS
FIRE & HAZARDOUS REACTIONS :-         INERT CLAY
a)  STABILITY                         NON FLAMMABLE
b) EXTINGUISHING AGENTS
c)  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS               CAUSES SLIPPERY SURFACE WSHEN WET
SPILLAGE - EMERGENCY RESPONSE         SWEEP UP AND REMOVE TO TIP
DISPOSAL - REGULATION REQUIREMENTS



HEALTH & SAFETY INFORMATION AND FIRST AID
OCCUPATIONAL EXPOSURE LIMITS
RECOMMENDED
IRRITANT                                       PERSONAL
EFFECTS               TREATMENT               PROTECTION
SKIN            NONE NOTED         WASH OFF WITH WATER          USE IN WELL VENT-
ILATED AREA. USE
GOGGLES AND DUST
EYES            MECHANICAL         IRRIGATE WITH WATER         MASK TO MINIMISE
IRRITATION BY                                  THE EFFECTS OF
DUST                                           DUST
INHALATION      PROLONGED INHAL-   REMOVE TO FRESH AIR
ATION OF DUST
MAY CAUSE LUNG
INJURY
INGESTION
TOXIC EFFECTS
ANY OTHER
SUPPLEMENTARY ADVICE TO PHYSICIAN
EXPERIMENTAL ANIMAL DATA
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA
REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA
STORAGE  -  RECOMMENDED CONDITIONS      KEEP DRY
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS
APPLICATION    BW GEL IS A NATURALLY OCCURING SODIUM MONTMORILLONITE CLAY WHICH
WILL YIELD A MINIMUM OF 90 BBLS OF 15 CPS MUD PER 2000 LBS OF
MATERIAL.  IT IS USED FOR VISCOSITY AND FLUID LOSS CONTROL IN ALL FRESH WATER
MUDS. BW GEL WILL NOT YIELD IN THE PRESENCE OF SALT AND IF CHLORIDE CONCENTRATION
IS IN EXCESS OF 7000 MG/L, IT MUST BE PRE-HYDRATED IN FRESH WATER PRIOR TO BEING
ADDED TO THE SALT WATER. BW GEL HAS A HIGHER GELLING CAPACITY THAN PREMIUM
GRADES OF BENTONITE AND FORMS A GOOD COMPRESSIBLE FILTER CAKE. TREATMENT IS AS
REQUIRED TO GIVE THE DESIRED PROPERTIES. IN FRESH WATER 20 PPB WILL GIVE A FUNNEL
VISCOSITY OF APPROXIMATELY 36 SEC/QT.
CONTACT PERSON .... BILLY.COCHRANE .........  POSITION ... TECHNICAL.MANAGER.......
BW MUD LIMITED              BW MUD LIMI                        BW  U LIMITED
ABBOTSWELL ROAD             HERERr ROAD                        OIL BASE
WEST TULLOS                 GAPTON HALL INDUSTRIAL ESTATE      GREMISTA
ABERDEEN                    GREAT YARMOUTH                     LERWICK
ABI 4AD                     NORFOLK                            ZEI OPX
TELE:-  0224 879013         TELE:- 0493 601743                 TELE:- 0595 4722.



D A T A   S H E E T                      BWMudLined
SAFE HANDLING OF CHEMICALS (S.H.O.C.)
E & P OPERATING COMPANIES
B W   E X H I C E L L
I COMPOSITION                           SODIUM CARBOXYMETHYLCELLULOSE (CMC)
PHYSICAL FORM & APPEARANCE            CREAM COLOURED POWDEQ
PHYSICAL PROPERTIES                   DENSITY: 1.55 G/CM3
REGISTRATION
TRANSPORT CLASSIFICATION              UN NO: N/A
LABELLING
PACKAGING                             25 KG SACKS, 25 PER PALLET
FIRE & HAZARDOUS REACTIONS :-
a) STABILITY                          STABLE - FLAMMABLE
b) EXTINGUISHING AGENTS               ALL SUITABLE
c) SPECIAL PRECAITIONS                AVOID DISPERSION OF DUST IN AIR TO REDUCE
POTENTIAL FOR DUST IGNITION/EXPLOSIONS.
AVOID IGNITION SOURCES
SPILL-AGE - EMERGENCY RESPONSE        SWEEP UP IMMEDIATELY
DISPOSAL - REGULATION REQUIREMENTS   REMOVE TO TIP - DISPOSE AS NON HAZARDOUS
WASTE



HEALTH & SAFETY INFORMATION AND FIRST AID
OCCUPATIONAL EXPOSURE LIMITS
RECOMMENDED
IRRITANT                                       PERSONAL
EFFECTS               TREATHENT               PROTECTION
SKIN            NONE KNOWN         WASH WITH SOAP AND WATER    AVOID DISPERSION
OF DUST. USE LOCAL
VENTILATION. WEAR
EYES            DISCOMFORT AND     FLUSH WITH WATER            GOGGLES, PLASTIC
REDDENING                                      GLOVES AND DUST
RESPIRATOR IF DUST
INHALATION      NONE KNOWN         REMOVE FROM EXPOSURE TO     PERSISTS
DUST
INGESTION       NONE KNOWN
TOXIC EFFECTS
ANY OTHER
SUPPLEMENTARY ADVICE TO PHYSICIAN
EXPERIMENTAL ANIMAL DATA
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA
REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS
ENVIRONMENIAL DATA                        VERY LOW TOXICITY
STORAGE  - RECOMMENDED CONDITIONS         KEEP DRY AND IN CLOSED CONTAINERS
SPECIAL REQUIREKENTS
APPLICATION     BW EX HI-CELL IS A SODIUM CARBOXYHETHYLCELLOSE HAVING A HIGH
DEGREE OF SUBSTITUTION AND AN EXTREMELY HIGH MOLECULAR WEIGHT. IT
IS AN EXTREMELY EFFECTIVE VISCOSIFIER AND FLUID LOSS ADDITIVE FOR WATER BASED
MUDS AND IS PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED FOR USE IN SATURATED SALT ANO SEAWATER
SYSTEMS. THE PRODUCT HAS A HIGHER MOLECULAR WEIGHT THAN OTHER GRADES OF CMC AND
IS THEREFORE GENERALLY USED AT LOWER DOSAGE. TREATHENT LEVELS DEPEND ON THE
REQUIRED PROPERTIES, BUT AS A GUIDE 1 PPB OF EX HI-CELL WILL GIVE AN INCREASE IN
APPARENT VISCOSITY OF 10 CPS IN A SATURATED SALT WATER SLURRY.
CONTACT PERSON ....BILLY.COCHRANE ......... POSITION ... TECHNICAL.MANAGER.......
BW MUD LIMITED              BW MUD LIMITED                    BW MUD LIMITED
ABBOTSWELL ROAD             HEWETT ROAD                       OIL BASE
WEST TULLOS                 GAPTON HALL INDUSTRIAL ESTATE     GRENISTA
ABEROEEN                    GREAT YARMOUTH                    LERWICK
ABI 4W                      NORFOLK                           ZE1 OPX
TELE:- 0224 879013          TELE:- 0493 601743                TELE:- 0595 4722



D A T A   S H E E T
BWMudLimried
SAFE HANDLING OF CHEMICALS (S.H.O.C.)
E & P OPERATING COMPANIES
D R I S C O S E P O L Y M E R
COMPOSITION                            CARBOXY METHYL CELLULOSE
GRADES LV, REG, HV
PHYSICAL FORN & APPEARANCE             OFF WHITE POWDER
PHYSICAL PROPERTIES
REGISTRATION
TRANSPORT CLASSIFICATION               UN NO:  N/A
LABELLING
PACKAGING                              50 LB SACKS, 44 PER PALLET
FIRE & HAZARDOUS REACTIONS
a) STABILITY
b)  EXTINGUISHING AGENTS               WATERSPRAY, CARBON DIOXIDE
c)  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS                [F FINELY DIVIDED, TREAT AS A FLAMMABLE
DUST
SPILLAGE - EMERGENCY RESPONSE          SWEEP UP
DISPOSAL - REGULATION REQUIREMENTS    PLACE IN DISPOSAL CONTAINER



HEALTH & SAFM  INFORMATION AND FIRST AID
OCCUPATIONAL EXPOSURE LIMITS    NUISANCE DUST - OEL . 10 MG/M3 TOTAL DUST
RECOMMENDED
IRRITANT                                      PERSONAL
EFFECTS               TREATMENT              PROTECTION
SKIN                              WASH WITH WATER            USE LOCAL VENTIL-
ATION OR DUST MASK
AND GOGGLES
EYES           IRRITANT           FLUSH WITH WATER
INHALATION     IRRITANT DUE TO   REMOVE TO FRESH AIR
HYGROSCOPIC
QUALITIES
INGESTION
TOXIC EFFECTS
ANY OTHER
SUPPLEMENTARY ADYICE TO PHYSICIAN
EXPERIMENTAL ANIMAL DATA         LDSO  > 5 G/KG
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA
REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA                     NON TOXIC
STORAGE  - RECOMMENDED CONDITIONS      STORE IN COOL, DRY CONDITIONS
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS                   AVOID DUST FORMATION IN HANDLING. THE
PRODUCT [S INCOMPATIBLE WITH STRONG
OXIDISING AGENTS
APPLICATION    BIOZAN A POLYSACHARIDE GUM WHICH PROVIDES HIGH VISCOSITIES AT LOW
CONCENTRATIONS, AND PRODUCES AN EFFECTIVE SHEAR THINNING FLUI
LEADING TO OPTIMUM DRILLING RATES AND HOLE CLEANING PARAMETERS. IT HAS GREATER
TEMPERATURE STABILITY THAN XC AND XCD POLYMER AND IS STABLE UP TO TEMPERATURES OF
350-F. TREATHENT LEVELS 0.5 - 1.5 PPB MIXEO THROUGH THE HOPPER AT NOT LESS THAN
20 - 30 MINUTES PER SACK ARE NORMAL.
CONTACT PERSON ....B ILLY.COCHRANE .........  POSITION ...TECHNICAL.MAUAGER.......
BW MUD LIMITED             BW MUD LIMITED                    BV MUD LIMITED
MBOTSIWELL ROAD            HEWETT ROAD                       OIL BASE
WEST TULLOS                GAPTON HALL INDUSTRIAL ESTATE     GRENISTA
ABERDEEN                   GREAT YARMOUtH                    LERWICK      -
ABI 4AD                    NORFOLK                           ZEI OPX
TELE:- 0224 879013         TELE:- 0493 601743                TELE:- 0595 4722



D A T A S H E E T
BWMudLiwted
SAFE HANDLING OF CHEMICALS (S.H.O.C.7
E & P OPERATING COMPANIES
B W   B E N T O N I T E   Q S
COMPOSITION                            BENTONITE - GRANULAR
PHYSICAL FORM & APPEARANCE             GREY - BROWN GRANULES
PHYSICAL PROPERTIES                    Q.S. BENTONITE - GRADE 2 (2 - 4 MM DIAM)
Q.S. BENTONITE - GRADE 5 (5 - 10 MM DIAM)
Q.S. BENTONITE - MIX      (2 - 10 MM DIAM)
REGISTRATION
TRANSPORT CLASSIFICATION               UN NO:  N/A
LABELLING
PACKAGING                              25 KG SACKS/40 PER PALLET
FIRE & HAZARDOUS REACTIONS             INERT CLAY
a)  STABILITY                          NON FLAMMABLE
b) EXTINGUISHING AGENTS
c)  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS                CAUSES SLIPPERY SURFACE WHEN WET
SPILLAGE - EMERGENCY RESPONSE          SWEEP UP AND REMOVE TO TIP
DISPOSAL - REGULATION REQUIREMENTS



HEALTH & SAFETY INFORMATION AND FIRST AID
OCCUPATIONAL EXPOSURE LIMITS
RECOMMENOED
I RRITANT                                      PERSONAL
EFFECTS               TREATMENT               PROTECTION
SKIN            SLIGHTLY IRRITANT WASH WITH SOAP AND WATER    USE LOCAL VENTI-
LATION, GLOVES AND
GOGGLES
EYES            MECHANICAL IRRI-   FLUSH WITH WATER
TATION
INHALATION     DUST NUISANCE      REMOVE TO FRESH AIR
INGESTION      NON-TOXIC
TOXIC EFFECTS
ANY OTHER
SUPPLEMENTARY ADVICE TO PHYSICIAN
EXPERIMENTAL ANIMAL DATA
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA
REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA
STORAGE  - RECOMMENDED CONDITIONS       KEEP DRY
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS
APPLTCATION     IT IS UNIQUE IN THAT IT EXTENDS THE YIELD OF BENTONITE CLAYS
WHILE SELECTIVELY FLOCCULATING LOW YIELDING DRILLED SOLIDS.  IT
HAS A WIDE APPLICATION IN LOW SOLIDS MUD SYSTEMS, IS ADDED THROUGH THE MIXING
HOPPER OR DISSOLVED IN WATER AND ADDED THROUGH A CHEMICAL BARREL. TYPICAL TREAT-
MENT 0.05 PPB. NOTE: 00 NOT USE IN A CALCIIUM ENVIRONMENT.
CONTACT PERSON .... BILLY.COCHRANE ......... POSITION ... TECHNICAL.NANAGER.
BW MUD LIMITED              BW HUD LIMITED                    BW MUD LIMITED
ABBOTSWELL ROAD             HEWETT ROAD                       OIL BASE
WEST TULLOS                 GAPTON HALL INDUSTRIAL ESTATE     GREHISTA
ABERDEEN                    GREAT YARMOUTH                    LERVICK
ABI 4AD                     NORFOLK                           ZEI OPX
TELE:-  0224 879013         TELE:- 0493 601743                TELE:- 0595 4722



D A T A   S H E E T
BWMudGUnited
SAFE HANDLING OF CHEMICALS (S.H.O.C.)
E & P OPERATING COMPANIES
8 W   B AR I T E
COMPOSITION                            BARIUM SULPHATE APPROX 95%
CAS NO:- 7727-43-7
PHYSICAL FORK & APPEARANCE            ODOURLESS PINK OR GRAY POWDER
PHYSICAL PROPERTIES                    SG: 4.2 - 4.4
REGISTRATION                           DOE CNS CATEGORY 0
TRANSPORT CLASSIFICATION               UN NO: N/A
LABELLING
PACKAGING                             50 KG SACKS, 30 PER PALLET OR BULK
FIRE & HAZARDOUS REACTIONS :-
a)  STABILITY                          STABLE - INERT MINERAL
b)  EXTINGUISHING AGENTS               N/A
c)  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS
SPILLAGE - EMERGENCY RESPONSE          SWEEP UP
DISPOSAL - REGULATION REQUIREMENTS    REMOVE TO TIP



HEALTH & SAFETY INFORMATION AND FIRST AID
OCCUPATIONAL EXPOSURE LIMITS
RECOMMENDED
IRRITANT                                      PERSONAL
EFFECTS               TREATMENT              PROTECTION
SKIN                                                          WEAR DUST MASK AND
GOGGLES WHILST
DUST PERSISTS
EYES           IRRITANT OUST      FLUSH WITH WATER
INHALATION     IRRITANT DUST      REMOVE TO FRESH AIR
INGESTION
TOXIC EFFECTS
ANY OTHER
SUPPL¢MENTARY ADVICE TO PHYSICIAN
EXPERIMENTAL ANIMAL DATA
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA
REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA
STORAGE  - RECOMMENDED CONmITrONS    DRY COtDITIONS
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS
APPLICATION    BW BAR IS THE CHEMICALLY INERT, FINELY GROUND, LOW ABRASION POWDER
BARIUM SULPHATE, WITH A MINIMUM SPECIFIC GRAVITY OF 4.2. BW BAR
IS USED IN ALL DRILLING FLUIDS TO INCREASE DENSITY. FLUIDS WITH WEIGHTS UP TO
2.0 PPG MAY BE OBTAINED WITH BW BAR AND STILL REMAIN PUMPABLE. BW BAR IS EASILY
SUSPENDED AND HAS LITTLE EFFECT ON VISCOSITY AND GEL STRENGTHS. THE QUANTITY OF
BW BAR REQUIRED DEPENDS ON THE DESIRED MUD WEIGHT MD CAN BE CALCULATED USING
STANDARD WEIGHT UP EQUATIONS.
CONTACT PERSON .... BILLY.COCHRANE ......... POSITION ... TECHNICAL.MAKAGER.
BD MD LIITED               BW MUD LIMITED                    BW MU LINIHTD
ABBOTSWELL ROAD            HEWEIT ROAD                       OIL BASE
WEST TULLOS                GAPTON HALL INDUSTRIAL ESTATE     GREMISTA
ABERDEEN                   GREAT YARMOUTH                    LERWICK
ABI 4AD                    NORFOLK                           ZEI OPX
TELE:- 0224 879013         TELE:- 0493 601743                TELE:- 0595 4722



ENH MOCAMBIQUE                           Project No: 124
REPORT ON CHEMICALS STORED AT PANDE BASE CAMP
ANNE)URE 4
.IA)
nn
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,                            R



ENERGY DISPERSIVE SPECTiWMETER (EDS)
ANALYSED AS SODUIM (BICARBONATE)
IX-RAY:       0  -   20  k eV
L i ve:   0l0is Preset:   100s Remaining:                    Os
ReaLl:   113s           12%  DeO d
1.0  ~~~~P
<  .0                     5.120    R-ev                10.2  >
..   ~FS=   41K  OS=  -16               ch    :266=       1 9 3.  c t s
MEtQll SAMPLE 1
L'. 
3~~    ~     ~ 1OK
<                                   '               )'.~~~



ENERGY DISPERSIVE SPECTROMETER (EDS)
ANALYSED AS SODUIM (BICARBONATE)
X.-F..Y':    fl -  20  k eV
L i ve:    100s  P reset:    l0Os  Remaining:                   Os
Real:  118s               15X Dead
<  .0                      5.120    keV                   10.2  >
FS=  8K OS= -16                     ch  266=    356  cts
MEM1: SAMPLE 2
S EKCR



ENERGY DISPERSIVE SPECTROMETER (EDS)
ANALYSED AS LIvNOSULPHONATE
X-RAY:    0     20  ReV
Live:   10Os Preset.:   l00s Remaining:                  Os
Real:   153s          35%. Dead
<                 5~~~.120   ReV             1.  
FS= 32K  OS= -16               ch   266=        5L*8   cts
MEMI : SAMPLE 3; INCLUSION 
SOEKO



ENERGY DISPERSIVE SPECTROMETER (EDS)
ANALYSED AS CALCUIH CHLORIDE
X-RAY:              __ 20  <eV
Live: *   1 0ls Preset:   1OOs Remaining:                  Os
Real: 1. _     s .            Dead
*I.1~ A
<  .0            ~~5. 140   k e       1        10.3  >
.v   FS=    1K  O-lS= -16       ch   267=          10   cts
MEM1:*ShMPLE  4
6CK



ENERGY DISPERSIVE SPECTROMETER (EDS)
ANALYSED AS POSSIBLY PRE-PREPARED MUD
X-RFY:    0 - 20  k eV
L i ve:   100s Preset:   100s Rema i ni n:               COs
Real:   120Cs          17% Dead
MR                              F
aMj   ~ ~       C B            F
<  .0                   5.120   keV                 10.2  >
FS=  16K  OS= -16              ch   266=         194   cts
MEMI : SAMPLE 5
SOQCOW



