                                               Document of
                                            The World Bank

                                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                         Report No: 27480

                              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                                (IDA-26290)

                                                   ON A

                                                  CREDIT

                                 IN THE AMOUNT OF US$30 MILLION

                                                  TO THE

                                     REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE

                                                  FOR A

                                     GAS ENGINEERING PROJECT




                                              March 15, 2004




Energy Team
Infrastructure Group
Africa Region




 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
 official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective January 1, 2004)

                             Currency Unit = Meticais
                                    SDR 1 = US$ 1.47399
                                    US$ 1 = 23,200

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1    December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CMG       Companhia Mocambicana de Gasoduto (Mozambique Gas Pipeline Company)
CMH       Companhia Mocambicana de Hidrocarbonetos (Mozambique Hydrocarbons
          Company)
DNCH      Direção Nacional de Carvão e Hidrocarbonetos (National Directorate for Coal and
          Hydrocarbons)
DNE       Direção Nacional de Energia (National Directorate for Energy)
EdM       Electricidade de Moçambique (Mozambique Electricity Company)
ENH       Empresa Nacional de Hidrocarbonetos de Moçambique (Mozambique National Oil
          Corporation)
ERAP      Energy Reform and Access Project
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GoM       Government of Mozambique
GoSA      Government of South Africa
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA       International Development Association
IFC       International Finance Corporation
MGJ       Million gigajoules
MGJ/a     Million gigajoules per annum
MIGA      Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MIREME    Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy of the Republic of Mozambique
MW        Megawatt
NORAD     Norwegian Agency for Development
OED       Operation Evaluation Department
ROMPCO    Republic of Mozambique Pipeline Investments Company (Proprietary) Limited
RSA       Republic of South Africa
SADC      Southern Africa Development Community
TA        Technical Assistance
TCF       Trillion Cubic feet

                           Vice President:     Callisto Madavo
                         Country Director:     Darius Mans
                          Sector Manager:      Yusupha Crookes
                             Team Leader:      Joel Maweni/Marc Heitner
                        Program Assistant:     Lily Wong

                                           MOZAMBIQUE
                                  GAS ENGINEERING PROJECT


                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                    1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              6
    6. Sustainability                                                                  7
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   8
    8. Lessons Learned                                                               10
    9. Partner Comments                                                              11
    10. Additional Information                                                       18
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             22
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             23
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             25
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                26
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            27




Map IBRD No. 32884

Project ID: P001780                                                  Project Name: MZ GAS ENGINEERING (ENGY)
Team Leader: Joel J. Maweni                                          TL Unit: AFTEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 15, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: MZ GAS ENGINEERING (ENGY)                                L/C/TF Number: IDA-26290
   Country/Department: MOZAMBIQUE                                                          Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Oil and gas (93%); Central government administration (7%)
                  Theme: Other environment and natural resources management (P); Export
                            development and competitiveness (P); Pollution management and
                            environmental health (S); Access to urban services for the poor (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/30/1990                                     Effective: 10/16/1994                12/30/1994
     Appraisal: 11/15/1993                                         MTR: 12/31/1995                  03/04/1996
      Approval: 06/16/1994                                      Closing: 06/30/2000                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT/MINISTRY OF MINERAL RESOURCES AND ENERGY
                      Other Partners:      DNCH, DNE, ENH

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Darius Mans                                    Phyllis Pomerantz
Sector Manager:                 Yusupha B. Crookes                             David Cook
Team Leader at ICR:             Joel J. Maweni                                 Eric S. Daffern
ICR Primary Author:             Marc L. Heitner


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The primary objective of the Project was to undertake all work necessary to enable the Government, ENH
and the private sector investors to make a firm decision to develop the Pande gas reserves for export and

for use in Mozambique. Secondary objectives included a minor environmental clean up relating to previous
operations, preparing for gas supplies to suitably located Mozambican towns and the consequent
opportunity for power supplies, training and institutional strengthening to prepare for a substantial
Mozambican role in future gas operations.

3.2 Revised Objective:

N.A.

3.3 Original Components:

The Project was designed in two phases. Phase I was designed to establish sufficient gas reserves so that
the private sector would be willing to enter into a Joint Venture Agreement to develop the Pande field.
Phase I included:

         Cost: US$12.7 million
         Gas reserves enhancement through the drilling of three wells and shooting and processing 1,200 km
         of seismic which should bring the remaining recoverable reserves [at the Pande field] to 2 TCF;
         and technical assistance for a study on financing options.

         Cost: US$6.4 million
         TA, equipment, materials to enhance ENH's role as a joint venture partner and to strengthen it
         internally, in areas such as project management, assistance in negotiations, studies to better prepare
         the gas development project and ENH's position, strengthening ENH accounting and management
         information systems, a structured training program, work related to gas supplies near Pande and
         environmental support.

         Cost: US$1.1 million
         TA to strengthen the hydrocarbon directorate [DNCH] including defining environmental standards,
         formulating the relevant institutional and regulatory framework, tax and incentive system and
         appropriate training.

Phase II was designed to include those tasks in which a joint venture partner will wish to have an input into
the work, and where ENH's costs will be shared with the private sector partner [additional conditions of
disbursements included besides the conclusion of a Joint Venture Agreement, the approval by the Council
of Ministers of a satisfactory legal and regulatory framework, and the proving of sufficient reserves for the
project to be able to succeed]. Phase II thus included:

         Cost: US$22.5 million
         Costs shared with JV partner including project management team, a full environmental assessment
         and mitigation plan, arranging finance, and engineering work.

         Cost: US$5.0 million
         Support to ENH in negotiating participation and benefits from the project, firming up knowledge of
         project issues, detailed work for gas supplies to Maputo and other towns, and implementation of
         accounting system related to Joint Venture.

         Cost: US$1.0 million
         Further strengthening of Hydrocarbons Directorate.



                                                      - 2 -

Phase I of the Project was consistent with its objectives as it comprised the establishment of adequate
reserves to attract investors' interest, the support required to negotiate joint venture agreements, the
institution building effort for ENH, the development of gas reserves for domestic use and the environmental
cleanup. Phase II assumed implicitly that the Phase I program as such will not be sufficient to attract
investors' interest, so that the Government would have to spend considerable amounts together with the
private sector to enable the gas development project to materialize, notwithstanding the investment in three
appraisal wells under Phase I. As a matter of fact, the Project evolved very differently from the
anticipations at appraisal, as the conditionality attached to Phase II (insofar as the Joint Venture is
concerned) became largely irrelevant. Formally, Phase II became effective in February 2001 -- by then
some 80% of the Credit (before cancellation) had been disbursed.

3.4 Revised Components:

The Project, as it materialized, was very different from the anticipations at appraisal on the following
grounds: (i) the joint venture with the private sector to develop Mozambique's gas resources eventually
materialized, but the private sector did not require Mozambique to match the funds, hence a US$17.6
million reduction in the Project cost (Mozambique acquired voluntarily equity in the export project for
which it is presently negotiating financing); (ii) the amount of the Credit was reduced by about US$4.2
million; and (iii) in addition to ENH (the national oil company of Mozambique) and DNCH (the upstream
regulator), two additional agencies benefited from the Credit, i.e. DNE (the downstream regulator) and
UTIP (a promoter of private sector power export projects). Under the circumstances, given the central role
of the IDA credit in the gas sector during Project execution, and the fact that it funded 100% of Project
cost, it is best to compare the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit as estimated at appraisal, and at
Credit closure: The two can be compared as follows:

                                     Project Description: Appraisal and Actual
                                                   (US$ million)

                      Category                            Appraisal     Actual     Difference
                      Drilling and Seismic                      12.8        11.1         (1.7)
                      Phase I                                                              -
                      Equipment/Materials                        0.6          0.5        (0.1)
                      Consultants                                7.6          6.8        (0.7)
                      Training Expenses                          0.5          0.1        (0.5)
                      Operating Expenses                         0.5          3.2         2.8
                        Total Phase I                            9.1        10.6          1.5

                      Phase II
                      Equipment/Materials                        0.2          0.1        (0.1)
                      Consultants                                6.8          3.3        (3.5)
                      Training Expenses                          0.5          0.1        (0.3)
                      Operating Expenses                         0.6          0.2        (0.4)
                        Total Phase II                           8.1          3.7        (4.4)

                      New Beneficiaries (DNE, UTIP)                           0.5         0.5

                        Grand Total                             30.0        25.8         (4.2)




                                                       - 3 -

As the above table shows: (i) expenditures on training were considerably lower than anticipated -- as a
matter of fact, NORAD and SASOL (the main sponsor of the gas export project) were the main financiers
of the training program; (ii) the Credit financed considerably higher operating expenses than anticipated --
in particular the Credit funded inter alia fuel purchases, the insurance and maintenance of ENH's aircraft
(which was lost at sea in 2000), vehicles and insurance expenses.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Taking into account the main objective of the Project, i.e. to firm up gas reserves and attract private
sponsors, Phase I was properly designed as ENH benefited from the institutional support (legal, economic,
project management etc.) required to negotiate joint ventures once the gas reserves at Pande had been
firmed up. On the other hand, the design of Phase II raises a number of issues as follows: (i) when the
State takes equity in a joint venture, its share, if any, will be normally funded by the sponsor, who will be
compensated through the income the Project will generate, hence the provision of matching funds under the
Credit was questionable; (ii) by making the conclusion of a Joint Venture a condition for Phase II, the Bank
may have exercised excessive pressure on the Government to conclude an agreement early, thus weakening
its negotiating position; and (iii) the components of Phase I and Phase II are identical (and the services were
rendered by the same suppliers), so that the distinction is somehow artificial and arbitrary (the Bank
recognized that implicitly given that Phase II represented 27% of the Credit at appraisal, and 14% at the
date of closure). On balance, given the positive results of the promotional efforts, and the inclusion in the
Project of the environmental and local gas distribution components, the Project is rated satisfactory at
entry.

The Project was consistent with the CAS (submitted to the Board simultaneously with this Project, on June
16, 1994) whose main objectives were poverty reduction (given the incremental fiscal revenues gas exports
would generate) and increased self reliance through policy and institutional reform. It is questionable,
however, whether the use of IDA resources in a joint venture with the private sector was consistent with the
CAS -- in all probability, the feeling in 1994 must have been that the private sector would be reluctant to
enter into a Joint Venture in the petroleum sector unless the Government provides cofinancing.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Reserves figures are subject to a great deal of interpretation, so that estimates vary from one appraiser to
the next. When the Project was submitted to the Board (June 1994), proven Pande's recoverable gas
reserves were assessed at 1.5 TCF which was deemed inadequate to justify an export Project to South
Africa (the only significant market for Mozambican gas). According to one consulting firm which applied
the same methodology before and after the three IDA-funded wells were drilled, proven recoverable
reserves increased from 1.642 TCF to 1.851 TCF (a 13% increase). It can be assumed that the
confirmation of gas reserves at Pande encouraged the oil industry to explore elsewhere, which resulted in
another commercial discovery by SASOL & al at the nearby Temane field. When SASOL decided to
commit to export gas, its estimate of proven recoverable reserves at Pande, prepared by another appraiser,
was 1.7 TCF -- together with 0.4 TCF at Temane, this level of reserves was sufficient to provide investors
the comfort required to undertake the US$720 million investment (this Project is supported by the Bank and
IFC) -- first gas deliveries started in March 2004. Given that the Government has been promoting this
Project over the past 20 years or so (40 years after the initial discovery), this is a big achievement for
Mozambique, and on these grounds, the achievement of the objective is rated Highly Satisfactory.



                                                        - 4 -

The other objectives of the Project, i.e. environmental clean up (resulting from a blow out in the 1960s
which required nearly two years to bring under control) and the distribution of gas in the vicinity of the
wells were achieved satisfactorily. With respect to the environmental clean up, water was desalinated, and
new vegetation planted; the crater however was not filled as this was deemed too costly in relation to the
anticipated benefits. With respect to marketing of gas in the vicinity of the fields, gas production has
increased from 224 million cubic meter in 1994 to 2,423 million cubic meter (about 2,000 tons of fuel
equivalent) in 2002, a remarkable 35% increase per annum. The gas is used mostly for power generation
in the villages. ENH has entered into a Joint Venture with an affiliate of ESKOM (South Africa's main
power utility) to distribute the gas, and it is essentially carried (its share of revenues are used to fund
investments). The network is expanding rapidly, and two islands are expected to be connected shortly. On
the other hand, the local grid is not financially viable, as the gas is not paid for -- on balance, it is important
to note the importance of providing tangible benefits to the population in the vicinity of producing oil and
gas fields.

The training program, which benefited DNCH, DNE, ENH and UTIP included a wide range of topics from
English Learning to Geophysical Interpretation (including the use of Workstations) and lasted from a week
or two to one year. The institutions recognize the value of training, and continue to emphasize its
importance by spelling out their requirements in detail, within the context of the budgeting process.

4.2 Outputs by components:

The Seismic Survey and Drilling Program provided the investors with the necessary comfort to embark on
the gas export project. Hence the output of this component is rated Highly Satisfactory.

Most of the Phase I expenditures were related to a transaction with ENRON which obtained exclusive
rights on the Pande Field in September 1994, and relinquished those in June 2000. During that six-year
period, highly qualified advisers supported ENH (particularly legal, economic, financial, technical) as it
was engaged in intensive negotiations with ENRON from time to time. While the various agreements
drafted at the time subsequently supported the preparation of the gas export project as it eventually
materialized -- this was certainly not the most efficient way to prepare the final transaction, particularly
because frequent changes in the approach required extensive legal redrafting. By all accounts, the advisers
were highly professional and they represented Mozambique's interest well. In addition, under Phase I, the
expenditures on operating expenses were higher than the appraisal estimate by a factor of 6! The reliance
on long-term funding for operating expenses indicates that the State was unable to support a national oil
company, however desirable such a company was from a political standpoint. On the whole, the outcome
of Phase I is rated unsatisfactory.

Phase II of the Project became effective in February 2001, and most expenditures were related to the
transaction with SASOL (given that the basic agreement with SASOL was signed in October 2000,
undoubtedly some Phase I expenses were directly related to that transaction as well). Given that the gas
export project materialized, the outcome of phase II is rated Satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
NA


4.4 Financial rate of return:
NA



                                                        - 5 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Establishing an effective national oil company is particularly challenging, given the range of skills required,
the rapidly evolving technology, the importance of hands on experience, and the massive capital
requirements. In the early 1990s, given the absence of investors, ENH was operating a drilling program in
the Pande field with the expectation to increase gas reserves. Given that it was an operator, ENH had some
250 staff at the time. Pande is now being developed by the private sector, and ENH has deliberately ceased
to be an operator, and intends to focus on the promotion of investments in the hydrocarbon sector. Hence,
its staff now stands at about 120, of which 20 are located in the field and are expected to be transferred to
SASOL. Of the remaining 100, some 50 work in unrelated businesses, which are expected to be spun-off.
ENH has put a great emphasis on training its staff from Basic English, to Petroleum Fiscal Systems,
Management of Petroleum Operations, Drilling etc. Most of the training has been provided through
seminars and courses in various locations in Mozambique and abroad (certain programs lasted a year). It
seems that on the technical side, ENH staff is reasonably competent. However, on the legal and financial
side, considerable strengthening is required, and it is in the process of recruiting promising nationals for
these functions. Overall, the corporate strategy adopted by ENH is very sensible, and at some point,
consistently with Government policies, the company ought to be privatized. Overall, the institutional
impact is rated Satisfactory.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

None

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

As stated above, the ENRON transaction dominated the first six years of the Project. When the Project
was submitted to the Board (June 1994), ENH was negotiating a Joint Cooperation Agreement with
SASOL (South Africa) and Pluspetrol (Argentina). At the time, the Bank opined that a fourth partner
should be brought in to provide pipeline expertise. The first supervision mission (July 1994) reported inter
alia that: (i) SASOL's offer for the gas price had been deemed inadequate but that nevertheless, ENH was
taking pains not to break the relation with SASOL; (ii) several large companies (including South African
ones) were interested in marketing gas in South Africa, not necessarily through SASOL; and (iii) following
a call for expressions of interest by ENH, four international oil companies including ENRON had been
prequalified to own and operate the pipeline.

In September 1994, the first agreement between ENH and ENRON was concluded providing inter alia: (i)
for ENRON, to find a market for the gas within an 18 months period; (ii) for ENH, with the support of the
IDA Credit, to confirm the gas reserves; and (iii) for ENRON, to prepare the plans for field development,
gas processing and transport. For all practical purposes, the agreement provided ENRON with the
exclusive rights over the Pande field without an obligation to invest in Mozambique. Shortly thereafter,
ENRON proposed economic terms for the Joint Venture, which were deemed unfavorable ­ given a tight
deadline, ENH began mobilizing various advisers with some urgency, in order to negotiate the terms of the
agreement. During the subsequent six years, following technical consultations with ENRON, the three
IDA-funded wells were drilled; and a financial adviser appointed (again, under the Credit) to handle the
project-finance aspects. The main issue, however, remained the conclusion of a Gas Sales Agreement
which would underpin the development of the Pande gas field. Many options were considered ­ the most


                                                      - 6 -

important one being a treatment plant for iron ore, initially in South Africa, and subsequently in Maputo (in
cooperation with the Industrial Development Corporation [IDC] of South Africa). Under various
amendments of the agreements with ENRON, the deadline for concluding a bona fide sales agreement was
repeatedly deferred; the last agreement was entered into in April 1999 and provided for a 24 - 30 months
extension; in late 1999, IDC withdrew from the iron ore project on account of the depression in the iron
industry. In June 2000, SASOL which had by then discovered commercial gas reserves at the nearby
Temane field, acquired the rights of ENRON to the Pande field for a reported US$30 million, and a few
months later the Joint Venture agreement with SASOL was signed, thus enabling the implementation of the
gas export project.

The main objective of the Project was to develop Pande's gas reserves for exports, and indeed this objective
was attained successfully. ENRON's effective control over the Pande field, however, constituted a
considerable hindrance, as it invested its resources in the preparation of the transaction. In effect, the
Government had to hire its own advisers at considerable expense to negotiate a venture which, after 6
years, failed to materialize.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

See above

5.4 Costs and financing:

It was initially anticipated that the private sector would contribute US$17.6 million to the Project cost, and
Mozambique/ENH, US$1.1 million. In reality, following the conclusion of the Joint Venture Agreement
with SASOL, no Government financing was sought (although Mozambique got recognition for its past
expenditures on Pande through an option to take equity in the upstream and pipeline portions of the export
project). The Government provided financing largely for custom duties and taxes, but its precise
contribution is not known, hence the final cost of the Project is taken to be the disbursements under the
Credit. The US$4.2 million reduction in the Credit amount had no material impact on Project execution.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The establishment of additional gas reserves under the Project enabled the gas export project to materialize.
As a 25-year sales agreement was concluded with SASOL, the State will start earning royalty income
starting in 2004, and taxes after a few years; and ENH will start earning dividend income in 2005 (thus
hopefully eliminating its dependence on the budget). The Project is rated Highly Satisfactory from a
sustainability standpoint. One should bear in mind however that this rating is subject, of course, to the
ability of the sponsors to produce, ship, and market/distribute natural gas to the consumers in the
contractual quantities - the sponsors carry the commercial and technical risks of the Project and they have
therefore considerable incentives to make the Project a success.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Since the Project will be operated by competent and experienced parties, on the basis of a detailed
contractual package, no particular arrangements are required for a transition period.




                                                      - 7 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Project was designed on the basis of a specific sequence of events i.e. additional reserves are
established by the Government, joint venture is created, Government and sponsor both invest in the Project,
and gas is eventually exported. The Bank should have recognized at the time that other scenarios could
materialize, and that a more flexible approach was warranted, in particular with respect of the Government
financing of wells in areas in which a private party has exclusive rights. The division of the Project into
two phases was very artificial, and did not result in tangible benefits (except perhaps for the long-delayed
passage of the Petroleum Law). Still, the specific components of the Project turned out to be very relevant
including the appraisal of gas reserves, assistance during negotiations, economic and financial advice,
institution building and training (as a matter of fact, the MOP includes a detailed, long-term, draft training
program). On the whole, the Bank's performance at the lending level is rated Satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:

Much of the effort during supervision was focused on the transactions (both ENRON and SASOL). On the
whole, the Bank's advice was very judicious, and unfortunately not always followed. For instance, with
respect to the export project, the Bank recognized that SASOL controls all of its components (upstream,
transport, downstream) and that its overall strategy is probably to seek gas at the lowest possible cost at the
point of delivery; hence the Bank's recommendation that another oil company be associated with the
venture, whose interests will be closer to GoM's, was very sensible, but was not followed.

In the initial years of the Project, the Bank realized gradually that ENRON was not investing in
Mozambique while holding valued acreage; however it had limited options. It rightly did not want to advise
on a contract between a private party and the Government. It could have withdrawn from the Project, but
this would have had very adverse consequences for Mozambique's efforts to develop its gas reserves.
Eventually, the Bank's perseverance enabled the export project to materialize.

The focus on the transactions resulted in less attention being paid to the environmental clean up, the local
distribution of natural gas and the institution building effort. The performance of the consultants and
advisers also does not seem to have been monitored much. During the last two years of the Credit, no
supervision mission visited Mozambique on account of frequent changes in the Task Manager, and
changing organizational responsibilities. However, this does not seem to have had an adverse impact on the
project, particularly since several missions visited Mozambique in connection with the gas export project
and interacted with ENH; one should note that the fiduciary requirements were complied with. Under the
circumstances, the Bank performance in supervision is rated Satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The Project in the main part was properly designed to enable Mozambique to export gas. The execution of
the Project was hindered by ENRON controlling the most promising gas reserves for six years without
contributing to the materialization of gas exports. Thanks to the Bank's continuous efforts, the export
project eventually emerged. Under the unusual circumstance surrounding this Project, the overall
performance of the Bank is rated Satisfactory.




                                                       - 8 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Given the high priority assigned by the authorities to the commercialization of Mozambique's gas reserves,
the Government and ENH were wholly supportive -- as a matter of fact, ENH has promoted the
development of Mozambique's gas reserves since its creation (1981). In the context of the Project, ENH
was separated from the Ministry and DNCH was established. Hence the borrower's performance at
Project Preparation was Satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Government played a key role in the implementation of the Project, having been a party to the
agreements with ENRON and SASOL. More importantly, it assigned high priority to the realization of the
gas export venture, and addressed expeditiously the various issues which arose during the different phases
of the Project. In addition, its agencies (DNCH, DNE) directly benefited from the Credit. On the other
hand, several strategic decisions were taken which are questionable with hindsight including the three
extensions of ENRON's exclusivity rights over Pande (which did not result in tangible benefits to
Mozambique as ENRON was not required to invest); the acceptance that in the gas export project, SASOL
be the only genuine oil company (SASOL in effect controls the production, treatment, transport and
marketing of natural gas); and more recently, the award of the rights to distribute gas in the Maputo area
without competitive bidding. Moreover, while preparation of the Petroleum Law (whose passage was a
condition of Phase II of the Project) began in 1995 (with assistance from Norway), it was only approved in
December 2000. Notwithstanding several reminders, the Regulations under the Act and the Model
Contract are still to be issued. On balance, taking into account however that the Government's efforts
ultimately resulted in the long-sought gas export project being executed, the performance of the
Government can be rated Satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Given that ENH did not have the full range of skills required to carry out its share of the Project, it relied
extensively on external consultants in areas such as project management (in excess of US$2 million); legal
services (US$3.5 million); and economic evaluation of joint venture terms (about US$0.5 million). The
contractors hired provided high quality services to the authorities. ENH has also given high emphasis to
the training of its staff. Furthermore, during Project execution, ENH was restructured and downsized, as it
ceased to be an operator and became a financial partner of the Joint Venture. On the other hand, quarterly
reports were submitted erratically; and the audited Project and Corporate accounts were submitted late ­
while the accounts were not qualified, they were not consistent with International Accounting Standards.
Overall, the performance of ENH was Satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The first development of a gas field in any country is a very challenging endeavor given in particular the
wide range of skills and experience required; when the first venture is designed for exports, project design
becomes considerably more complex. In this instance, the Project is located in a low-income country, while
the market is located in the regional economic power. Moreover, the Government's attention was distracted
during the first six years of the Project, to the sterile (with hindsight) negotiations with one of the most
aggressive oil companies ever. Lastly, there were serious uncertainties about gas reserves when the Project
was initiated. Under the circumstances, the successful conclusion of a US$720 million project is a
remarkable feat. Overall, the performance of the borrower is rated Satisfactory.



                                                         - 9 -

8. Lessons Learned

There are several important lessons to be drawn from this Project:

Competition for Exclusive Rights: Exclusive rights should be awarded competitively -- this applies to
virtually all commercial activities including exploration and production, transportation, and distribution.
As this Project very well illustrates, without the benefit of tendering, agreements have to be negotiated in
detail, a lengthy and costly process, without reference points or benchmarks. Eventually, agreements
reached might well be based on the relative negotiating skills of the two parties rather than what economic
common sense would dictate. Had GoM followed a competitive process, there would have been
considerably less negotiating to do and the final transaction would have been that much more attractive.

Institution Building: One should have recognized at appraisal that developing a national oil company
required considerable capital, skills and experience that for all practical purposes, are unaffordable for
Mozambique. True, ENH hired very qualified advisers, at a considerable expense, to strengthen its
capabilities, but whether this was sufficient to best defend the national interest is a matter of debate.
Moreover, ENH's participation in the Project as an equity participant should be assessed in relation to the
benefits Mozambique will derive from this approach, when compared to, say, an increased level of
royalties. In recent years, other institutions such as DNCH assumed some of the functions previously
carried by ENH such as the management of the national petroleum data base and in the promotion of open
acreage. Admittedly, ENH has done considerable progress at the institutional level over the past few years,
still an agreement should have been sought up-front to privatize the company after the gas export venture
materializes. An understanding with the Government regarding ENH's privatization was reached in
connection with the recent gas export loan.

Transaction Skills: ENH totally depended on its external advisers to appraise and negotiate the
transactions. Irrespective of their performance, it does not appear that there was a substantial transfer of
skills particularly in the business aspects of petroleum Joint Ventures. Given also the considerable cost of
the expertise required, as long as it seeks a role as a promoter of joint ventures, ENH should have on board,
on a full time basis preferably, Mozambicans with minimum skills in Economics, Finance and Law who
will act as counterparts to the foreign advisers -- they will thus benefit from as much as possible "on the
job" training. Subsequently, these new staff should be able to provide in-house services for increasingly
complex tasks.

Role of the Bank in a Private Sector Context: Had Mozambique given exclusive rights to a private party in
a concession in which the State intends to invest prior to the submission of the Project to the Board, the
advisability of such a proposition would have been heavily questioned within the Bank. Unfortunately, the
decision was taken shortly after Board presentation, and ENRON was selected on the basis of its proposal
to build, own and operate the pipeline. It obtained exclusive rights to the Pande gas field not through a
conventional concession but through negotiated agreements with the Government which preempted a third
party from investing in the field, while it was not under the obligation to invest. It does not appear that the
Supervision Team was sufficiently aware of these ramifications. Consideration should be given to creating
a review panel (including IFC representatives) where such situations involving the Bank and the private
sector could be examined, and recommendations formulated accordingly.




                                                      - 10 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
                         Mozambique: Gas Engineering Project (Cr. 2629-MOZ)

                          Implementation Completion Report of the Beneficiary


1. The Natural Gas Project in Mozambique (1994 - 2003)

The background of the Natural Gas Project is described in the Memorandum submitted for the approval of
the Gas Engineering Credit signed in June 1994. By that time ENH was in negotiations with Sasol, as a
potential anchor customer and with Pluspetrol, as a potential operator for the upstream operations. The
three Parties were, jointly, also promoting the participation of an investor interested in operating a gas
pipeline required to transport the gas from the field to the markets in South Africa and Maputo.

This took place in the framework of a limited exclusivity agreement signed with Sasol on February 29,
1992 under which Sasol had certain obligations to promote, in association with ENH, a joint venture for
the development of the natural gas project. Sasol also undertook the obligation to carry out detailed
surveys and studies to identify a market with volumes and prices required to make the project economically
viable. The agreement with Sasol terminated in August 1994 following the last proposal submitted by
Sasol regarding the quantities and prices of natural gas that Sasol was willing to commit to buy. The
economic analysis based on such a proposal demonstrated that the project would not be viable.

In September 1994 a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) was signed with Enron. The MOU was
followed with the signature in October 1995 of the Heads of Agreement (HOA). Exclusivity rights over
Pande were granted for determined periods, which could be extended through the achievement of
determined project's milestones. Among others, Enron took the commitment to identify a suitable gas
market for the project. The HOA included, as attachments, the term sheets contemplating the main terms
for the various contracts to be negotiated by the Parties (Government, Enron and ENH). In association
with "Industrial Development Corporation" (IDC), Enron carried out a detailed feasibility study in respect
to an iron and steel plant to be built in Maputo (MISP), using the natural gas from Mozambique and the
iron ore from South Africa. In October 1997 Enron and ENH finalized the negotiations of a Gas Sales
Agreement (GSA) with IDC. The effectiveness of the GSA, that was not finally signed by the Parties, was
subject to certain conditions precedent to be met and the commitment from MISP was to take 52 MMGJ/yr
of natural gas at a price between 1.6 to 1.7 USD/GJ (price to be precisely determined with the conclusion
of the negotiations at that time between MISP and the potential customers for the steel). Due to changes
occurred in the international steel market, together with the heavy commitments taken by IDC in other large
projects, including Mozal in Mozambique, IDC decided not to pursue with its participation in the MISP.

In May 2000 Sasol and Enron entered in an agreement under which Enron declined the exclusivity rights to
develop the Pande field and Sasol committed, in getting the rights from the Government to develop the field,
to sell 25 MMGJ/yr of natural gas to MISP, if this project would reach financial closing by a certain
deadline date. In October 2002 final agreements were signed between the Government, ENH and Sasol for
the development of Pande and Temane fields, the transportation of the natural gas to Secunda in South
Africa and the committed off-take by Sasol of 120 MMGJ/yr of natural gas.




                                                     - 11 -

The signed agreements contemplated, in addition to Pande, the development of the Temane field. Following
the signature in 1996 of a "Production Sharing Agreement" (PSA) with ARCO/Sasol/Zarare, 5 wells were
drilled to appraise the Temane field. Later on, ARCO and Zarare farmed-out its participating interest to
Sasol. A new PSA was also signed with Sasol in October 2000 for the exploration and production of
natural gas in the areas adjacent to the fields of Pande and Temane. In December 2003 the final
commercial contracts, based on the main terms agreed in the term sheets attached to the agreements
referred above, were signed between Sasol, ENH's affiliates and iGas (stated owned company in South
Africa with shares in ROMPCO, the gas pipeline company). The ENH's affiliates and iGas were
appointed by the respective Governments to act as vehicles for the participation of national private entities
in the project, though its privatization in the near future. ENH has a participating interest of 30% in the
upstream and soon will acquire a participating interest up to a maximum of 25% in the gas pipeline
company, under the agreements signed with Sasol.



2. Gas Engineering Project (GEC)

2.1 ­ Objectives

The primary objective of the Gas Engineering Credit stated in the Memorandum as being "to undertake
all work necessary to enable the Government, ENH and the private sector investors to make a firm
decision to develop the Pande gas reserves for export and for use in Mozambique" has been achieved. In
spite of the other alternatives considered, during the implementation of the Gas Engineering Project, for the
gas market and for the project structure, the natural gas project ended up in being very close to that
described in the Memorandum. The already installed equipment at upstream and the gas pipeline is now
under commissioning and the Start Date for the production and transportation is expected to occur in
February 2004. The timing was different from that contemplated in the GEC, mainly due to the time
required in getting firm commitments from an anchor customer to off-take the volumes of natural gas that
would turn the project economically viable. The volumes Sasol committed under the signed agreements
(much larger than the ones proposed in 2004) were possible through the decision made by the company to
switch from coal to natural gas the feedstock to some units of the petrochemical complex at Secunda.

The legal and regulatory framework required for the implementation of the natural gas project has been
established during the implementation of the GEC and a new Petroleum Law nº 3/2001 was enacted. A
draft of "Gas Distribution Regulations" was prepared by DNE/DNCH and is presently under discussion
within MIREME. Five take-off points have been installed along the gas transmission pipeline that will be
used in the future for the distribution of natural gas to areas to be determined.

During the period of the GEC the gas distribution network in the local area close to Pande was expanded,
through private investment, to Nova Mambone and to the adjacent islands mainly for the generation of
electricity. The demand for natural gas increased along the years, mainly for electricity generation, having
presently reached the energy equivalent of about 1 Mw.

The development of the Pande and Temane fields will make, for the first time in the entire Southern Africa
Region, natural gas available for use as an energy source and as a feedstock for the petrochemical industry.
There was no legislation in place in South Africa on natural gas. Gas from coal has been used in some
limited areas. The Government in South Africa was aware of the important role that the natural gas could
have as an energy resource available in the country, in spite of its huge amount of coal reserves available at
low cost. Following a long period of discussions among its representatives, a cross-border agreement was
signed between the Governments of Mozambique and South Africa concerning natural gas trade between


                                                      - 12 -

both countries through the construction of a pipeline crossing the border. In 2000 the new Gas Act was
enacted in South Africa.


2.1.1 ­ Phase I. Gas Reserves

The main objective of Phase I of the Gas Engineering Credit was to ensure that the Natural Gas Project
could attract and engage investors and international banks to develop and subsequently implement it. To
achieve that target, one important task was to prove, by credible audit, that the proven recoverable reserves
would be sufficient to implement the envisaged project. ENH had done, before the GEC's implementation,
some appraisal work with financial assistance mostly from the former Soviet Union and Norway. 6
appraisal wells (Pande 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11) were drilled using Russian technology and the last one was
complemented with Western technology for the logging, coring and testing of the well. Two seismic
surveys funded by NORAD were implemented. It was also drilled a relief well Pande 4E to kill the water
and gas blow out and finally cap the well with cement.

As shown in Table 2, the Pande's reservoir confirmed by that time to contain considerable volumes of
natural gas, but it was not yet considered as being finally appraised. Some uncertainties existed in relation
to the area extension of the reservoir and also in respect to some petrophysical parameters (permeability,
porosity, WGC, recovery factor and others). Such uncertainties led to different results in the calculation
made by different auditors.

As referred in the Memorandum, no oil company showed interest in appraising the Pande field neither in
exploring for natural gas. The key issue was to identify the market and to get a commitment from an
anchor customer to buy and market volumes of gas that could turn the project viable. But to achieve that
object, good quality reservoir data, together with adequate proven recoverable reserves, was required to
satisfy the requirements of the market, as well as the lenders to the project. No potential investor would
commit to a project without the comfort about availability of sufficient reserves.

With funding from World Bank, following the interpretation of the seismic data acquired from the survey
financed by the GEC's PPF, two further wells were drilled (Pande 12 and 13) during December 1995 and
January 1996, which were designed to prove up sufficient reserves to justify the building of a 900 kilometer
pipeline to sell the gas in South Africa, the project under consideration at the time of the signature of the
GEC. At this stage Robertson Research International Limited was contracted by ENH to review all the
data following the results of the last drilled wells (P12 and 13), estimate the gas reserves and give advice on
whether additional appraisal drilling is needed.

As a result of this work performed by Robertson, ENH received preliminary estimates of Gas Initially in
Place and Reserves, which proven figures were:

                  GIIP             1.987 tcf
                  Reserves         1.642 tcf

Based on these results, and through the discussions with the consultants from Robertson and Norwegian
Petroleum Directorate, ENH proposed and the World Bank gave the no objection to the drilling of a final
well, Pande 14 in the eastern part of the field.




                                                      - 13 -

                                  TABLE 1 ­ WELLS DRILLED BY ENH AT PANDE

 Pande 6                             12.01.89               24.10.89                Before World Bank
                                                                                    Engineering credit
 Pande 7                             12.04.90               17.03.90
 Pande 8                             12.04.90               04.06.90
 Pande 9                             16.10.90               02.12.90
 Pande 10                            30.07.90               14.09.90
 Pande 4E relief well               17.01.91                13.03.91
 Pande 11                            02.07.92               15.10.92
 Pande 12                           03.11.95                09.12.95
 Pande 13                            25.12.95               21.01.95
 Pande 14                            15.05.96               06.06.96



After the drilling of the Pande 14 well the Proven reserves have increased, in spite of the successful results
from the well, primary through a more rigorous approach with availability of more accurate petrophysical
parameters, the evidence of a GWC in Pande 14 and better knowledge of the boundary limits of the
reservoir:

                 GIIP             2.197 tcf
                 Reserves         1.851 tcf



                                    TABLE 2 ­ GAS RESERVES ESTIMATES (PROVEN)

                          USSR/NPD        Intera/Chris     Intera/Chris     Robertson         Robertson
                          1990            April 1991       July 1993        Feb 1997          Aug 1997
                          Before 1st      Before P11       After P11        After P12 & 13    After P14
          GIIP            1.607 tcf       1.281 tcf        1.944 tcf        1.987 tcf          2.197 tcf
          Reserves                                                          1.642 tcf          1.851 tcf



In the final report issued in August 1996 Robertson concludes that the field was then finally appraised.
They also said that within two or three years after the field being on stream, reservoir pressure data can be
used to establish the gas in place by material balance to high degree of confidence, and by then calculated
proven recoverable reserves most likely increased.

We considered that the appraisal work, an important component of the Phase I of the GEC, was
successfully implemented and its objectives achieved. In spite of the Reserves not having been largely
increased, the quality of reservoir data basis was largely improved and the confidence about the reserves
calculated.




                                                     - 14 -

When MISP was under consideration, after the final appraisal of the Pande reservoir funded by the GEC,
the required reserves to supply 25 MMGJ/yr of natural gas were not an issue for the project sponsors and
lenders. The project that is now under consideration requires 120 MMGJ/yr of natural gas. While the
present proven recoverable reserves are not sufficient to satisfy the 25 years, the contract period of the Gas
Sales Agreement, the Parties are confident that the required reserves will soon be achieved either after
entering the reservoirs into production or through the current exploration activities in the areas adjacent to
the fields.

2.1.2 ­ Phase II

Following the signature of the agreements with Sasol (joint venture agreements) and the approval of the
new Petroleum Law, the Phase II of the Gas Engineering Credit formally initiated in February 28, 2001.
The final commercial contracts with Sasol were signed in December 2002, bringing the Southern Africa
Regional Gas Project to fruition. The GEC closed on June 30, 2003.

2.2 ­ Project's components

(i)      Variation in the components. As shown in Attachment A there was no variation in the components
of the Project. During the reallocation of funds for the implementation of Phase II of the Project some
activities were agreed to be implemented by the Energy Directorate (DNE) under MIREME. The funds
were allocated to DNE/UTIP under a new category C (not listed in the original budget).

(ii)     Project cost estimates. Before the start of Phase II, in early 2001, a reallocation of funds was
made for each component of the project base on the costs estimates until the closing of Phase II, and the
total of the Credit was reduced from SDR 21,000,000.00 to SDR 18,533,000.00. The main variation, and
the respective justification between the original cost estimates and the final costs incurred are the following:

(1)      Consultants, Category 3B. It was originally envisaged that ENH would contribute, pari passu
with the private investor, in the advanced engineering and in the detailed EIA's of all the components of the
project. The private investors, at its own costs, implemented these activities. The most relevant costs
incurred by ENH with Consultants, in an amount larger than originally expected, were related to the
negotiation of the several agreements and in the procurement of finance for the equity of ENH's affiliates.

(2)      Operating costs. The costs incurred, larger than originally expected, were mainly due to the larger
duration of Phase II and the shortage in funds that could be made available to ENH by the state budget.

(3)      The total costs were reduced mainly for the same reason as stated in (1) above.

(iii)    The listing of the major contracts awarded under the Project is in Attachment B. The
procurement procedures agreed in the GEC were followed for all the components of the Project.
Attachment C indicates procurement methods in the main components of the Project.

2.3 ­ MIREME

The Credit Agreement contemplated, as Part A, support to the Hydrocarbons Directorate (DNCH). The
tasks were performed as originally estimated. The main Consultants contracted by DNCH were "Kelly
Drye and Warren" (Law Firm), "Austral" (Tax Advisor), "London Economics" (costs/benefit's analysis)
and "Miranda Correia" (Portuguese Law Firm appointed to prepare the draft for the Gas Distribution
Regulation). DNE contacted local advisors (one legal and one economist) to assist the institution in matters


                                                     - 15 -

related to fuels.

The total costs incurred by MIREME under the Credit were:

                  DNCH:           USD 886,778
                  DNE/UTIP:        USD 304,855


2.4 ­ Bank's performance

From the beginning of the Project's implementation ENH received a good support from the Word Bank
Team, in particular until the Beneficiary became familiar with the World Bank guidelines for the
procurement of services and equipment.

Since 1994 until the Credit's closure several changes occurred with respect to the natural gas project (gas
market and project sponsors), as explained above. The Beneficiary received a good understanding from the
World Bank in that respect. Some agreements took longer to negotiate than originally envisaged and for
that reason ENH requested, in several occasions, the non-objection to extend the contracts with key
consultants involved in the negotiations and the allocation of additional budget. In spite of such extension
to constitute an exception to the World Bank Guidelines, the non-objection was granted and the
negotiations with the project's investors was not disrupted. Some delays occurred, at some stage, in getting
replies from the World Bank caused by the changes in its Task Manager.


2.5 ­ Beneficiary's performance

It was for the first time that ENH and DNCH was beneficiary of a Credit from IDA. Through the
implementation of this Project ENH's staff had the opportunity to become familiar with the procurement
procedures, thanks to the collaboration from the World Bank staff, and actively participate in the
negotiations of one of the largest investments ever implemented in Mozambique.

Due to lack of previous experience in Mozambique in dealing with such type of projects the Beneficiary
relied to a large extent on external consultants. The use of local expertise shall be prioritized in the future
assistance required by the sector.



3. Natural Gas Project. Pre-development costs (1994/2003)

3.1 ­ Private sector's pre-development costs

It was originally contemplated in the Memorandum that, during the Phase II, the private sector should
invest pari passu in the pre-development costs. Although difficult to quantify it at this stage, a
considerable amount (larger than originally envisaged) of costs were incurred by the private sector investor
during Phase I and Phase II. In fact, most of the pre-development costs incurred by the private sector
occurred during Phase I.

Excluding the costs incurred with respect to the negotiations of the joint venture agreements the following
activities, among others, were fully paid by the private investors:




                                                     - 16 -

l Pipeline routing.
l Pipeline preliminary and final designs.
l Environmental Impact Assessment and Mitigation Plans (upstream and pipeline).
l Economic models for project evaluation.
l Field Development Plan.
l Pipeline Development Plan.
l Gas market related studies (Sasol Gas, Sasolburg).


Enron, which results were passed to Sasol, carried out some of the activities referred above. In addition,
Enron/IDC incurred considerable expenditures in the MISP's feasibility study and in other activities in
relation to the project they tried to implement, without success. While there is for the purpose of the GEC
a clear-cut between Phase I and Phase II, in practice during most of Phase II the negotiations of final
commercial agreements coincided with the construction works for the project's implementation. ENH has
no full information about the pre-development costs incurred by Enron and Sasol. The only registered
information at ENH is in respect to the project implementation's costs, which CMH and CMG will have to
repay Sasol in pro rata to its participating interest. ENH expects to reach financial closing before the end
of this year.

SPT incurred as pre-development costs, including the appraisal in Temane though seismic and drilling of 5
wells (CMH will not contribute to such costs), in a total of 99 USD million. Our present estimation of
pre-development costs incurred by Sasol Gas in respect to the pipeline, which the other shareholders in
ROMPCO will have to contribute as "back costs" in accordance with Clause 10 of the Shareholders
Agreement, is 8 USD million. An audited amount will be submitted by Sasol Gas at the time of the
conversion of Class A shares in Class B shares by CMG and iGas. For the purpose of this report, we
present as a contribution to the pre-development costs by the private sector a total of 107 USD million.



3.2 ­ Total

During the period of the GEC's implementation the contribution from the state budget to ENH in respect to
this project was 1.7 USD million. The total amount spent in the Project under the GEC is approximately
26 USD million (exact amount in Schedule A) .

         Pre-development costs (1994/2003):

                                    USD million
         IDA                           26.0
         ENH                            1.7
         Private Sector               107.0
         TOTAL                        134.7



4. Impact of the project on the Southern Africa Regional Gas Project and of the technical assistance
component under ERAP

The Southern Africa Regional Gas Project covers the territories of the Republics of Mozambique and
South Africa and possibly will be extended in the future to other neighboring countries. The availability of
a 900 Km pipeline for the transport gas will certainly motivate the exploration for natural gas in regions
with reasonable access to the pipeline. New Exploration and Production Contracts are presently under


                                                      - 17 -

negotiations for contract areas with high prospectivity for natural gas. According to our estimates the
project presently being implemented will bring in nominal terms, during the life of the project, more than
700 USD million to the Governments as taxes and more than 300 USD million to the local companies
(CMH and CMG) participating in the project in association with Sasol.

We describe below our views about the impact of the Project in Mozambique.

Mozambique

600 Km of pipeline linking the Temane and Pande fields in North Inhambane to Secunda in South Africa
was already built inside the territory of Mozambique. Five take-off points for the use of gas in
Mozambique will be available out of which one will supply gas to a distribution area already licensed.

A market study is planned to identify regions, relatively close to the main pipeline, where it will be
economically viable to make the natural gas available for consumption. The natural gas can replace liquid
fuels consumed by some industries, generate electricity in areas not covered by the national grid and, in the
future, power vehicles or be distributed for domestic consumption. Such identification will allow the
determination of priorities for the use of the gas immediately available for consumption in Mozambique,
through the Government's entitlement to royalty gas, and the definition of areas in relation to which the
private sector will be invited, through competitive bidding, to invest in gas distribution and marketing under
concessions to be granted.

Regulations for natural gas distribution in Mozambique will soon be in place. The award of concessions
for investments in gas distribution infrastructures, normally through competitive bidding, shall ensure the
least cost for the gas supply and an appropriate risk allocation. The policy on pricing will allow the gas to
be sold competitively with other energy sources, enable operators to earn an appropriate return and
generate additional fiscal income to the Government.

The technical assistance component under the ERAP to the natural gas sector is required, among others, to
the following:

l Implementation of new accounting systems for CMH and CMH, as joint venture partners to Sasol in
     the upstream and ROMPCO.
l Privatization of CMH and CMG.
l Development of studies to maximize the use of condensate in Mozambique (initially to be exported).
l Required technical inputs for the decisions to be made by CMH and CMG in the Management and
     Operating Committees with the joint venture partners.
l Domestic gas market studies, identification of areas for gas distribution and negotiation of the
     concessions (DNE).
l Supervision and safety audits of the design, construction, commissioning and operation of the new
     pipelines from the 5 take-off of the main gas transmission pipeline (DNCH).
l Monitoring of the environment legislation with respect to the transmission and distribution of natural
     gas.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                     - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                         1
              Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate
Commercial development of the Pande gas   First Gas in January 2004.               First Gas in March 2004.
field.




Output Indicators:
                                                                         1
              Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate
Financial Closure of Gas Export Project.  Board Presentation on November 20, 2003. Board Presentation on November 20, 2003.




1 End of project




                                                           - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Drilling                                                     9.00            8.21              91
Seismic                                                      2.00            3.33             166
Equipment and Materials                                      1.60            4.41             276
Technical Assistance
 MMR                                                         1.70            0.68              40
 ENH                                                         8.20            8.30             101
 The Joint Venture                                          18.60                               0

Training
 MMR                                                         0.10            0.51             506
 ENH                                                         0.50            0.37              75
 The Joint Venture                                           0.30                               0

Total Baseline Cost                                         42.00          25.81
 Physical Contingencies                                      6.70                               0
 Price Contingencies                                                                            0
                        Total Project Costs                 48.70          25.81
                  Total Financing Required                  48.70          25.81


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          4.00              7.00         0.00         0.00         11.00
                                  (4.00)           (7.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (11.00)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.00         1.60         0.00          1.60
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.60)         (0.00)       (1.60)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00        13.80         14.70        28.50
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (12.70)        (0.00)      (12.70)
4. Training                       0.00              0.00         0.60         0.30          0.90
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.60)         (0.00)       (0.60)
5. Contingencies                  0.00              0.00         4.10         2.60          6.70
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (4.10)         (0.00)       (4.10)
   Total                          4.00              7.00        20.10         17.60        48.70
                                  (4.00)           (7.00)      (19.00)        (0.00)      (30.00)




                                                - 20 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               11.54              0.00              0.00             0.00             11.54
                                      (11.54)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (11.54)
2. Goods                               1.56               2.41                               0.00              3.97
                                      (1.56)             (2.41)               ()             (0.00)           (3.97)
3. Services                            9.56               0.48                               0.00             10.04
                                      (9.56)             (0.48)               ()             (0.00)           (10.04)
4. Training                            0.00               0.00              0.26             0.00              0.26
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.26)            (0.00)           (0.26)
5. Contingencies                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                               22.66              2.89              0.26             0.00             25.81
                                      (22.66)            (2.89)            (0.26)            (0.00)           (25.81)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                      - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

NA




                                      - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              12/15/1992

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/15/1993
              04/10/1994

 Supervision

              02/08/1995                3    Finance (1)                      S               S
                                             Petroleum (1)
                                             Economics (1)
              03/18/1995                2    Finance (1)                      S               S
                                             Petroleum (1)
              03/23/1996                4    Petroleum Engineer (1)           S               S
                                             Finance (1)
                                             Geophysicist (1)
                                             Economics (1)
              10/31/1996                2    Finance (1)                      S               S
                                             Energy Economist (1)
              06/16/1997                2    Gas Specialist (1)               HS              S
                                             Energy Economist (1)
              02/20/1998                2    Energy Economist (1)             HS              S
                                             Gas Specialist (1)
              11/12/1998                1    Gas Specialist (1)               HS              S
              06/18/1999                2    Sr. Financial Analyst (1)        S               S
                                             Pr. Energy Economist (1)
              04/13/2000                2    Finance (1)                      S               S
                                             Economist (1)
              09/07/2000                1    Economist                        S               S
              12/13/2000                1    Economist                        S               S
              5/10/2001                 1    Economist                        S               S

 ICR
              10/27/2003                1     Energy Specialist




                                              - 23 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               34                           91
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    69                          215
  Supervision                            256                          1178
  ICR                                       7                           35
  Total                                  367                          1519




                                            - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents




                                      - 27 -

- 28 -

