Report No. PIC879
Project Name           Mozambique-Pande Gas Engineering Project(#)
Region                     Africa
Sector                     Energy/Infrastructure
Project ID                 MZPA1780
Borrower                   The Republic of Mozambique
Implementing Agency        Empresa Nacional de Hidrocarbonetos de
Mozambique (ENH)
Avenida Fernao de Magalhaes
Maputo, Rep. of Mozambique
Contact: Director-Geral
Tel: 8-1-427634
Fax: 8-1-30931
Date Prepared              June 16, 1994
Appraisal Date             November 1993
Board Date                 June 1994
Country and Sector Background
In 1975 Mozambique was a relatively prosperous country, but
today its per capita income (around US$ 80) is one of the lowest of
the world and its social indicators are among the worst in Sub-Saharan
Africa. Factors which account for this deterioration include a
colonial legacy of very low investment in human resources,
inappropriate (socialist) economic policies, weak civil service
capacity, and most debilitating, the civil war. To address these
problems, the Government launched the Economic Rehabilitation Program
(ERP) in 1987, which led to a marked increase in production. From
1987 to 1989, real GDP growth averaged 5.4 percent per annum. Fiscal
adjustment under the ERP and the subsequent Economic and Social
Rehabilitation Program (ESRP) doubled domestic revenues, reduced
budgetary deficits to 6t of GDP, and improved the composition of the
investment program.
However, the uneven flows and general lack of foreign
exchange remain key issues for Mozambique. 1992 merchandise exports
amounted to only $196 million against merchandise imports of $911
million. The net cost of services (including interest) required a
further $150 million. In this situation, encouragement of foreign
exchange earning investments, such as the Pande project, is vital to
lifting Mozambique from its exceptional dependence on donors.
Mozambique's best prospects for exports lie in agriculture,
mining and energy. Now that the armed attacks have ceased it should
be possible for Mozambique to achieve success in gaining private
investment in these areas. The primitive infrastructure, both
physical and institutional, will automatically lead to a focus on
those investments that initially have little reliance on Mozambique's
provision of any services, whether publicly provided services in



communications, utility supplies, and public infrastructure such as
schools and health care, or privately provided services such as
banking and auditing.
Project Objectives
The primary objective is to see that the necessary pre-
investment work is done to ensure that ENH on behalf of the Government
of Mozambique and private sector investors are in a position to make a
firm decision to develop the Pande gas for export and for use in
Mozambique. Secondary objectives include minor environmental clean up
relating to previous operations, and some training and institutional
strengthening.
Project Description
The Pande gas field, located near the coast in central
Mozambique, was discovered by a Gulf/Amoco group in 1961, but the
concession was relinquished because of lack of market at that time.
Since then, ENH with financial assistance from a variety of donors,
has drilled further wells on structure and has brought the reserves
about to a level needed for commercial development. As a result of a
number of studies, the most important being by UNDP/ESMAP in 1992, the
existence of sufficient market potential has been substantially
proven. The Pande gas development is expected to lead to annual gas
exports to South Africa of $150 million. The Mozambique state,
through its national oil company is expected to have a non-operating
share in this scheme. Moreover, it is envisaged that annual taxes and
royalties will amount to about $40 million, which will have a major
impact on the national budget. However, there are still remaining
issues to be resolved and work is required to ensure that all steps
necessary are taken so that a firm decision can be taken to develop
the project.
This is the purpose of the engineering project - to bring
all the parties to a stage where they should be able to decide in
favor of project development. It will be undertaken in two phases.
Phase I will take about one year and will support ENH to put together
a feasibility study, to prove gas reserves to a level needed for
commerciality, to review of financing options (needed for identifying
structuring options and partners), and to start long lead time work.
Phase II will not proceed without the pari passu financial
participation of at least one JV partner in the pre-investment work.
Phase II is to define the development project in sufficient detail for
final go/no go decisions, both by investors and financiers, and
includes further engineering work, arranging the financing and
detailed environmental review and mitigation plan.
Phase I would cost about US$20 million and would comprise:
(a) Technical assistance to strengthen the Hydrocarbons
Directorate of the Ministry of Mineral Resources, including
defining environmental standards, formulating the relevant
institutional and regulatory framework, tax and incentive
-2 -



systems and appropriate training.
(b) Technical assistance to strengthen ENH and to facilitate its
proposed role as a joint venture partner. The former
includes ENH accounting and management information systems,
a structured training program, the work related to gas
supplies to towns near to Pande, and environmental support.
With respect to ENH's role of joint venture partner, the
work includes further work on project coordination,
negotiations assistance and a range of studies to prepare a
better project and to better define ENH's position.
(c) Reserves enhancement and limited technical assistance
relating to the joint venture, and towards which the
eventual partners will contribute. It is envisaged that this
will bring the remaining recoverable reserves to two
trillion cubic feet.
Phase II is less fully defined and the major part has to be
agreed with the joint venture partners. The cost would be about US$30
million. The scope of work includes:
(a) Further strengthening of the Hydrocarbons Directorate of the
Ministry of Mineral Resources and assistance in finalizing the
institutional, tax and incentive systems.
(b) Support to ENH in negotiating its participation and benefits
from the project, in firming up its knowledge of issues related
to its role in the project, detailed work relating to gas
supplies to Maputo and other towns, and in implementation of
a new accounting system related to its joint venture role.
(c) Costs related to the joint venture, to be shared between the
partners. These include a project management team, a full
environmental assessment and mitigation plan, arranging the
finance, further engineering of the development project and
operational training. The major cost items are for arranging
the finance and for engineering work.
Project Cost and Financing
The engineering project will therefore cost about $50 million
altogether. IDA would contribute the bulk of the financing for the
first phase and a share of the second phase such that its total
contribution to the common costs of the project would be equal to that
of the other partners. About $8 million of the costs relate to the
Mozambican Government and/or ENH and are not suitable for sharing with
the JV partners and will therefore be financed by IDA. The IDA
contribution could reach $30 million. The Government of Norway has
expressed interest in cofinancing which might amount to about $3 million
in which case the IDA contribution would fall to $27 million. It is
expected that the Mozambique contribution will be a little over $1
million. The joint venture partners would round out the financing with
a contribution of about $19 million.
- 3-



Project Implementation
Phase I of the project would be managed by ENH except for the
Government component, which would be managed by the Hydrocarbons
Directorate with support from ENH. ENH has some good staff, and the
support by consultants has been solid. The weak links in this first
phase are the role of the Government in administrative issues, such as
contract approval, and the heavy reliance of ENH on a few individuals.
For the second phase, the role of a Project Management Team will be
negotiated with the joint venture partners to coordinate the partners
and allow ENH staff to continue to take an important role in project
development. External assistance will be needed for managing the Phase
II process and advising on technical matters.
ENH has a one year renewable non-exclusive agreement with Sasol
(South Africa). Sasol is a key player because it could be the 'anchor'
consumer and it owns the Johannesburg gas system. In essence, the
agreement gives Sasol access to the technical data of the Pande field
and some priority rights to enter into an investment agreement with ENH,
while providing for Sasol to assist ENH in the development of the
project, mostly in estimating and developing the market for natural gas
in South Africa and in attracting experienced international petroleum
investors.  Sasol will also participate actively in some of the
feasibility studies to complement the efforts of ENH, eg,in the market
studies, and in a preliminary review of financing options.    Pluspetrol
(Argentina), an oil and gas producer, recently entered into a joint
cooperation agreement with ENH and Sasol, and in time may become the
technical partner. The technical partner is needed mainly to provide
gas development experience which neither ENH nor Sasol has.
Project Sustainability
The gas development project can proceed only with the
participation of experienced foreign partners. The engineering project
is not intended to be independently sustainable--it is merely the first
step of a long gas development project. It is dependent on the
installation of a high-quality Project Management Team and the provision
of adequate funding. Training included in the project (to be
supplemented through operational training in connection with the
development stage) will lead to a significant Mozambican involvement for
the longer term.
The development of Mozambican skills is a high-priority
objective. The project components have been reviewed with ENH and with
Eduardo Mondlane University, and for each component, the role of
Mozambican consultants has been identified. The need for strong
counterpart working arrangements is explicitly recognized in the terms
of reference. Further, a thorough skills assessment and training needs
program has been prepared and will be implemented as part of the
project.
Poverty Category
-4-



The project will lead indirectly to poverty reduction through
long term growth.
Environmental Aspects
The project is classed as a Category B project. Consultants
have reviewed the environmental aspects of the engineering project in
more depth than is normal for a Category B project. No significant
environmental damage is expected. Except from the blowout at Pande 4,
which caused significant damage over an area of 1 sq.km., no material
environmental impact is visible at previous well sites or at seismic
locations. No displacement of inhabitants is expected. As a result of
the environmental review, ENH is drawing up environmental procedures for
its operations, preparing an action plan to help the recovery at Pande
4, and undertaking a general environmental cleanup to remedy minor
problems from previous work. The proposed environmental assessment for
the actual development of the gas reserves is part of the Phase Two work
and will be a full Category A assessment. Future commercial development
such as pipeline construction will be subject to this environmental
assessment and the related mitigation plan.
Program Objective Categories
The project fits within the country strategy of increasing
exports by exploiting an important natural resource in an
environmentally responsible way. The project will stimulate development
of the private sector. Special attention will be paid to human resource
development.
Contact Point          Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington. D.C. 20433
Telephone : 202-458-5454
Fax : 202-522-1500
Note:    This is information on an evolving project.    Certain components
may not be included in the final project.
- 5 -



