Dcumcnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6299-MOZ
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$30 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FOR A
GAS ENGINEERING PROJECT
MAY 19, 1994
Ml CROGRAPH I CS
Report No: P-    6299 MZ
Type: PR
This document has a restricted distribution and sna be used bv recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
US$1 = 5359 Meticais
1 Metical = S$0.0002
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 cubic foot of gas           =   1,000 British Thermal Units
1 kilometer (Kl )             =   0.6 miles
1 trillion cubic feet (tcf)  =   1,000,000,000,000 cubic feet (1012)
1 billion cubic meters (BCM) =   1,000,000,000 cubic meters (l09)
ABBREVIATTONS
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CIR    Country Implementation Review
EA     Environmental Assessment
ENH    Empresa Nacional de Hidrocarbonetos
ERP    Economic Recovery Program
ESMAP Energy Sector Management Assistance Programme
GRM    Government of Mozambique
GSA    Gas Sales Agreement
IAPSO Inter Agency Procurement Supply Office (UNDP)
JOA    Joint Operating Ageement
ICB    International Competitive Bidding
LCB    Local Competitive Bidding
MIE    Ministry of Industry and Energy
MMR    Ministry of Mineral Resources
NDCH   National Directorate for Coal and Hydrocarbons
PPF    Project Preparation Facility
PSA    Production Sharing Agreement
PWVf   Pretoria - Witwatersrand Vereenigin region of Soath Africa
TA     Technical Assistance
TOR    Terms of Reference
SOE    Statements of Expenditure
UNDP   United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MOZAMBIQUE
GAS ENGINEERING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUNMARY
Borrower                       Republic of Mozambique
Beneficiaries                  Ministry of Mineral Resources
Empresa Nacional de Hidrocarbonetos
Credit Amount                  SDR 21.3 million (US$30 Million
Equivalent)
Terms                          Standard IDA terms with a maturity of
40 years, including 10 years of grace.
Onlending Terms                Initially interest free and repayments
deferred. Once the gas development
project is committed, for 15 years
including four years' grace and an
interest rate of 1.1 times the IBRD
rate.
US$m
Financing Plan                 IDA                30.0 (foreign costs)
Norway            TBD  (foreign costs)
ENH                1.1 (local costs)
Private Sector    17.6 (foreign costs)
Total             48.7
Economic Rate of Return        Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report         None
Poverty Category               Indirect poverty reduction through
long-term growth
Map                            IBRD 25703
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  l



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO MOZAMBIQUE
FOR A GAS ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.        I submit for your apprcval the following memorandum and recommendation
on a proposed credit to the Republic of Mozambique for SDR 21.3 million, the
equivalent of US$30 million on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years to
help finance the Gas Engineering Project. The main part of the proceeds (US$27.9
million) would be to support the implementing agency, Empresa Nacio..al de
Hidrocarbonetos (ENH), in preparation of a development project for the Pande gas
field and in strengthening the company in its negctiations with foreign
investors. The other part of the proceeds (US$2.1 million) would be used to
strengthen  the Ministry of Mineral  Resources.    As ENH has  currently no
significant revenues,  the formal on-lending arrangement will only require
interest to be charged and the funds to be repaid to the Government if the
planned development project proceeds.   Parallel financing of US$3.0 million
equivalent is possible from the Government of Norway, but there is as yet no
confirmation.   Private sector investors are expected to contribute US$17.6
million.
2.        BACKGROUND.  In 1975 Mozambique was a relatively prosperous country,
but today its per capita income (around US$ 80) is one of the lowest of the world
and its social indicators are among the worst in Sub-Saharan Africa. Factors
which account for this deterioration include a colonial legacy of very low
investment in human resources, inappropriate economic policies, weak civil
service capacity,  and most debilitating,  the civil war.   To address these
problems, the Government launched the Economic Rehabilitation Program (ERP) in
1987, which led to a marked increase in production. From 1987 to 1989, real GDP
growth averaged 5.4 percent per annum. Fiscal adjustment under the ERP and the
subsequent Economic and Social Rehabilitation Program (ESRP) doubled domestic
revenues, reduced budgetary deficits to 6 of GDP, and improved the composition
of the investment program.
3.              In the next four years the government accelerated the adjustment
process freeing the foreign exchange market, domestic trade and prices while
pressing enterprise and financial reforms and reigning in public expenditures.
Despite severe external shocks - worsening civil war, loss of aid and trade from
the Soviet Union, and catastrophic drought - by 1993 the outlook brightened with
growth of GDP and agricultural production at 19t and 21t respectively. The
peace accord of 1992, the demobilization of the opposing armies and the prospect
of free and fair elections later in 1994 auger well for continued social,
political and economic progress.



1
4.        However, the uneven flows and general lack of foreign exchange remain
key issues for Mozambique.   1992 merchandise exports amounted to only $196
million against merchandise imports of $911 million. The net cost of services
(including interest)  required a further $150 million.   in this situation,
encouragement of foreign exchange earning investments is vital to lifting
Mozambique from ics exceptional dependence on donors.   Mozambique's  besc
prospects for exports lie in agriculture, mining and energy.  Now that the armed
attacks have ceased it should be possible for Mozambique to attract private
investment in these areas, while reconstruction of the agricultural sector will
be of high priority to improve the welfare of much of the population.
5.        To manage the energy sector,  the Government has shifted from the
centially-planned approach it adopted in the early post-independence years and
is reshaping its institutions along market-oriented lines. In this spirit, it
recently made important changes in the institutions dealing with the petroleum
sector by separating ENH from the Ministry of Mineral Resources (MMR) and will
shortly convert it into a public corporation that will follow commercial
practices. A new National Directorate of Coal and Hydrocarbons (NDCH) of the
Ministry was established to handle the Government role in hydrocarbon development
which was previously managed by ENH.  One of first tasks of NDCH will be to
reform the legal and regulatory framework and the tax and incentives structures
of the hydrocarbons sector.
6.        The Pande gas field, which is on-shore some 600 km North-East of
Maputo, was disccvered in 1961 by the Gulf Oil Company while exploring,
unsuccessfully, for oil.  The concession was relinquished because of lack of
market at that time.  Since then ENH has done addvLional exploration work with
financial assistance mostly from Norway and the former Soviet Union.   The
development of the field was hampered by blow-outs during exploration drilling
and the unstable political situation in the country. The last blowout was capped
in 1991, following the re-commencement of exploration in 1989 when the political
climate began to improve. Altogether, 11 successful exploration wells have been
drilled at Pande and have proven the initial existence of some 70 bcm (nearly 2
tcf) of very pure and dry natural gas. Taking account of the blow outs, about
55bcm (1.5tcf) of proven recoverable reserves remain.
7.       The Bank/ESMAP was asked by the government in 1991 to help it determine
the best way to utilize the gas resource. A prefeasibility study of the question
was approved by the Government iri May 1992. The study showed, and subsequent
work confirms, that the best use of the gas is to transport it by high pressure
pipeline to buyers in the industrial heartland of South Africa, the so-called PW%'
area, with a branch line to Maputo.   Other promising South African markets
include the industrial area of Natal. The alternatives of producing ammonia for
fertilizer, or of transporting gas to Maputo only are unrealistic because of
marginal economics and the lack of interest by foreign investors.
8.        In 1990, ENH contacted 25 international oil companies to seek partners
to invest in Pande, but without immediate result. Since then interest in the
project has developed, and ENH has signed joint cooperation agreements with two
potential partners, Sasol of South Africa and Pluspetrol of Argentina. These
agreements do not require financial contributions from the partners. However,
the three companies are now actively negotiating a Production Sharing Agreement



(PSA) and a Joint Operating Agreement (JOA) and expect to start negotiating a Gas
Sales Agreement (GSA) soon. Sasol is a large oil-from-coal and chemicals company
and could be a key player because it has the capacity to be the 'anchor'
consumer.  It also owns the PWV gas system.  Its main role in developing the
project will be in estimating and developing the market for natural gas in South
Africa and attracting experienced international petroleum investors. Pluspetrol
is an oil and gas producer and in time may become the technical partner,
providing gas development experience which neither ENH nor Sasol has. At least
one more partner will be required to bring pipeline skills to the joint venture.
9.        The Pande Gas Project is expected to lead to annual gas exports to
South Africa of $150 million and to a supply of gas to Maputo and other
Mozambique towns. The project is expected to cost $600 million to $1 billion and
will include development of the Pande field, trunk pipelines to major industrial
markets in the Transvaal and Natal, and distribution systems in Maputo and towns
along the pipeline routes. The Mozambique state, through ENH, is expected to
have a non-operational role in this scheme and will receive dividends from this
participation. Moreover, it is envisaged that annual taxes and royalties will
amount to about $40 million, which will have a major impact on the national
budget. ENH will receive a carried interest in the development phase, based on
its sunk costs and/or asset value, and will also have a contributing share in the
development. South Africa also expects to benefit significantly through access
to this new source of energy, and is encouraging South African companies to
become positively involved.
10.       OBJECTIVES OF THE GLS ENGINEERING PROJECT.   The primary objective is
to undertake all work necessary to enable the Government, ENH and the private
sector investors to make a firm decision to develop the Pande gas reserves for
export and for use in Mozambique.   Secondary objectives  include a minor
environmental clean-up relating to previous operations, preparing for gas
supplies to suitably located Mozambican towns and the consequent opportunity for
power supplies, training and institutional strengthening to prepare for a
substantial Mozambican role in futrre gas operations.
11.       GAS ENGINEERING PROJECT DESCRIPTION.   The engineering project is to
be undertaken in two phases. Phase I is to ensure sufficient sas reserves and
clear away some project uncertainties.   Some of the Phase I work - seismic
shooting and intrepretation - is already substantially complete, having been
financed with a US$1.5 million advance from the Project Preparation Facility
(PPF).  The objective is to take the project to a stage in which the private
sector will invest pari passu in the pre-development costs. Phase II will cover
the remaining predevelopment work and will include those tasks in which a joint
venture partner will wish to have an input to the work, and where ENH's costs
will be shared with the private sector partner. There are several conditions to
be achieved before Phase II can proceed, including the signing of suitable joint
venture agreements (such as the PSA, JOA and GSA - para 7), the approval of the
Council of Ministers of a satisfactory legal and regulatory framework, an, the
proving up of sufficient reserves for the project to be able to succeed.
12.       Phase I of the engineering project is likely to cost USS20.2 million,
and includes:



3
(a)   gas reserves enhancement through drilling of three wells (US$10.1
million) and shooting and processing 1200 km of seismic (US$2.3
million), which should bring the remaining recoverable reserves to 2
tcf; and technical assistance (US$0.3 million) for a study on financing
options;
(b)   technical assistance and some equipment & materials to enhance
ENH's proposed role as a joint venture partner and to strengthen it
internally (US$6.4 million), including work on project management,
assistance in negotiations, a range of studies to better prepare the
gas development project and ENH's position, strengthening the ENH
accounting and management information systems, a structured training
program, the work related to gas supplies to towns near to Pande, and
environmental support.
(c)   technical assistance to strengthen the Hydrocarbons Directorate
(US$1.1  million),   including  defining  environmental  standards,
formulating the relevant institutional and regulatory framework, tax
and incentive systems and appropriate training.
13.       Phase II is less fully defined and the major part has to be agreed with
the joint venture partners. Detailed TOR will be agreed at the mid-term review
in late 1995. In summary, the work (totalling US$28.5 million) will include :
(a)   activities related to the joint venture the cost of which will
be shared between the partners (US$22.5 million) consisting of a
project management team, a full environmental assessment and mitigation
plan, (including equipment for monitoring), arranging the finance,
further engineering of the development project and operational
training. The major cost items are for arranging the finance and for
engineering work (US$6.2 and 8.5 million respectively, excluding
contingencies).
(b)   support  to  ENH  (US$5.0  million)   including  materials  in
negotiating its participation and benefits from the project, in firming
up its knowl':dge of issues related to its role in the project, detailed
work relating to gas supplies to Maputo and other towns, and
implementation of a new accounting system related to its joint venture
role.
(c)   further  strengthening  of  the  Hydrocarbons  Directorate  and
assistance in finalizing the institutional, tax and incentive systems
(US$1.0 million).
14.       Should ENH fail to find a joint venture partner within 30 months of
credit effectiveness (i.e., by approximately January 1997) IDA will review and
may cancel the remaining funds.
15.       Further information on the project is provided in the Technical Annex.
Of the estimated US$28.5 million for technical assistance excluding
contingencies, US$1.7 million is for policy development, US$0.7 for capacity
building, and the balance for project implementation. A breakdown of the costs



4
and financing is in Schedule A.  The methods of procurement and the disbursement
schedule are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key processing events and the
status of Bank Group is shown in Schedules C and D.  Map number IBRD 25703 shows
the overall plans for pipeline routes and tt.e location of the Pande field.
16.       It is expected that the Mozambican contribution to the costs will
continue at approximately US$250,000 per year to pay for local costs, counterpart
staff and Mozambican project management. This could amount to US$1.1 million
over the life of the project. The balance if the Mozambican share (including
support to MMR) will be US$30 million assumii.g that common costs are shared with
only one joint venture partner. This will be financed by IDA or donors. No
account has been taken of the premium that ENH would expect from its "pioneer"
expenditure, as this may be reflected in the profit share rather than as a cost
reimbursement. The Government of Norway has expressed interest in cofinancing
but has not  indicated how firm is this  interest.   Based on preliminary
discussions, Norway could contribute $1.7 million equivalent to Phase I and $1.3
million equivalent to Phase II. In the absence of cofinancing and recognizing
the costs that cannot be shared with the private sector, IDA would be paying 63%
of the foreign exchange costs with the private sector paying 37% and ENH paying
local costs. IDA's financing would represent 62% of the total cost.
17.       PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION.   Phase I of the project would be managed by
the Project Management Team already established by ENH to manage current Pande
gas developments. The Government component would be managed by the NDCH with
support from ENH.  ENH's staff of 250 is almost solely working on the Pande
project, and more than 200 of these are undertaking field operations. In the
longer term, the size of ENH will diminish as the joint venture takes over the
operations. The remaining ENH staff are expected to be about 40-50. Since 1989
a consulting firm has been giving implementation support focusing on technical
advice on joint venture agreements, gas sales contracts, markets and other
specialized support; and ENH intends for this arrangement to continue through to
the end of Phase I. ENH sees its role as facilitator of a national development
project and is keen to see Mozambicans learn through the project and eventually
take operational responsibility.
18.       Both ENH and the NDCH will need strengthening to cope with the demands
of the Pande project, especially to deal with the private sector which is to
undertake all commercially-oriented hydrocarbon investments to the extent that
it is willing to do so.  Government is looking into ways to streamline its
procedures, such as speeding up contract approvals, which now typically take six
months from the time the implementing agency decides on an award. This change
is needed so as to enhance the promotional role of ENH, and accelerate the Pande
project.
19.       Implementation arrangements for Phase II will be negotiated with the
joint venture partners. Fundamental to such agreement will be the need for a
new, expanded Project Management Team to coordinate the partners, and for ENH
staff to continue to take an important role in project development. External
assistance will be needed for managing the Phase II process and advising on
technical matters.



5
20.       PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY. As the first stage of a long gas development
project, the engineering project is not intended to be independently sustainable.
It is dependent on the installation of a high-quality Project Management Team and
the provision of adequate funding. The gas development project will proceed only
with the participation of experienced foreign partners.
21.       A high-priority objective of the engineering project is the development
of Mozambican skills to ensare that there will be a significant Mozambi an
involvement in the longer term.  The project components have been reviewed A±th
ENH and with the Eduardo Mondlane University, and for each the role of Mozambican
consultants has been identified.   The need for strong counterpart working
arrangements is explicitly recognized in the terms of reference for the various
technical assistance activities. A thorough skills assessment and training needs
program has been prepared and will be implemented as part of the project.
22.       LESSONS LEARNED FROM PREVIOUS BANK INVOLVEMENT.   Lessons learned in
previous work in Mozambique, and in comparable projects elsewhere, are part of
the project design. They include: (a) building on strong institutional support
and providing for experienced foreign and local consultants to work across the
board to bolster the institutions; (b) providing flexibility in components to be
financed by IDA to enable the implementing agency to be responsive to private
investors; (c) keeping a firm control on the objectives and timing of the
drilJing and seismic acquisition, to keep them to the basic needs of the project;
and, (d) making a conscious and planned effort to transfer skills to local
people.
23.       PATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT.   IDA and ESMAP have supported ENH for
the last seven years through institutional support under CR 1806 MOZ for
developing the project and seeking joint venture partners. While many companies
have turned down the project in the past, as a result of the considerable ESMAP
and ENH effort, seven companies in addition to Sasol and Pluspetrol are showing
some interest. Four are from North America, two from South Africa, and one from
Western Europe.  IFC has also expressed interest in the development stage.  IDA
has a particular advantage in supporting the engineering stage of the project
because of its success in similar projects and because of its experience in other
energy projects in Mozambique. It also has good relationships with South Africa,
built up during the_ recent transitional period. IDA also will have a vital role
in the development stage of the project to give the necessary support to the
minority partners.
24.       RELATIONSHIP TO COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY.   A Country Assistance
Strategy 'CAS) is being presented to the Board concurrently (accompanying the
Second Economic recovery Credit) with this operation. The project is fully in
line with this CAS and will directly address the object of the CAS which is
poverty reduction and increased self-reliance through policy and institutional
reform. The project will reinforce energy policy reforms by facilitating private
investment in energy development and by improving the capacities and governance
of MMR and ENH. It will give a significant boost to long term growth - the key
to poverty reduction on a significant scale - by eventually turning resources in
the ground to valuable exports. The increased exports will give Mozambique a new
source of foreign currency, decreasing its dependence on donors for increasing



6
its self-reliance in moving towards balar.ce of payments equilibrium.   The
eventual construction of trunk and branch gas pipelines will provide
infrastructure vital to the further development of the country's apparently
abundant natural gas resources.
25.       ACTIONS AGREED UPON. At negotiations    (a) Terms of Reference for all
Phase I tasks,   (b)   proposals for amending the maragement of Government
procurement procedures to allow speedy approvals, and (c) terms of subsidiary
loan agreement with ENH were all agreed on. Before Credit Effectiveness : (a)
Bank of Mozambique will execute a subsidiary loan Agreement with ENH.   (b)
Government will have authorized the new management of procurement procedures for
ENH.  As conditions of disbursement  :  (a)   Before contracting for drilling
rigs and services, ENH and IDA will have agreed on the location and objectives
of each well, and ENH will have adopted a satisfactory environmente.l action plan
for Phase I activities.   (b)  Before disbursements in respect of Phase II, ENH
will have signed satisfactory joint venture agreements with at least one private
firm; gas reserves will have been proven to a level satisfactory for a
development project, and the Council of Ministers will have approved a
satisfactory legal and regulatory framework.   Other Conditions : (a)  ENH will
ensure that joint venture arrangements for Pande provide for full credit or
reimbursement of all "common account" expenditures under Phase I of the
engineering project plus provide a premium to EMI for its pioneer role. (b)
ENH and IDA will undertake a midterm reviaw no later than 31 December 1995 and
prior to Phase II, including agreement on terms of reference for technical
assistance work.  (c)  Progress reports will be submitted every three months
by ENH in Phase 1, and by the Joint Venture in Phase 2.
26.       ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS.   The engineering project is clasFod as a
Category B project and consultants have reviewed the environmental asps -- in
more depth than is normal for such projects. No significant environmental dart.at'.
is expected. Except from the blowout at Pande 4, which caused significant damage
over an area of 1 sq.km., no material environmental impact is visible at previous
well sites or at seismic locations. No displacement of inhabitants is expected.
As a result of the environmental review, 3NH is undertaking a general
environmental cleanup to remedy minor problems from previous work, drawing up
environmental procedures for its operations, and preparing an action plan to help
the recovery at Pande 4.
27.       A full environmental assessment (EA) for the gas development project
to Category A standards will be done under the engineering project. The EA will
ensure that future commercial development, like pipeline construction, will be
properly controlled according to an approved mitigation plan.   It will also
include the positive environmental aspects of the project, especially in South
Africa from the substitution of the cleaner burning gas for heavy oil and coal
now used there.
28.       PROGRAM OBJECTIVE CATEGORIES.  The project will stimulate development
of the private sector and reform of public institutions involved in energy
activities. Special attention will be paid to human resource development.



7
29.       JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS.        The principal  justification  for  the
development project is the foreign exchange and tax revenue likely to accrue to
Mozambique, and the creation of gas infrastructure that in itself will encourage
further exploration and development.   Phase I o.  the engineering credit is
necessary to secure the interest of poter.tial private sector investors; Phase II
is to finance Mozambique's share of the remaining pre-development work, pari
passu with private investors, with a view to clearing away obstacles to a
favorable development decision.
30.       The risks of the engineering project are three, that the drilling and
seismic acquisition will fail to prove enough gas, that at the conclusion of the
project there will be no private investor willing to take responsibility for the
development and that political upheavals in Mozainbique or South Africa could
upset the project economics. The ris}:s of the first are low, and it is expected
that the necessary minimum reserves will be proven with two wells. A third well
is allowed to ensure that the reserves target is achi-ved.  As to the second, the
risks are higher, but the insistence on cost shar1ng with a private investor
minimizes this possibility.   South Africa sees the project as vital to its
economic health. As to the third, the security and economic climate is currently
conducive to project execution.   A review will be necessary prior to the
development stage to ensure that overall conditions are still satisfactory.
31.       RECOMY-ENDATION.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit wculd comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washington D.C.
May 19, 1994



8
MOZAMBIQUE                         Schedule A
GAS ENGINEERING PROJECT
Estimated Project Costs and Financing Plan
A.    Project Costs  (US$ Million)
Local      Foreign      Total
Drilling                                                    9.0          9.0
Seismic                                          -          2.0          2.0
Equipment & Materials                            -          1.6          1.6
Technical Assistance:
MMR                                        -          1.7         1.7
ENH                                       1.0         7.2         8.2
The JV'                                              18.6         18.6
Training
MMR                                        -          0.1         0.1
ENH                                                   0.5         0.5
The JV                                     _          0.3         0.3
Contingencies                                   0.1         6.6          6.7
TOTALS                                    1.1        47.6         48.7
B.    Financing Plan (US$ Million)
ENH        IDA       Private      Total
(local)      ---(Foreign)---
Drilling                       -          9.0                      9.0
Seismic                        -         2.0           -          2.0
Equipment                      -          0.7          _          0.7
TA & Training
MMR                            -          1.8          -          1.8
ENH                            1.0       7.7           -          8.7
The JV                         -         4.7         18.1         19.8
Contingencies                  0.1       4.1          2.5         6.7
TOTALS                         1.1       30.0        17.6         48.7
Contingencies
A physical contingency of 10* is allowed on all items. Price contingencies are
b2.sed on 2.5* pa for each year.
'The joint venture between ENH and the private investors that will develop
and operate the gas export project.



9
schedule B
MOZAMBIQUE
GAS ENGINEERING PROJECT
Procurement and Disbursements
PROCUREMENT (US$ Million)
ICB   LCB   OTHER       NBF(4)       TOTAL
Drilling                       4.0    -      5.0(1)      -            9.0
Seismic                                     2.0(1)                    2.0
Equipment & Materials                        1.6(5)                   1.6
Technical Assistance                        13.8(2)     14.7         28.5
Training                                     o.6(3)      0.3          0.9
Contingencies                                4.1         2.6          6.7
Total             4.0          27.1        17.6         48.7
(1) Limited international bidding
(2) IDA consultancy guidelines
3) Other procedures approved by IDA
(4) Not Bank Financed
(5) IAPSO or international and local shopping
ALLOCATION OF IDA CREDIT (US$ Million)
Drilling and seismic            11.0  100% of foreign expenditures
Equipment & Materials            1.6  100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of
local expenditures
Technical assistance            12.7  100% of total
Training                         0.6  100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of
local expenditures
Contingencies                    4.1
30.0
DISBURSEMENTS BY YEAR  (US$ million)
1994/95 1995/96 1996/97 1997/98 1998/99 1999/00  Total
Annual     6.7      9.3     3.1     4.4      5.4     1.1    30.0
Cumlative  6.7    16.0    19.1    23.5    28.9    30.0



10
Schedule C
MOZAMBIQUE
GAS ENGINEERING PROJECT
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
Time taken to prepare the project      -      45 months
?roject prepared by                    -      ENH
First IDA mission                      -      October 1990
Appraisal mission departure            -      November 1993
Negotiations                           -      April 1994
List of relevant PCRs                  -      None
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Mozambique and
South Africa in November 1993 that included Messrs. E. Daffern (Task Manager) and
P. Glenshaw (Industrial Specialist). Mr. P. Wright (ESMAP) gave on the spot
advice during a parallel mission. The report was processed by Mrs. S. Rajan, Mr.
G. Brown, and Mr. John Austin. Peer Reviewers are T. O'Connor, B. Svensson and
P. Wright.   The responsible Country Director and Division Chief are Stephen
Denning and David Cook.



11
SCHEDULE D
Page 1 of 3
MOZAMBIQUE
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOZAMBIQUE
SUMMARY STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
(AS AT APRIL 28, 1994)
LOAN OR                FISCAL      BORROWEP                     PURPOSE                          IDA      UNDISBURSED          CLOSING
CREDIT NUMBER          YEAR                                                                (US$ MILL)                              DATE
4 CREDITS CLOSED                                                                                132.65
18060-MOZ               1987      MOZAMBIQUE    ENERGY TA & REHAB                               20.00               2.92       12131/1994
19070-MOZ               1988      MOZAMBIQUE    EDUCATION I                                     15.9D               3.57       12/31/1995
19490-MOZ               1989      MOZAMBIQUE    URBAN REHA81LITATION                            60.00               13.11      1213111995
19890-MOZ               1989      MOZAMBIQUE    HEALTH & NUTRITION                              27.00              20.73       12131/1994
20330-MOZ               1989      MOZAMBIQUE    HOUSEHOLD ENERGY CREDIT                         22.00               15.95      12/31/1996
20650MOZ               1990      MOZAMBIQUE    TRANS. REH. (BEIRA CORRIDOR)                    40.00              25.17       06130/1996
20660-MOZ               1990      MOZAMBIQUE    ECON. & FIN. MANAGEMENT                         21.00               13.08      1231/1997
'0O10-MOZ               1990      MOZAMBIQUE    INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISES                          50.10              51.66       12t31/1997
20820-MOZ               1990      MOZAMBIQUE    SMALL & MEDIUM SCALE                            32.00              24.08       123111996
2175sC-MOZ              1991      MOZAMBIQUE    AGRIC. REHAB. & DEVELOPMENT                      15.40              12.77      06/30/1999
220D0-MOZ               1991      MOZAMBIQUE    EDUCATION It                                    53.70              49.51       04101997
23370-MOZ               1992      MOZAMBIQUE    AGRIC. SERVICES REHAB.                          35.0D              33.95       12/31/2000
'3740-MOZ               1992      MOZAMBIQUE    FIRST ROAD & COASTAL                            74.30              64.10       06/3W1998
23840-MOZ(S)            1992      MOZAMBIQUE    ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDtT                       180.00              S2.03       06J30/1995
2436D-MOZ               1993      MOZAMBIQUE    CAPACrIY BUILDING (HU)                          48.60              47.78       06/30/1999
24370-MOZ               1993      MOZAMBIQUE    LEG & PUB. SER. CAPACITY                         15.50              15.40      06J30/1999
24540-MOZ               1993      MOZAMBIQUE    MAPUTO CORRIDOR                                  9.30               9.;3       12/31/1998
24790-MOZ               1993      MOZAMBIQUE    RURAL RESTRUCTURING                             20.0D              20.22       12/31/1998
24S'.0MOZ               1993      MOZAMBIQUE    FOOD SECURITY                                    6.30               6.50       0221998
25300-MOZ               1993      MOZAMBIQUE    LOCAL GOVERNMENT EN                             23.20              23.18       03/31/1998
2S99D-MOZ               1994      MOZAMBIQUE    2ND ROAD AND COASTAL                            18.00             IS8.00       06/30/2C01
26070-MOZ               1994      MOZAMBIQUE    FIN SEC CAP BLDG                                 9.00               9.33       0/3012000
TOTAL of sh 22                                                                                   966.3             702.38
active credis
TOTAL of all                                                1188.95
Credits
of which repaid                                                   0
TOTAL held by                                               1188.95
IDA.
Amount sold.                                                      0
TOTAL
Undubursed                                                                      702.38



12
SCHEDULED
Page 2 of 3
MOZAMBIQUE
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOZAMBIQUE
SUMMARY STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(AS AT APRIL 28, 1994)
INVESTMENT        FISCAL    OBLIGATOR          TYPE OF BUSINESS            LOAN          EQurTY       TOTAL
NUMBER            YEAR                                                                (USS MILL)
864-MOZ            1987      LOMACO      AGRI-BUSINESS                      2.69           O.00          2.69
3157-MOZ           1993      POLANA      TOURISM                            3.50           0.00          3.50
HOTEL
978-MOZ            1988     XAI XAI OIL   PETROLEUM                          0.00          7.75          7.75
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS                                                      6.19           7.75        13.94
LESS CANCELLATIONS, REPAYMENTS,
AND EXCHANGE ADJUSTMENTS                                                  1.50           7.75         9.25
TOTAL COMMITMENT HELD BY IFC                                                 4.69          0.00          4.69
TOTAL                                                                        0.03           0.00         003
UNDISBURSED IFC
TOTAL
OUTSTANDING                                                                 4 66           0.00         4.66
IFC
MOZAMBIQUE
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOZAMBIQUE
LIST OF CLOSED SAL'S AND SECAL'S IN MOZAMBIQUE
(AS AT APRIL 28, 1994)
LOAN OR             FISCAL    BORROWER             PURPOSE                    IDA    UNDISBURSED    CLOSING DATE 1
CREDIT NUMBER       YEAR                                                (USS MILL)                           .
CA0330-MOZ           1988    MOZAMBIQUE   REHABILITATION 11                  18.10          0.00      06t3Q1I991(R)
C18410.MOZ           1988    MOZAMBIQUE   REHABILITATION 11                  69.89          O.O       0V01991(R)
TOTAL MOZAMBIQUE                                                             87.99          0.00
.CHRIM.nTI.E. n



k. 3
Page 3 of 3
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
GAS ENGINEERING PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT ISSUES
Mozambique's portfolio of IDA-supported projects is relatively new, with the first operation
dating to FY87. Although progress in implementation has generally been satisfactory, the
perfornance of disbursements has been less so. For example, the first mid-term review for an
investment project recently showed that while civil works were about 2/3 complete, disbursements
were only 35 percent of the project estimates. A large part of the problem has to do with the fact
that while the Government has moved quickly toward a market-based economy, Government
agencies and administrative procedures remain largely unchanged. Thus, all IDA-supported
projects were managed financially by the central bank, Bank of Mozambique (MB), which needs
to be strengthened. The CIR last year determined that this was the main bottleneck to improving
disbursements. The Bank has taken steps to decentralize the financial management of projects
to the implementing agencies through discussions with MB and conditions of the ongoing
Economic Recovery Credit. Four operations are moving slower that the average due to specific
problems.
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT (FY90). Delays in
disbursements resulted from unfamiliarity of the implementing unit with
procurement procedures necessary for fairly large consultant contracts and
equipment.  A recent supervision mission has addressed this problem and
disbursements are expected to improve soon.
INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING (FY90). Delays in this
project, the objective of which was to restructure large public enterprises, are due
primarily to the Government's decision to privatize rather than restructure these
enterprises.  Recent project restructuring will broaden access to the credit
component by private firms, resulting in speedier disbursement.
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT (FY89). Disbursement will increase
in the near future as the project has been restructured extensively a year ago,
making funds available for recurrent costs of the MOH. Training of the senior
staff of the Project Unit in the Ministry of Health (GACOPI) in procurement and
the preparation of standard bidding documents has greatly facilitated the process.
Currently, major quantities of pharmaceutical and medical supplies, as well as
civil works, are being procured.
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE ENTERPRISES (FY90). Again, the delays
in this case are connected to up front processing of on-lending applications for
small scale enterprises. About fourteen credit applications have been approved
for about US$5 million equivalent, and another 70 applications are in the
pipeline. Disbursements will show a significant increase in the near term.



14
ANNEX
PAGE 1 OF 25
(TECHANEX)                         MOZAMBIQUE
GAS ENGINEERING PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Energy Sector Organization
OVERVIEW
The energy sector primarily falls under two ministries, the Ministry of Mineral
Resources (coal, oil, gas and other mining), and Ministry of Industry and Energy
(power supplies, refined petroleum products). The Ministry of Agriculture is
responsible for wood fuel policies through the Biomass Energy Unit.
The Ministry of Mineral Resources (MMR) was created in May 1983 by Presidential
decree 18/83 to bring together all the government departments and institutions
that deal with minerals and petroleum.   Thus MMR's current responsibilities
include geology, mining, water and construction materials, gemstones and oil and
gas development. MMR is directly involved in some of these activities and also
licenses private persons and companies that want to develop Mozambique's mineral
resources. The Mining Law of 1986 opened up the sector to private development,
so that MMR and its subsidiaries no longer have the monopolies they once had.
MMR is organized around three main areas of activity:   Geology,  which is
concerned with investigations and data gathering; licensing and oversight of
mineral exploration and mining operations; and, hydrocarbons and coal.   The
mineral patrimony belongs only to the State which acts as owner on behalf of the
people. The State may give rights to exploration, development, production, and
marketing of minerals to public and private entities.
Under the MMR, the National Directorate of Coal and Hydrocarbons (NdCH) issues
regulations for the survey, prospecting, development and production of coal, oil
and gas; promotes new technologies in these areas; maintains relevant statistics;
reviews and approves projects prepared by other government departments or the
private sector; sees that measures are taken to ensure technical safety and
environmental protection; and, generally takes responsibility for the development
of coal and hydrocarbons. Coal and hydrocarbons are treated quite differently:
coal development is under the Mining Law while hydrocarbons are under the
Petroleum Law; different tax regimes apply; licensing of coal rights is done by
MMR while petroleum rights are subject to the approval of the Council of
Ministers; all petroleum rights have been attributed to ENH; there is no such
general attribution for coal.



15
ANNEX
PAGE 2 OF 25
The Empresa Nacional de Hidrocarbonetos (ENH) was created in 1981 as a state
company subordinated to the then State Secretariat for Coal and Hydrocarbons
which was later absorbed by MMR. ENH remained as a parastatal company under MMR
and until early 1994 was part of the state budget and structure. However, ENH
will become a public company. Some of its exploration and production activities
are likely to be privatized as the Pande gas development project progresses.
ENH has a total staff of 250 people who are organized into four main departments
that handle exploration, the Pande Gas Project, the Vilankulo Regional operations
and administration and finances. There is also a small group for studies, which
are mainly concerned with the planning for the Pande Gas Project. The Vilankulo
operations department is the largest of the four departments. It provides the
technical and logistical support for ENH's main current activity - exploration
of the Pande deposit and the neighboring areas.  As the new organization is
implemented and the joint venture partners take over the operations, the major
part of ENH's staff are likely to be transferred to a petroleum services company
having an arms-length relationshiu with ENH.  About 40 staff are expected to
remain with ENH.
The Ministry of Industry and Enerav  (MIE)  has overall responsibility for
implementing energy policies in Mozambique, and it is responsible for the two
main operating enterprises in the electricity and petroleum supply sub-sectors,
namely Electricidade de Mocambique (EDM) and Empresa Nacional de Petroleos de
Mocambique (PETROMOC). MIE through PETROMOC is also responsible for LPG. The
Department of Energy (DOE) in MIE is responsible for advice and coordination on
policy and overall sector development.
DOE was set up by MIE in 1985 to provide technical support and to act as a
catalyst for policy initiatives in the energy sector. DOE is responsible for the
coordination and monitoring of the energy sector, collecting data, initiating
cross-sectoral activiti-s, advising on tariffs and pricing, and for energy
policy. It has particular responsibility for initiating research, conservation
and other activity, and for hands on guidance of energy operations for areas
outside the scope of the main energy institutions.
The Electricity Subsector comprises two power companies, Hidroelectrica de Cahora
Bassa (HCB), which owns the country's major hydro facility, built for export to
South Africa, and EDM. HCB's principal customer, ESKOM of South Africa, has not
received power for the last 12 years, as the transmission line needs major
repair.   Rehabilitation of this line is expected to start in 1994.  EDM was
created in 1977 and aiven the exclusive responsibility in the country for the
public supply of electricity including generation, transmisbion and distribution
of power. During the next few years EDM took over the operations of numerous
regional and municipal undertakings that supplied both electricity and wate^, and
subsequently relinquished the water supply operations. Over the years EDM has
experienced many difficulties, both operational and financial, due to shortages
of skilled manpower, among many other reasons. EDM is likely to be the major
Mozambican customer for Pande gas, using it in turbine generators.   In this
respect EDM's weaknesses are a cause for concern.



16
ANNEX
PAGE 3 OF 25
The Petroleum Subsector responsibility of MIE includes PETROMOC and Mocacor in
the public sector, BP, Total, Caltex and Mobil as private sector companies in
petroleum distribution.   PETROMOC was created in 1977 and is responsible for
supervising the country's petroleum distribution sector, including necessary
planning, and until recently was responsible for all petroleum imports.   It
collects Government taxes on all petroleum products. PETROMOC is responsible for
the Matola refinery, closed since 1984.  PETROMOC is also responsible for the
import, supply and distribution of petroleum products (about 60%), together with
BP (about 30t) and Mobil (about 10%). BP has the major role in distributing lube
oils.  LPG distribution is currently handled by Mocacor, a Petrogal/PETROMOC
subsidiary. The quantity supplied is insignificant relative to the amount of
natural gas likely to be available, but when the natural gas is developed
Mocacor's industrial gas market will be at risk. Principal issues in this sector
are how to privatize PETROMOC, how to bring in a phased liberalization of prices,
and how to make che sector more competitive.
CONCLUSION
MMR has served Mozambique well when the main objective was to prove and promote
viable mineral resource development. NDCH now needs to sharpen its statutes and
organizational arrangements, and especially its relationship with ENH as a public
company.   NDCH's role is to be a regulatory and policy making one, with the
operational work being done by ENH and other spin-offs that will become public
companies. ENH's future role also needs to be defined. There is also a need to
enhance ENH's capacity to deal with a major investment project.   These are
matters that the gas engineering project will address in detail.
While reorganization of the power and petroleum products sectors are beyond the
scope of this project, some restructuring is needed to encourage a more
competitive climate.  The Government of Norway is supporting a review of the
power sector structure.   IDA is supporting a review of the structure of the
petroleum distribution sector as part of ongoing energy sector operations.
MINING, OIL, GAS and ENERGY SECTOR ISSUES
The Government's strategy is to encourage the private sector to explore for and
produce minerals, including oil and gas, and for the private sector to undertake
all commercial activities, both upstream and downstream, except for a restricted
set of activities such as power transmission and (currently) power distribution,
that have been reserved for the public sector.
In relation to the oil and gas sector, the private sector operator has full
responsibility for a project. ENH sees its role as one of promoting investment,
and is willing in principle to accept a nonoperating or minority stake if this
assists the project development.   Under the Petroleum Law (law 3/81) the terms
and work obligations are negotiable. The taxation provisions are severe when
compared with other frontier areas but are currently under review. They provide
for an income tax of about 50%, a royalty at 15%, and production or proceeds
sharing negotiable on a contract basis.   Despite its age,  in practice the



17
ANNEX
PAGE 4 OF 25
petroleum law was conducive to private investment and none of the private sector
companies raised the need for change at that time. The petroleum tax regime will
be reviewed as part of the technical assistance under the project to ensure that
it is fully competitive and supportive of Pande development, yet protects
Mozambique's interest. The needs for a regulatory system will be reviewed at the
same time, focusing on environmental and safety issues but with provision for
later regulation of other aspects should this prove necessary. The Petroleum law
will be reviewed under the project.
For the role it has been required to undertake, the staffing of MMR has been
satisfactory.   The staffing of NDCH has not been kept strictly separate from
ENH, and this combined experience has been adequate. However, these institutions
have now formally been separated and both will need strengthening. The proposed
project will strengther. the Hydrocarbons section of NDCH for its supervisory and
regulatory role, and ENH for its support role in project development.
In addition to strengthening of ENH's manpower, there is a need to strengthen ENH
financially as it moves forward into its new role as non-operating partner, and
achieves its first significant operating cash flow. The project will support a
review of ENH's accounting practices and any strengthening needed. It will also
review ENH's likely financial position once the project goes forward, and
recommend financial policies.
Gas Reserves
BACKGROUND
The Pande Field is a proven, undeveloped field with high calorific, dry gas.
Twelve wells have been drilled to date to evaluate the reservoir which lies at
a depth of 1080 meters subsea. The development of Pande will be comprised of a
number of production wells, a simple gathering system and treatment facilities,
and a 900 km pipeline to South Africa with a spur to Maputo. It will be simple,
but costly. It is envisioned that some gas may be taken for use in communities
near the field or along the pipeline route. A consultant was retained by ENH to
verify the existing reserves estimates by reviewing all existing data and
est&.lishing a new independent reserves estimate. This was necessitated by the
successful drilling of the Pande 11 well in 1992. During the appraisal mission
in November 1993, World Bank staff received a detailed review of this study, and
have since reviewed the written report. The conclusion that further drilling is
required to prove sufficient reserves for development is supported by the mission
team.
GEOLOGY
The field, covering 250 square km, contains four gas bearing sand intervals. The
sands exist within the Lower Grudja Formation of Late Cretaceous age and are
denoted as G6, G10, Gll and Glla.   The main reservoir is the G6 which is



18
ANNEX
PAGE 5 OF 25
generally about 65 feet thick. The sands were probably deposited in a moderate
energy shallow marine environment and at some time reworked in a coastal area.
As a result, these sands are elongated lenticular bodies with a NE - SW trend,
and lie within a low relief structure. Gross thickness variations between wells
verify the presence of discrete laterally stacked sand bodies, though well data
to date suggests pressure communication throughout. In general, the sand quality
deteriorates significantly with depth, and consequently reserves are considered
for the G6 reservoir only.
DRILLING
The Pande Field was discovered in 1961 by the Pande 1 wildcat well. Following
successful production tests on this well, five more wells were drilled from 1962
to 1967 to appraise the productive horizons encountered in the first well. One
of these wells was dry, three successfully tested gas, and the other, Pande 4,
blew out during drilling operations. No further appraisal drilling took place
until 1989 when a team of Soviet petroleum specialists began a d'illing program.
An additional five wells were drilled to the G6 and all were successfully
production tested. A World Bank Mission in March 1991 concluded that a new well
using Western data acquisition techniques would substantially improve the
existing reservoir data base. The Pande 11 well was successfully drilled, cored
and logged with Western equipment and production tested.
In late 1990, ENTH acquired 550 km of seismic along 24 lines forming a 3 km by 3
km grid over the immediate Pande area.   This data represented a significant
improvement over the original 1960s data.   The extremely low relief of the
geologic structure leads to great difficulty in establishing the G6 depth. This
in turn makes field mapping difficult, and results in great uncertainty of
reservoir rock volume.  The present depth map based on the 1990 data is very
likely to have this lateral uncertainty over the large area covered by Pande.
ENH is currently concluding a 900 km survey to further define the outer extent
of the field, and to supplement existing data. This survey has been completed
and is in the process of interpretation, which will be necessary - and sufficient
- for selecting additional production and delineation well locations.
Good quality well logs are available from wells drilled prior to Pande 11. This
petrophysical data indicates little variation across the field for porosity and
water saturation values. However, the conclusions regarding the vertical extent
of the productive gas sands are less clear.   The well logs were reviewed to
estimate a consistent set of GDT (gas-down-to), caused by lithological change,
and GWC (gas-water-contact) depths. Only three wells conclusively indicate GWCs,
though it is unclear if they are common.   The petrophysical data clearly
identifies the decreasing reservoir quality with depth and has led to a
subdivision of the G6 into 2 subzones, high permeability G6.1 and low
permeability G6.2. Well testing and pressure data from the previous wells are
indicative at best.
Pande 11 has extensive high-quality logs, core samples, and pressure and
production tests.   The logs and pressure data conclusively indicated a GWC,
though it is uncertain if this is a common GWC. Further, a multi-rate production



19
ANNEX
PAGE 6 OF 25
test recorded neither sand nor water production, though the tests were limited
to only several hours. The data also confirmed the geophysical parameters of
porosity and water saturation, and the decline of reservoir quality with depth.
RESERVES
The consultant reviewed all existing data for Pande and prepared a revised,
independent reserves determination.  The process began by estimating the gas
initially in place before the blowout using volumetric calculations. For these
purposes, a GDT depth was used in all wells coincident with the 6.1/6.2 boundary.
The estimated original gas in place ranges from 2.43 TCF to 3.00 TCF.   To
establish gas currently in place, an estimate was made for the volume of gas lost
during the blowout. Determining the blowout volume was complicated by the fact
that during killing operations, some 186 million barrels of water were injected
causing some re- pressurization of the reservoir. It is estimated that between
490 BCF and 540 BCF were lost during the blowout. Based on these considerations,
the Proved current gas in place is 1.9 TCF and the Proved plus Probable is 2.2
TCF.
Gas recovery will depend on the number of wells drilled and, among other things,
the volume of water produced. Project consultants to ENH have established a gas
demand plateau rate of 190 MMCF for 20 years. This profile is based on the
preliminary market assessment, and the gas sales required to make the project
economically viable. Two development cases were modeled that meet this plateau
rate: 20 & 25 wells. Two gas in place scenarios - the Proved and the Proved plus
Probable - were superimposed resulting in four reserve cases. For each case, the
ultimate recovery to abandonment pressure and the length of the plateau period
were calculated. In the 20 well case, the recovery efficiency is lower, owing
to the larger well spacing.   The 25 well scenario optimize the recovery
increasing it from 56 to 66 percent of the gas in place, or to 1.5 TCF. More
importantly, however, oven with compression installed, the plateau rates could
only be maintained for 15 - 17 years, less than the 20 years currently required
by economic considerations.
KEY UNCERTAINTIES
The reservoir study shows that almost enough reserves exist to support the
production plateau  for 20 years.   Two key uncertainties  emerge  from the
consultant's review. First, and most critical, is the productive rock volume
saturated by gas. This, in turn has two components, the lateral extent of the
reservoir and the vertical extent of the gas - whether it is controlled by a GWC
or by stratigraphy. The second key uncertainty is whether or not water will be
produced over the medium to long term. It is recommended that three additional
wells be drilled to address these issues. Because previous wells were somewhat
clustered, the new ones should be drilled in untested areas, but where seismic
control is good.   These wells should evaluate the flanks of the field, the
northwest and southeast, but final locations must await the current seismic



20
ANNEX
PAGE 7 OF 25
processing. In addition, at least one of the wells should be adequately tested
to examine the risk of water production at sustained production rates.
ENH Skills Assessment and Training Needs
OBJECTIVES
The main objective of the training program is the development of Mozambican
skills to ensure that there will be a significant Mozambican involvement in the
longer term development of the gas industry. The more immediate objective is to
analyze the training needs of the curreni ENH staff in Maputo and at the
Vilankulo base camp particularly for the next 12 months, but also with
recommenda-tions for the long term (5 years) . The idea is to maximize the role
that ENH staff can play as partners in the Joint Venture that will develop the
gas field.
PREMISES AND ASSUMPTIONS
It is important to arrange the training in a timely way, relating the training
to the development stages of the project.   Using a 'just-in-time'  training
strategy, the program aims at training the right persons for the right tasks at
the right time.
It is clear that English is the working language for gas development in Southern
Africa. There is an urgent need for ENH senior staff to master English to a
level that will enable them to understand, converse and write confidently with
business partners.  Likewise, it is essential that Vilankulo Base Camp staff
understand spoken and written English and can make themselves understood.
The training plan must be practical, relating to the actual work situation and
focusing on practicality rather then theory.
The trainees should become trainers. Those who receive training should train
their deputies and/or other key personnel their new skills on-the-job.



21
ANNEX
PAGE 8 OF 25
TRAINING ANALYSIS
A)    Present Status and General Training requirements.
The ENH management staff in Maputo in the engineering, administration and
finance, and exploration departments show keen willingness to cooperate and
develop their respective staffs. They are capable and show great potential and
will constitute a strong leadership team given the opportunity to receive the
appropriate development and training.   They should be involved in partner
meetings, negotiations and other business events that provide learning
opportunities.
It is important that the three section chiefs receive proper business and
leadership  training irresptective of the outcome of Pande Gas Project.   A
reservoir engineering position is required at the Mapuco office which could be
filled through training as hiring new staff with adequate skills is unlikely.
The status of the base camp staff at Vilankulo is somewhat uncertain as much of
it may be sold by ENH into a partnership with foreign investors to create a gas
field services company. It is likely, though that the 15 - 20 staff identified
as candidates for training, certification and upgrading will remain part of ENH,
or closely connected to ENH through the new service company. The base camp staff
need English Language training which has already been initiated.
As the next 12 months might be a quiet period for the base camp staff, a 'Basic
Drilling and Field Development' course should be given for all staff who have the
appropriate English language skills. Following the basic course, training could
continue with modules on drilling, maintenance and logistics.
There is a need for a well-site geologist when drilling starts.   One of the
existing staff members should be trained for this position.
The electricians need to be upgraded or certified so that they can take on the
task of providing and installing electricity in Vilankulo from the recently
installed gas-fired electricity there. This will require training in handling
electricity in the vicinity of gas operation areas.
Looking at training on a long term basis, the need is for Mozambicans to process
and produce gas from Pande. The contracts awarded to partners and contracting
companies must include training at Vilankulo to develop production and pipeline
staff. The concept chosen for the gas production will influence the training.
If a remote control concept is chosen, fewer people will be required at Pande,
but several instrument technicians at an advanced level will be required at the
Production Headquarters.
The Vilankulo staff should be trained during 1994 and 1995 in their respective
work areas to meet the needs of drilling the three exploration/appraisal wells
in the near future, and 20 or more production wells to be drilled later.



22
ANNEX
PAGE 9 OF 25
B)    General Training Outline
By linking the field development phases to the different kinds of training
required, the following training outlines can be established:
Senior Staff, Maputo:
Feasibility phase, 1994 -      English language training
-     Skills training (accounting, negotiations,
support services, supervisory)
Conceptual phase, 1995  -      Business   training    (exploration,    reservoir
drilling operations, joint venture operations,
auditing, document control)
=    Management training  (high level business
management course)
Engineering phase, 1996 -      Professional  training  (reservoir  engineering,
logistics,    drilling   management,    well-site
operations, quality contrcl, safety environment
management)
Construction phase, 1996 -    Gas processing
-     Gas production and measurement
-     Preventative maintenance
-     Pipeline Operations
-     Emergency preparedness
Production phase, 1998  -      Organizational analysis
-    Production organization
-     Continuous   improvement  process   (total
quality management)
Base Camp Staff, Vilankulo:
Feasibility phase, 1994 -      English language training
-     Skills  training  (electrical,  mechanical,
supervisory)
-     Business training (basic dril'ing and field
development)
Conceptual phase, 1995  -      Skills    training    (drilling,    logistics,
maintenance, support services)
Engineering &
Construction Phase, 1996       -      Skills training  (oil gas procesing and
production related operations, pipeline
operations, safety, emergency preparedness)



23
ANNEX
PAGE 10 OF 25
Production phase, 1998  -      On-the-job  training  for  key  operation  and
supervisory functions.
C)    Suqgcested individual tra-ning plans for key staff
1.    Engineering Staff
English language' * Management Training; Drilling Management & Well Planning
ErLgineering; Project Management- modular courses in drilling, maintenance and
logistics at Vilankulo.
2.    Administration & Finance Staff
English Language; Management Training; Joint Venture Administration Agreement &
Auditing Practices.
3.    Exploration Staff
English language; Management Training; Reservoir Engineering.
4.    Maintenance Technicians
English language; skill assessment; On-the-job training in mechanical/drilling
workshop.
1      With emphasis on oil/gas terminology and business language, plus
training in communications, supervision and field operations.



24
ANNEX
PAGE 11 OF 25
Environmental Mitigation Plan
The environmental issues connected with the works under the Gas Engineering
project were studied by N. Vestergaard, an independent consultant, in October
1993. Also available are a "baseline" environmental report by Dutton and Ramsay
(October 1993) and a report on chemicals stored at Pande base camp by Soekor
(Pty) Ltd. (October 1993). Actions taken by ENH on the recommendations of these
reports include : cleaning up chemical stores at the base camp, drawing up a
procedures to prevent future environmental harm, and planning to clean up the
Pande 4 blowout damage.
The overall view is that the complete development project is unlikely to cause
material environmental damage if careful planning is followed, and that the basic
causes of environmental damage from previous operations were poor engineering and
management practices. An analysis of chemicals at the base camp showed that none
were of immediate concern.   A preliminary environmental assessment of the
development project was also undertaken by ESMAP in 1992.
The significant damage caused by past operations relates to one major 'blow out"
site at Pande 4. Damage elsewhere is limited to local lack of clean up.
The mitigation plan is as follows:
1.    Reclaim Pande 4 area
2.    Clean up of old exploration sites
3.    Good planning and engineering standards to be followed including
adoption of engineering standards, procedures for handling chemicals
and prompt clean up; for example clean up of a site before the next
location is drilled.
4.    Environmental risk assessment to be prepared before the initiation
of physical activities.
5.    Environmental Impact Assessment to be part of project preparation.
6.    Establish an environmental and safety unit.
7.    Coordinate well with local population.
8.    Prepare a plan to avoid degradation of key nature areas prior to the
investment phase.



25
ANNEX
PAGE 12 OF 25
Implementation Arrangements for the Credit
PROCUREMENT & CONSULTANTS SERVICES
The procurement arrangements summarized in Schedule B will be by procedures
acceptable to IDA. Drilling services (US$9.0 million) are to be procured partly
through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) - for hire of drill rigs and
crews (US$4.0 million) - and partly through Limited International Bidding (LIB)
for other drilling services like logging and mud services (US$5.0 million) in
convenient packages. The lists of firms for these packages will be approved by
IDA.   ENH will invite proposals from all suitably qualified suppliers of these
services. For fixed price contracts the bid documents will provide that if the
work is awarded after the bid expiry date, then the bidder's bid will be
increased by reference to two predisclosed correction factors respectively for
foreign and local components of the bid price.
The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents shall be used. Small items or groups of
items (including equipment, vehicles and materials) costing up to $100,000 would
be procured using IAPSO or through international shopping procedures, up to a
total of $750,000. These items are to be purchased at intervals throughout the
project and are likely to be placed in packages of approximately $100,000.
Materials will be purchased according to local rules.
For seismic, (US$2.0 million) the acquisition is now substantially complete
through PPF funding. The services were acquired through limited international
bidding on the basis of bids received from four bidders.
The invitations to bid, bidding documents, bid evaluation and final contracts
will be subject to IDA's prior review for the drilling and drilling-related
services and contracts for goods estimated to cost US$100,000 or more.
Sole source procurement will be used only for emergencies or for proprietary
spare parts for individual items up to an aggregate of $100,000. There will be
no retroactive financing.
The major consultancy contracts are for engineering services (US$8.5 million
excluding contingencies), and for arranging finance (US$6.2 million excluding
contingencies),  and both fall late in Phase II.   Supervision of the actual
drilling and services connected with drilling and completion would be through a
consultancy services contract. All consultancy and technical assistance to be
financed (or part-financed) by IDA will be awarded according to IDA Consultancy
Guidelines, and standard consultancy services documents will be used. One
contract for advice to ENH in relation to project development, seeking of
partners, contractual terms and related pzoject implementation and coordination,
and another contract for advice to ENH and its potential partners regarding
financing, are being financed under Cr 1806MOZ, which will close in December
1994. If these contracts continue satisfactorily and the milestones are met, ENH



26
ANNEX
PAGE 13 OF 25
will wish to extend the contracts through to the end of Phase I (approximately
late 1995) . This will be reviewed by IDA on merit. In view of the potential for
conflict of interest, joint venture partners will not be permitted to bid for any
of the consultancy contracts.
Prior approval by IDA of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, evaluation reports and contacts is required for all consultancy
contacts except those estimated to cost less than $100,000. Such prior approval
is, however, required for all terms of reference regardless of the contract value
and for all contracts involving the emp'2oyment of individuals exceeding $50,000,
and to contract amendments which result in the raising of the contract value
above US$100,000 for firms and above US$50,000 for individuals.
Consultancy contracts are subject to IDA prior review for contracts with firms
exceeding US$100,000 and for contracts with individuals exceeding US$50.000. All
contracts below this amount will be subject to IDA's selective post-review.
DISBURSEMENT
The allocation of the proposed IDA Credit is in Schedule B. A Special Account
for US$500,000 will be established for ENH in a commercial bank and operated on
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Disbursements will be made against full
supporting documents, except for contracts of less than US$100,000 (US$50,000 for
individual consultants), and payments for individual training programs..
Supporting documents associated with SOE claims will be retained at a central
location, suitably cross-referenced to the withdrawal application, and made
available on request for review by visiting supervision missions. As part of the
annual audit the independent auditors would give an opinion with respect to the
Special Account and to the amounts withdrawn on the basis of SOEs.
PROJECT SCHEDULE
The completion of the project is estimated tc require 40 months from
effectiveness. However, in recognition of the delays generally experienced in
Mozambique and elsewhere in Africa and the effect on timing of the agreements to
be reached with the private sector, the project disbursements are expected to
take about 60 months. On this basis the project is expected to be completed by
December 31, 1999 and credit closing date will be June 30, 2000. The timetable
for individual consultancies is at Appendix 1.
ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS
ENH will maintain accounts showing the expenditures on the project.   These
accounts will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and (together
with audits of Special Accounts and SOE referred to above) will be forwarded to
IDA within six months of the end of ENH's fiscal year, i.e. by June 30 each year
in respect of the previous calendar year.



27
ANNEX
PAGE 14 OF 25
APPENDICES
Technical Assistance Activities
==e==e======u=muu==uu=mmmuum="
PHASE 1
PROJECT MANAGEMENT TEAM
A small team to plan and coordinate the work for ENH under the project. This
team will include both Mozambicans and expatriates.
Budget: $1,240,000 Timing: ongoing
NEGOTIATION and STRATEGY SUPPORT
To help ENH develop strategy to obtain partners and for Mozambique to have the
information to secure a satisfactory joint venture agreement and sales agreement.
Budget: $1,000,000 Timing: ongoing
LEGAL SERVICES
Legal firm to provide specific legal advice to ENH for negotiations with
potential partners and to draft, review and translate agreements and other
documents.
Budget: $500,000 Timing: late 1994
PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING
Reservoir modeling and engineering of gas field facilities for gas production
phase.   Similarly, engineering options of routes, diameters, pressures for
pipeline options, define distribution lines, estimate costs all for ENH.
(Norway) 2
Budget: $400,000 Timing: early 1995
2      This  designation  indicates  that  the  Norwegian  government  is
considering financing all or a part of the indicated task.



28
ANNEX
PAGE 15 OF 25
ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT TO GOVERNMENT AND ENH
Consultancy advice is required to support ENH to clear up and dispose of unneeded
chemicals and equipment, with a remedial program to counter past environmental
deterioration, with preparation of ENH environmental procedures, and to support
Government in preparation of a national environmental policy for onshore
petroleum activities. (Norway)
Budget:  $200,000    Timing:  late 1994
GAS MARKET ASSESSMENT (RSA)
Define for E1lH the potential gas demand in selected areas of RSA and establish
specific market opportunities for Pande. Identify prices, costs and potential
profitability.
Budget:  $250,000   Timing:  ongoing
GAS SALES AND TRANSPORTATION NEGOTIATIONS ADVISOR
Advise ENH on commercial elements, such as price, quantity, price adjustment,
point of transfer,  supplies obligations,  etc.   As needed,  participate  in
negotiations.
Budget:  $250,000    Timing:  ongoing
INSTITUTIONAL and REGULATORY ISSUES
Advice to Government on the institutional, competition, and regulatory issues.
Particular focus on minimal means of regulation for Mozambique.   Address
interface issues, both within Mozambique and in respect of South Africa. (Norway)
Budget: $360,000 Timing: late 1994
TAX and INCENTIVE SYSTEMS
Review for Government costs and benefits of Pande development, and recommend
structure of Government take.  Special advice on interface issues with South
Africa. (Norway)
Budget:  $420,000 Timing:  Mid 1994



29
ANNEX
PAGE 16 OF 25
PROJECT STRUCTURING
Review for ENH of key factors in deciding project structure, including
interfaces, problems of having different shares in different parts, tax and other
advantages of options,  impact on financing schemes.   The initial work was
undertaken with ESMAP support.
Budget: $90,000 Timing: mid 1994
FINANCIAL ADVISOR
Advice to ENH/Sasol as partners on the possibility of limited recourse financing,
and the conditions to be met to make it possible. Main contract already let.
Additional advice to ENH as needed.
Budget: $500,000 Timing: ongoing (main contract)
ENH ACCOUNTING SYSTEMS
Undertake a diagnostic of the accounting systems needed by ENH in its role as
joint venture partner, and for its other roles. Estimate computer and training
needs and costs. (Norway)
Budget: $360,000 Timing: beginning of 1995
TRAINING
On the job training, short courses and fundamental instruction for a limited
amount of higher level education, based on training needs assessment for ENH and
Government. (Mostly Norwegian finance)
Budget: $400,000 Timing: late 1994
SMALL SCALE GAS USE
Review for ENH possible uses of gas in communities near to Pande (including
Inhambane) and along the pipeline route.   Cost out possible supply schemes,
identify low cost options. Undertake field surveys. Identify ways in which the
communities can benefit from the availability and/or passage of the gas. Analyze
the social development issues associated with gas availability (Norway).  In
addition to the consultancy budget the project includes $500,000 of related
equipment and materials.
Budget:  $100,000   Timing:  ongoing



30
ANNEX
PAGE 17 OF 25
PHASE II
PROJECT MANAGEMENT TEAM
A fully staffed and equipped unit to coordinate the partners and to manage the
remaining pre-development stage of project execution.
Budget:  $3,650,000         Timing:  beginning of Phase II
PROJECT ADVISORY SERVICES
Continued project advisory services for ENH.
Budget:  $1,100,000         Timing:  beginning of Phase II
ADVANCED ENGINEERING
Improving accuracy of costings so that the partnership can seek finance of the
developmental stage including some advanced engineering. (Norway)
Budget:  $8,500,000    Timing:  from mid Phase II
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
Review for the partners of Pande development scheme, advice on routing from
environmental aspect, judgment on environmental acceptability of the scheme,
preparation of mitigation plan.   Analysis of the positive benefits of gas
utilization, especially in South Africa.
Budget: $700,000 Timing: 1996
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF MAPUTO SPUR LINE
Review for ENH of environmental effects of constructing a spur line to Maputo,
including preparation of a mitigation plan.
Budget:   $100,000       Timing:      1996
ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING
Provision for Government to monitor compliance with the environmental mitigation
plan. In addition to the consultancy budget the project also includes $200,000
for related equipment. (Norway)
Budget: $150,000 Timing: in parallel with the engineering



31
ANNEX
PAGE 18 OF 25
GAS MARKET ASSESSMENT (Maputo)
Assessment for ENH of the gas market in Maputo, the prices achievable and the
costs of supply. (Norway)
Budget: $300,000 Timing: mid 1996
GAS SALES and TRANSPORTATION ADVISOR
Nominal budget for the partners in case there are outstanding issues of detail
still to be resolved in Phase II.
Budget: $150,000 Timing: 1996
TAX and INCENTIVE SYSTE..
The Mozambique Government will need additional assistance to finalize the tax and
incentive systems. (Norway)
Budget: $360,000 Timing: early in Phase II
INSTITUTIONAL and REGULATORY ISSUES
Completion for Government of Mozambique of the institutional reforms and
establishment of regulatory system. (Norway)
Budget: $360,000 Timing: early in Phase II
FINANCIAL ADVICE
Financial advisory services to ENH on its financing needs, particularly
recognizing that its needs may differ from its partners.
Budget: $600,000 Timing: from mid Phase II
ARRANGING the FINANCING for the JOINT VEZNTURS
obtaining firm commitments from financing sources and initiating the security
arrangements and legal requirements.
Budget:  $6,200,000         Timing:  from mid Phase II



32
ANNEX
PAGE 19 OF 25
BMR ACCOUNTING SYSTEMS
Implementation for ENH of new accounting systems including on the job training.
Budget: $250,000 Timing: early in Phase II
TRAINING FOR MOAMBICAN PERSONNEL
Continuation of training schemes for government and the partnership, the latter
mainly to be provided by Joint Venture partners.
Budget: $450,000 Timing: throughout Phase II
SMALL SCALE GAS USX
Identification for ENH of communities along the pipeline route where a small
scale gas and power supply is appropriate. Work to include identifying market
size, costs, price of alternative fuels, and ways to make the community feel
positive impacts of the project. (Norway)
Budget:  $400,000    Timing:  mid Phase II



33
ANNEX
PAGE 20 OF 25
SUMMARY OF TA AND TRAINING
PHASE I                                                              Budget ($ m)
Project Management Team                                                       1.24
Negotiation and Strategy Support                                              1.00
Legal Services                                                                0.50
Preliminary Engineering                                                       0.40
Environmental Support to Government and ENH                                   0.20
Gas Market Assessment (RSA)                                                   0.25
Gas Sales and Transportation Negotiation
Advisor                                                                      0.25
Institutional and Regulatory issues                                           0.36
Tax and Incentive Systems                                                     0.42
Project Structuring                                                           0.09
Financial Advisor                                                             0 .50
ENH Accounting Systems                                                        0.36
Training                                                                      0.40
Small Scale Gas Use                                                           0.10
Subtotal    6.07
PHASE II
Project Management Team                                                       3.65
Project Advisory Services                                                     1.10
Advanced Engineering                                                          8.50
Environmental Assessment                                                      0.70
Environmental Assessment Maputo Spur                                          0.10
Environmental Monitoring                                                      0.15
Gas Market Assessment (Maputo)                                                0.30
Gas Sales and Transportation Advisor                                          0.15
Tax and Incentive Systems                                                     0.36
Institutional and Regulatory Issues                                           0.36
Financial Advice                                                              0.60
Arranging the Financing for the Joint Venture                                 6.20
ENH Accounting Systems                                                        0.25
Training                                                                      0.45
Small Scale Gas Use                                                           0.40
Subtotal   23.27
Total of Phase I and Phase II                                        29.34
(Excludes contingencies)



34
ANNEX
PAGE 21 OF 25
Supervision Plan
Because of the complexities of the envisaged joint-venture arrangements and the
additional fluidity until the participation is finalized, an intensive
supervision plan is needed, with detailed discussions with ENH and its joint
cooperation partners every three to four months.
July 1994         Review of                 2 wk Gas
consultant's work        specialist
and agreement on         2 wk Industry
steps for project        specialist
launch.                  2 wk Industry
structure
October 1994       Engineering              2 wk Gas
project launch           specialist
mission                  2 wk Industry
including training       specialist
1 wk Contracting
specialist
January 1995      Review of bid             1 wk Gas
documents for            specialist
drilling. Review         1 wk Market
of progress on           specialist
engaging                 1 wk Drilling
consultants.             Specialist
1 wk Industry
Specialist
May 1995           Review of status         1 wk Gas
of joint venture         specialist
efforts                  1 wk Investor
expert



35
ANNEX
PAGE 22 OF 25
September         Review of                 1 wk Gas
1995              consultant's output       specialist
1 wk Project
structuring
1 wk Market
specialist
Midterm           Review of                 Gas specialist
review            performance and           Institutional
(approx. end      conditions for           specialist
1995)             second phase              Marketer
Contract
specialist
Industry
specialist
1996 (Twice yearly
1997 (reviews as
1998 (defined at
(mid term review



36
ANNEX
PAGE 23 OF 25
PROJECT COST BY PHASE
ENH     Coramon
(USS000)                            Ministry   Account   Account          Total
Phase I  drilling and seismic            --            --   11,000      11,000
equipment                       --          500       --          500
training                        50          350      --           400
consulting                    880         4,540      250        5,670
materials                       --          400       --          400
contingencies                  120          670    1.410        2,200
1,050        6,460   12,660       20,170
Phase II training                        50          100       300         450
equipment                       --           --      200          200
consulting                     820        3,690   18,310       22,820
materials                       --          500        --         500
contingencies                  160          690    3,690        4,540
1.030        4,980   22,500       28,510
Total                 2,080       11.440   35.160       48,680



37
ANNEX
PAGE 24 OF 25
DETAXLED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Disbursements by year
1994/95  1995/96  1996/1997  1997/98  1998/99  1999/00   Total
Drilling         4.1       6.0       -           -       -         -      10.1
Seismic          1.5       0.8       -           -       -         -       2.3
Equipment &
Materials         0.2      0.7      0.2         0.4     0.1        -       1.6
TA               0.8       1.5      2.8         3.9     5.3      1.1      15.6
T_.aining        0.1       0.3      0.1         0.1      -         -       0.6
Total            6.7       9.3      3.1         4.4     5.4      1.1      30.0



38
ANNEX
PAGE 25 OF 25
QUARTERLY AND CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
Fiscal 199./95
Quarter I                       1.5          1.5
Quarter II                      0.5          2.0
Quarter III                     2.2          4.2
Quarter IV                      2.5          6.7
Fiscal 1995/906
Quarter I                       3.8          10.5
Quarter II                      3.8          14.3
Quarter III                     0.9          15.2
Quarter IV                      0.8          16.0
Fiscal 1996/97
Quarter I                       0.8          16.8
Quarter II                      0.8          17.6
Quarter III                     0.8          18.4
Quarter IV                      0.7          19.1
Fiscal 1997/98
Quarter I                       1.0          20.1
Quarter II                      1.1          21.2
Quarter III                     1.2          22.4
Quarter IV                      1.1          23.5
Fiscal 1998/99
Quarter I                       1.2          24.7
Quarter II                      1.4          26.1
Quarter III                     1.6          27.7
Quarter IV                      1.2          28.9
Fiscal 1999/00
Quarter I                       0.6          29.5
Quarter II                      0.5          30.0



IBRD 25703
3MAb9RI            RWANDA  2    0
I7  ONGO    7AIRE       tRUNOI                                                                                                              o
TANZANIA                                                     C
COMORO$                                 J
ANGOLA  r              U 'iMALAWI    M"1                                                                               Bi                     20) 
j ZAMBIA                          .     .20-                                                                Beiro                    200
,-   -          / -  i. -1r"-
r    ZIMBABWE°
NAMIBI?. I            i jZM A W                                                -
NAMIBU j  t    i           X           ~~~~Z I /9 B A B W  E    ,                       i
!BOTSWANA                                                             | I
jL            -WAZILAND
SOUTH QtLSOTHO.                                                                                                lnha; oro
AfRICA                                                        2                                            8>Onhassoro
Zinove N P.
280               \          -- ;                         <>°v°;z/                          Mobole 0                 0 Vilonculos
,i-.-- -                               ,/                   MOZAMBIQUE
BOTSWANA                                 ^_          . ,  
- F \                Bonhine NPP.
/                         Kruger
240  /                                                                                           IN lnhombone
-241                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~24-
/    Pholaborwo
Inhorrimie
S O U T H                         9{                         Co? ~                 _so
AFRICA                                               A
-                        ~~~~~~~Nelsprua    KOmalipoort 4eOrC  t
Pretoria Witbank           --
0            J           Borberton N                   Maputo                MOZAMBIQUE
Johannesbg  00Spriigs                                                                               PIPELINE ROUTES
PANDE GAS PROJECT
vereeniging \  1
0I
So°olburg          
Vereeniging  \.\    /                                                                     POSSIBLE PIPEUNE ROUTES:
LOW VOLUME LOCAL SUPPLY
) f                                          i       '                   'MAIN TRUNK LINES
MAIN ROADS
28-                                                                                                       SECONDARY ROADS                           28°
NATIONAL PARKS
.                     M /                      ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ ~RIVERS
* \    9 NATIONAL CAPITALS
Richards Boy             - --    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
KILOMETERS  0             I0g            200           300
LESOTHO
M.LES  0                      100                     200
/    Pietermaritzburg      /
^  ,Dur6an                         The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
shown on this map do not imply, on the port of The World Bank Group,
any judgment on the legl status of any territory, or ony endorsement
or acceptance of such boundaries.
280      >                                 '5Umkomaas        32°                                                            3O6
APRIL 1994



