Report No. 1557b-CO                                                                                       V%&
Colombia: Appraisal of a    FILE COPY
Seventh Highway Project
June 16, 1977
Latin America and the Caribbean Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit        - Peso 4(C9l$1
US$1 (June 1977)     = Col$ 36.80
US$1 million         = Col$ 36.8 million
Col$ 1 million       = US$27,174
Colombian Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
System of Weights and Measures:  Metric
Metric                        British/US Equivalent
1 kilometer (km)          =  0.62 mile  (mi)
1 meter (m)               =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 metric ton (m ton)      =  0.98 long ton (imperial)
- 1.10 short tons (USA)
1 liter                    =  0.22 gallon (imperial)
= 0.26 gallon (imperial)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ER                    - Economic Rate of Return
FONADE                - Fondo Nacional de Desarollo Economico
FYB                   - First Year Benefit
GDP                   - Gross Domestic Product
IDB                   - Interamerican Development Bank
MOP                   - Ministerio de Obras Publicas (up to January 1976)
MOPT                   - Ministerio de Obras Publicas y Transporte (after January 1976)
NPO                    - National Planning Office
UNIDO                 - United Nations Industrial Development Organization
VOC                   - Vehicle Operating Costs



1-0k OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
APPRAISAL OF A SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...........  ..................................... .   i
1.   INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND . ................. a. ... .............    1
A*   General ..........................................................   1
B.   Past Highway Projects ......... . . . . . .  .............................. .... .   1
C.   The Sixth Highway Project .......... . . .  ...................... .   2
D.   The Maintenance Problem ........ . . . . . .  ............................. .. .   2
E.   Preparation of the Proposed Seventh Highway Project .....   3
2.   THE TRANSPORT SYSTEM ........................................    5
A. General ............... oo .                               .            5
B.  Highways      ............ 0000*0.  . ... 00.....                      5
C. Railways ..oooo............ 5
Do  Inland Waterways ...            ......... .. . .0..-.00 .6
E. Ports..  ..................... 6
F.  Civil Aviation ....  ........... o.o... .oo.o.oo...    7
G.  Investments, Regulation and Coordination ..................            7
3.   THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR .. .....o ......  ......... ... .   8
A.  The Network ..........-....................................            8
B.  Road Transport and Traffic  oo.....o ............ .....  10
C.  Highway Administration .    ..... . .    .................. . . . . . .. . .   10
D.  Highway Planning ...            ...     ............. .. . . . ..     11
E.  Highway Financing and Road User Charges                 .......   .   12
F.  Highway Engineering . ...  ..o..oo. . ...... .. . .. . . ..  ..........   13
G.  Highway Construction .         -.-. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .... o. .    ...... ..  13
H.  Highway Maintenance                   ...............  o.. ... . ...  14
I.  Future Level of Highway Maintenance Expenditures ....o.....  15
This Appraisal Report has been prepared by Messrs. Schulz (Economist) and
Morris (Engineer), and has been edited by Miss Virginia Foster.
This document h as retricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomance
of their official dutie. Its contents may not otherwie be disclosd without Wofid Bank authoriztion.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
4.  THE PROJECT ...................................................  17
A.  Objectives ...............................................  17
B.  General Description    ......................................  17
C.  Road Rehabilitation Program       ..............................  18
D.  Vehicle Weight Control Program .............eg ...........r..  20
E.  Highway Maintenance Program .......    .......................  21
F.  Transport Sector Management       ..............................  23
G.  Logistic Support for Project Execution ................ ...  23
H.  Cost Estimates and Financing       .............................  24
I.  Disbursements ............................................  26
J.  Execution and Procurement       ................................  26
K.  Project Risks .........................................   28
5.   ECONOMIC ASSESSMENT   ..........................................  28
A.   General ...............................................  28
B.   Road Rehabilitation Program .............................  29
C.   Highway Maintenance Program .......    ......................  31
D.   Vehicle Weight Control Program ..........................  32
6.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................    ......  33
TABLES
1.  IBRD-IDA Involvement in Colombia Transport
2. Public Sector Investment in Transport (1966-1975)
3. National Highway Network (1965-1975) - Total Road System (December 1975)
4. Road Vehicle Fleet (1963-1976)
5. Estimated ADT at Select Points of the Road Network (1971-1975)
6. National Highway Fund - Revenues (1970-1976)
7. National Highway Fund - Revenues and Expenditures (1970-1976)
8. National Highway Fund - Expenditures (1970-1976)
9. Estimate of Future Revenues and Expenditures (1977-1981)
10. Evolution and Composition of Regular Gasoline Prices (1975-1977)
11. History of Construction and Periodic Maintenance on Sections
for Rehabilitation
12. Road Rehabilitation Program - Economic Costs, Financial Costs and
Execution Schedule
13. Preliminary Four-Year Equipment Replacement Program
14. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
15. Details of Road Rehabilitation Program
16. Economic Vehicle Operating Costs
17. Economic Evaluation of Road Rehabilitation Program
18. Highway Maintenance Program - With and Without Program Maintenance
and User Costs of Network
19. Highway Maintenance Program - Summary of Economic Assessment
20. Estimated Yearly Maintenance Expenditures (1978-1987)



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES
1.   Terms of Reference for a Vehicle Weight Control Study
2.   Road Rehabilitation Program
3.   Outline Terms of Reference for the Technical Assistance Programs
4.   Terms of Reference for a Study of Locally Available Road Construction
and Maintenance Materials
5.   Project Indicators
6.   Details of the Economic Assessment
CHART S
1.   MOPT Organization Chart
2.   Consulting Services and Technical Assistance Programs
3.   Project Implementation Schedule
MAP
IBRD 12553 - Colombia - Seventh Highway Project






COLOMBIA
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Colombia's transport system carries not only traditional primary
sector production but also a heavy load of non-traditional agricultural as
well as manufactured products. These goods are the mainstay of interregional
trade in the country, but, most importantly, its exports. Increasingly,
manufactured goods--primarily textiles, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, mechanical
and electrical equipment--are playing a larger role in the country's exports
along with agricultural products, of which coffee represents the largest share
of total merchandise exported. To move these goods both to internal consumption
centers and to the ports, a system of primary trunk highways has been developed
over the last two-and-one-half decades along with a rail and inland shipping
network. It is the highways, however, which form a truly national integrated
network; the railways are truncated, and inland shipping operates mostly along
the Magdalena River. The trunk highway network, which covers the populated
area of the country, has reached a stage of development where a shift from
expansion to conservation is necessary. Most of the roads in the trunk
network were paved in the 1950's and are now reaching the point where rapid
deterioration is either already occurring or about to happen if a program of
overlays and strengthening is not instituted. The need for improved mainte-
nance is evident, and great losses would affect both internal and export trade
if it is not brought about within the next few years.
ii.       Recognizing the extent of the situation, the Government of Colombia
has requested the Bank to help finance a project that would include (a) a Road
Rehabilitation Program, comprising about 978 km of trunk paved roads; (b) a
Vehicle Weight Control Program, comprising the installation of about 20 weigh-
ing stations; (c) a Highway Maintenance Program, comprising the purchase of
equipment and spare parts and technical assistance to improve the management
of the maintenance fleet and the programming of road maintenance operations;
(d) technical assistance to improve sector management; and (e) provision
for logistic support for the execution of the project.
iii.      The project would provide for the rehabilitation of important
sections of the trunk highway network, with traffic in the 1,200 to 6,000
vehicles-per-day range, where the level of deterioration is beyond repair with
normal maintenance operations. The Vehicle Weight Control Program would pre-
vent further acceleration of pavement deterioration due to truck overloading.
In addition, the project also includes a number of corrective measures aimed
at the most obvious deficiencies of the present maintenance system. It would
provide for systematic renewal of the maintenance fleet and improved fleet
management and maintenance procedures, thereby increasing the availability of
equipment, which is a basic condition for increased efficiency.
iv.       Although the project is aimed primarily at a more efficient use of
the resources devoted to maintenance, it would have to be accompanied by sub-
stantial increases in budgetary appropriations for spare parts, equipment



- ii -
renewal, materials and periodic overlays and strengthening of the national
highways. These increases have been discussed with the Government and were
agreed upon during negotiations. They are well justified compared with the
increases in transport costs and future rehabilitation requirements which
would arise if the present situation is allowed to persist. Based on vehicle
operating cost savings, which is the only quantified benefit against which
project investments have been assessed, the proposed project is well justified,
with an average weighted rate of return of over 90%.
v.         Total project cost is US$153.75 million equivalent, of which US$90.75
million (59%) is the foreign exchange component and US$90.0 million is to be
financed by the proposed Bank loan. The balance of project costs and interest
during construction, as well as agreed increases in recurrent highway mainte-
nance expenditures, would be financed by the National Highway Fund supplemented,
as necessary, by Government contributions.
vi.        Project execution would extend over the period 1977-1981 under the
responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MOPT). Consul-
tants would assist MOPT in construction supervision. Advisory services
would be provided under the project to assist in the Maintenance Program and
in transport sector management. The Vehicle Weight Control Program and the
accompanying enforcement measures would be defined on the basis of a study now
under way.
vii.       Detailed engineering designs for the Rehabilitation Program have been
completed and were the basis for cost estimates. Cost estimates for equipment
renewal and consulting services are based on recent experience and reflect
current market conditions. Cost estimates for the weighing stations reflect
ongoing experience with similar works in Brazil adapted to Colombian conditions.
viii.      Procurement of civil works, equipment and spare parts will be through
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Spare
parts of specific makes for existing equipment would be procured directly
from established dealers in accordance with a purchase program acceptable to
the Bank.
ix.        Retroactive financing of up to US$1.0 million equivalent would be pro-
vided for advance works carried out since April 1, 1977 for the stabilization of
critical sections along two roads.
x.         The project, which would represent a major effort to improve road
maintenance, is technically sound and economically well justified and is suit-
able for a Bank loan of US$90 million. The loan would mature in 17 years,
including a three-and-one-half-year period of grace.



COLOMBIA
APPRAISAL OF A SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
A.   General
1.01      The Bank's involvement in Colombia's transportation sector dates
back to 1949 when a General Sector Mission visited the country and found
the system to be in bad condition, actually beyond repair with normal main-
tenance procedures. Since that time, the Bank has lent about US$255 million
in 13 loans to the sector (Table 1); these investments accelerated the cre-
ation of an integrated highway network and contributed to the construction
of over 670 km of main railway lines as well as the rehabilitation of existing
ones. Highway projects have contributed to the maintenance, reconstruction
and construction of a national highway network (21,000 km) and to the devel-
opment of an improved, but not yet fully effective, highway organization.
Railway investments have provided for the construction of the Atlantic Rail-
road from La Dorada near Bogota to Fundacion near the port of Santa Marta; the
Bank has also supported the creation of the organizational and institutional
framework of the Colombian National Railways.
B.   Past Highway Projects
1.02      The Bank's contribution to highways falls into two distinct time
periods:  the first, from 1951 to 1961, covering, in general, the execution of
the First Highway Plan and encompassing the first three highway loans; and a
second, running from 1961 to the present. The First Highway Project, which
was originally intended to be completed in three years as an emergency program,
eventually extended beyond ten years. Successive loans financed unfinished
parts of the preceding ones and included some new works for which only prelimin-
ary engineering was available. Since 1961, feasibility studies, including
engineering, have preceded the execution of projects, and international bidding
for unit priced contracts was introduced. Although project preparation is now
generally adequate, project implementation still suffers from managerial weak-
nesses and financial constraints.
1.03      The first four projects eventually resulted in the construction
or upgrading of 3,200 km of trunk roads. They contributed to the develop-
ment of Colombia's trunk road system and to the emergence of road transport
as the main means of communication. In 1965, as a condition for extending
the Closing Date of the Loan and Credit for the Fourth Highway Project, the
Government agreed to employ management consultants (Comec/Harris-Mexico/USA)
to reorganize the Ministry of Public Works (MOP).
1.04      The fifth loan (550-CO, US$17.2 million) was made in 1968 for
(a) the construction or reconstruction (with paving) of about 510 km of
four national highways; (b) the construction of a major highway bridge at
La Virginia; (c) consulting services for supervising (a) and (b) above, for
preinvestment studies, for detailed engineering of further priority roads,
and for assisting the reorganization of MOP based on the Comec/Harris report;



-2 -
and (d) the purchase of equipment needed to effect the reorganization. The
greater length of the reconstruction works was located on the western trunk
road between the industrial center of Medellin and the Atlantic ports. The
seven sections included in the project completed the paving of the road from
Cali to the north coast. Progress was slow due to: (a) unusually heavy rains
during the years 1969 to 1972; (b) the awarding of contracts to inexperienced
and financially weak local firms; and (c) the fact that drainage and earthworks
were underestimated because of inadequate design.  The resulting cost overruns
caused two contracts to be rebid because the legal ceiling of 150% of the bid
price had been reached.  Another section had to be rebid after the initial
contract was terminated for lack of progress.  All works were eventually com-
pleted in 1975, three years after the original completion date. The overall
construction cost exceeded the appraisal estimate by 70% and averaged US$83,000/
km, which, nevertheless, was reasonable considering the type of terrain and
conditions encountered. The assistance provided under the project for re-
organization of MOP had little success. In January 1976, however, MOP was
reorganized into the Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MOPT). Only a
few of the recommendations of the Comec/Harris report were acted upon, the
most notable being the proposed staffing of the road maintenance organization
in the districts. The Fifth Highway Project, despite its shortcomings, was
an important phase in the development of Colombia's trunk road system and
contributed to the establishment of better engineering practices and improved
contractural procedures.
C.   The Sixth Highway Project
1.05      The sixth highway loan (680-CO, US$32.0 million) was made in 1970
for a project consisting of bridge and road construction and the paving of
main roads. The bridge over the Magdalena river at Barranquilla and the final
link of the new road from Cali to the port of Buenaventura have both been
completed. The paving program, however, has suffered lengthy delays and large
cost overruns. In January 1975, the Bank agreed to reduce its scope from the
original 1,618 km to about 874 km. Seven sections out of the 33 remaining in
the program are still under construction, and about 200 km still have to be
paved. The entire program, which was expected to be completed in early 1974,
will now continue to mid-1979. Design revisions to allow for stronger pave-
ments have caused substantial increases in quantities and in costs. Delays in
execution have been due to lack of local funds, poor contract management and
slack supervison and coordination by MOP. In order to improve the performance
of the local consultants engaged in the supervision, a coordinating group was
set up in 1973 within MOP. This improved the situation, but MOP terminated
employment of the group in December 1974. The functions of the group have
recently been undertaken by MOPT's Special Highway Programs Division, which,
although understaffed, is slowly gaining some measure of effectiveness. The
proposed project includes strengthening of this Division.
D.   The Maintenance Problem
1.06      During the 25 years in which it has been associated with Colombian
highways, the Bank has been greatly concerned with the maintenance problem.
The First Highway Project (Loan 43-CO, 1951) was a road improvement and
maintenance project; the Second Highway Project (Loan 84-CO, 1953) provided



for the purchase of road maintenance and shop equipment and for the appoint-
ment of maintenance experts to act as consultants to the Ministry. It was
evident that the benefits of the construction works being undertaken could
not be achieved unless an effective maintenance program for the whole system
was in place. Due to the high turnover of Ministry staff, the weakness of
the field organization, and the low priority and funding given to maintenance,
the improvements introduced under the Second Project were short-lived. The
Third Highway Project (Loan 144-CO, 1956) provided for the execution of
asphalt overlays on some roads built under previous Bank projects. However,
because of the rapid deterioration of the highways toward the end of the
1950's, provision was made in the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 295-CO and
Credit 5-CO, 1961) for the purchase of a large fleet of maintenance equipment
and for a reassessment, by consultants, of the Ministry's maintenance organiza-
tion and procedures. During negotiations of the Fifth Highway Project (Loan
550-CO, 1968), the Government committed itself to implementing the recommen-
dations of the Comec/ Harris Study. The present field organization, which is
basically adequate, was established, and, initially, road maintenance improved.
However, by the time that the Sixth Highway Project (Loan 680-CO, 1970) was
being prepared, the decline had already begun. Under that loan, the Government
confirmed previous undertakings to carry out proper maintenance and to provide
adequate funds.
1.07      Today's assessment of the maintenance of Colombia's highway network
follows the familiar pattern: it is still generally inadequate, and a chronic
lack of funds prevents it from being improved. An analysis of MOPT's budget
allocation reveals that about 30% of it is devoted to maintenance, but over
80% of this allocation is used up in fixed personnel and administrative expen-
ditures, leaving a meager US$280 per km per year for running the equipment and
for the purchase of materials and spare parts. Equipment replacement is
usually not included in MOPT's budget allocation but is financed out of general
Government funds. The appraisal mission estimated that adequate maintenance
would require about US$1,200 per km per year over and above personnel and
administrative costs. This amount would cover the three major deficiencies
that now prevent an adequate maintenance from being carried out, namely:
(a) renewing equipment on an annual, recurrent basis; (b) purchasing spare
parts to keep the maintenance fleet operational; and (c) purchasing materials
(bitumen, fuel, cement, etc.) necessary to execute maintenance works. The
required increase in the budgetary allocation would be from the present US$41
million to about US$67 million per year, including the additional effort now
necessary to make up for past shortages. The proposed project is mainly
geared to help finance this additional effort.
E.   Preparation of the Proposed Seventh Highway Project
1.08      The rehabilitation component of the project developed out of a survey
carried out in 1973 by INGEROUTE (France) under the Fifth Highway Project,
which showed that about 1,700 km of the then 6,500-km asphalted national high-
way network required urgent rehabilitation. Detailed engineering designs were
prepared by Colombian consultants between 1973 and 1975, but results were of
uneven quality and many had to be redone. While revised designs were being



- 4 -
prepared, this time in closer cooperation with the Bank, it became apparent
that, because of financial constraints imposed by increasingly higher cost
estimates, the scope of the project had to be reduced. Roads in comparatively
better condition and roads with lower priority were taken out of the program.
Final designs were eventually produced for 978 km, which have been included in
the program. It is evident, however, that there is a need for more than can
be accomplished through the project. Steps to prepare a second rehabilitation
program would be reviewed with MOPT once the proposed program is under way.
1.09      The vehicle weight control component of the project evolved from
the assessment by MOPT and the Bank of the major factors causing the need for
road rehabilitation. The extent of truck overloading and the damage caused
to the roads have been well known in Colombia; enforcement of weight control
regulations was an explicit covenant of successive highway loans since the
Fourth Highway Project in 1961. Some steps toward vehicle weighing were taken
in the 1960's, but the effort was not pursued. More recently, the magnitude
of the rehabilitation requirements has triggered renewed interest for weight
control, and an enforcement program has been included under the proposed
project. MOPT's Planning Office has done preliminary analysis on the number
and location of the weighing stations required to effect the proposed control,
and a three-phase study to develop a comprehensive enforcement program is now
in progress (see Terms of Reference, Annex 1). Specific loan covenants are
proposed to ensure that the study is completed and that it will be used to
develop effective enforcement.
1.10      The Highway Maintenance Program of the project includes introduction
of improved equipment, workshop and store management procedures; purchase of
equipment and spare parts; and technical assistance. The emphasis on equipment
utilization and management of workshops and stores is a development of the work
of a UNIDO 1/ team (financed by UNDP) that has assisted MOPT since 1973 in
equipment maintenance and utilization. The equipment and spare parts purchase
program is based on an assessment of MOPT's equipment fleet carried out by a
Bank consultant as part of the appraisal. The technical assistance component
would be an extension of the ongoing UNIDO program and reflects a joint
assessment, by MOPT and the Bank, of the advisory services required to effect
needed improvement in equipment and store management and in the programming
and execution of maintenance operations. Rather than concentrating on general
analysis of road maintenance procedures, the technical assistance is oriented
to on-the-job training through direct involvement in all critical aspects of
maintenance operations, especially those for paved roads.
1.11      This report has been prepared by Messrs. Renato Schulz (Economist)
and Peter Morris (Engineer) following an appraisal mission, which also in-
cluded Mr. Andrew Mackie (Consultant on equipment maintenance), in September
1976 and a post-appraisal mission by Messrs. Schulz and Morris in February
1977. The report has been edited by Miss Virginia Foster.
1/   United Nations Industrial Development Organization.



- 5 -
2. THE TRANSPORT SYSTEM
A.   General
2.01      It was not until the early 1950's that Colombia's largely regionally
oriented transport system began to evolve into a national system. For a long
time, the Magdalena River was the only workable transport route between the
central region and the Atlantic coast. Since 1961, the Atlantic Railroad,
which was constructed with Bank assistance, has provided an all-weather con-
nection to the north to the port of Santa Marta. Colombia was developing its
trunk highway system at the same time. By the early 1960's, construction and
upgrading of the Western Trunk Road (Cartagena-Medellin-Cali-Pasto), the
Eastern Trunk Road (Santa Marta-Bucaramanga-Bogota-Neiva) and the two main
transverse roads that connect the eastern and western trunk roads in the
central region were substantially complete. The highway system has since been
a catalyst of national integration. Road transport developed rapidly over the
last two decades and now is unquestionably the most important and key means of
moving about the country for both passengers and freight.
2.02      The Colombian economy has become highly dependent on the year-round
availability of roads and their capacity to bring products to its ports and
imports to their inland destinations. This dependency is reflected in the
high share of traffic moved by road. In the early 1950's, roads accounted for
about 43% of total freight movements; in the mid-1960's, that share had risen
to about 53%, and, in 1974, although no adequate statistics exist, the share
was estimated to be close to 70% of all interregional and international
traffic. River transport and coastal shipping, which are largely confined to
the movement of petroleum products, account for about 15% and railways for
another 15% of total traffic.
2.03      Overall total domestic freight traffic has grown in the last decade
at rates close to that of GDP, 6% to 7% p.a. While rail traffic has grown
very slowly, about 2.5% p.a., and inland shipping has grown at about 5%
p.a., road traffic has been growing faster than the average, around 8% p.a.
B.   Highways
2.04      The highway system and its administration are discussed in detail
in Chapter 3.
C.   Railways
2.05      The Pacific (Medellin-Cali-Buenaventura; 651 km) and the Atlantic
(Bogota-Santa Marta; 969 km) rail systems were connected to one another in
1961. Since then, however, erosions along the Cauca and Dagua rivers have
caused interruptions of traffic from Medellin to the south for, at times,
several months. In 1970, a huge landslide caused a rail viaduct to collapse
just south of Medellin, disconnecting the two systems. Despite efforts to
reestablish services, success has been limited, and, in 1976, the Government
decided to abandon attempts to connect the two systems. The general condition



- 6 -
of the track, particularly that of the Pacific system, is poor; this, together
with the difficult geomorphological conditions, has resulted in the need to
give priority to emergency winter repairs over routine track maintenance.
There is a high incidence of derailments and accidents which has lessened the
railways' capacity to provide reliable and timely services in the face of
growing competition from road transport. Important shifts in traffic from
rail to road have thus occurred as the road network was being completed.
Between 1966 and 1973, rail traffic remained relatively constant at around
1.1 million ton-km moved per year; in 1973-1974, there was an increase to
about 1.3 million ton-km, but, in 1975-1976, it decreased again to the 1.1
million ton-km level. Passenger traffic dropped steadily from about 500
million pass-km in 1966 to about 260 million in 1972 because the railway was
unable to compete with the improved road services. Since 1973, passenger
traffic has picked up and is now again around 500 million pass-km, mainly as a
result of the comparatively low rates charged by the railway. The levels of
traffic and tariffs for freight and passengers indicate continuing financial
support from the Government.
2.06      In recent years, the long-term viability of the railway has come
under close scrutiny, partly as a result of the conclusions of the Magdalena
River Basin Transport Study (Netherlands Economic Institute, 1974) and partly
as a consequence of the decline in freight traffic since 1975. Studies are
under way, under the direction of the Sectoral Planning Office of MOPT, to
reassess the role and future prospects of the railway, particularly that of
the Atlantic Railroad (Bogota-Santa Marta and the Medellin branch).
D.   Inland Waterways
2.07      Although the traditional importance of inland shipping has decreased
due to the development of rail and of road transport, it is still of some
significance. Both the Magdalena and the Cauca rivers are navigable, and they
account for almost all inland shipping. The Magdalena river carries over 95%
of the traffic and, although of difficult navigation, is quite dependable in
all seasons down-river of Gamarra (about 470 km from the Barranquilla river-sea
terminal); up-river as far as Salgar (930 km from Barranquilla), navigation is
only seasonal. Bulk goods, especially petroleum products, constitute the main
freight movement, but there is stiff competition for this traffic from other
modes. Total traffic in 1974 was about 3.0 million tons, of which 74% was
petroleum products. Passenger traffic on the river is almost non-existent.
Inland shipping has complemented rail traffic to some extent, particularly
for goods originating from and destined to the port of Cartagena, which is
connected to the Magdalena river by a man-made canal (Canal del Dique).
Transshipments to both rail and road can be effected at Cienaga and a number
of river ports further upstream; yet, the comparative advantage of road
transport vis-a-vis the ccmbined river-rail or river-road movements makes
these combinations viable for just a few products.
E.   Ports
2.08      The principal seaports of Colombia are Cartagena, Barranquilla
and Santa Marta on the Atlantic Coast and Buenaventura on the Pacific coast.



-7 -
Between 1966 and 1972, the traffic in the four main ports increased from 2.1
million tons to 2.6 million tons (about two-thirds for imports and one-third
for exports). With the improvements of the transit storage and cargo-handling
facilities carried out with IDB financing, the four main ports are now able
to handle over 4 million tons of general cargo per year. Consequently, there
should be no overall capacity problem in the foreseeable future. Neverthe-
less, the connections with inland transport have not been adequately analyzed,
and bottlenecks may occur for certain products requiring specialized handling
and storing facilities, e.g., in Cartagena, for the handling of fertilizer.
F.   Civil Aviation
2.09      Colombia's difficult terrain has encouraged the development of air
transport as an important means of domestic travel. There are about 650
landing facilities in the country; seven of these handle international traffic,
and there are at least 25 others with volumes of domestic traffic upward of
1,000 passengers a month. In view of technological improvements in the
aviation field and the inherent difficulties of surface transport, aviation is
most likely to continue to have an increasing role in the country, especially
in the movement of passengers and in the more remote areas of the Colombian
Amazonas.
G.   Investments, Regulation and Coordination
2.10      The effort to complete the basic transport network required a con-
siderable proportion of the country's total investment. Transport represented
between 10% and 15% of domestic investment and about half the Central Govern-
ment's investment in the late 1950's. When the trunk highway system and the
Atlantic Railways were being completed, that proportion rose to more than 60%
of Central Government investment. More recently, however, the proportion has
been declining; in the late 1960's, it was about 35% and, since 1970, it has
been about 25% of total public investment.  In 1975, Col$ 3,200 million were
invested in the transportation sector (around US$107 million); of these, about
60% went to road transport, 18% to rail transport, 11% to aviation, 8% to
ports and marine transportation and 3% to inland waterways and shipping. On
the whole, this distribution reflects the present economic importance of the
different modes of transport (Table 2).
2.11      Road-rail competition, the most important area for transport co-
ordination, has developed largely in an unregulated environment. Several
studies, the last of which was the "Magdalena River Basin Transport Study"
(Netherlands Economic Institute, 1974), have not had a significant impact on
creating a framework for improved transport coordination. Until 1966, when
Decree 3160 attempted to tie in the various entities reponsible for transpor-
tation with MOP, no form of central control was imposed. Before that, respon-
sibility for the administration of the transport system was divided among a
number of agencies and decentralized organizations, the largest being MOP
itself. Decree 3160 made the Minister of Public Works an ex-officio member of
the boards of all these agencies. Yet Ministerial control remained limited,
and the lack of central coordination of the different modes persisted.



- 8 -
2.12      More recently, however, coordination of the modes has been tightened
up considerably. Decree 154 of January 27, 1976 restructured MOP and turned
it into the Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MOPT). The objectives,
functions and structure of many of the Departments, Divisions and Offices
within MOPT and some of the decentralized institutions were redefined.
Article 12 of the Decree refers specifically to the planning and coordinating
functions of the restructured Planning Office in MOPT and assigns to it all
of the functions necessary to effect intermodal planning and coordination for
the transport sector as a whole. Moreover, expanded Ministerial powers now
include approval of the budget and investment programs for all modes except
aviation.
2.13      Experience with the new MOPT organization has been short, and no as-
sessment of its effectiveness can be made yet; however, there is now a reason-
able expectation that improvements in intermodal planning will come about in the
future. Since June 1976, the Government of the Netherlands has been providing
technical help to MOPT's Planning Office in defining its activities, in on-the-
job staff training and in initiating the preparation of a National Transport
Plan. This should provide the basic setup for proper planning. The ongoing
technical assistance program is expected to be completed in 1978. The project
would contain provision for further assistance for specific transport studies
to be identified as the technical assistance progresses (para. 4.18).
2.14      Now that the role of the Planning Office of MOPT has been expanded,
it is expected that this Office will become the main coordinating agency for
the whole transport sector. For the time being, however, it still has highway
planning responsibilities. The Bank has, on several occasions, called atten-
tion to the need to separate sector planning from highway planning, shifting
the responsibility for highway planning to another division within MOPT. This
suggestion has been accepted by the Government, and MOPT has agreed to set up
an advisory unit attached to the Vice-Minister's Office for highway planning.
During negotiations, the Government confirmed that MOPT would establish this
separate unit by December 1, 1977.
3. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.   The Network
(i) General
3.01      Colombia has a road network totalling about 51,000 km (Table 3):
21,000 km form the national highway system under the jurisdiction of MOPT; a
further 27,500 km are under the responsibility of the Departments; and the
balance are municipal, community and private roads (e.g., to oil concessions).
About one-third (7,000 km) of the national system is paved, against about 3%
(780 km) of the departmental roads; the remainder are gravel or unsurfaced
roads. Over the past five years, the national road network has expanded
about 1,000 km. In this period, 2,000 km of national roads were paved, about
half of them under the Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects. The departmental



- 9 -
system includes about 6,000 km of low standard feeder roads built under a
program financed by the National Feeder Roads Fund, which is under the author-
ity of the Minister of Public Works and Transport.
3.02      The national highway system comprises the primary road network
which connects the main economic centers among themselves and with the ports,
and secondary roads linking smaller towns to the primary network. The two
major transport corridors run north-south along the Cauca and Magdalena
valleys and are connected by two paved roads in the central region, one
via Ibague-Armenia and the other via Honda-Manizales (Map IBRD 12553). The
national network is adequate in coverage, although its general condition
is poor and deteriorating. At least half of the paved roads need asphalt
overlays or strengthening to preserve the pavement structure. The rehabili-
tation program proposed in this project would restore the most highly traf-
ficked trunk roads. In the next few years, the areas of priority concerning
the paved road network would be (a) improved maintenance; (b) strengthening,
rehabilitation and upgrading of selected sections; and (c) limited expansion
as needed to support the development of new regions.
(ii) Departmental and Feeder Roads
3.03      Other than MOPT, there are two major organizations in charge of con-
struction and maintenance of secondary and rural roads: the Secretariats
of Public Works of the Departmental Governments and the National Feeder
Roads Fund (Caminos Vecinales). The National Feeder Roads Fund is dedicated
exclusively to the construction of feeder roads. It was created in 1960 and,
to date, has been instrumental in the construction of about 6,000 km of low
standard roads. Most feeder roads constructed by the Fund are transferred,
once completed, to the Departmental Secretariats for maintenance; therefore,
these roads are mostly accounted for as departmental roads (Table 3).
3.04      The Feeder Roads Fund is autonomous.  It is managed by a Board
presided over by the Minister of Public Works and Transport and in which the
Minister of Agriculture is also represented. It is operated by a Director
General through two departments--Administration and Engineering--with a staff
of about 300 distributed between headquarters in Bogota and 25 field units,
one in each department. Three programs are currently being carried out by the
Fund: (a) the Ordinary Program, under which feeder roads are built either by
contract or by force account financed with allocations from the Highway Fund
(para 3.11); (b) the "Pick and Shovel Program," under which roads are built
with labor-intensive methods, in areas of high unemployment, with a minimal
budget; and (c) the IDB Program, which includes construction of 46 roads.
Under this last program, the Fund has been required to extend its activities
to maintenance of feeder roads, an area which has been completely neglected.
The Feeder Roads Fund is Executing Agency for the road components of some
Bank-financed rural development projects; experience with it has been satis-
factory. It is expected that this working relationship would lead to the
identification of further programs for improvement and, possibly, maintenance
of feeder roads.



- 10 -
B.   Road Transport and Traffic
3.05      There are about 500,000 motor vehicles in Colombia, of which roughly
three-quarters are passenger vehicles, mainly automobiles, and the rest are
freight trucks. The fleet has grown at a rate of about 9% p.a. over the five
years 1970-1975. The increase in the number of automobiles has been slower
than that for trucks, 7% p.a. versus about 12% p.a. (Table 4). There are
no reliable statistics on the composition of the fleet, but a survey carried
out in 1973 by the Transport Finance Corporation, a Government agency, showed
that 60% of the trucks in the fleet have payload capacities of less than
7 tons, 30% have between 7 and 10 tons and only 10% have capacities of over 10
tons. The ongoing study on the implementation of a Weight Control Program
would review the steps necessary to effect changes, if any, to this composition.
The fact that almost 90% of the trucks have single rear-axle accounts largely
for the gravity of overloading, since these trucks are the most likely to be
overloaded. The Weight Control Program is a key element to improving highway
maintenance policies which would be introduced under the project (para. 4.08).
3.06      Colombia has had vehicle weight control regulations since 1955
(Decree 102 of January 9, 1955); these regulations allow for a maximum loading
per single axle of 8.2 tons, increasing to 14.5 tons for tandem axles and up
to 27.2 tons for multiple axle groups. Decree 1051 of February, 1971 updated
such regulations by allowing for a wider variety of axle combinations, which
resulted in the upper limit for multiple axle groups being raised to 31.4
tons. These limits contrast with those used in most other Andean countries
where considerably higher loads per axle have been accepted; in Bolivia,
Ecuador and Peru, 11.0 tons per single axle and 14.5, 19 and 18 tons respec-
tively per tandem axle are accepted. In Chile, 12 and 20 tons for single and
tandem axles are allowed, and, in Venezuela, 13 and 20 tons respectively are
permitted. Colombia, being a signatory to Decision 94 of the Cartagena Accord
(1970), which specifies maximum admissible loads of 11 and 16 tons for single
and tandem axles, will need to review its axle load regulation. This aspect
is covered in the Terms of Reference of the study currently being carried out
by MOPT (para. 4.08).
3.07      Traffic growth on the main trunk network of the country has averaged
8% p.a. over the past years (Table 5). Traffic volumes on most paved roads
are in the 1,000 to 2,000 vehicles-per-day range, except around the major
urban centers of Bogota, Cali and Medellin, where about 4,000 to 6,000 vehicles
per day are counted. The average composition of the traffic flow is about 30%
to 40% automobiles, 10% to 20% buses and 40% to 60% trucks. Truck traffic on
the roads in the Rehabilitation Program is generally above 45% and often in
the 50%-60% range (Table 15).
C.   Highway Administration
3.08      MOPT, through the Directorates of Construction and Operations
(Chart 1), is responsible for constructing and maintaining the national
highway network. The Vice-Minister, for all practical purposes, manages the
highway subsector under delegated authority of the Minister. The Directorate



- 11 -
of Construction is divided into five divisions: Studies and Designs, Construc-
tion Materials, Contracts, Contract Supervision and Special Highway Programs.
The Directorate of Operations is made up of the districts and two central
divisions, one for Road Maintenance and the other for Equipment and Workshops.
These divisions coordinate with the 19 districts (due to increase to 26 later
in 1977) located throughout the country. Each district is headed by an
engineer who is responsible for the maintenance of the highways (250 to 2,250
km of road per district). The districts also maintain the plant and equipment
assigned to them under the guidance of the Equipment and Workshop Division at
Headquarters.
3.09      The two directorates are reasonably well staffed, and their senior
personnel are experienced and capable. The Construction Directorate has about
125 civil engineers and 50 technicians, and the Operations Directorate about
130 civil engineers, 40 mechanical engineers, 160 technicians, and 540 mechanics.
In the early 1970's, after the recommendations of the Comec/Harris report were
implemented (para. 1.04), the districts were generally well staffed. However,
over the years, as wages and salaries increased, a freeze was imposed on hiring
new staff. Because of the drift into seniority, there is now a relative im-
balance between field labor and supervisory and managerial staff. The Ministry
is aware of this imbalance, and the districts have been circumventing the
shortage of field hands by contracting out many routine maintenance operations.
Corrective measures would be developed under the project (para. 3.23).
D.   Highway Planning
3.10      Strategic planning for highways, as opposed to operational program-
ming which is carried out by the Directorate of Construction, has tradition-
ally been the responsibility of the Planning Office of MOPT. However, the
overall effectiveness of the Planning Office has been limited, and, too often
in the past, overly ambitious programs have been undertaken without relation
to expected levels of resources or consideration of the capability and capac-
ity of the country's construction industry. The Planning Office of MOPT has
recently been restructured, as described in paragraph 2.12, and highway plan-
ning will be taken over by a separate unit operating in an advisory capacity
to the Vice-Minister (para. 2.14). The main tasks of the new Highway Planning
Unit would be to:
-    coordinate, assemble and maintain statistical information
concerning traffic;
-    initiate and maintain an inventory and a condition survey of
the national highways;
-    advise on the preparation and implementation of the highway
subsector projects and programs in the National Transport
Plan (para. 2.13);
-    determine, in coordination with the Directorates of Construction and
Operations, and on the basis of a consistent set of criteria,
the requirements for highway resealing, upgrading, strengthening
and rehabilitation;



- 12 -
-    develop specific programs for the above works, taking
into account expected level of resources; and
-    initiate and supervise preinvestment studies for highway
development or conservation programs.
The above terms of reference as well as the staffing requirements and the
specific measures for the establishment of the proposed unit have been pre-
pared by MOPT and were discussed and agreed upon during negotiations.
E.   Highway Financing and Road User Charges
3.11      The National Highway Fund (Fondo Vial) was set up in 1966 for the
purpose of channeling all resources devoted to the highway subsector. The
Fund, which has no staff of its own, is administered by the Minister of Public
Works and Transport. In constant terms (Table 6), the Fund's revenues reached
a peak in 1971 and have since fallen back to pre-1970 levels. Over the past
few years, the gasoline tax (Table 7) has accounted for over 80% of the Fund's
revenues (85% in 1976). Gasoline taxation, during the period from 1970 to
1976, averaged about US$45 million in constant 1967 monetary terms. The Fund's
other revenues include foreign financial assistance from IBRD and IDB, and
some own resources as well as direct Government contributions, which are being
phased out since increases in gasoline prices (and taxation) began in 1975.
Over the period from 1970 to 1976, an average of 88% of the Fund's expenditures
was for the national highway network, 8% was devoted on average to the National
Feeder Roads Fund (to which a legal maximum of 10% of the Highway Fund's reve-
nues can be devoted) and the remainder was spent on maintaining waterways. Of
highway expenditures, about 30% is used for maintenance, 50% for construction
and 20% for other current expenses. In constant monetary terms (Table 8),
expenditures for maintenance decreased relatively less from 1970 to 1976 than
did expenditures for construction. MOPT's projection of the Fund's future
revenues and expenditures (Table 9) assumes a gradual increase in total reve-
nues of about 10% per year. This is based on planned contributions from IBRD
and IDB programs, a 33% increase in the price of gasoline (about Col$ 3 per
gallon on current prices of Col$ 10 per gallon) before the end of 1978, a
further 6% (about Col$ 0.75) increase in 1980, and a 6% increase in gasoline
consumption. These assumptions are reasonable vis-a-vis past experience
and recent developments in the evolution of gasoline pricing (para. 3.12)
and would yield conservative estimates of future levels of revenues for the
Fund as further increases in gasoline prices beyond the above assumptions are
expected (para. 3.12).
3.12      Since August 1975, the Government has been following a policy of
gradually increasing the price of gasoline. The price structure for regular,
low octane, gasoline is in Table 10. It reflects net taxation accruing to
the National Highway Fund as well as other taxes and distribution margins.
Increases took place monthly from August 1975 to August 1976, and a further
increase was decreed in January 1977, after which prices reached a level of
Col$ 13.50, Col$ 10.00 and Col$ 5.50 per gallon for high octane gasoline,
regular gasoline, and diesel fuel respectively, equivalent to US$0.37, US$0.28
and US$0.15 per gallon. Further increases are expected to be implemented in
the future until prices reach international comparable levels. These have



- 13 -
been partially (but not fully, given the uncertainties on the exact timing
of future increases) taken into account in MOPT's projections of the Fund's
future revenues (para. 3.11). The Fund's revenues in the next five years are
expected to sustain adequately the increased level of maintenance expenditures
proposed under the project, but may not be sufficient to cover all programmed
highway expenditures, i.e., including construction. Therefore, additional
funds may have to be contributed by the Government from general revenues
should gasoline prices and taxation not increase within the time frame of the
projections indicated in paragraph 3.11 (Table 9). The Government confirmed,
during negotiations, its intention to supplement the Fund's revenues as
necessary, through the project period 1978-1981, to achieve the agreed level
of maintenance expenditures (para. 3.23) and to finance its share of the
project costs.
F.   Highway Engineering
3.13      MOPT's Directorate of Construction is responsible for the technical
preparation of highway projects. MOPT itself has a limited in-house design
capacity and often uses consultants for this purpose. Geometric design stand-
ards for new highways were introduced in 1967 and are generally satisfactory.
These standards are often relaxed, however, because of the difficult terrain
and/or particular conditions such as paving or strengthening of existing
roads. Design standard changes for the Paving Program under the Sixth Highway
Project (Loan 680-CO) usually fell into this last category. Only limited
improvement to geometric design would be provided in the Rehabilitation
Program. The overall evaluation of past Bank projects, conducted in 1971,
stressed the need to adapt the design of highway projects to the specific
circumstances at hand. The selection of design standards under the Sixth
Highway Project and the determination of the scope of the rehabilitation works
under the proposed project are in line with this recommendation.
3.14      In 1975, a new Special Highway Programs Division was formed to coor-
dinate studies and construction projects financed by international lending
agencies. The division coordinates the work of MOPT's specialized divisions
and is responsible for the preparation of specifications and contract documents
for such projects; it also prepares progress reports for the agencies. The
division has positions for 15 engineers (four vacant) and one economist
(vacant) and presently coordinates about 60 projects. The number of positions
has been recently increased to provide stronger coordination for the Rehab-
ilitation Program (para. 4.07).
3.15      The civil engineering consulting profession is now well established
in Colombia, and over 200 firms are registered with MOPT. In the past, pre-
qualification of consultants for design and supervision works was lax, which
allowed the awarding of contracts to inadequately qualified firms, leading to
poor performance. This was especially the case for the supervision of the
Paving Program (Loan 680-CO) and the initial design work for the Rehabilita-
tion Program. The procedures for selecting consultants were modified in 1976
and are now satisfactory.
G.   Highway Construction
3.16      Modern methods of highway construction were first introduced to
Colombia in the early 1950's, when experienced foreign contractors were
employed on the First Highway Project. There are now about 25 local firms,



- 14 -
each capable of handling an annual turnover of over US$1.0 million worth of
asphalt road construction. Ten of these firms have the capacity to handle
contracts of at least US$2.0 million annual turnover. Few foreign civil con-
tractors are presently working in Colombia, and, except for the Barranquilla
bridge, all civil work contracts under the Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects
were awarded to local firms.
3.17      Several construction contracts under the Fifth and Sixth Highway
Projects suffered setbacks and cost overruns for a variety of reasons, includ-
ing lack of qualification or insufficient financial capacity of contractors.
This prompted MOPT to initiate studies to review contract documents and
procedures for prequalifying contractors.   In 1975, the Bank contracted a
consultant to review the status of the road construction industry. His report
and recommendations were of assistance to MOPT, and, in 1976, MOPT introduced
more rigid procedures. A permanent register of firms, showing their technical
and financial capacity, is now maintained and updated annually. Each firm's
capability to undertake a particular contract is reviewed after presentation
of bids on each competition. Decree No. 150, passed in February 1976, also
improved the basic contractural conditions. Colombia now has a strict and
equitable basis for contracting road works.
H.   Highway Maintenance
3.18      Current MOPT budgetary practices separate road maintenance into two
categories: routine and special maintenance. The latter covers periodic
maintenance which should be planned and programmed systematically on a revolv-
ing basis, and betterment and reconstruction works which, although requiring
systematic planning, are capital expenditures which should be undertaken on an
ad hoc basis after economic studies and detailed engineering. To effect an
improved maintenance policy, periodic maintenance activities should be iden-
tified and budgeted separately. Specific recommendations on the improvement
in programming and budgeting procedures would be established through the
Highway Maintenance Program (para. 4.17). During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that, from the year 1978 onward, routine periodic and emergency
maintenance activities would be identified and budgeted separately from other
non-maintenance activities.
3.19      Periodic maintenance of paved roads (asphaltic seal coats and over-
lays) is not planned systematically; such work is usually carried out after
pavement surfaces have deteriorated to such an extent that rehabilitation or
considerable strengthening should be executed. Table 11 shows the history of
construction and periodic maintenance of roads included in the rehabilitation
program; only about 40% of the roads have ever received an asphalt seal coat
or overlay although 75% of them were paved in the 1950's. Nearly all reseals
were carried out after 1968, but, due to the pavements already being in weak
condition, many lasted only a short time. In the past five years, about 1,000
km of roads were paved under the Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects; a program
of seal coats and overlays is therefore now required for these roads if
problems similar to those being encountered today are to be avoided. During
negotiations, the Government confirmed that, starting in 1978, MOPT would plan
and implement a program of periodic maintenance on a continuing basis, to
include, over the project period (1978-1981), an average of at least 400 km
annually.



- 15 -
3.20      MOPT has not replaced its equipment fleet systematically.  Purchases
have been sporadic and on a stop-go basis. The last significant purchase of
equipment was in 1971/72, financed with US and UK credits worth about US$21
million equivalent. MOPT presently has about 4,200 units 1/ in its fleet,
which would seem excessive for the needs of the network, were these units in
good condition. The average age of the fleet is over 10 years, and its
general condition is critical; about 25% of the units are obsolete and cannot
be economically repaired, and a further 35% are out of order or in need of a
major overhaul. The proposed project is designed to help MOPT in renewing the
fleet over a four-year period 1978-1981. MOPT would need to continue system-
atic renewal on an annual basis. Assurance to this effect was obtained during
negotiations. Specific minimum requirements for the project period are
estimated in paragraph 3.23.
3.21      The districts suffer a permanent lack of funds for spare parts, and
make do by buying spare parts on credit from local suppliers. These debts are
usually cancelled with the following year's budget, which is again invariably
insufficient for current needs, let alone paying past debts. This precarious
existence severely hinders programming of road maintenance activities and
permits only urgent works to be carried out. The project would provide spare
parts to initiate improved equipment maintenance procedures and to carry out
necessary repairs. During negotiations, assurance was obtained that the
Government would fund and carry out purchase of spare parts on an annual basis
to maintain the fleet at an adequate level of availability. Specific minimum
requirements for the project period are estimated in paragraph 3.23. In order
to restore effective purchasing practices, the Government will cancel or
refinance the existing backlog of unpaid suppliers' bills by March 31, 1978.
3.22      In the 1960's, two studies were carried out, both of which recom-
mended implementing improvements in the organization of MOPT's maintenance
function. Workshop facilities and staffing were strengthened, and a pilot
program was established in one of the districts. However, little attention
has been paid to the management of the equipment fleet. From 1973 to 1976,
UNIDO had a group of experts assisting MOPT's equipment and workshop division
in the programming of equipment maintenance. UNIDO recommended the reorganiza-
tion of the purchasing, warehousing and distribution of spare parts and the
installation of a preventive maintenance system for the fleet. The system,
which would be established under the project, would require the stocking of
fast-moving spare parts in the districts, with automatic reordering at pre-
determined levels. Preventive maintenance, together with an equipment
replacement program, should help improve equipment availability considerably
(presently estimated at only 40-50%) and, consequently, allow for a reduction
in the number of units needed to maintain the highway network adequately.
I.   Future Level of Highway Maintenance Expenditures
3.23      The lack of funds for purposes other than personnel and administra-
tive expenditures is the single most important cause of the ineffectiveness of
1/   Excluding jeeps and workshop equipment.



- 16 -
the present road maintenance organization. Success of the corrective measures
proposed under the project relies largely on increases in the resources devoted
to maintenance. In view of the importance of this matter, the Bank requested
the Government to confirm that sufficient funds would be made available for
routine, periodic and emergency maintenance of the national network. Minimum
requirements for the four years of project execution, 1978 to 1981, are esti-
mated as follows:
1977 /1    1978       1979         1980        1981
-(US$ million equivalent, Dec. 1976 values)-
Personnel and
administration       30.00     30.00      30.00        30.00       30.00
Equipment-total         5.00 /2  15.00      15.00        10.00        10.00
- Bank financed                 (9.00)    (9.00)
Spare Parts-total       2.50       6.20      5.00         5.00         5.00
- Bank financed                 (3.60)
Materials /3            3.50      10.00     10.00        10.00        10.00
SUBTOTAL               41.00     61.20      60.00        55.00        55.00
- Bank financed               (12.60)    (9.00)
Contracted
Overlays /4           0.00      4.40       8.00        12.00       12.00
GRAND TOTAL            41.00      65.60     68.00        67.00        67.00
- Bank financed                (12.60)    (9.00)
/1   Year-end estimates.
/2   Imputed annualized expenditure.
/3   Including contracted field labor.
/4   Estimated overlay of an average over the period 1978-1981 of about
400 km per year (para. 3.19).
The above schedule of minimum requirements was reviewed and confirmed during
negotiations. The Government also confirmed that: (a) during the project
period, MOPT expenditures for personnel and related overhead would not exceed
50% of the aggregate total of expenditures net of Bank contributions; (b) annual
reviews of the adequacy of the above figures would take place in consultation
with the Bank, and funds, as necessary, would be allocated for the fiscal year
subsequent to the review, for the purposes of funding routine, periodic and
emergency maintenance as shown in the schedule; and (c) MOPT would exchange
views with the Bank before June 30, 1978 on measures to adjust the composition
of the personnel attached to the districts in relation to their needs (para.
3.09).



- 17 -
4.   THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives
4.01      In line with the Government's policy to protect past highway invest-
ments in the national highway network, the proposed project would:
(a)  rehabilitate parts of the main trunk highways;
(b)  eliminate the damaging effects of overloading vehicles;
(c)  improve the condition and availability of the highway
maintenance fleet;
(d)  improve efficiency of road maintenance operations; and
(e)  improve intermodal transport planning.
B.   General Description
4.02      The project consists of:
I.   Road Rehabilitation Program
Rehabilitation of about 978 km of trunk asphalt paved roads compris-
ing improvement of terrain stability and drainage, strengthening
and widening of the roadway, where necessary, and overlaying the
existing pavement. To this end, the project would provide:
(a) civil works to be carried out by contractors;
(b) supervision of the civil works by consultants; and
(c) coordination of the Rehabilitation Program by an individual
expert working in MOPT's Special Highway Programs Division. 1/
II.   Vehicle Weight Control Program
Installation of about 20 weighing stations on main trunk roads for
enforcement of vehicle weight regulations. To this end, the project
would provide:
(a) complementary studies to define the program and the
preparation of detailed engineering;
(b) weighing equipment and training in its use;
(c) civil works and the installation of the weighing equipment to
be carried out by contractors; and
1/   This expert would also coordinate a countrywide study to produce an
inventory of road materials (para. 4.19).



- 18 -
(d) supervision of the civil works and equipment installation by
consultants.
III.   Highway Maintenance Program
Introduction of improved methods for the maintenance and utilization
of MOPT's highway maintenance fleet. To this end, the project would
provide:
(a) about 800 units of equipment for highway maintenance;
(b) spare parts for repair of about 1,230 units of equipment which
are under 15 years of age;
(c) spare parts to initiate a preventive maintenance program for
about 1,060 units of equipment purchased after 1970;
(d) expansion of existing workshop and store facilities; and
(e) technical assistance, including training for:
-    the supply, distribution and warehousing of spare parts,
-    programming of preventive and corrective maintenance of
equipment,
-    improving programming, costing and execution of all road
maintenance activities performed by the districts.
IV.   Transport Sector Management
Assistance to MOPT's Sector Planning Office for carrying out studies
to be determined on the basis of the recommendations of the ongoing
bilateral technical assistance provided by the Government of the
Netherlands. Also, the Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Economico
(FONADE) is expected to help finance a countrywide study to produce
an inventory of locally available road construction materials.
V.   Logistic Support for Project Execution
(a) vehicles to support the execution of the Rehabilitation
and Maintenance Programs;
(b) road marking equipment for MOPT; and
(c) laboratory and drilling equipment for MOPT.
C.   Road Rehabilitation Program
(i) General
4.03      As indicated in paragraph 1.08, the Rehabilitation Program developed
out of a survey carried out in 1973 by INGEROUTE (France). The Program was



- 19 -
eventually trimmed to 978 km of paved trunk roads, including the most heavily
trafficked roads in the country. About 75% of the roads included under the Pro-
gram were paved in the 1950's (some under Bank-financed projects); they are now
failing because of obsolescence, pavement fatigue accelerated by overloading of
trucks, and inadequate maintenance. The selection of roads and the construc-
tion schedule (Table 12) take into consideration economic priorities and a
concern for achieving a balanced distribution of project expenditures among
the country's regions, in line with stated Government policy. The construction
schedule also takes into account the capacity of the local construction indus-
try and is designed to allow a firm's participation in more than one batch of
contracts (para. 4.29). The Program is also large enough to attract foreign
firms, five of which have already been prequalified. A summary description of
each road section and an outline of the scope of the proposed works is given
in Annex 2. The anticipated 1978 traffic volumes and the estimates of economic
costs for the various sections are shown in Table 15, and financial costs are
shown in Table 12.
4.04      Bridges were generally not considered under the Rehabilitation
Program. However, along four road sections, some of the bridges are inadequate
for present-day traffic and need repair or reconstruction. The scope of these
works is not defined with sufficient detail to include them in the project;
however, during negotiations, agreement was reached on the need to rehabilitate
these bridges concurrently with the rehabilitation of the roads.
(ii) Civil Works
4.05      Civil works would be carried out in 33 road lots over a four and
one-half year period starting mid-1977. In addition to strengthening and
paving, the works include installation of proper drainage to stabilize the
terrain and protect the pavement; widening the pavement, where necessary, to
7.0 or 7.2 meters, but not necessarily widening the shoulders since this would
often produce unjustifiably high costs; and provision of complementary works
such as retaining walls, erosion control, and signs to protect the roadway
and improve the safety and continuity of traffic. On nine lots (including
those marked A on Table 12), urgent stabilization and drainage works are being
carried out under separate contracts in advance of pavement rehabilitation
proper (para. 4.28).
(iii)  Supervision of Construction
4.06      Under Colombian law, supervision of civil works may not be carried
out by the project's designer. For supervision purposes, therefore, the 33
construction lots have been divided into six geographical groups, and MOPT
will invite proposals from 35 registered and prequalified consultants.
4.07      Overall supervision of the contracts would be carried out by the
Supervision Division of the Construction Directorate, but coordination of the
Program would be the responsibility of the Special Highway Programs Division
within the same directorate. This Division would require strengthening to
provide the necessary control for the project's execution. Six experienced
engineers, one for each supervision group, would be hired or recruited within
the Ministry for this purpose. In addition, the services of a senior Engineer



- 20 -
(Coordinator) would be provided under the project to advise the Division on
technical issues and to help coordinate the activities of consultants super-
vising the Rehabilitation Program and carrying out a study on road materials
(para. 4.19). Outline terms of reference for the Coordinator are given in
Annex 3. His professional qualifications and conditions of employment should
be acceptable to the Bank. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the
staffing (qualification and timetable for recruitment) of MOPT's Special
Highway Programs Division for the coordination of the Rehabilitation Program.
Recruitment of the Coordinator and at least four of the coordinating staff
would be a condition of disbursement for civil works and the construction
supervision.
D.   Vehicle Weight Control Program
(i) General
4.08      For some time now, the Ministry has been aware of the extent of the
damage that overloaded vehicles have inflicted on the highways of the country.
A preliminary selection of suitable locations for weighing stations was carried
out by MOPT's Sector Planning Office, and a three-phase study to develop a
detailed enforcement program was begun in February 1977 by Tecnoconsulta
(Colombia) under the supervision of MOPT's Sector Planning Office. Terms of
Reference for the study (Annex 1) were reviewed by the Bank and found satis-
factory but in need of several additions which were discussed and agreed
during negotiations. Phase I, which should be completed by May 1977, would
assess the adequacy of existing regulations on weights and dimensions of heavy
vehicles and relevant regulations in neighboring countries (para. 3.06). On
the basis of the consultants' recommendations, agreement would be reached with
the Bank on the legal and administrative measures needed to carry out and
enforce the program, and the scope and focus of the subsequent phases of the
study. Phase II would determine the most suitable system of weight control
and enforcement and define the equipment most suited to the system, taking
worldwide experience into consideration; Phase II would also review the compo-
sition of the truck fleet and related import regulations as well as ways of
developing the support of the trucking industry. Phase III would consist of
the preparation of engineering designs and bid documents for procurement of
the civil works and weighing equipment. Financial assistance for Phases II
and III of the study would be provided under the project. This would include
visits of Colombian consultants and MOPT staff to countries with experience in
latest techniques in vehicle weighing. Phase II of the study is expected to
be completed by the end of 1977 and Phase III in mid-1978.
4.09      The study would provide the basis for defining a plan of action for
coordinated Government actions concerning the regulatory and legal framework,
institutional arrangements and development of public awareness. During nego-
tiations, the Government undertook to develop such a plan in consultation with
the Bank no later than February 28, 1978. Before disbursing for construction
of the weighing stations, the Government would have to show, to the Bank's
satisfaction, that (a) adequate legal provisions have been enacted to put into
effect the enforcement program; (b) the institution chosen to carry out the
weighing programs has been properly staffed, equipped and funded; (c) the
general public has been apprised of the aims, objectives and nature of the



- 21 -
enforcement program; and (d) the trucking industry has been associated with
the development of the program. Furthermore, during negotiations, it was
agreed that funds in this particular category of the loan would not be trans-
ferred to any other category and, if not disbursed, would be cancelled.
(ii) Weighing Equipment Installation and Civil Works
4.10      The most suitable type of weighing equipment would be determined
by the study. The suppliers would be required to install and maintain the
equipment for a satisfactory period and would provide manuals and on-the-job
training for its operation and maintenance. It is envisaged that the civil
works would include housing for the equipment, buildings and a parking area
for overloaded vehicles. Supervision would be carried out by two or three
Colombian consulting firms selected according to procedures in Decree 150 of
1976.
E.   Highway Maintenance Program
(i)  General
4.11      The objectives of the Highway Maintenance Program are:
(a) to improve the availability of the road maintenance fleet
from the present low level of 40 to 50% to about 70% over
the four-year period 1978-1981; and
(b) to assist the districts in making better use of their
resources for road maintenance operations, including
the equipment.
Increased equipment availability would allow a reduction in the size of the
fleet from the present 4,200 units to about 3,740 units, which is estimated to
be the need of MOPT. 1/
(ii) Equipment Replacement
4.12      The Equipment Replacement Program to be carried out between 1978 and
1981, together with its annual financial requirements, is shown in Table 13.
This program is aimed not only at reducing the average age of the fleet but
also at adjusting its composition to the districts' needs. Equipment replace-
ment should be accompanied by orderly scrapping of units which would no longer
be economical to maintain. Total financial requirements are US$50 million in
1976 prices, of which US$18 million would be financed by the Bank and the
remaining US$32 million by the Government. Highest priority equipment suit-
able for international procurement has been included in the project (see list
in Table 13). During negotiations, the Government confirmed that, over the
four years 1978-1981, it would provide MOPT with sufficient funds in accordance
with the schedule in paragraph 3.23 to complete the Equipment Replacement
Program. The Government also confirmed that MOPT would complete the ongoing
scrapping program by December 31, 1978 and continue thereafter to dispose
systematically of aged equipment.
1/   Excludes jeeps and workshop equipment.



- 22 -
(iii) Spare Parts for Repair of about 1,230 Units of Equipment
4.13      The project provides for the purchase of spare parts for the over-
haul of about 1,230 economically repairable units. A preliminary list of
equipment to be repaired has been drawn up by MOPT. This list would be
reviewed when the detailed spare parts requirements are known, the age and
utilization of each unit checked, and the extent of the repair work assessed.
No equipment older than 15 years (except plant) would be included in the
program. During negotiations, agreement was reached on procedures for assess-
ing the equipment to be included in the repair program.
(iv) Spare Parts to Initiate a Preventive Maintenance Program for
About 1,060 Units of Equipment
4.14      Under the project, a Preventive Maintenance Program would be in-
corporated in all districts. UNIDO experts have prepared preventive mainte-
nance schedules for all equipment and have demonstrated their function to the
districts. To fulfill the objectives of a Preventive Maintenance Program, the
districts need to retain a stock of fast-moving spare parts. The project
would help MOPT in setting up the initial stock of spares for the 1,060 units,
identified by UNIDO, which have been purchased since 1970. Reorganization of
MOPT's stores and supply procedures began under UNIDO supervision in six
districts and is being continued throughout the country. The reorganization
of procedures would have to be completed before initiating the Preventive
Maintenance Program. During negotiations, agreement was reached on (a) the
details of the Preventive Maintenance Program and (b) the reorganization of
MOPT's purchasing, warehousing and distribution procedures. Funds allocated
for purchasing spare parts for preventive maintenance would not be disbursed
until such reorganization has been completed.
(v) Extensions to Workshops and Stores
4.15      The project would provide for extensions to existing stores and work-
shop facilities, including installation of necessary equipment, to facilitate
the execution of the Preventive Maintenance Program. During negotiations, the
scope and timetable of such extensions were discussed and agreed.
(vi) Technical Assistance
4.16      The technical assistance would mainly be on-the-job training for
engineers, mechanics, storemen and field personnel, with special emphasis being
given to day-to-day activities in the districts. Twelve engineers and techni-
cians would be provided by consultants over two to three years (total of 280
man-months, Chart 2). Their Terms of Reference, outlined in Annex 3, were
reviewed and agreed during negotiations. The Government confirmed that the
consultants selected for this program, as well as their terms and conditions
of employment, would be acceptable to the Bank. The ongoing UNIDO/UNDP
program would continue to provide one equipment utilization expert to MOPT
until 1978. The activities of the expert would be adequately coordinated with
the technical assistance under the project.



- 23 -
4.17      MOPT's Directorates of Commerce and Finance, and of Operations would
be required to assign full time counterparts to the technical assistance team.
These counterparts will be experienced in their respective fields and will
form a permanent training group in MOPT. During negotiations, agreement was
reached regarding the composition and qualifications of MOPT's counterpart
staff for the Highway Maintenance Program. The appointment of consultants for
technical assistance and MOPT's compliance with the agreed counterpart staff-
ing for the Highway Maintenance Program is a condition for disbursement for
equipment, spare parts and workshop and store extensions under the Maintenance
Program.
F.   Transport Sector Management
4.18      The recently created Sector Planning Office is receiving technical
assistance from the Netherlands Economic Institute to help it set up a proper
organization for itself and initiate studies leading to the preparation of a
National Transport Plan for the country. Many of the basic activities required
for these purposes are well under way, a regionalization of the country has
been prepared, products for flow analysis have been grouped into categories,
initial modal studies have been started and an intensive staff training
program has been carried out over the last year. Yet, in order to accomplish
the final goal of designing a National Transport Plan, specialized technical
studies may be needed. The project would help finance such studies. Specific
requirements would be agreed with MOPT as they arise (para. 2.13).
4.19      MOPT needs a comprehensive inventory of locally available road con-
struction materials and has requested FONADE to help finance a countrywide
study to produce such an inventory. This study would not only fill the gap in
the knowledge of available materials and their uses, but should also permit
substantial economies of time and cost for future engineering designs and
eliminate the utilization of unsuitable materials for road maintenance. The
study is expected to last two years and cost about US$1.0 million. Outline
Terms of Reference are given in Annex 4. The Government confirmed, during
negotiations, its intention to initiate the proposed study by October 30,
1977.
G.   Logistic Support for Project Execution
4.20      MOPT and local consultants lack mobile laboratories for testing road
construction, especially asphalt works. To overcome this shortcoming, six
equipped mobile laboratories would be purchased by MOPT under the project
for use by consultants supervising the Rehabilitation Program. Two sets of
drilling equipment would also be provided to augment MOPT's aging stock and
would be utilized initially for the FONADE-financed material resources study.
Few paved roads have traffic control lines in Colombia, due primarily to the
lack of adequate painting equipment. Two sets of truck-mounted road marking
equipment would be purchased for use by MOPT. The equipment would also be
hired out to contractors working on the Rehabilitation Program. The project
would provide liaison vehicles for MOPT staff and consultants directly involved
in its implementation.



- 24 -
H.   Cost Estimates and Financing
4.21      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$153.75 million equiv-
alent, of which US$90.0 million (about 58%), representing the estimated foreign
exchange component, would be financed by the Bank. The remaining project cost
as well as necessary increases in MOPT's budget over the project period
1978-1981 (estimated at US$246.0 million) would be financed by the Government
(para. 3.23). The latter include expenditures for spare parts and periodic
maintenance, which, although essential for the success of the project, have
not been considered as project expenditures because of their recurrent nature.
The amount also includes capital expenditures of US$32.0 million for replace-
ment of equipment, most of which would be procured bilaterally by the Govern-
ment. Details of costs for the road rehabilitiation program (70% of the
project) are given in Table 12. A summary of project costs is given on the
following page.
4.22      Construction cost estimates for the Rehabilitation Program are based
on detailed engineering prepared by Colombian consultants, the reviews carried
out by MOPT's Special Highway Programs Division and on unit prices for similar
works recently contracted. The average estimated construction cost is US$75,000
per km, excluding supervision and contingencies. This is reasonable considering
that about one-third of the costs are for stabilization, drainage and protec-
tion works. Cost estimates for the vehicle weight control program are based
on typical layouts for similar schemes in Brazil adapted to Colombian conditions
and prices. As mentioned in paragraph 4.08, detailed engineering for these
items would be available in 1978. Since the proposed weighing stations repre-
sent only a small part of the project cost, this does not entail an unacceptable
risk.
4.23      Cost estimates for supervision by local engineering consultants are
based on past experience in Colombia and amount to about 10% of construction
costs. The cost of the technical assistance to MOPT has been based on the
average of US$50,000 per man-year. Most of this assistance is expected to be
provided by international firms or expatriate individuals. A total of about
230 man-years of professional services would be required for construction
supervision and technical assistance.
4.24      Estimates for spare parts and the items for logistic support for the
project have been based on detailed analyses of the requirements by UNIDO and
MOPT and recent quotations obtained in Bogota. Nearly all goods would have to
be imported and the estimates are based on c.i.f. prices at port of entry.
4.25      A contingency of 10% of civil construction costs has been included
to allow for increases in quantities. Although allowance has been made in the
engineering designs for further deterioration of the pavement in the period
between the site investigations and construction, some design modifications
will no doubt be required as the works proceed. Provision for future price
increases has been calculated separately for all items following recent trends
in Colombia. Price escalation rates for civil works are greater than those
given in the most recent Bank guidelines due to the Government's policy of
increasing the market price of petroleum products to parity with international
levels (para. 3.12). Specific price escalation rates are shown at the bottom
of the following page. The total price contingency provision amounts to an
average of 26% of total base costs. The bulk of this provision relates to the
four-and-one-half-year Rehabilitation Program.



- 25 -
pla=  COST ESTDXAL3S AND rDn ICZ
Bank
Us$ U illio-                Porticiltion
(June   77                      (USS)
Local     Poreiga      TotAl          Locol      Fored        Totd         Killi 
I.  Road Rebhbilitation ProXr_
Civil Works                                     1,368.96  1,368.96   2,737,92          37.20      37.20       74.40         37.20      50
Supervision                                       136.16    136.16       272.32         3.70       3.70        7.40          3.70      50
Coordination (specialist)                           1.84       7.36        9.20         0.05       0.20        0.25          0.20      80
II.  Vehicle Weight ContrOl Program
Phase II and III of ongoing study (consult.)        1.84       7.36        9.20        0.05        0.20        0.25          0.20      80
Civil Works                                        92.00      92.00     184.00          2.50       2.50        5.00          2.50      50
Weighing Equipment                                   -        36.80       36.80          -         1.00        1.00          1.00    100
Supervision (consult.)                             11.04      11.04      22.08         0.30        0.30        0.60          0.30      50
III. Highway Maintenance Program
Store and Workshop Extensions                      29.44      29.44      58.88         0.80        0.80        1.60          0.80      50
Maintenance Equipment                                -       662.40     662.40          -         18.00       18.002,       18.00    100
Spare Parts for Repairs                              -        82.80      82.80          -          2.25        2.25          2.25    100
Spare Parts for Preventive Maintenance               -        49.68      49.68          -          1.35        1.35          1.35    100
Technical Assistance                               11.04      44.16      55.20         0.30        1.20        1.50          1.20      80
IV. Transport Sector Management
Sector Studies                                      1.84       7.36       9.20         0.05        0.20        0.25          0.20      80
Inventory of Road Construction Materials            7.36     29.44       36.80         0.20        0.80        1.00          0.00       0 3/
V. Logistic Support for Prolect Execution
Vehicles                                             -         3.68       3.68          -          0.10        0.10          0.15    100
Road Marking Equipment                               -         5.52       5.52          -          0.15        0.15         0.15    100
Laboratory and Drilling Equipment                    _       16.56       16.56          -          0.45        0.45         0.45    100
Base Cost (June 1977)                               1,661.52  2,590.72   4,252.24         45.15       70.40      115.55         69.65
VI. Contingencies
Physical (10  of Civil Works)                    149.04    149.04      298.08         4.05        4.05        8.10         4.85      50
Price Eacalation                                  507.84    599.84   1,107.68         13.80       16.30      30.10         16.30
(26X of base cost) 4/                                                                    -                -             __-
Total Estimated Project Cost                        2,318.40  3,339.60   5,658.00         63.00       90.75     153.75         90.00      58
1/ Estimated Col$ June 1977 value; rate of exchange Col$ 36.8 - US$1; local currency estimtes "aSu  that devaluation will be
in line with domestic inflation via-a-vis USS.
2/ Government to procure an additional US$32.0 million for equipmet largely fs  bilateral sources.
3/ Financing has been requested from POMADE (Fondo Naciomal de Daarrollo Economico)
4/ Price contingencies based on the following astimted _ a1 price increases:
- civil works: 1977-1979. 12X; 1988 end beyond, 1O0
- equipmeat and spare parts: 1977-1979, 8X
- consultants and specialists: 1977 ad beyo d; 1O0



- 26 -
4.26      The estimates of the foreign exchange component of the various items
are based on detailed analyses made by MOPT and reviewed by the Bank. The
foreign exchange component of civil works amounts to 50%, assuming that all
contracts would be awarded to local contractors, as was the case for the Fifth
and Sixth Highway Projects. The estimated 50% foreign exchange component of
the cost of local engineering consultants for supervision reflects the overall
state of development of the industry and the fact that it still has a degree
of reliance on specialized foreign technical expertise. The 80% foreign
exchange component for advisory services reflects the assumption that most of
it is expertise not readily available in Colombia.
I.   Disbursements
4.27      Disbursement of the loan would be made as follows:  (a) 50% for
civil works and related supervision; (b) 80% of local expenditures or 100%
of foreign costs for advisory services by consultants or individuals; and
(c) 100% of the foreign expenditures for direct imports or 80% of the total
cost for imported goods locally procured or 90% of ex-factory costs for
locally manufactured equipment, spare parts and logistic support items. The
estimated schedule of disbursements is indicated in Table 14.
4.28      Retroactive financing of up to US$1.0 million equivalent would be
provided for civil works carried out since April 1, 1977 for the stabiliza-
tion of critical sections of the Versalles-La Pintada, Pereira-La Felisa and
Ibague-La Linea-Armenia roads. These works should be completed before rehab-
ilitation of the roadway commences. Early execution of the stabilization
works, which require dry weather, will permit advancing the rehabilitation
proper by at least six months. The stabilization works have been divided into
nine lots (including those marked A in Table 12), and some have already been
contracted by MOPT (para. 4.30).
J.   Execution and Procurement
4.29      The execution of the project would be the responsibility of MOPT.
The project implementation schedule, covering all project elements and indi-
cating Bank involvement, is in Chart 3. Construction contracts for the
Rehabilitation Program (except urgent stabilization and drainage works, para.
4.30) would be procured by international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank Guidelines. The Rehabilitation Program has been grouped for bidding
purposes into six time-spaced batches, each containing 4 to 10 lots (Table
12). This would enable firms awarded contracts in the early batches to partic-
ipate in later batches without overextending their capacity. The estimated
value of individual contracts would range from US$2.0 to US$4.0 million so
that middle size contractors would qualify to bid; large firms could bid on
more than one lot per batch. During negotiations, details of the batches and
a schedule for bidding for the Rehabilitation Program were discussed and
agreed.
4.30      The stabilization and drainage works (para. 4.28) are being contrac-
ted under conditions and specifications similar to those for the rehabilita-
tion works. The works are in relatively isolated zones, are concentrated and
are comparatively small in size (lots under US$1,100,000). Foreign contractors,



- 27 -
unless established in Colombia, would therefore not have been interested in
the works. For this reason, and in order to allow for an early start of work,
bids were advertised locally only.
4.31      Extension works to stores and workshops in the districts are esti-
mated at 5,000 sq. m. (about US$1.6 million) and the work would interest only
small local contactors. Bids would be advertised locally.
4.32      Contracts for construction and installation of the weighing stations
would be procured by international competitive bidding, in accordance with Bank
Guidelines, in two or three packages, depending on geographic location. The
packages would be between US$1.5 and US$3.0 million and, although of greater
interest to local firms, might be attractive to foreign contractors. The
weighing equipment would be procured by international competitive bidding, in
accordance with Bank Guidelines, and would most probably be of foreign manu-
facture. In order to provide continual maintenance of the equipment, the
supplier would be required to set up local representation. During negotiations,
details of qualification requirements and contract conditions for the weighing
station works were reviewed and agreed.
4.33      The civil works component of the project would have some impact on
employment, providing jobs for up to about 3,000 skilled and unskilled workers
over the four- to five-year period during which the project is being executed.
4.34      Procurement of spare parts, the maintenance equipment and the logis-
tic support items would be carried out by international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Guidelines. Provision for about one year's supply of
spare parts would be included with the equipment purchases. The supplier
would present with his bid for equipment a priced scaling list of spare parts
which would be guaranteed for one year after delivery of the equipment. Spare
parts for specific makes of existing equipment would be procured directly
from established dealers in accordance with a purchase program acceptable to
the Bank.
4.35      The Bank would review and approve ex-ante all bid documents and
specifications for civil works, equipment, spare parts and logistic support
items. However, given the very strict basis for contracting contained in
Decree 150 (para. 3.17), contract awards for (i) civil works and (ii) equip-
ment, spare parts and logistic support items amounting to less than
US$3,000,000 and US$1,500,000 respectively would be reviewed on an ex-post
basis, with the Bank retaining the right to exclude from financing such
contracts not awarded according to Bank Guidelines and to cancel the respec-
tive amount from the loan. Procurement procedures were reviewed and agreed
during negotiations.
4.36      Indicators by which the project would be monitored are given in
Annex 5. The purpose of project indicators and the specific indicators to
be used for this project were agreed during negotiations as well as the
arrangements for collecting information during and after the implementation
stage.



- 28 -
K.   Project Risks
4.37      The Rehabilitation Program presents no special risk.  Particular
attention was given during pruJecL pieparation to the major sources of imple-
mentation problems encountered in past highway construction projects. All
road sections have been engineered in detail and are ready for bidding.
Localized stabilization of select sections is already under way. The streng-
thening of MOPT's capacity to administer and coordinate the Rehabilitation
Program is a condition for disbursement (para. 4.17). The financial require-
ments of the program have been measured against conservative estimates of
future revenues of the Highway Fund, which would be supplemented as necessary
by contributions from the general budget (para. 3.23).
4.38      Past attempts to improve maintenance have been only partially
successful and short-lived. The main reasons for this have been a lack of
permanent Government commitment and a piecemeal approach. Every effort has
been made in the preparation of the proposed Program to develop a coherent
framework for upgrading highway maintenance; corrective measures aimed at
major deficiencies have been formulated into specific covenants with deadlines
and quantified minimum requirements, particularly increases in maintenance
expenditures (para. 3.23) which are the foundation of the proposed maintenance
program. Upgrading a public service institution such as MOPT, involving
dozens of field units, is an undertaking which clearly entails higher risks
than, say, a construction contract. In the case of the proposed maintenance
program, these risks have been reduced sufficiently to allow reasonable hope
of success.
4.39      Past efforts to strengthen enforcement of vehicle weight control in
Colombia have failed to have a long-lasting impact. This has been due not
only to inadequate physical facilities, but to lack of continuing commitment
and, possibly also, lack of specific targets and organizational arrangements.
The study included under the project would provide a basis for developing
(a) Government commitment and public support, in particular, by associating
the road transport industry to the objectives of the program; and (b) specific
implementation measures. The disbursement conditions in paragraph 4.09 would
provide adequate protection against the risk of building physical facilities
without a firm and broadly based commitment to enforce weight limitations on a
permanent basis.
5.   ECONOMIC ASSESSMENT
A.   General
5.01      A detailed economic assessment has been made of the three main
components of the project for which quantifiable benefits could be estimated.
These are the Road Rehabilitation Program, the Highway Maintenance Program
and the Vehicle Weight Control Program. These three programs account for
about 99% of the estimated project base costs. Non-quantified benefits which
may accrue as a result of the investments are discussed as each program is
reviewed. Included among these non-quantified benefits is that of keeping



- 29 -
the roads open to traffic at all times, an all-important factor given that the
roads involved are the trunk highways, the backbone of the transport system.
Also not quantified is the fact that all the roads involved in the Rehabilita-
tion Program, by virtue of being the trunk system of the country, are roads
leading to ports and, therefore, are key links in the country's exports. Their
continuing deterioration and eventual interruption would affect the country's
capacity to export and would disrupt domestic economic activities. The "with-
out project" alternative has, therefore, much higher costs or disbenefits
than have been allowed for.
5.02      Benefits of the proposed project would accrue to the economy at
large in the form of avoided further increasing vehicle operating costs, which
would eventually affect the prices of exports and internally consumed goods.
Financially, the immediate impact of the execution of the project would be
first appreciated by the road transport industry. The industry, being reason-
ably competitive in Colombia, would, in the long run, have to pass on these
financial benefits to the rest of the system, thereby ensuring an equitable
distribution of the effects of the project. Because the income distribution
effect of the project is estimated to be limited, the social rate of return of
the project, had it been accurately assessed, would likely have been close to,
or slightly lower than,the economic return.
5.03      In carrying out the economic assessment of the different components
of the proposed project, adjustments have been made, insofar as practicable,
to eliminate the influence of taxes and subsidies. The adjustment factor was
estimated to be 0.8, which is in line with similar estimates made for the
economy as a whole where a value of 0.84 has been determined. Economic costs
net of taxes and subsidies have been estimated for construction and investment
costs, vehicle operating costs, maintenance costs, etc. However, no correspond-
ing adjustment has been attempted to counterbalance distortions in the exchange
rate. The use of a shadow exchange rate would make little difference to the
results obtained because the structure of costs and benefits in the economic
analysis is similar insofar as it is made up of essentially the same elements,
e.g., petroleum products (fuel, asphalt), equipment, spare parts etc. Both
sides of the equation being affected by a similar proportion, the results
remain largely invariant. Similarly, no attempt was made to shadow price the
cost of labor. Implementation of the Rehabilitation Program has rather
limited employment effects because paving works are capital intensive in
nature. Similarly, the Weight Control Program is of such comparatively small
scale that shadow pricing labor would have a negligible influence. The
Maintenance Program would use no more labor than presently employed by
MOPT (para. 3.23), and shadow pricing it would only increase the returns of
the program which are already estimated above 100%. Finally, implementation
of the project involves negligible expropriation of land and, therefore, no
shadow price has been used for it.
B.   Road Rehabilitation Program
(i) General
5.04      All 33 road lots in the program were evaluated using the same
methodology. Each lot is independent of all others and was therefore analyzed
separately; there is, however, a joint assessment of the Program as an entire



- 30 -
entity (para. 5.08). The analysis compares economic costs of civil works,
including supervision and physical contingencies, and maintenance costs
(Table 15) with the benefits arising from vehicle operating cost savings
(Table 16) of the alternatives of not rehabilitating the roads, the "without"
project case, -Ad and that of doing so, the "with" project case. Details are
given in Annex 6.
(ii) Analysis and Returns for Each Individual Section
5.05      Results of the evaluation for each lot are given in Table 17; rates
of return based on the best estimates of the intervening variables (being the
mean value of the variable) vary from about 14% to well over 50%; on this
basis, all subprojects would yield returns above the opportunity cost of
capital, which is estimated for Colombia at 11%. Table 17 also shows the
results of a risk analysis performed for each lot and the variations from
the best estimates (mean of the distribution) used for this analysis. The
mean and standard deviations of the probability distribution of the rate of
return for each lot, as well as the probability of the rate of return being
less than the opportunity cost of capital, 11%, are indicated. There is a
virtual assurance that yields higher than the opportunity cost of capital
will be obtained on all lots. On four lots (10, 11, 22 and 28), returns above
50% can be expected; such high returns occur because many of the rehabilita-
tions are long overdue.
5.06      There are a few lots with comparatively lower rates of return
despite the fact that the least cost alternative has been considered. These
cases occur because, as in the road from Fundacion to La Ye (Lots 17, 18
and 19)--part of the Eastern Trunk Highway--the rehabilitation involves
not only bringing the existing road surface up to standard but also some
improvement of the currently underdesigned road. In this specific case,
shoulders are being added, curves are being made safer and, in general, the
same design standard which has been used throughout the Eastern Trunk highway
is being followed. In other instances such as the road from Carreto to
Cartagena (Lots 20, 21 and 22)--part of the Western Trunk Highway--costs
are comparatively high because the pavement requires more than average streng-
thening due to poor soil conditions. In some other cases, particularly those
in mountainous areas with highly unstable terrain, the rehabilitation includes
carrying out expensive complementary stabilization and protection works which
are not reflected in vehicle operating cost savings but in the avoidance of
the roads being periodically closed to traffic, a benefit which has not been
assessed.
5.07      In general, in designing the least cost alternative, the point of
view was taken that there should be a high degree of confidence that the
structure would remain in place for the length of its estimated life, 10
years. This implies that, especially in mountainous regions, expensive
protection and stabilization works had to be considered. All the roads in the
program are paved roads, and instability of the roadbed cannot be tolerated
because it causes cracking and breaking up of the pavement. Execution of the
stabilization and protection works is not only essential for having a paved
road, but also has the effect of limiting, if not eliminating, the occasions
when the road is closed to traffic. A simple estimate of the number and
duration of occasions when the road would be closed is difficult and clearly
not enough to determine the effect of these occasions as increased costs



- 31 -
associated with the "without" alternative. The return on some lots is there-
fore understated, particularly for roads crossing difficult and unstable
terrain such as Oiba to Piedecuesta (Lots 23, 24 and 25), Ibague to Armenia
(Lots 12, 13 and 14) and Medellin to Pintada (Lots 1 and 2). To compensate
for this understatement of benefits, a special landslide removal cost has been
assessed against the "without" project alternative on these mountainous roads
(Table 15).
(iii) Analysis and Return for the Full Program
5.08      Based on the best estimate of the variables described above for
each individual lot (column 1 of Table 17), the economic return for the full
Rehabilitation Program was computed. The program has a weighted economic
return of 36% and first year benefits of 23% and is therefore well justified.
C.   Highway Maintenance Program
(i) General
5.09      To appraise the economic return of the highway maintenance invest-
ments proposed in the project, a combination of a newly developed highway
design and maintenance (HDM) model and the Bank's traditional return analysis
model (CBPACK) were used. The HDM model was used in its simplest form to
estimate the total cost of transport, including vehicle operating costs and
maintenance costs, for the total Colombian national highways network in two
sets of conditions: the existing maintenance policies in the country, "with-
out" project case, and those that would be made possible by the implementation
of the project, "with" project case.
5.10      A typical run of the HDM model starts with the maintenance submodel,
which estimates total maintenance cost in each year of the analysis given the
deterioration of the road caused by the specified traffic and climate. Vehicle
operating costs are estimated using the details obtained from the road deterior-
ation submodel together with the geometry of the road. Fuel consumption, tire
wear, vehicle maintenance and depreciation costs are calculated and are used
in conjunction with traffic forecasts to give a total vehicle operating cost
for each year analyzed. Maintenance and user costs thus derived are used to
estimate project appraisal criteria such as the economic rate of return,
benefit/cost ratio and net present value of the proposed Program.
(ii) Analysis and Return of the Program
5.11      The economic evaluation, details of which are in Annex 6, was based
on comparing the total incremental economic maintenance costs with the incre-
mental economic user benefits generated by the program. A 10-year analysis
period was considered appropriate since policy changes are liable to occur
over longer periods of time.
5.12      Based on unit maintenance costs, the estimated present condition of
the network and the maintenance policies ("with" and "without" project) which
are described in Annex 6, the cost streams shown on Table 18 were calculated
for two mutually exclusive alternatives. The first considers that only a
limited amount of rehabilitation is done beyond the Rehabilitation Program



- 32 -
included in the project. 1/ The second alternative assumes that a fairly
large rehabilitation program is carried out, particularly during the initial
years of Program implementation. Table 19 summarizes the economic appraisal
criteria of the two alternatives; both of them generate rates of return well
over 100%, suggesting that whether limited or extensive rehabilitation is
carried out as a matter of maintenance policy, implementation of the Highway
Maintenance Program is highly beneficial to the country. However, the alter-
native in which rehabilitations are carried out when ideally required (which,
because of the present condition of the network would occur in the first few
years of Program implementation) produces a higher net present value than the
alternative in which only limited additional rehabilitation (about 1,000 km in
the 10-year analysis period) is done. This suggests that, in the absence of
budgetary or other constraints, it would be advisable for the Government to
rehabilitate the paved network, particularly surface treated roads, as soon
as possible. Constraints exist, however, both on the budget and on the
capacity of the contracting industry to carry out such an extensive program,
and, therefore, the program with limited additional rehabilitation would seem
more appropriate.
5.13      Implementation of the Highway Maintenance Program with limited addi-
tional overlays and rehabilitations would demand additional Government re-
sources in line with those stated in paragraph 3.23. In the period 1978-1981,
an average increase of US$32.0 million over the 1977 budgetary appropriation
and about US$26.0 million over the estimated 1977 effective outlay for highway
maintenance (Table 20) would be required.
D.   Vehicle Weight Control Program
(i) General
5.14      Enforcement of weight control regulations would significantly reduce,
if not eliminate, overloading of trucks. Its major impact would be to lessen
pavement fatigue, thereby reducing routine maintenance requirements (pot-hole
filling and patching), as well as the need for early overlays and/or eventual
reconstruction. The program would prevent increases in vehicle operating costs
caused by rapid pavement deterioration. The elimination of systematic over-
loading would also result in safety on the roads being improved. The effect
of the controls on the trucking industry, specifically the efficiency in the
utilization of its vehicles, has not been taken into account in the analysis;
an attempt will be made to assess this impact as part of the ongoing study of
weight controls (para. 4.08). Most of the benefits of the Program are dif-
ficult to quantify; recent studies in Brazil and Australia suggest, however,
that the savings from improved weight control are quite high compared to the
relatively small cost of an enforcement program.
(ii) Analysis and Return of the Program
5.15      The economic evaluation, details of which are in Annex 6, compares
the costs of the program against an estimate of the benefits arising only from
deferral of overlays on that part of the paved network with traffic presently
above 1,000 vehicles per day. Both in the "with" and "without" cases, it
1/   It was assumed that the Rehabilitation Program included in the project
would be carried out irrespective of the Highway atintenance Program.



- 33 -
has been assumed that overlays would be carried out when economically justi-
fied. If this were not the case, the increased vehicle operating expenses
would lead to higher estimates of the benefits. The determination of the time
at which overlays would be economically justified was based on Colombian
design standards (1970). The costs of overlays were derived from estimates
prepared for the Rehabilitation Program. In the absence of detailed truck
loading surveys, existing overloading was estimated on the basis of judgment
reflecting familiarity with Colombia's trunk road network. It is asumed that
the effect of the enforcement program would be to eliminate all loading in
excess of 10% over the legal limit. These assumptions lead to a rate of return
of about 46% considering an economic life of 10 years. Due to the Program,
requirements for overlays would be reduced from about US$28 million annually
to about US$17 million. The above estimates confirm the high priority of the
enforcement of weight control.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following:
(a) establishment within MOPT of a separate unit for highway planning
by December 1, 1977 (para. 2.14), together with its terms of
reference, staffing requirements and specific measures for its
establishment (para. 3.10);
(b)  intention of the Government to supplement the National Highway
Fund's revenues as necessary through the project period 1978-1981,
to achieve the agreed level of maintenance expenditures and to
finance its share of the project costs (para. 3.12);
(c) starting in 1978, MOPT to plan and implement a program of periodic
maintenance, on a continuing basis, to include, over the project
period (1978-1981), an average of at least 400 km annually (para.
3.19);
(d) schedule of minimum requirements for routine, periodic and emergency
maintenance of the national network (para. 3.23);
(e) during the project period, MOPT expenditures for personnel and
related overhead to be not more than 50% of the aggregate total
expenditures (net of Bank contributions) for routine, periodic
and emergency maintenance (para. 3.23);
(f) MOPT to consult with the Bank before June 30, 1978 on measures
to adjust the composition of the personnel attached to the
districts in relation to their needs (para. 3.23);
(g) the need to rehabilitate bridges along four road sections
concurrently with the rehabilitation of the roads (para. 4.04);



- 34 -
(h) staffing of MOPT's Special Highway Programs Division for
coordination of the Rehabilitation Program (para. 4.07);
(i) additions to the Terms of Reference for the study to develop a
detailed enforcement program for vehicle weight control (para.
4.08);
(j) development, not later than February 28, 1978, of a plan of action
to implement the regulatory and legal framework, institutional
arrangements and development of public awareness relating to vehicle
weight control (para. 4.09);
(k) funds for the weighing station program category of the loan not to
be transferred to any other category and, if not disbursed, to
be cancelled (para. 4.09);
(1) Government to provide MOPT with sufficient funds to complete
the Equipment Replacement Program and MOPT to complete the
ongoing scrapping program by December 31, 1978 and continue
thereafter to dispose systematically of aged equipment
(para. 4.12);
(m)  procedures for assessing the equipment to be included in the
repair program (para. 4.13);
(n) details of the Preventive Maintenance Program and the reorganiza-
tion of MOPT's purchasing, warehousing and distribution procedures
(para. 4.14);
(o) scope and timetable of extensions to workshops and stores
(para. 4.15);
(p) consultants to be selected for the Highway Maintenance Program,
as well as their terms of reference and conditions of employment
being acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.16);
(q) composition and qualifications of MOPT's counterpart staff to the
technical assistance for the Highway Maintenance Program (para. 4.17);
(r) intention of the Government to initiate the FONADE-financed study
of locally available road construction materials by October 30,
1977 (para. 4.19);
(s) details of the batches and a schedule for bidding for the
Rehabilitation Program (para. 4.29);
(t) details of qualification requirements and contract conditions
for the weighing station works (para. 4.32);
(u) procurement procedures and the Bank's review of procurement for
civil works and equipment, spare parts and logistic support
items (para. 4.35); and



- 35 -
(v) the purpose of project indicators, the specific indicators to be
used for the project, and the arrangements for collecting informa-
tion during and after the project implementation stage (para. 4.36).
6.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government on
the following:
(a) routine, periodic and emergency maintenance activities would be
identified and budgeted separately from other non-maintenance
activities from 1978 onward (para. 3.18);
(b) MOPT would continue systematic renewal of the fleet on an annual
basis (para. 3.20); and
(c) purchase of spare parts on an annual basis would be funded and
carried out to maintain the fleet at an adequate level of avail-
ability, and the existing backlog of unpaid suppliers' bills
would be cancelled or refinanced by March 31, 1978 (para. 3.21).
6.03      The following are conditions of disbursement for the corresponding
parts of the project:
(a) recruitment of the Coordinator and at least four of the agreed coor-
dinating staff for MOPT's Special Highway Programs Division would be
a condition of disbursement for civil works and the construction
supervision (para. 4.07);
(b) before disbursing for construction of the weighing stations, MOPT
would satisfy legal, staffing, funding and public relations
requirements and assure that the trucking industry has been
associated with the development of the vehicle weight program
(para. 4.09);
(c) the reorganization of MOPT's supply and distribution procedures
would be accomplished before purchasing spare parts for preven-
tive maintenance (para. 4.14); and
(d) the appointment of consultants for technical assistance on the
Highway Maintenance Program and MOPT's compliance with the agreed
counterpart staffing would be a condition for disbursement for
equipment, spare parts and workshop and store extensions under the
Maintenance Program (para. 4.17).
6.04      Subject to the above, the project constitutes an adequate basis for
Bank lending of a total amount of US$90 million equivalent to the Republic
of Colombia; the term would be 17 years, including a three-and-one-half-year
grace period.
June 16, 1977






TABLE 1
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
IBRD-IDA Involvement in Colombia Transport
Highways
Loan 43-CO         1951        US$ 16.50         First Highway Project
Loan 84-CO         1953        US$ 14.35          Second Highway Project
Loan 144-CO        1956        US$ 16.50         Third Highway Project
Loan 295-CO        1961        US$ 19.50  )
Fourth Highway Project
Credit 05-CO       1961        US$ 19.50
Loan 550-CO        1968        US$ 17.20         Fifth Highway Project
Loan 680-CO        1970        US$ 32.00          Sixth Highway Project
135.55
Railways
Loan 68-CO         1952        US$ 25.00         First Railway Project
Loan 119-CO        1955        US$ 15.90         Second Railway Project
Loan 267-CO        1960        US$  5.40         Third Railway Project
Loan 343-CO        1963        US$ 30.00         Fourth Railway*Project
Loan 551-CO        1968        US$ 18.30         Fifth Railway Project
Loan 926-CO        1973        US$ 25.00         Sixth Railway Project
119.60
GRAND  TOTAL                255.15
Source: IBRD
March 1977



TABLE 2
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Public Sector Investment in Transport (1966-75)
(Millions of currpnt Pesos)
YEAR      ROAD_/       RAILk'       MARINE       INLD. WATER        AIR       TOTAL
1966         760         90          157              17             19      1,063
1967        887         135          163              26            108      1,319
1968      1,174         195          100              24            113      1,606
1969      1,367         119           83              33            104      1,706
1970      1,555         185          119              42            114      2,016
1971      1,956         185           88              44            168      2,441
1972      2,146         143           51              65            172      2,618
1973      2,062         210           61              79            211      2,623
1974      2,360         150          222            100             436      3,268
1975      1,908         570          240            112             350      3,180
a/ Does not include investments by departments, municipalities,
regional authorities, or private entities. Refers only to
infrastructure and not to vehicles, which are included in other
modes except air.
Also, includes maintenance which is treated as an investment
although a very high proportion of expenditures are current expenses
and not investment.
b/ Investment in local currency only, does not include foreign
loans or credits except 1975 when the comparatively high figure
includes disbursementsunder Bank's Sixth Railway Project.
Source: National Planning Office
March 1977



TABLE 3
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
National Highway Network (1965-75)
(km)
PAVED           UNPAVED           TOTAL               % PAVED
1965           3,497           13,982           17,479                20
1966           3,572           13,992           17,564                20
1967           3,853           14,144           17,997                21
1968           4,235           14,607           18,842                22
1969           4,499           14,768           19,267                23
1970           4,821           15,094           19,915                24
1971           5,023           14,994           20,017                25
1972           5,957           14,319           20,276                29
1973           6,446           13,692           20,138                32
1974           6,768           14,075           20,843                32
1975          6,947            14,007           20,954                33
Total Road System (December 1975)
(km)
PAVED           UNPAVED           TOTAL               % PAVED
National         6,947           14,007           20,954                33
Departmental       780           26,774           27,554                 3
Municipal and
Community         -             2,&79            2,479                 0%
Total          7,727           43,260           50,987                18%
Source: MOPT
March 1977



TABLE 4
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Vehicle Fleet (1963-76)
(Annual reRistrations)
PASSENGER             FREIGHT               TOTAL
1963              131,832              81,568               213,400
1964              135,726              85,691               221,417
1965              139,892              88,352               228,244
1966              156,034              95,073               251,107
1967              166,957              98,037               264,994
1968              195,843             106,724               282,567
% growth 1963-68         8.2%                 5.5%                 5.8%
1969              219,827              77,652               297,479
1970              238,499              83,500               321,999
1971              283,839              91,380               375,219
1972              306,201             103,733              409,934
1973              296,209             137,637              433,846
1974              321,974             143,749              465,723
% growth 1969-74         7.9%               13.1%                  9.4%
1975              342,732             150,629              493,361
1976!'            352,254             153,681              505,935
% growth 1970-75         7.5%               12.5%                  8.9%
1/ To September 1976
Sources: 1963-1968 DANE
1969-1973 INTRA
March 1977



TABLE 5
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated ADTIJ at Select Points of the Road Network-.' (1971-75)
% growth
Station (road from - to)              1971     1972      1973      1974      1975   1971 - 1975
Caqueza (Bogota-Villavicenio)               1.051    1.046    1.152    1.115    1.184         3.02
Cajamarca (Ibague-Armenia)                  1.530    1.568    1.734    1.874    1.991         6.81
Fusagasuga (Bogota-Girardot)                3.751    3.787    4.380    4.709    5.117         8.07
Chusaca (Bogota-Girardot)3/                 2.605    2.903    3.402    4.025    4.506    14.68
Guacari (Palmira-Buga)                      4.183    4.373    4.797    5.099    5.317         6.18
Villeta (Bogota-Honda)                        -         -       1.338    1.398    1.422       3.09
Hatillo (North of Medellin)                 1.179    1.179    1.320    1.523    1.609         8.08
Versalles (South of Medellin)               1.445    1.581    1.831    1.752    1.912         7.25
Choconta (Bogota-Tunja)                     2.589    2.754    2.882    3.089    3.173         5.22
Moniquira (Tunja-Barbosa)                     955    1.066    1.125    1.217    1.225         6.42
Santander (Cali-Popayan)                    1.248    1.414    1.514    1.681    1.803         9.63
Arroyo Piedra (Cartagena-Barranquilla)   1.361    1.385    1.558    1.606    1.800            7.24
Cienaga (Sta. Marta-Fundacion)              1.352    1.525    1.563    2.080    2.329    14.56
Neiva (Neiva-Espinal)                         -         -         993    1.092    1.183       4.15
Pamplona (Bucaramanga-Cucuta)                 -         982    1.040    1.069    1.204        7.03
Weighted average growth (1971-1975)                                                           8.13
1/ Average Daily Traffic unadjusted for seasonal variations when based on less than full
year count.
21 Where automatic counters are installed.
3/ via new Silvania road
Rource: MOPT
October 1976



TABLE 6
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
National Highway Fund
Revenues 1970-1976
(nominal and constant denomination in millions)
Total                Gasoline Tax                Ot-herll
Current   Constant       Current   Constant       Current   Constant2/
Col$    1967 Col$j/      Col$    1967 Col$-2      Col$    1976 Col$-
1970     1,555     1,191             767      589             787       604
1971     1,957     1,359            933       648           1,024       711
1972     2,146      1,293         1,200       723             946      570
1973     2,182      1,213         1,189       661             993      552
1974     2,676      1,250         1,207       564           1,468      686
1975     2,725        970         1,654       589           1,071       381
1976     3,687        940         2,615       667           1,072       273
1/ Mainly Government contributions, foreign loans and own resources (see Table 7)
2/ Deflated by means of a composite highway construction cost index 1967 = 100
1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976
100.0   111.9   121.8   130.2   143.9   165.9   179.9   213.9   281.6   392.3
Source: MOPT, Mission
nlarcn 1977



UASLE 7
COLO9OIA
SEVENTH HIGUWAY PROJECT
vational Hishvav  Fund
Revenues 1970-1976
tnouMa    t 9  ..o.
1970        1971         1972         1973         1974         1975         1976
Gasoline Tax                       767,382      932,700    1,200,400    1,188.927    1,207.394    1,654,494    2,614,785
Government coutribution            313,641      280,249      101,870      94,759       55,013      684,251      178,017
1BRD Projects                       53,739      200,686      163,828      93,958       22,426       19,996          230
'DB Projects                        60,970      131.841      179,963     143,601      128,737       23,657       35,526
FONADE contracts                      -            -           1.303      18,292       28,317       29,136       15,602
US Government donation for
Interasarican Highway                 -            -            -          1,580          253         -           3,014
Own Resources                       47,737       49,800       98,795       67,068      78,229      111,848      117,845
Previous Balance carry-ovwr        125,140       45,886        -         278,325      266,459       43,583         -
Dutch Government credit                     -            -                  -            -            -         111,642
SUB-TOTAL                       1,368,609    1,641,162    1.746,159    1,8i6,510    1,786,828    2,566,965    3,076,661
Unappropriated Revenues 1/         186,044      315,643      400,139      295,129     888,759      155,103      610,568
T 0 T A L                       1,554,653    1,956,805    2,146,298    2,181,639    2,675,587    2,725,068    3,687,229
ISweralitres 1970-1976
(ro TOf S1
1970        1971         1972         1973         1974         1975        1976
Studies and Technical Serviceas     26,759       27,301      27,921       55,837       85,123       60,508      119,261
Bridges                             67,062       86,475      72,850       84,844       86,124      132,688      100,841
Trunk Highways (North-South)       461,577      492,101      500,724     486,628      482,047      410,160      696,871
Trunk Higibays (last-Weat)         132,236      187,630     214,446      288,018      367,134      368,829      379,506
Other Highways                     107,608      103,273      131,953     153,646      196,508      233,148      164,515
Access to cities                    21,052       47,992       57,982      57,936      107,868       23,918       53,232
Paving Progrs                      133,023      220,526      277.295     178,680      207,782      223,348      414,182
Hidraulic Works                     42,118       44,740      65,552       78,671      123,868      162,732      277,416
Rshabilitation                        -            -           -            -            -            -          92,792
Highway Maintenance                425,788      515,210      561,354     538,984      780,225      871,8U7      966,112
Other expenditures                  13,930       62,865      32,117        8,129       56,246       39,564      249,141
SUB-TOTAL                   1,431,153    1,788,114    1,942,194    1,932,173    2,492,925    2,526,782    3,513,869
Contribution to National
leeder Roads Fund                  123,500      168.691      204,104     209,466      182,662      198,286      173,360
1,554,653    1,956,805    2,146,298    2,181,639    2,675,587    2.725,068    3,687,229
/ Difference between aopropriated revenues snd actual expenditures;normally financed
with subsequent year's budgetary appropriations.
Source: MoT
March 1977



TABLE 8
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
National Highway Fund
Expenditures 1970-76
(nominal and constant denomination in millions)
Total                Construction             Maintenance                  Other
Current   Constant      Current   Constant       Current   Constant        Current   Constant
Col$    1967 Col$1/    Col$    1967 Col$-        Col$    1967 Col$-        Col$    1967 Col$-
1970   1,555       1,191          904       694          427         326           224         172
1971   1,957       1,359       1,090        757          515         358           352         245
1972   2,146       1,293        1,197       721          561         338           388         234
1973   2,182       1,213       1,193        663          538         299           451         251
1974   2,676       1,250       1,340        626          780         365           556         260
1975   2,725         970       1,368        486          872         310           485         172
1976   3,687         940       1,756        448          966         246           965         246
1/ Deflated by means of a composite highway construction cost index 1967=100, see Table 6.
Source: MOPT, Mission
March 1977



TABLE 9
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
National Highway Fund
Estimate of Future Revenues and Expenditures 1977-1981
(Millions of Col$)
Revenues
19771/   1978      1979      1980     1981
Gasoline Tax                          4,200    4,600    5,400    5,80U    6,000
Government Contributiors-2/             400    1,300        970      695       485
Other 3/                                200       320       290      315       335
TOTAL                      4,800    6,220    6,660    6,810    6,820
Expenditures
19771'   1978      1979     1980      1981
Studies and Technical Services           70       105'     115       125       135
Construction                          2,780    3,381    3,385    3,175    2,700
Maintenance                           1,400    2,200    2,600    2,900    3,300
Other                                   510       534      560       610      685
TOTAL                      4,800    6,220    6,660    6,810    6,820
1/  Expected Revenues and Expenditures at end of year.
2/ Mainly foreign loans by IBRD and IDB.
3/  Includes own resources, which are the product of a rudimentary toll system, the
sale of scrap equipment and obsolete materials and domestic borrowing.
Source: MOPT
March 1977



COLOMBIA
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Evolution and Composition of Regular Gasoline Prices (1975-77)
(Col $ per gallon)
Highway
Refinery    Fund      Sales    Deptl.                   Wholesale      Retail
Price      Tax       Tax       Tax       Transport      Distrib.    Distrib.       Price
1975  Jan.-Aug.                1.31     1.44      0.16       0.04         0.13         0.20         0.19          3.47
Sept.                   1.44      1.59      0.21       0.04         0.17         0.30         0.25          4.00
Oct.                    1.53      1.69      0.22       0.04         0.21         0.31         0.25          4.25
Nov.                    1.61      1.78      0.24       0.04         0.25         0.33         0.25          4.50
Dec.                    1.69      1.87      0.26       0.04         0.29         0.34         0.25          4.75
1976  Jan.                     1.77     1.96      0.28       0.04         0.48         0.35         0.27          5.15
Feb.                    1.87      2.08      0.30       0.04         0.52         0.36         0.28          5.45
Mar.                     1.97     2.19      0.32       0.04         0.57         0.37         0.29          5.75
Apr.                    2.05      2.28      0.33       0.04         0.62         0.38         0.30          6.00
May                      2.16     2.41      0.37       0.04         0.77         0.39         0.31          6.45
June                    2.28      2.54      0.39       0.04         0.93         0.40         0.32          6.90
Jul.                    2.38      2.66      0.42       0.04         1.11         0.41         0.33          7.35
Aug.                    2.50      2.79      0.42       0.04         1.25         0.42         0.38          7.80
Aug.-Dec.               2.67      2.99      0.50       0.04         1.48         0.44         0.38          8.50
1977  Jan.                     3.03     3.39      0.60       0.04         2.06         0.47         0.41         10.00
Source: MOPT
March 1977
H
CH



TABIE 11
COLaDHIA
SEVE8TI HIGHWAY PROJECT
History of Csoatruction and Periodic Hainteacoce on Sectioet for RehabilitatiOn
YEARE                           P A V E M E N T                           PERIODIC MAINTENAN1CE
ROAD                             LOT                 LENGTH
PAVED                TYPE I/    .             WIDTH                          TYPE                YEAR
MedelOO,s-P,nt.d.                  Tao lot.                      76             1952          AC                      6.20 C 0.75                    3 c, sea1 (51 km)            1968
Pereir.-La Pinctd.                 P-ri-a-Ai.a (K. 4-4)          41.6           1957          AC                     6.70 + 0.00 - 0.50              3 s,A.C. (14 km,)           1970
Asi.-E,s 79                  35             1957          AC                      6.60 * 0.00 - 0.50 
F.s 79 -1V. 100.5             21.5          1957          AC                      6.60 .0.00 -0.50                3 cA.C. (I Ik,)             1970
Es. 100.5 - L. Pelisa        30.5           1957          AC                      6.70 * 0.00 - 0.50-
C-rta8e-O... ri                    Five lots                    100             1953          M-acdm                  6.40 * 1.00 - 1.50             5 ccA.C. (78 ks,)         1972-1974
lb.q.e-Aeseeia                     is 56-Es, 135                 82.3           1953          Siacdee                 6.50 + 0.00 - 0.50             5 ceA.C. (16 ks,)         1970-1972
B.g.t.a-H.nd.                      Faat.ti-e-Villet.             42.5           1957          AC                      7.00 * 0.50                    4    ...sea  (10 ks,)       1972
Villet.-Kscda                 30            1957          AC                      7.00 * 0.50-
Fuedac-Lo-. Ye                     Three I...                    63             1952          AC,                     5.80-6.50r0.50-1.O00
Cerrete-C-ragea         ~          Thre- lot.                    68             1954          AC                      5.60-6.7040.50-1.00            3 ra sea  (68 Ins)           1969
Oiba-Pi.d--,,et.                   Thre  l.ts                   100.6           1953          DST                     6.30-7.20+0.00-1.00            D.S.T. (5 ks,)               1972
1962          AC (23 kns)                                            7Cs A.C. (1.0 ke)           1970
1961          DST (13 kcm)                                           4 c  A.C. (50 ks,)          1960
Bun-r,ea,,a-Ei Pisyon              One  It                       25             0966          AC                     6.80 - 7.20 + 1.00-
Pmplcee-1.a D-njua                 Do. lot                       44             1954          AC (17 Icm)             7.00 4. 0.00 - 1.00            seal (25 kne)               1970
DST (26 ice)                                           seal (9 ke)                 1972
C-UCta-Zulla                       Es, 2-ia, 12                  10             1962          DST                     7.00 4 1.00 
Cu-ta-Vills del Rosar~i.           Es, 0-i,, 7 (4-lac)           14             0964          5 Ce AC                 217.00 + 0.00- 3.00-
Vect.queaeda.-Pope                 V-~tq.qvad.-Tcm3.              9.7           1965          AC                      7.00-3.69+1.00-1 .50
TueJ.-P.ipa                   37            1970          DST                     6.70-7.40,1.10-1.40            3 cc A.C. (18 ks,)           1969
3 c. seal (6 ks,)           1973
Paipa.B.Bl.s,ct.                   One lot                       41.6           1967          1 i,sa                  7.00 . LOG0 - 1.50             D.S.T. (25 kcc)             1971
Ceetilla-Helva                     Th-e  lets                   106             1966          AC                      7.00 + 0.00 - 0.50             Seal (70k.1)                 1974
it  AC   - Asphalt conc..ete pave,et
lDST 11 - Double aurf.ee treated asphalt pavecet
Sore: DPT
March 1977



TAM 12
COLCs
load 1    LUb6 lttio. inn
(4oos_dc Cost. s Drc. IS/l            o     04. sg so3tC;  hind.1       t In  t       2. of J-e  1977 US)
I-or as.                                      soya    Ri/~~~~3&j7ifl -1/                               Fl    taco 8 8               N  8f as  33i
1.0T                     mM C  o        OT           TOOIL         1977          197           1879         1988         11
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U   US _ _1 I                                                                                     I             I
18/       M.2.14L-Yu....H..a                      SW          7,533|                     228.3         328.1         328.1
2A        Vs.-Slncada                            66         13,235                      4 01.1                      576.5
1         9.2.11 1-rl..                          38.0        76,231       2,204        2,310.0       3,320.3         996.1       1,328.1         996.1
2          .sr...11-.Plnt.d.                     38.0       82,055        2,508        2,466.5       3,574.0                                   1,072.2      2,501.6
38            .--a_l(K 44)                                    4,011                      121.5         174.6         174.6
43        t.t.1K 44)-K 79                         S.         23,985                      726.8       2,044.7         522.3         522.3
59        6 39-, 1OO.5                            S.         10,925                      603.8         867.9         433.9         433.9
60        K 6ID.5-K 231 lF.lsa                    3          18,387                      557.2         800.9         400.4         400.4
3 5/      Irl.osls(K 44)                         41.6       99,250        2,458        2,977.3       4,279.5       1,283.8       2,711.8       1,283.8
4         0.9.9644)-K  79                        35.0        56,811        2,308       1,721.5       2,474.4                                     742.3      ,7132.1
5         6 79_1  100.5                          21.5        SL,004       3,299        1,545.6       2,221,6                                     666.5      1,555.1
6            100.3-K  131 18.11-)1              30.5       65,94,        2,767        1,995.3       2,968.0                       860.4       2,007.6
7         Cor6so.K 25                            25.0       46,803        1,872        1,418.3       2,038.6         611.6         6l5.4         6L1.6
6         6 35-6 52.5                            19.5       49,303        2,528        1,494.0       2,147.4                                    6444.2      1,503.2
9         6 52.2-Ur8b.(K 66.5)                   14.0       49,488        3,535        1,499.6       2,155.5                                     646.6      1,506.8
10         Ur.16.2 66.51.Ao2slotl                 12.5       72,862        1,829          692.0         995.8         298.7         398.3         296.7
1         9., 8.d,o-Ov.c,.,                      29.0       47,90Z        1,65i        1,451.6       2,086.5         625.9         834.6         625.9
116        1459oa1 (. 561i-K  5                    0s          18,520                     261.2         806.4         606.6
ls         y 9554. Li,es7K 119)                    S K       18,415                       558.0         802.0         902.0
|   142       L1,,..-Ar.,L.                        S.          5,620                      170.3         244.8         244.8
12         16*go.R 56)_- 85                       29.0       69,295        3,006        2,099.8       3,018.2         603.6       1,207.3       7,Z07.3
13         K 85-L. Ln...(K 119)                   34.0       65,110        2,457        1,973.0       2,935.9         567.2       1,104.4       1,134.4
14         L  11n.-os.,t                          19.3       42,092        2,472        1,275.5       1,733.4                                     550.0      1,283.3
15         FoKato.-0111.6.                        42.5        03,333        1,961       2.525.2       3,629.6                   1,088.9         1,451.8      1,088.9
16         VI1.n_h rdo                           30.0        43,532       1,451        1,319.2       1,896.2                                                  758.5      1,137.7
|   10  |  7FndO.:lo.,-SnIlls                 |   29.7        66,438       2,237        2,013.3       2,893.8  |       68.2       1,157.5         868.2
19 s    j .vII.-tc Frlo|   18.9                               51,607       2.731        1,542.8       2,247.7         449.5         899.1         399.1
19      | 6, ilo2ro-4. 0,Y.                       14.4        36,662       2,546        1.11110 7,596.9  |             19.4        -63.8          639.8
20      |          Coa.6o-1.s.nd.-|  19.6                     53,804    |2,745    |1,30,4             2,43.5                                                   937.4      1,406.1
21         C...     rOolg.                        19.4        69,424        3,542    |  2,103         3,023.9                                     907.7      2,116.7
22         l.odolsa-Cort.ge,,                     28.8        64,046        2,274       1,540.8       2,789.6         836.9       1,115.9         836.9
1 23    | 60-PI,chot|   36.2                                  68,410       1,890        2.073,0       2,979,6                        99.9       1,191,9        893.9
24      | 6,*6o.-66181.s                          34.9        58,023        1,663       1,78.3        2,527.3                                     758.2      1,010.9        758.2
l   25  |  C681ose P1 ..                          29.53      70,199       2,36O        2,127.2       3,057.6                                                1,223,0      7,834.5
2 Z6    |   05r5s8--El 81.707,-                   25.0        49,754        1,990       1,500.7   | ,167.1            630.1         966.9         650.1
27      !                                           .a1o-8tn .oj   44,0  69,862  1,588  2,117.0       3,042.9                       912.9       1,217.2        912.9
28         V11s-8oaslo0C46gZ41j.                  24.0        33,260        1,386       1,007.9       1,448.7                                                  579.5        869.2
25         Vottquooo.IP.l|  46.7                              84,357    |1h06           2,556.3       3,674.3       1,102.3       1,102.3       1,469.7
30         Polpa Y ls,.to                     |   41.6        58,879       1,415        1,764.2       2,564.5                                     769.4     1,023.8         769.4
31      |    -81.K 219                            34.5        54,392        1 ,577      1,648.2       2,369.1         010.7 -       947.6         710.7
32         6 219.487.                             32.3        38,588       1,195        1.169.3       1,680.7                                      04.2 2    1,176.5
33         Alpo-Main.                             39.2      41i,636        1,062        1,761.7       1,893.5                                                  725.4    1,988.1
_8| 978.3  l           l            |             J 89,241.h      14,213.2      19,270.6     25,360.6    22,533.7       7,863.2
,Inc. Contlogsny In t ..c,,t1.Ko2 uld-y.s. to 0l8-yo.r ,                                                        l            |      12            25           39           53
1.o os1,,| 27,046.2 |622,0909.0                                                                                              5,578.9      9,339.4    10,138.9
06104L Iovosrmmhlr                                                                                |116,308.0   |14,223.2  |212729.6            3883019.5     31.873.1   | 18,982.1   |
17IK,d 'L                -t ,   -nd ..n.o,.nt o, ph,8s.o1o6.                  0
27  Inlo,.d.. 80*   nd2 tn008tt*, OoP5KOIOKIs  nd. pUlyscol 6006600nclns 02911
3/  0001.219n6 eKsbllaaKon{O   snk. 18H3 on no. d  gtlo.
V   .811 t* doIeo by fort. scno,oeb  .2 not floncsd by lok
811 b- *p,17  In t               ,o 5k-lot.
ts. 197    . 1875 satg. rats 0811 . Col7      3
Y t15.6d2Jboo. 1977 obo(1no. roSs WSI1 . ColS 36.88
hus:  8061.0 NI Kson
May 1977



160.1Th110o101 Il, C
PILSEN? IL1.T61                          POSER13 011611      -                                I. 1)  C 1. Il I. M   I '   0 0 u A h
@808        12.               058050 8M6 "                                                                              l1rI.)C1UNIT7        910a   1 9 19          1     01l1ll                          .1                    01017
-   -    ____________________             - ~~~~CQS               <2 1,  III.>7  -PUTN                      kPck)%,4  {         1040         COT        900    I VjI 0o                      j1 T            1*0191  I oS
I        t11h..p.                         0        089             233        1.23            650            3,250             201)       2.i)01         2I)0       1.1)1          400)       1.0           200        1.010
2        1lat-bddI.-IL.                  20         21              201        19              60            L,211               21         SOO           i5          31o0          40          S00           25         Sao
             008. 1.,...                     to      1,091.            Ise        1.10           1,11o0          10.0)O             350       6,301)          2110      1,-1)          551)       0,400          350       L. 100
4        l41.. T,.&..                    Zs         22              33          25              10           I, ? 50             III        2511           11)        350           40        1.1111          30          ISO
5        fo.  I   .-6,                   22         61              211         21             so            I 250               10         20 So          I0         3 51)         21)        01)1           1            0
6        ApL6.1IY.,.k ..                 30         427              5          34             40            1.200               1 0         300            4         130           L .         400            0            0
2       sIt....  Di.t11b.1.1.            30         53              12          to             60            1,2010              t0         300           16          4801         21.          20             a            a2
10  08114...        .               20        344              51        11               5            1,0                  11       42 30                     2.1is1)0        90        .3011           I0       1,40
II   Hb9,..  64.4.,                  00         25              63        125             540           14,400                50        00             50       3,0             100      1.010            20       1.200
10  b?..6 L-o.4..                    30         29              52          1                5           315  20 0 ZSoi               1,11             '0       3,10            14        9.20             0s         0o
22   0,4..t.  T-k                     0s       55              120          is              is0        31250                 20       4,000            20       3,o0            30          Soo0          20        1,000
IS   sti.,T.-h,l100..                s0         82              is         14               30            2,400              25          100(          10         30            II        1.o              5        200 00
19   11-...                          50         IS                S         I       20      40            21020              10         400            to         b(       0          1    .  400          0            0
SI       SoI.a.d .....                    20         64              0G        I2 n50                        I1,000I              20       4200             10        200(           20        4.00)2                     ,0
is        806..?yI..dSoIlr*                0         35              95         12S              50          1600                 10          200m          so       1,00 (10 to                ,X              0            0.2
23        20..1'6l,.& I-20                           63              55          09              60            1,200              20       100              10         210)o         40.         200            0            0
24       3..- y6.-       l.,              so         sO1            0a           09              60           6700                20          200W          0a       1 0            IS0        2,00            20          200o
to        5.6n.I.o t..                    10         54              as         21               30              50m               0           00           to         100           Is          too2           0            0
26,       r~is.1..                        s0         I3              02          0a              20            2,00                a          40      0                   0            5         400            0            0
   2         frl.Iyc-.3...t                  00          24              39         60              Oa              250m               0         10             50       0,o             50        1.00             0            0
20        0....., .  61.A.6               20         64       4             2    I               so              250              0o          20            10          200          10          100            0            0
29       IL.bb.. Cn,.-,.  0.It-.        10           39                I         0               20           5,00                la          600            4         600            05       3.00             0            0
50       kf*..l V:. 00    1..t            20         15               01        IS               20              400              0:            0            0          200          40           00            0            0
341       S-1       VI 1   .1.1-42        I 0        255                        1                2              ,00fi             20        1,0              0          50            10         zoo11         20        2.010
is       10IItI8W 2oI                    S                            0           31,0                           3020              a            0           10            0           10         too            0            0
N   3         O18*i0.4*-                       20         23               2           a2             40              200              1            60            0            1,         12           60            2           60
2?        F..o,-1 C).-.,                   2o        24               Is         00              20              250              10           20o           0            2           10         too            0            0             -
21   5- ?                  ,&   I                412                            I               2526        101,0             1.14        3,1              222      2too          1,02       504507                    1.5
J,  X*... ***5  90       C 8* .I.. *'1111p0I                                  a            0 0DO4                                                    6w4                       bo                         0 
IIP..0                                                       i                0         is2040                                               01                                              o47o7 



TABLE 14
COLOMB IA
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
IBRID Fiscal Year             Disbursed in                Cumulative
Quarter               Disbursements
1978
December 31, 1977                   4.0                      4.0                 4
March 31, 1978                      5.0                       9.0               10
June 30, 1978                       6.0                     15.0                17
1979
September, 1978                     6.0                     21.0                23
December, 1978                      7.0                     28.0                31
Marchl, 1979                        7.0                     35.0                39
June, 1979                          8.0                     43.0                48
1980
September, 1979                     8.0                     51.0                57
December, 1979                      7.0                     58.0                64
March, 1980                         6.0                     64.0                71
June, 1980                          5.0                     69.0                77
1981
September, 1980                     5.0                     74.0                82
Deccnmber, 1980                     4.0                     78.0                87
Marni, 1981                         3.0                     81.0                90
JuLte, L981                         3.0                     84.0                93
1982
Septemiber, 1981                    2.0                     86.0                96
Decemxber, 1981                     2.0                     88.0                98
Marlh, 1.982                        1.0                     89.0                99
Jutie, 1982                         1.0                     90.0               100
Sou.::e:  Mission
Mar;rh 1977



rA8LE 15
SEVENT  HIGFQ61Y PROJECT
Xt tl. of Road 8e6.61141ation P er..
LENGTH       ROADrS                                                            TBAFC I                     R             TesCfRT       E C 0 N 0 M I C   C 0 S T S
Coodletie       Gro-th      LAad.lid.   R0h.b.        P-riodi.
R  O  A  D   L O  T  S                                                  RS      RS       RS        Tot-l           %        A             Cofff.          R te         R_ovl                      mtc..
43Z      3-61    >6S                 AS       GB                 Light    Bu.    Truk                                      Per 6./yr    Per k.        P., k
__________        _    6lo.ro5 .kil.t   Vehiols.-   hdy                                                                   P...          In Doo..b-r 1975 0005. Col$
I   H d.lli.-V-s.slIe               38.0      25.9      6.6      5.5       11.0    19.0      8.0      4,890      38        11     51           1.12             a           42.4        2,204.0       551.0
2    v.r.alle..-P-t.d               38.0      11.3    17.2       9.5       17.8    20.2       -       2.030      28        11     61         i1.06              8           28.9        2,508.0       316.2
3    P-rsir-6s0i                    41.6      34.9     6.7        -          -     38.9      2.7      4,260      46        11     43          -1.0              a           20.7        2,458.0       368.7
4    Aslo-Y79                        35.0     17.7    14.6       2.7       10.3    24.7       -       1,850      30        11     59           1 .06            B           48.6        2,308.0       346.2
5    K79-K100.5                      21.5      8.9    12.4       0.2        7.0       -     14.5      1,770      29        12     59           1.10             8           90.7        3,299.0       494.9
6    K100.5-FUl.s                    30.5     11.2    14.8       4.5       11.0    19.5       -        2,030     33         9     58      I   1.06              8           63.9        2,762.0       414.3
7    C-CL.O-1125                    25.0      24.1     0.5        -         3.5     5.5    16.0       3,280      42        11     47           1.12             a             -         1,872.0       280.8
B    K33-K52.5                       19.5     19.5       -        -          -      3.0    16.5       3,120      40        13     47           1.16             8              -        2,528.0        379.2
9    K52.5-L. U,ib.                  14.0     14.0       _        _          _        -     14.0      3,670      38        14     48           1.16             8                       3, 535.0      530.3
10  Lt  Urib.-And.luc.i             12.5      12.5      -         -          -      6.5      6.5      5,160      35        14     51           1.16             8             -         1,029.0       548.7
II  S10  Pddr-G ....ri              29 0      29 0       -        -          -     20.8      8.2      6,510      48        14     38           1.16             0             -         1,651.0       495.3
12   Ib.g,I-KS5                     29.0       6.6    14.5       7 9         -     29.0       -       2,330      26        13     61           1.08             S           84.5        3,006.0       478.5
13   K85-L. Li...                    34.0      8.2      6.3     19.5         -     54.0       -       2,340      23        15     62           1.08             6           72.1        2,457.0       387.0
14   L. Li-e.-A-riei                 19.3      1.0      1.4     13 9               10.9      8.4      2,340      23        15     62           1 10             a           69 9        2,472.0       370.8
15   F.c.tsOil.-Vill-ta             42.5       2 2      3.2     37.1       16.5    19.4      6.6      2,250      51        14     35      I    1.08             0           14.4        1,961.0       294.2
16   Vill..-H-ond.                  30.0       4.5       -      25.5       20.3     5.5      4.2      1,590      51        12     37      ,   1.06              8           36.7        1,451.0       217.7
17   Fvndaeion-Sovilla               29.7     29.7       _        -        12.8    16.9       -       1,670      47        14     39           1.10            12             -         2,237.0       335.5
18   Sevill:-io Frio                 18.9     10.9       -        -         1.3    17.6       _       1,330      42        15     43           1.10            12             -         2,731.0       490.7
19   Rio . ft-L. Y.                  14.4     14.4       -        _        14.4      _                1,590      42        15     43           1.10            12             -         2,546.0       381.9
20   Corr-t.-Casve-de                19.6     17.6      2.0                  - _            19.6      1,280      32        21     47           1.16             8              -        2,745.0       411.8
Zl  Co.-vOnde-V-odol.a              19.4     16.8      2.6       -          -       -      19.4      1,780      30        18      52          1.16             8    ,         -        3,542.0        531.3
22   V-rdolsga.-C--g.Oe              28.8     28.8       _       8.6       20.2       -       -       3;860      43        22      35          1.12              8             -        2,224.0       333.6
23   Oib.-Pi-cho-e                   36.2     22.2      9.1      4.9       10.6    19.9      5.7      1,570      39        12     49           1.08              8            6.9        1,890.0       283.5
24   Pi-Cho--Chifl.O                 34.9     22 0      7.1      5.8       16.9    18.0       -       1,550      42        11     47           1.06              8          14.0        1,663.0        249.5
25   Chifl-.-Pijdec--et              29.5     10.5      0.4     10.6         -     27.9      1.6      1,500      38        12     50           1.08             8            8.5        2,380.0        357.0
26   Bu.r-n-n-g.-E1 Playo-           25.0     12.4      6.6      6.0       12.3    12.7       -       1,650      43        13     44           1.06              8           58.0       1,990.0        298.5
27   Pmploo-o-L. D-o-u.,             44 0      4.7    25.5      13.8         -        -     44.0      1,440      55        13      32          1.12              8           11.1        1,588.0      238.2
12    VIlla Rosaeic-ZClia            24.0     19.4      4.3      0.3       13.7    10.3       -       4,790       76        6      18          1.10              8            5.2       1,386.0        346.5
23   vent.qu.a.d.-P.lp.              46.7      33.1     8.6       5.0       19.8    18.0      8.9      3,350      40        16     44           1.10             8           10.5        1,806.0       270.9
3)   Pip.-Belo...ito                41.6     34.6      7.0        .       15.5    26.1       -        3,190      45       14      41           1.08             8           11.8        1,415.0       212.3
31   C--tlla--K219                   34.5     54.5       -         -       25.0      9.5      _        1,500      39       13      48           1.06             8             -         1,577.0       236.6
32   K219-Aip.                       32.3     28.8      3.5        _       25.8      6.5      _        1,411      38       14      48           1.04             8                       1,195.0       179.3
33   Aip.-N.ivo                      39.2     37.2      2.0        -       37.2      2.0      -        1,729     49        12      39     J    1.04              8             -        1,062.0        159,3
R8:  -ah.bilit.tion of the suef-co c-urse:  5 c- of  sphalt verage
RSAB:  r-habilittio  of t16  surface cor...   plus P. phlt b ...   10 t  asphalt average
R18G:   -ahobilit.ti.o  of the sorfac- coo-a   plc. gr.ul-r bess
1/  TroffiC In fir.t y.-r of ao_lys.i:  assumed to be 1978.
'osrce: MOOT ard Miosioc
March 1977



TABLE 16
CQLOMBIA
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Vehicle Operating Costs
(on a paved "as new" road in Dec. 1975 Col$ per km)
Terrain             Vehicle I'       Bus 2/        Truck
Flat 4/                     3.22           3.83          5.07
Hilly 5/                    3.60           4.43          6.02
Mountainous 6/              4.58           6.34          8.66
1/ Simple average of small car, large car, taxi, jeep and pick-up van.
2/ Large inter-municipal bus.
3/ Simple average of small, medium and large truck.
4/ Gradients up to 2.9%.
5/ Gradients between 3% and 5.9%.
_| Gradients over 6%.
Source:  MOPT, based on INGEROUTE/MOP, Vehicle Operating Costs, January 1973
October 1976



COLOHBIA
SEVIENTII IIICHaIY PROJItCT
Economic Evaluation of Road Reb.bilitStton Progra
Risk Analysis of Rarte Of k-tur,l
Best EstImte                      X devarture  rom best estimates used for risk as-lysts                      Probability Diotribution              2. Probability
Economic                ..TIraffic               Road Cond. Coeff.    A  new" veb. optg. costs                of the rate of return            of rate of return
Rate of ieturn 1/          mean       Std.Dev.       Mean 2/  Std.Dev.            en        Std.Dev.                 Mean      Sn._td.D. 
I   Medellin         - Versalles                     67.5                   0           5S           -5%          5%             0            5%                    49.2          20.3                      0
2   Versatles        - Pintada                        21.9                  0           52            -1X         5X             0             5%                    20.5          10.5                    16
3   Peretra          - Asia                          44.9                   0           52            -5X         5%             0             52                    31.3         15.2                      8
4   Asia             - K 79                           32.2                  0           52             0          51                           52.                   33.1           7.6                     0
5   K79              -K 100.5                         18.0                  0           52            *52         52             0             52                    25.3          6.6                      0
6   K 100.5          - Felts.                         19.1                  0           52.            4          52.            0             52                    26.8           8.6                     0
7   Cartago          - K 25                          49.8                   0           5X            -22         51             0            52                    45.4          15.3                      0
8   K 33             -K 52.5                          45.5                  0           51            -52         51             0             51                    34.8          12.3                     0
!9   K 52.5           - La Urlibe                     39.3                   0           57            -52         52.            0            51                    29.7          10.9                     8
19  La Uribe         - Andalucia                     92.2                   0           57            -62.        57             0            52                    65.3          24.5                      0
11  San Pedro        - Guacarl                      117.0                   0           52            -9X         5X             0            51                    63.1          30.0                      4
12  Ibague           - K 85                          24.6                   0           52            *7.         52.            0            52                    38.3           9.1                      0
I;  K 85             - IA Line.                      32.9                   0           52            +72         51            0             52                    50.8          11.9                      0
14  La Line&         - Armenis                       42.2                   O           52            -27         52             0            52                    38.3          13.6                      0
S   Vcatativa        - Villeta                       37.9                  0            51           +12         52             0             52                    42.1          14.1                      0
116  Villets          . Hioda                         31.8                   0           52            +t1.        52            0             52                    35.7          13.0                      0
17  FundacLon        - Seville                       23.5                  0            52           +62          52            0             52                    34.1           8.0                     0
1i  S.vIla           - RIo Frto                      14.4                   0           52.           .6          52             0            52                    22.7           6.3O
19  Rio Frto         -La Ye                          19.8                  0            52            +62         52            0             5X                    29.4            7.2                    0
23  Carreto            Cassverde                     16.8                   0           52.            0          52             0            52                    17.7           6.4                     16
21  Casaverde        - Verdolaga                     19.2                   0           52             0          52             0            52                    19.8           6.8                    12
22  Verdolaga        _ Cartagena                     48.3                   0           52            +42         52            0             51                    61.7          15.1                     0
23  Olba             - Plnchote                      22.3                  0            51           *4X          52            0             52                    30.7           9.3                     0
2S  Ptinchote        _ Chiflas                       21.5                   0           52           +6           52.           0             52                    34.4           9.8                     0
25  Chitlas            Piedecuests                   18.8                  0            52           +42          52            0             52                    26.3           8.4                     0
26  Bucaramanga    - EL Plsyon                       21.1                  0            52.            62.        52.            0            52                    32.8           8.9                      0
127  Pamplona         - La Donjuana                   33.2                  0            52            0           5.            0             52                    34.2          10.5                     0
|26  Villa Rosarto  - Zulta                           70.0                  0            52           -21          52            0             52                    63.4          24.2                     0
29  Ventaquemada     Paipa                           50.5                  0            52           -21          51            0             5X                    45.6          16.9                     0
30  pidps            - Belencito                     48.6                  0            52            0           52            0             52                    50.7          18.1                     0
31  CattIla         - K 219                          18.7                  0            52           +62         52             0             52                    31.0           9.3                     0
32  K 219            - Alpe                          19.8                  0            5%           .42          52.           0             51                    29.7          11.1                     8
33  Aipe            _ tlva                           26.0                  0            52           +42         52             0             5t                    37.9          13.3                     0
1/  Bsed on miwstonls beat catimates of cost  and benefits.
21  Dittersnce botween mission's beat eatt"t. of road conditton coafficIent and HOPT's best *sttmata.
Source:  Mlsason
March 1977



COtIl8IA
AtNTINni Htlw,Y 2PbutmC
H11u6y _blat.oance Propraa
With 0nS Wt2jnout trao                   and Us.r Coats of Ilaorh
(D.c. 1975 US$   It...n  I USS . Col .     31
.korlc jllOt*OMIO  CoIL.
Without fro.ga                          I I                                          Wi ll, Itorra
landalid            Unp ..vd                  av-d                      land.ltd.            UI-panaedlt aL  2/                                                           Total 3/       C.1itld          ld.aI
ftove1 I/        -rth       ora..I      ST           AC         Total  goov-1            t.rth        G.a-I2       ST 2         5t i             Ac                                      ith_ b.  4/      SRhab. 4/
1978         3.27          3.93        6.00      9.27         8.29        30.76    2.62            6.76         9.0S        15. 7        81.10            13.52       47.65       111.05            I6. 8            82.29
1979         3.27          4.15        6.33      9.71         8.29        31.75    2.62            6.98         9.59        16.24        40.77             7.96       43.39        67.92            11.64            36.17
1980        3.?2           4.36        6.65     10.36         8.84        3L.48     2.62            7.30        It7.42      12.54        28.78            13.52       54.40         70.64           20.92            37.16
1981        3.27           4.41        8.76     11.13         9.93        35.56    2.62             7.52       l6.46         7.30        10.25            17.11       51.01         51.96           15.45            18.40
1982        3.27           4.69        1.98     i1.89         9.60        36.44    2.62             7.85        11.45       13.90        14.17             3.92       39.74        412.01            3.30             3.57
1913        3.27           4.91       34.15    12.98         11.89        67.20    2.62            8.18         15.70        9.16         3.71            24.63       60.29         54.84           -6.91           -12.36
1984        3.27           5.13        8.64    14.51         11.67        43.42    2.62            8.50         16.35       15.70         8.28             6.98       50.15        42.63             6.73            -0.79
1985        3.27           5.35        8.51    14.51         12.65        44.29    2.62            8.83         16.57       11.99         4.2S             4.80       50.81         37.07            6.52            .7.22
1986        3.27           5.67        9.05    16.25        123.5         47.78    2.62            9.27         19.62       14.28         3.71             4.14       49.93         39.36            2.15            -8.42
1987        3.27           5.89        9.49    17.13         16.51        50.29    2.62            9.70         16.13       20.06         1.74            30.08       78.59        60.27            28.30             9.98
6CoN60IC US03 COSTS
1978                      80.66      114.12    185.19       536.28       916.25                   76.30        112.16      184.10       180.18           536.28      908.84       904.92              7.41           11.33
1979                     87.09       123.28    212.22       597.32     1,019.91                   82.40        121.10      210.37       175.05           S72.14      986.01       950.69            33.90            69.22
1980                      94.18      133.20    244.71       666.10    1,138.19                    88.94        130.80      239.91       177.89           628.28    1,087.93     1,025.91            50.26           112.28
1991                     102.13      147.91    282.42       744.03     1,276.49                   96.14        141.26      274.57       187.25          685.61   1,197.58       1,110.16             78.91          166.33
1982                     112.71      164.81    326.13       832.32    1,435.97                   103.77        152.60     315.88        200.56           729.54   1,301.79      1,186.47           134.18           249.50
1983                     118.37      192.52    316.92       932.50    1,620.61                   113.36        164.70      354.69       219.64          806.71   1,439.45       1,104.40           181.16           316.21
1984                     127.86      181.16    435.89   1,046.18    1,791.09                     120.99        177.89     404.94        238.82          846.39   1,550.20       1,384.08           240.89           407.01
1985                     138.10      195.66    S04.45   1,175.46    2,013.67                     130.69        192.17      464.12       260.18           918.76   1,705.74      1,501.80           307.93           521.87
1986                     149.11      211.24    5864.13   1,322.82    2,267.30                    141.16       207.54       481.34       286.02        1,014.79   1,844.83       1,649.50           422.48           617.80
1967                    161.10       228.14    676.61   1,490.90    2,356.81                     152.49       224.10       545.22       314.57        1,122.26   2,044.08       3,813.43           512.73           743.38
I/   6aray  wrka Nor l1n-dlidt rs.eol and prtttlon of ro.d4ay  not Included In  int.n..r  .ctlitta9 O0  *ach Lyp. of rood
2/  A.n.  limited rhabillgallon 1t  done In the analy1t. perlod
2   Amlont  r.habiIltatlon ot rood. t  on.  Oan  Ida.l1, required gsI.e  their condition .nd d.tarlortl4on
4/  A.Phat concramt  roado or. ov.rl.yd, lutrit. trasrd rod. a.h rhbilitated
3T?  S.rfaco trestOd roads
AC. *.phlt  oncr.t  roated.
-.-n.  Mission
AprIl 1917



TABLE 19
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Maintenance Program
Summary of Economic Assessment
Net Present
Economic rate        Value  .  Benefit/Cost
of return      (US$ Million      Ratio
Program implemented with
limited rehabilitation             292.30         920.75          13.71
Program implemented with
rehabilitations when
ideally needed                    117.76        1,511.43          11.09
Source: Mission
April 1977



TABLE 20
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
nstimated Yearly Maintenance Expenditures
(Dec. 1976 US$ million)
Without                       With
Program                      Program 1/
Limited                 Ideal
Rehabilitation         Rehabilitation
1978                 41.91                64.92                 154.03
1979                 43.26                59.12                  92.54
1980                 45.62                74.12                  96.25
1981                 48.45                69.50                   73.52
Average 1978-1981            44.81                 66.92                 104.09
1982                 49.65                54.15                  54.51
1983                 91.56                82.15                  74.72
1984                 59.16                68.33                  58.08
1985                 60.35                69.23                  69.23
1986                 65.10                68.03                  53.63
1987                 60.52               107.08                  82.12
1/ Including overlaying of asphalt concrete roads and rehabilitation of
surface treated roads not normally part of maintenance budgets.
Source: Mission
April 1977



ANNEX I
Page 1
COLOMBIA
APPRAISAL OF A SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for a Vehicle Weight Control Study
1.   Purpose of the Study
Origin-destination studies for passengers and freight carried out
by consultants and the Planning Office of the Ministry of Public Works and
Transport show that a significant percentage of trucks using the national
highways exceed the legal weight limits for single or tandem axle loadings
as enacted by Resolution 1051 of February 8, 1971, authorized under Decree
1344 of 1970. This is causing a rapid deterioration of the roads, resulting
in a poor level of service and additional costs for special maintenance of
the highways and for their reconstruction, which could be avoided.
For these reasons, the Ministry of Public Works and Transport
proposes to undertake a study to review the legislation and to determine the
most suitable methods and procedures for setting up a system to enforce legal
requirements, particularly for axle loads of trucks.
The aim of the Ministry of Public Works and Transport is to offer
better service on the roads for which it is responsible and to reduce the
cost of maintenance and reconstruction.
2.   Scope of the Study
To achieve the purposes outlined above, the consultants shall:
(a) review existing legislation and regulations on axle loads
applicable to the national highways;
(b) review the history of previous attempts to apply a weight
control system on the national highways;
(c)  review the legislation and regulations on axle loads in the
Andean Group Countries, Brazil and the United States of America;
(d) review the effect of technological developments in the
manufacture of heavy vehicles on axle loads, particularly in
the context of the Andean Group Countries;
(e) based on the above, recommend, if necessary, changes to the
current legislation and regulations on weight control;
(f) assess the effect of the recommendations provided in (e) on
the current design standards for highways and structures and
on construction and maintenance costs of the network;



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(g) review the composition of the truck fleet of Colombia and its
adequacy to best serve the country's need; review current import
regulations and import licensing arrangements to guarantee the
technical soundness of the vehicles, and recommend any necessary
changes to ensure that the fleet is adequate to the country's
need;
(h) analyze various axle load control systems and recommend the
system or systems best adapted to enforcing the legal require-
ments proposed;
(i) investigate the system currently applied for computing, imposing
and collecting fines and, if necessary, recommend any changes
needed to minimize fine evasion;
(j) design a system for the operation of weight controls and estab-
lish the procedures and fines that should be applicable to all
cases which may arise;
(k) establish the type and characteristics of the installations
necessary to operate the proposed system, taking into account
the need to avoid long lines of trucks that would congest roads
and slow down the circulation of other vehicles;
(1) given the number and location of the weight control stations as
shall be determined by the Planning Office of the Ministry of
Public Works and Transport, determine the cost of each one of the
proposed systems, distinguishing between capital, maintenance and
operating costs. The consultants shall show the foreign component,
if any, and the local costs for both equipment and civil works.
Operating costs are understood to include personnel costs and the
costs of any necessary materials. A schedule of capital expendi-
tures shall also be drawn up for each proposed system, specifying
dates and lead times for the procurement, installation and startup
of the stations, allowing for the fact that startup should be
more or less simultaneous at all selected locations;
(m)  prepare an economic analysis of the proposed control system
including the economic rate of return, net present value and
the benefit cost ratio for each system, making due allowance
for savings accruing to the Ministry of Public Works and
Transport on account of the maintenance and rehabilitation
of the national highways and those accruing to users due to
the higher level of service offered;
(n) review and recommend possible means to ensure the cooperation
of the trucking industry in the program;



ANNEX 1
Page 3
(o) prepare a typical design for the civil works of the stations
and the specifications for the equipment proposed to be used;
(p) prepare bid documents for tenders to procure the installation
of the equipment and the construction of civil works at each
site.
3.   Duration
The study will be executed over a period of 15 months and should be
carried out in three phases as follows:
(a) Phase I: background and recommendations on weight control
limits; activities (a) to (f) inclusive as described in 2
above.
Duration - two months
(b) Phase II: definition of the weight control system and description
of its operation; activities (g) to (n) as described in 2 above.
Duration - four months
(c) Phase III: preparation of bid documents for the procurement of
the equipment and civil works; activities (o) and (p) above.
Duration - six months
4.   Reports
At the end of each phase, the consultants shall present a report
in draft (five copies). Any comments by the Ministry shall be incorporated
by the consultants and a final report shall be presented to the Ministry
(10 copies).
5.   Work Orders
The Planning Office of the Ministry of Public Works and Transport
shall communicate in writing to the consultant the dates of commencement of
each phase. Once the first phase has been completed and the draft report
submitted, the Ministry will make comments as necessary and decide whether
or not to continue the study to the subsequent phases, advising the consultants
of such decision in writing.
June 1977



ANNEX 2
Page 1
COLOMBIA
APPRAISAL OF A SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Rehabilitation Program
General
1.        The Road Rehabilitation Program covers 33 road lots, totalling about
978 km, located throughout the country along the following roads:
(a) western trunk road, which follows approximately the Cauca valley;
(b) the eastern trunk road which follows approximately the Magdalena
valley;
(c) the two main transversal roads between the western and eastern
trunk roads in the central region; and
(d) two important branch roads from the eastern trunk road:
(i) to Belencito, serving the expanding coal mining industry;
and (ii) to the Venezuelan Border near Cucuta.
Traffic Characteristics
2.        Traffic along the roads can be described as follows:
(a) The western trunk road carries the bulk of goods between the
Atlantic and Pacific ports and the important industrial,
commercial and agricultural centers of Medellin and Cali.
Presently, until completion of the paving of the eastern trunk
road, many goods transported by road between Bogota and the
Atlantic ports also go by this road.
(b) Paving of the eastern trunk road is due for completion by 1979
on about 250 km between Fundacion and Limites (near Malpaso).
Once paved, the road will carry all the goods between the
important commercial centers of Bogota, Tunja and Bucaramanga
and the Atlantic Ports.
(c)  The two paved transversal roads connect with the western trunk
road at Cerritos and the eastern trunk road, one at Bogota via
Manizales and Honda, and the other at Espinal via Armenia and
Ibague. These roads carry all road transported goods between
the main centers in the central provinces and between Bogota
and the Pacific and, presently, the Atlantic Ports.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
(d) The road from Tunia to Belencito carries considerable traffic
between the expanding coal mining industry in the area and the
main centers. The road from Bucaramanga to Cucuta and Villa
Rosario is the only road link between Colombia and Venezuela
and is becoming an important import/export route.
Description of the Roads
3.        A brief description of each road follows and a breakdown of costs
and economic rate of return for each lot is given in the table.
(a)  Medellin-Pintada Road (76.0 km)
Lot 1:  Medellin-Versalles (38.0 km)
Lot 2:  Versalles-Pintada (38.0 km)
This road is located on the western trunk road in the department of
Antioquia; over 70% runs through mountainous terrain as the road
generally descends from Medellin (1,500 m.a.s.l.) 1/ to cross Rio
Cauca at Pintada. Some stretches go through unstable terrain,
especially along the ridges, and landslips above and below the
roadway are common in the wet seasons. The road was paved in 1952.
Since then, only one resealing of 51 km was carried out in 1968 and
the pavement is now in poor condition. The pavement structure is
generally sound but requires considerable reinforcement for the
present traffic of 1,800 to 4,500 vpd which is made up of over
60-70% of heavy vehicles. Stabilization works (estimated cost:
US$750,000) for critical sections on both lots are to be carried
out under two contracts before the main rehabilitation works
commence. Rehabilitation includes widening the asphalt paving
from the present 6.20 m average to 7.00 m.
(b)  Pereira-Cerritos-Pintada Road (128.6 km)
Lot 3:  Pereira-Asia (41.6 km)
Lot 4:  Asia- Km 79 (35.0 km)
Lot 5:  Km 79-Km 100.5 (21.5 km)
Lot 6:  Km 100.5-Felisa (30.5 km)
Cerritos-Felisa is located on the western trunk road and the 16 km
from Cerritos to Pereira is on the common stretch of the two trans-
versal roads to the eastern trunk road. The roads are in the
departments of Risaralda and Caldas. The road winds up and down
on the left side of Rio Cauca crossing it at Virginia some 12 km
before Cerritos. From Cerritos, the road rises to Pereira at 1,400
m.a.s.l. Each lot goes through unstable mountainous terrain and
four contracts for stabilization works (estimated cost: US$2.2
million) are to be carried out before the main rehabilitation
works. The road was completely paved by 1957. Since then, only
15 ktm were resealed in 1970 and the rehabilitation, which includes
widening the asphalt paving from 6.60 m average to 7.00 m, would
1/   meters above sea level



ANNEX 2
Page 3
require reconstruction of about 17 km of pavement. Considerable
pavei-'t strengthening is required for the present traffic of
1,600 to 4,000 vpd, which is made up of over 55-70% heavy vehicles.
(c)  Cartago-Guacari Road (100.0 km)
Lot  7:  Cartago-Km 25 (25.0 km)
Lot  8:  Km 33-Km 52.5 (19.5 km)
Lot  9:  Km 52.5-Uribe (14.0 km)
Lot 10:  Uribe-Andalucia (12.5 km)
Lot 11:  San Pedro-Guacari (29 km)
This road is located on the western trunk road to the right of Rio
Cauca, in the department of Valle del Cauca, and generally runs
over flat terrain. Traffic varies from 3,000 to 6,000 vpd (50-60%
heavy vehicles) increasing toward Cali. Heavy traffic, since the
road was paved in 1953, has severely damaged the pavement structure,
over half of which now requires reconstruction. This situation
clearly reflects the inadequate maintenance policies in the past;
only 28 km were overlayed in 1972-1974. Rehabilitation includes
widening the asphalt paving from the present 6.40 m average to
7.20 m. Shoulders of over 1.50 m are generally possible without
widening the roadway.
(d)  Ibague-Armenia Road (82.3 km)
Lot 12:  Ibague-Km 85 (29.0 km)
Lot 13:  Km 85-La Linea (34.0 km)
Lot 14:  La Linea-Armenia (19.3 km)
This road is located on the Cerritos-Espinal transversal road, in
the departments of Tolima and Quindia, and passes over the central
range at 3,280 m.a.s.l., traversing some of the most difficult
terrain in the country. The alignment is winding and often tortuous,
and the gradient reaches a maximum of 10%. Each lot has numerous
stretches of unstable terrain and the road is often closed in the
wet seasons due to landslides and washouts. Stabilization works
estimated at US$1.9 million will be carried out on the most critical
sections before rehabilitation of the roadway. The road was paved
by 1953 and, despite only 16 km having received overlays in 1970-
1972, only about 8 km require reconstruction. However, considerable
strengthening is required for the present traffic of about 2,200 vpd
which is made up of 75% heavy vehicles. The asphalt paving would
be widened to 7.00 m.
(e)  Bogota-Honda Road (7,215 km)
Lot 15:  Facatativa-Villeta (37.9 km)
Lot 16:  Villeta-Honda (31.8 km)
This road is on the Cerritos-Bogota transverse road, located in the
Department of Cundinamarca, and commences some 40 km from Bogota at



ANNEX 2
Page 4
2,600 m.a.s.l. The road generally descends through the mountainous
terrain to Honda on Rio Magdalena with gradients often above 6%.
The road was paved to 7.00 m around 1957 and received resealing
of only [0 km in 1972. Rehabilitation would include stabilization
of several zones and improvement in drainage. The pavement needs
considerable strengthening and, for about 11 km, reconstruction;
no widening is required. Traffic varies from 1,500 to 2,000 vpd
(50% heavy vehicles).
(f)  Fundacion-La Ye (63.0 km)
Lot 17:  Fundacion-Sevilla (29.7 km)
Lot 18.  Sevilla-Rio Frio (18.9 km)
Lot 19:  Rio Frio-La Ye (14.4 km)
This road is located on the eastern trunk road in the Department of
Magdalena and runs on flat terrain for its entire length. The road
was paved in 1952 to widths between 5.80 and 6.60 m with narrow
shoulders. Present traffic averages about 1,500 vpd with about 55%
heavy vehicles. Traffic will undoubtedly increase considerably in
number and size when paving of the eastern trunk road is completed.
Rehabilitation would widen the asphalt paving to 7.00 m and provide
adequate shoulders. Negligible resealing has been carried out
since construction, and rehabilitaiton would include considerable
strengthening of the pavement.
(g)  Carreto-Cartagena Road (68.0 km)
Lot 20:  Carreto-Casaverde (19.6 km)
Lot 21:  Casaverde-Verdolaga (19.6 km)
Lot 22:  Verdolaga-Cartegena (28.8 km)
This road is located on the western trunk road in the department of
Bolivar; more than 80% runs over flat terrain often on low strength
soils. The road was paved before 1954 and was resealed in 1968.
Its present condition is poor, and the pavement needs considerable
strengthening to carry the 1,200-3,500 vpd (55% to 70% heavy vehicles)
on the weak soils. The pavement on Lots 20 and 21 requires complete
reconstruction. Rehabilitation includes widening to 7.00 m from the
present 5.60 m to 6.70 m and some widening of shoulders.
(h)  Qiba-fiedecuesta Road (100.6 km)
Lot 23:  Oiba-Pinchota (36.2 km)
Lot 24:  Pinchota-Chiflas (34.9 km)
Lot 25:  Chiflas-Piedecuesta (29.5 km)
This road is located in the department of Santander on the eastern
trunk road between Tunja and Bucaramanga; the alignment traverses
all types of terrain with gradients reaching 7%. Most of the road
was paved around 1953 but the final 26 km was completed in 1961 and



ANNEX 2
Page 5
1962; 60 km of the original road received an asphalt concrete
overlay in 1966 atun was widened from the original 6.30 m to 7.20 m
in several stretches. The paving is deteriorating fast under the
present 1,500 vpd, of which about 60% are heavy vehicles. Rehabi-
litation includes considerable drainage works, strengthening of the
asphalt paving with widening of narrow stretches to 7.00 m.
(i)  Bucaramanga-El Playon Road (25.0 km)
Lot 26:  Bucaramanga-El Playon (25.0 km)
This road is located in the department of Santander on the eastern
trunk road north of Bucaramanga. The terrain is mainly undulating
and gradients are generally less than 4%. Paving of the road
(6.80 m to 7.20 m) was carried out in 1966; there has not been any
subsequent resealing. The paving is deteriorating fast under the
present 1,500 vpd, of which nearly 60% are heavy vehicles. Rehabi-
litation includes widening to 7.20 m, protecting the road from river
erosion and drainage improvements.
(j)  Pamplona-La Donjuana Road (44.0 km)
Lot 27: Pamplona-La Donjuana (44.0 km)
This road is located between Bucaramanga and the Venezuelan border
in the department of North Santander. The road traverses mainly
rolling terrain but nearer Pamplona gradients go above 6%. The road
was paved (7,00 m wide) in 1954 and 34 km was resealed between 1970
and 1972. However, the traffic, which is presently over 1,300 vpd
(45% heavy vehicles), has caused considerable damage and the pavement
now requires complete reconstruction.
(k)  Villa Rosario-Cucuta-Zulia Road (24.0 km)
Lot 28:  Villa Rosario-Zulia (24.0 km)
This lot is composed of two sections: 10.2 km between Cucuta and
Zulia (7.00 m wide) and 6.9 km of double carriageway (each 7.00 m
wide) between Cucuta and Villa Rosario on the Venezuelan border.
The road is located in the department of North Santander, 80% being
in flat terrain. The average daily traffic is about 2,400 vpd (40%
heavy) on the Zulia-Cucuta section and about 5,600 vpd (10% heavy)
on each carriageway of the Cucuta-Villa Rosario section. Both
sections were paved between 1962 and 1964 and have since received
limited resealing. Rehabilitation would include strengthening the
existing pavement and improving drainage.
(1)  Venteguemada-Belencito Road (88.3 km)
Lot 29:  Ventequemada-Paipa (46.7 km)
Lot 30:  Paipa-Belencito (41.6 km)



ANNEX 2
Page 6
This road is located in the department of Boyaca on the eastern
trunk road between Ventequemada and Tunja and on the branch road
from Tunja to Belencito. The alignment passes through all types of
terrain but nearly 80% is of low gradients. The Ventequemada-Tunja
section was paved in 1965 and the rest between 1967 and 1970; about
79 km were resealed between 1969 and 1973. The traffic is presently
about 3,000 vpd (55%-60% heavy vehicles) and rehabilitation would
mainly include strengthening of the existing pavement. The road
requires limited widening to the 7.00 m design width. Shoulders
are generally between 1.00 m and 1.50 m.
(m)  Castilla-Neiva Road (106.0 km)
Lot 31:  Castilla-Km 219 (34.5 km)
Lot 32:  Km 219-Aipe (32.3 km)
Lot 33:  Aipe-Neiva (39.2 km)
This road is located on the eastern trunk road in the departments of
Tolima and Huila; about 95% runs over flat or slightly rolling
terrain. The present traffic varies between 1,300 and 1,600 vpd
(50%-60% heavy vehicles). The road was paved in 1966 to 7.00 m wide
but only narrow shoulders were provided. In 1970 resealing was done
on 14 km and the road is now deteriorating rapidly. Rehabilitation
would include strengthening the existing pavement and provision of
shoulders to improve safety.
June 1977



ANNEX 2
Pa7e 1
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
R*babilitation Pro"rIl   -  read    of It Costs
(axcluding stabiliztion vorks; June177 US$)j/
BASE COST US$  ~         ECONOMIC
LOT            DESCRIPTION                 LENGTH       t PAVING                                                             S EARTH  E DRAINAGE  SOTHER     RATE OF
D E S C R I P T I O N  1   D R A I N A G E   T O T A L   ( M i l l i o n )   U S $ / K M   R E T U R N
1    Medellin-Versalles                    38.0           79            9            7              5                2.77                72,890               67.5
2    Verx.lles-Pintad.                     38.0           72           12           12              4                2.98                78,420               21.9
3    Pereira-Asia (K44)                    41.6           81           12            4              3                3.57                85,820               4-4.9
4    Asia (K44)-K79                        35.0           52           18           26              4                2.06                58,860               32.2
5    K79-X100.5                            21.5           60           li           25              4                1.85                86,050               18.0
6    K100.5-Feli.s                         30.5           59           17           20              4                2.39                73,360               19.1
7    Cartago-K25                           25.0           89            2            5              4                1.70                68,000               49.8
8    K33-K52.5                              19.5          93            3            1              3                 1.79               91,790               45.5
9    K52.5-1  Uribe (K66.5)               14.0           86           10            1              3                 1.80              128,570               39.3
10   La Uribe-And.lucia (K79)              12.5           86            6            2              6                0.83                66,400               92.2
11   San Pedro-Guacari                     29.0           88            7            1              4                1.74                60,000              117.0
12   IbaRue (K56)-K85                      29.0           46            9           42              3                2.52                86,900               24.6
13   K85-K119 (La Linea)                   34.0           61            5           30              4                2.36                69,410               32.9
14   La Linea-Ar.enia                      19.3           58           11           27              4                1.53                79,270               42.2
15   Facatativa-Villeta                    42.5           59            7           30              4                3.02                71,060               37.9
16   Villeta-Honda                         30.0           58           12           26              4                1.58                52,670               31.8
17   Fundacion-Sevilla                     29.7           68           19            6              7                2.41                81,140               23.5
18   Se-illa-Rio Frio                      18.9           61           20           12              7                1.87                98,940               14.4
19   Rio Prio-La Ye                        14.4           63           21            9              7                1.33                92,360               19.8
20   Carreto-Casaverde                     19.6           84            4            6              6                1.95                99,490               16.8
21   C.a-verde-Verd.lag.                   19.4           90            2            4              4                 2.52              129,900               19.2
22   Verdolaga-Cartagena                   28.8           83            3            6              8                 2.32               80,560               48.3
23   Oiba.Pinchote                         36.2           88            2            5              5                 2.48               68,510               22.3
24   Pinchote-Chiflas                      34.9           87            7            2              4                 2.11               60,460               21.5
25   Chifl.s-Piedecue.ta                   29.5           71            4           21              4                2.55                86,440               18.8
26   Bcaramanga-EI Playon                  25.0            72          10           14              4                 1.81               72,400               21.2
27   Pasplona-Donjusna                     44.0           86            2            8              4                 2.54               57,730               33.2
28   Vill. Roe-rio-Cucut.-Zuli.            24.0           79            8            6              7                 1.21               50,420               70.0
29   Venteque.ad.-P.ip.                    46.7           84            4            7              5                 3.06               65,520               50.5
30   P-ipe-Belencito                       41.6           89            2            3              6                 2.14               51,440               48.6
31   C.atill4-K219                         34.5           88            4            3              5                 1.97               57,100               18.7
32   K219-Aipe                             32.3           82            3            8              7                 1.40               43,340               19.8
33   Aipe.Neioa                            39.2           72            3           18               7                1.51                    20              26.0
I    stiated exchange rate June 1977, US$I _ Cot$ 36.80
Source: Mission
March 1977



ANNEX 3
Page 1
COLOMBIA
APPRAISAL OF A SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for the Technical Assistance Programs
(A) Coordinator for:
(a) Rehabilitation Program
(b) Study of Locally Available Materials for Road
Construction and Maintenance
1.   Introduction
The coordinator of the Rehabilitation Program and the Study of
Naturally Occurring Materials is to provide specialized assistance to MOPT
and its consultants in carrying out their various functions. He will work
within the "Division de Programas Especiales de Carreteras" of MOPT.
2.   Objective
To ensure that (a) the investments in the Rehabilitation Program
are being utilized in the most economical manner to achieve the design life
of the projects, and (b) the objectives of a study on locally available
materials are being met.
3.   Functions
Rehabilitation Program
(a) determine whether the project designs for all works envisaged
in the Rehabilitation Program are relevant at the time of
construction and recommend modifications if any are necessary;
(b) coordinate the execution of required design changes between the
construction site and MOPT's Specialized Divisions;
(c) help accelerate the decision-making process in approving design
changes so as not to cause undue delay to the construction works;
(d) foresee problem areas in the construction programs which may
delay or cause uneconomical costs to the project and resolve
these problems through coordination between the site and the
MOPT Specialized Divisions;
(e) cooperate with MOPT's "Division de Interventorias," taking care
not to duplicate this division's activities;



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(f) coordinate preparation of quarterly reports for MOPT and the
World Bank; thes- ennrts are tequired to be submitted within
one month of the reporting period;
(g) coordinate preparation of completion reports for each road
section and for the entire rehabilitation program; reports to
be presented within three months of the completion of each
section and the final report not later than three months from
the final drawdown of the loan.
Study of Locally Available Materials
(h) coordinate, between MOPT and the consultants engaged in the
study, all field, laboratory and office activities;
(i) advise MOPT on conclusions and recommendations ensuing from
the consultants' studies; and
(j) coordinate between and advise MOPT's Specialized Divisions
on progress and conclusions of the study.
4.   Period
(a) The project coordinator would be required from the commencement
of the Rehabilitation Program for a period of about two years.
(b) After the initial 24 months, three periodic visibts to Colombia
of two months each are envisaged while the Rehabilitation
Program is in progress.
(c) It is envisaged that the coordinator's time would be equally
spent between the construction and study sites and MOPT's
head offices in Bogota.
5.   Special MOPT Counterparts
Rehabilitation Program
Six civil engineers with at least eight years' relevant experience
in asphalt paved road design, construction and maintenance.
Study of Material Resources
One geologist
One materials engineer
Four technicians
Central and district laboratories and laboratory staff would assist
in carrying out soils mechanics tests.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
(B) Manager of the Highway Maintenance Program
1.   Introduction
MOPT intends to increase the number of maintenance districts. This
requires redistribution of the national road network and changes in allocation
of the highway maintenance fleet and personnel.
The highway maintenance fleet is presently in a poor condition,
partly due to its age and partly due to lack of supply of spare parts to
maintain it.
MOPT intends to improve the supply of spare parts for equipment and
vehicles used for road maintenance. However, before improvements can be accom-
plished, MOPT's procedures for requisitioning and supply of spare parts need
to be changed.
The Highway Maintenance Program is designed to improve the cost-
effectiveness of road maintenance--presently over 80% of budget allocations
go on fixed expenditures (salaries, etc.)--and to recommend and help implement
improvements in the framework of MOPT's present organization.
It is envisaged that the Program would generally be carried out on
a countrywide basis, although the methodology for programming and costing of
maintenance operations would initially be determined by commencing in three
districts having distinctly different characteristics.
2.   Objective
The objective of the Highway Maintenance Program is to improve the
cost effectiveness of road maintenance.
3.   Scope
The scope of the Highway Maintenance Program is to:
(a) improve programming, costing and budgeting of routine and
periodic road maintenance;
(b) implement reorganization of MOPT's stores and the purchase,
warehousing and distribution of spare parts to the Districts;
(c) institute the programming of preventive and corrective maintenance
of MOPT's road maintenance fleet;
(d) improve the availability of the road maintenance fleet;
(e) improve utilization and operation of the fleet and personnel;



ANNEX 3
Page 4
(f) train MOPT personnel involved in road maintenance activities,
su-h as engineers, mechanics, storemen, operators, drivers,
inspectors, foremen and technicians.
The Highway Maintenance Program will be coordinated by a project
manager who will be responsible to the Commerce and Finance Directorate and
to the Operations Directorate and will coordinate and supervise four groups
of specialists in the following fields:
(1) implementation of reorganization of warehousing, purchasing and
distribution of spare parts;
(2) programming and implementation of preventive and corrective
maintenance of the fleet;
(3) programming, costing and budgeting of maintenance of the
national road network; and
(4) improvements in utilization and operation of equipment and
personnel for road maintenance.
4.   Functions of the Program Manager
(a) advise MOPT on a viable equipment replacement schedule to
reduce the average equipment life to about seven years over the
period 1978 to 1981;
(b)  advise MOPT on the annual value of spare parts required to
maintain the fleet efficiently;
(c) advise MOPT on required changes in organization and procedures
for purchasing, warehousing and distribution of spare parts
to the districts;
(d) advise MOPT on the ways and means to improve workshop practices
so as to increase the availability of equipment for road mainte-
nance requirements;
(e) advise MOPT on the ways and means to improve utilization and
operation of equipment for road maintenance;
(f) coordinate and supervise the activities of the four groups
implementing the program;
(g) establish guidelines for determining the annual budget for the
districts by providing separate categories for routine mainte-
nance, periodic maintenance, emergency works, fleet replacement,
spare part requirements, etc.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
5.   Period
The Highway Mlaintenance Program is expected to start in mid-1977 for
a two and one-half year period. The program manager's activities would be
required to cover the entire program.
6.   MOPT Counterparts
The main counterparts to the project manager are the chiefs of the
MOPT Divisions dealing with road maintenance and stores. Special counterparts
will be required for the four specialist groups as indicated.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
(C) Reorganization of Stores ,Purchasing, Warehousing and
Diqtribution of Spare Parts
1.   Objective
To provide an economic and timely acquisition of spare parts, their
warehousing and distribution to the district workshops.
2.   Function
(a) recommend to MOPT required changes in MOPT procedures, store
facilities, purchasing, warehousing and distribution of spare
parts;
(b) reorganize warehousing in the central and district stores by
improving indexing and recording of movement of spare parts;
(c) establish and implement purchasing and distribution procedures
(including automatic reordering) of spare parts for corrective
and preventive maintenance;
(d) train storemen and assistants in central and district stores,
and mechanics in the districts in identification, ordering,
warehousing and indexing of spare parts.
3.   Period
(a) the team to implement the reorganization and training would consist
primarily of a team leader experienced in all aspects of purchasing
and warehousing of spare parts and three storemen, each for a
20-month period;
(b) the implementation of the reorganizing of the procedures in the
stores would begin in mid-1977 for a period of eight months, at
the end of which the central store and all district stores should
have the capacity and capability to receive consignments of spare
parts for the corrective and preventive maintenance programs;
(c) training to be provided to the storemen over a ten-month period
starting after reorganization of the stores.
4.   Special MOPT Counterparts
Two senior storemen/purchasing officer
Six storemen



ANNEX 3
Page 7
(D) Program to Introduce Corrective and Preventive Maintenance to
MOPT's Fleet in the Districts
1.   Objective
To improve the availability of the fleet of road maintenance
equipment.
2.   Functions
(a) assist the districts in determining economical life of equipment
based on utilization and compile a replacement sdhedule to
reduce the average life of the equipment to about 7 years over
the period 1978-1981;
(b) assist the districts in determining values of spare parts required
for annual budget presentation for the years 1978 to 1982;
(c) advise and assist districts on programming preventive and corrective
maintenance;
(d) assist district workshops in estimating procedures for identifica-
tion of spare parts from makers' catalogs;
(e) assist districts in obtaining accurate and prompt compilation of
equipment availability and utilization data.
3.   Period
Three mechanical superintendents would work with the district
organizations. The program is expected to start in October 1977 and continue
for about 20 months through the delivery period of the spare parts provided
under the Seventh Highway Project.
A tentative division of the districts for the mechanical super-
intendent is as follows:
Superintendent No. 1 -- Districts 2, 4, 8, 13, 15, 16 and 25
Superintendent No. 2 -- Districts 5, 6, 11, 14, 17, 18, 19, 23, 24
Superintendent No. 3 -- Districts 1, 3, 7, 9, 10, 12, and 20, 21,
22, 26
4.  MOPT Counterparts
Each mechanical superintendent would have two counterparts who would
be mechanics with substantial experience in the districts.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
(E) Improvement of Road Maintenance Personnel and Equipment Performance
1.   Introduction
The United Nations agency, UNIDO, has an expert advising MOPT's
districts on equipment utilization. In addition to this input, further
technical assistance is envisaged to establish sound road maintenance pro-
cedures in Colombia by improving the utilization and performance of the
personnel and equipment of the districts in maintenance of the road network.
2.   Objectives
(a) improve the utilization of equipment in road maintenance;
(b) improve the output of road maintenance personnel;
(c) improve the quality of routine and periodic maintenance of
paved roads.
3.   Functions
(a) analyze the methods and equipment used for carrying out
maintenance in the districts;
(b) determine the most economic method for carrying out the various
maintenance tasks, taking into consideration materials available;
(c) make recommendations regarding equipment and manpower requirements
to maintain the district road networks economically;
(d) instruct the sector engineers and the inspectors on proper pro-
cedures for maintaining gravel and asphalt paved roads. Instruc-
tion to be carried out by seminars and on-site demonstrations
and training;
(e) assist sector engineers in determining ways and means to improve
external and internal drainage of asphalt paved roads;
(f) assist sector and district engineers in determining annual and
monthly programs for road maintenance and costing of the program
for budgetary and management uses.
4.   Period
The assistance would commence in mid-1977 and would coordinate
with the UNIDO program. It is envisaged that four experts (one for program-
ming, costing and budgeting, one for equipment utilization and two for asphalt
road maintenance) would be required over a two and one-half year period.



ANNEX 3
Page 9
5.   Special MOPT Counterparts
Ten civil engineers
Twelve inspectors
The intention is that the counterparts, who should have had consider-
able experience in road maintenance, would assist the experts in the training
program, after an initial learning period. The training program should conti-
nue after the experts have left and should be designed as a permanent feature
of MOPT's activities in the districts.
June 1977



ANNEX 4
Page 1
COLOMBIA
APPRAISAL OF A SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for a Study of Locally Available
Road Construction and Maintenance Materials
1.   Introduction
Highway construction and maintenance, and civil engineers in
general, are in need of a study of locally available material sources with
a view to using this information in preliminary cost estimates and in engi-
neering and planning studies for the construction and maintenance of highways.
The foregoing prompted the decision to carry out an inventory of
locally available materials suitable for construction. The following tasks
would be included:
(a) compilation, study and classification of already existing data
in studies that have been carried out in the past on locally
available construction materials;
(b) supplementing existing data with a research program and
investigations of locally available construction materials
with a view to using rocks and soils as road construction
or maintenance materials.
2.   Obiectives
The study in question would serve the following objectives:
(a) eliminate the need for costly searches for materials during
highway feasibility or engineering studies;
(b) provide MOPT districts with information on the availability
and economic utilization of materials, and also on access
roads and equipment needed for the exploitation, extraction,
preparation and transportation of materials for highway
construction and maintenance.
3.   Scope of the Study
New sources of materials will be located by means of photogeological
studies. Field tests to identify outcrops of rocks, their grade and deposit
characteristics, stratigraphy, structure, degree of weathering and metamor-
phism would be carried out. Soils studies, on origin and grain size classi-
fication, texture, structure, thickness and uniformity, would be executed.
Sources that could be used at each stage of highway construction and maintenance



ANNEX 4
Page 2
would be identified. The properties of the materials, deposit characteristics,
utilizable volume and tiue       _thbd  uf extractiorh would Ie determined.
Properties of the materials would be determined in the laboratory
using representative samples from the borrow pits identified in the study,
taken, depending on the case, from open-cut shafts (apiques), borings or
excavations, plotted to identify location, depth, land level (prior to excava-
tion, indicating the topographic location of the borrow pit), the type of
material found and other observations considered relevant. Areas where the
different materials are found would be identified and demarcated along with
the average depth of the strata, and the estimated volumes of utilizable
material.
Laboratory tests required on the samples would be as follows:
consistency range, grading, wear, impact, adhesion, sand equivalent, resis-
tance, absorption, specific gravity, Proctor, CBR and others needed to deter-
mine what the aggregates can best be used for.
Problems that might be encountered when extracting the materials
and the construction procedures suited to each type of formation would be
indicated. It should be indicated whether pits should be exploited as a whole
or by strata and the most suitable equipment for the excavation would be
selected.
In cases of rock where explosives would normally be used for excava-
tion, the depth and inclination of the holes, the type and quantity of explo-
sive and the method to be used for collecting and transporting the materials
would be identified.
4.   Execution of the Studies
Objective No. 1 concerning the compilation and consolidation of
existing data can be handled in cooperation with MOPT through the Highway
Districts.
By dividing the country into tentative study areas based on specific
morphological or operational criteria, the consultant would carry out a pilot
study which, besides constituting part of the study proper, would serve to
identify modifications that might be advantageous.
Adoption of this functional methodology will make it possible for
the consultant to conduct studies in all areas, taking care to see that maxi-
mum use is made of MOPT's installed laboratory capacity and staff.
In view of the type of geological correlation surveys involved and
the comprehensive nature of the study, it is considered advisable and appro-
priate to make petrological checks of the studies submitted by the consultants.
June 1977






91911 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~5l2 UIIDA RI  .,31&CRQS,
_                                              reriod~~~~~~~~~91.9  1977            1797                1979                 17970                198L                 19b2
63             9C191 - Cl                     Slfl.1            1 21nth.
24    1                                                                                                                       .3 ~. .1  .7
3i    9991191113.91191,191,                   R1,991.1          19
i4C,   1R9l1.CIIR)-79                         AC919199         12              I     5      .3
IA    3,791Kq_ 7917.17                               ;t9        121I9S9S4
S K79_KIQC S .........~~......                      24i;.. KI. 
17    111.5-Ao_2 7,11.91e 1111                93791                                   7 
16~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
9         h33K                  F7;                            I       1 713
4      7199  41411.17 9rs6S)91.911                              1
2    .171-,149119,1
SC.12A   7bRI-14755)5                         1,191191912                                                                                                        718
13A 1,,.fL,73,1       . LinPA3 Yorec ;t1                        _
42    71.,1.(5)83 r71-7         ;       e      3,1,91 .4
77    58.4 LInA,7   41117o                    77991191917                                                                                         __                                                 _
14    IAI7,1.97.                              .9919.1
11     911,9.1973                             791,191919:       2                                                                             I.46 
7 13  737u d     9 yi-eil                9311991                         94,t 24.                                25.1                   91.                   7.9 
317  CiJII 7ro 19  Al                        rwet.91                        7.1                  99                 19. 4.                                      3._
_  d        l4rr1o_7 w   de                  FZ::;1                          '.Q                   _,                 79_                   -1.7
21911399   1,71.9  5 91,31,  391._ 91,9131.1  91113.7:;.......    
2i31,   7419191 -CrtF 1 9,7                           e         1                                   4      _






COLOtBlA
SEVENTH HIGiWAY PROJECT                                             ANNEX 5
Table 2
Proiect Indicators
F lbili.ta.tion Pro ram
Trffi V lume AT
RO A D   L 0     S                   1 9 7 8             1 9 7 9              1 9 8 0             1 9 8 1             1 9 8 2
No.             From - To             Foreeast Actual   Forecast Actual   Forecast Actual   Forecast Actual   Forecast Actual
MHedellin-Versalles                    4,890               5,281               5,704                6,160               6,653
2        Vereallea-Pintada              2,030               2,192               2,368                2,557               2,762
3        Pereira-Asia (K44)             4,260               4,601               4,969                5,366               5,796
4        Asia (K44)-K79                 1,850               1,99B               2,158                2,330               2,517
5        K79-K100.5                     1,770               1,912               2,065                2,230               2,408
6        K100.5-K131 (Felisa)           2,030               2,192               2,368                2,557               2,762
7       Cartago-K25                     3,280               3,542               3,826               4,132                4,462
8       K33-K52.5                       3,120               3,370               3,639                3,930               4,245
9        K52.5-Uribe (K66.5)            3,670               3,964               4,281                4,623               4,993
10      Uribe-Andalucia                 5,160               5,573               6,019                6,500               7,020
11      San Pedro-Guacari              6,510                7,031               7,593                8,201               8,857
12      Ibague (1(56)-1K85              2,330               2,516               2,718                2,935               3,170,
13      K85-K119 (Linea)                2,340               2,527               2,729                2,948               3,184
14      La Linea-Armenia                2,340               2,527               2,729                2,948               3,184
15      Facatativa-Villeta              2,250               2,430               2,624                2,834               3,061
16      Villeta-Honda                   1,590               1,717               1,855                2,003               2.163
17      Fundacion-Servills              1,670               1,870               2,095                2,346               2,628
18      Servilla-Rio Frio               1,330               1,490               1,668                1,869               2,093
19      Rio Frio-La Ye                 1,590                1,781               1,994               2,234                2,502
20      Carreto-Casaverde               1,280               1,382               1,493                1,612               1,741
21      Casaverde-Verdolaga             1,780               1,922               2,076                2,242               2,421
22      Verdolaga-Cartagena             3,860               4,169               4,502               4,862                5,251
23      Oiba-Pinchote                   1,570               1,696               1,831                1,978               2,136
24       Pinchote-Chiflas               1,550               1,674               1,808                1,953               2,109
25      Chiflas-Piedecuesta             1,500               1,620               1,750                1,890               2,041
26       Bucaramanga-El Playon          1,650               1,782               1,925                2,079               2,245
27      Pemplona-Donjuana               1,440               1,555               1,680                1,814               1,959
28      Villa Rosario-Cucuta-Zulia      4,790               5,173               5,587                6,034               6,517
29      Ventaquemada-Paipa              3,350               3,618               3,907                4,220               4,558
30       Paipa-Belencito                3,190               3,445               3,721                4,018               4,340
31      Castilla-K219                   1,500               1,620               1,750                1,890               2,041
32      K219-Aipe                       1,411               1,524               1,646                1,777               1,920
33       Aipe-Neiva                     1,729               1,867               2,017                2,178               2,352
Source: Mission
March, 1977



ANNEX 5
Table 3
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Indicators
Vehicle Weight Control Program
Execution and Funding Reguirements
Description              Implementation            1977             1978              1979             1980
Preliminary Studies                  Forecast
(Phases I and II)                     Actual
Engineering and Contract             Forecast                         _
Documents (Phase III)
Actual
Construction and                     Forecast
Installation                          Actual
Total Funds (US$ millions)           Forecast             0.05              2.20             4.60
Actual
Local Funds (USE millions)           Forecast             0.01              0.54             2.30
Actual
Bank Funds (US$ millions)            Forecast             0.04              1.66             2.30
Actual
Source:   Mission
March 1977



ANNEX 5
Table 4
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Indicators
Highway Maintenance Program
Funding Requirements
(Current US$ million)
Description                     Implementation       1977      1978        1979       1980      1981      1982
Technical Assistance                             Forecast           -     0.5/0.1   0.6/0.2
(Bank/local funds)
Actual            0
Extensions to Stores and Shops                   Forecast          -      0.3/0.3
(Bank/local funds)
Actual            0
Spare Parts for repairs                          Forecast           -     2.4
(Bank funds)
Actual            0
Spare Parts for Preventive Maintenance          Forecast           -      1.4
(Bank funds)
Actual            0
Equipment                                       Forecast            -     10.0        10.0
(Bank funds)
Actual            0
Equipment                                       Forecast            -     4.0         5.0         16.0      15.0       14.0
(Local funds)
Actual           0
MOPT funds for Staff, Spares                     Forecast           -      46.0       52.0        57.0      62.0       67.0
and Materials
Actual         34.0
Total Funds                                      Forecast           -     65.0        67.8        73.0      77.0      81.0
Actual         34.0
Local Funds                                      Forecast           -     50.4        57.8        73.0      77.0      81.0
Actual         34.0
Bank Funds                                       Forecast           -     14.6        10.0         0         0         0
Actual            0
Source: Mission
March 1977



COLOMBIA                           ANNEX 5
Table 5
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Indicators
Highway Maintenance Projects
Production Aims
Description             Production           1977       1978       1979       1980       1981
Fleet Availability  1/  Forecast                        50%        60%        65%        70%
Actual              50%                                           , -
Fleet Utilization   2/  Forecast                        40%        50%        55%        60%
. Actual             35%       _
Average gradings/km      orecast                        12         16         20         22
on gravel roads
____ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ctual         10                             _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _
Average gradings/km     Forecast                        10         14         17         19
on earth roads
____ ____ ____ ____ ___ Actual         8         _  _ _ _              _ _ _ _ _
Km of gravel roads      Forecast                        1400       1600       1800       2000
to be regravelled
-Actual              1300
Km of earth roads       Forecast                        100        300        500        700
to be gravelled
Actual              0
Estimates of         Forecast                        18%        14%        10%         6%
z patching as percent
X of paved area         Actual               20%
k  Estimate of sealing  Forecast                         8%        16%         24%       30%
m as percent of paved
_ area                  Actual               4%                                   .
C-I Estimate of patching Forecast                        8%        6%          4%        3%
m as percent of paved
a  area                 Actual               9%
09
Estimate of sealing  Forecast                        2%         3%         4%         4'%
as percent of paved
area                 Actual               1%
1/  Availability  -  2000  Hours - time workshop
2000 Hours
2/  Utilization   =  2000  Hours - time in workshop and time awaiting employment
2000 Hours
3/  Estimates for patching and sealing for surface treated (s.t.) and asphalt
concrete (a.c.) paved roads are based on the highway design and maintenance
model's output.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
COLOMBIA
APPRAISAL OF A SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Details of the Economic Assessment
A.   Road Rehabilitation Program
(i) Costs
1.        All construction and maintenance costs have been calculated free
of taxes and subsidies (Table 12). It was assumed that in both the "with"
and "without" project cases, a comparable level of routine maintenance, as
provided under the Maintenance Program of the project, would be carried out;
this item, being the same for both alternatives, has been omitted altogether.
Nonetheless there are some roads in the program on which, because of the high
instability of the area, even normal routine maintenance would not suffice to
guarantee them being open; a special landslide removal cost was assessed
against them in the "without" project case (Table 15). For-all sections, only
the least cost technically viable rehabilitation alternative was considered,
i.e., that which extended the life of the existing road for ten more years.
Only minor improvements, mainly on safety grounds, were allowed. The analysis
is therefore confined to ascertaining whether the least cost alternative
return rates higher than the opportunity cost of capital for the country,
which is currently estimated at 11%. Rates of return estimates for the sub-
projects in the program are therefore conservative values due to non-quantified
benefits.
(ii) Traffic
2.        Traffic volumes on the roads to be rehabilitated were estimated by
means of surveys carried out annually by MOPT and checked by INGEROUTE (France)
during project preparation, The latest available estimate was 1975, which was
updated to year 1 of the analysis, assumed to be 1978, by assuming that traffic
continued to grow, as in the past, at about 8% per annum. The same growth
rate was assumed during the ten-year period following construction. The rate
of 8% was used because it is the average rate for the country as a whole and
because all sections in the program are major trunk highways where traffic
patterns follow the national average. The only exception admitted in the
analysis was a section of the Eastern Trunk Highway (lots 17, 18 and 19) which,
over the past few years, had traffic increases well beyond the national average
(14% vs 8%) and which will most likely support even higher growth when paving
of the through-connection from Santa Marta to Bogota is completed in 1979. A
rate of 12% was adopted for these sections.
3.        Other than admitting that sections 17, 18 and 19 of the Rehabili-
tation Program, along the Eastern Trunk Highway, would have higher rates
of growth of traffic than the normal average growth over the period from 1971
to 1975, no generated traffic was admitted. The nature of the roads on which
the rehabilitation is to be carried out is such that traffic is already well



ANNEX 6
Page 2
established; furthermore, all roads run along already developed corridors.
Any generated traffic woulJ, ---        circumstances, have to be induced by
a general growth of the economy rather than by demand induced by the
growth of particular areas due to the price elasticity effect on the
goods transported. Estimating the additional future growth of the economy
generated by the implementation of the proposed rehabilitations is clearly
beyond the scope of transport analysis only and has therefore been omitted.
Inasmuch as it may occur, however, it would only add additional benefits
and therefore increase the rate of return for the Program.
(iii) Benefits
4.        To assess benefits due to the rehabilitation, it was assumed that,
without the project, vehicle operating costs would increase parabolically
during the ten-year life of the rehabilitation investments up to a maximum of
20% above their current level. A parabolic function was considered to best
reflect the evolution of vehicle operating costs in a situation where roads
are reaching an advanced stage of deterioration and would therefore increase
very fast as the situation worsens under the effect of weathering and traffic.
Present levels of operating costs above what they would be were the roads in an
"as new" condition were assessed empirically as a function of the nature of
the rehabilitation works required to bring the roads to a comparable condition,
the traffic level on them, the estimated reduction in operating speeds below
the design speed and a visual inspection of each section. On this basis, a
rank number was estimated for each section to which a road condition coeffi-
cient was assigned. This coefficient varied between 1.04 and 1.16, meaning
that the condition of the roads would result in vehicle operating costs (VOC)
between 4% and 16% above the "as new" condition.
5.        Operating costs for different types of vehicles were estimated for
roads in an "as new" condition by INGEROUTE (France) and updated to December
1975 by MOPT's Planning Office. For analysis purposes, three types of vehicles
and terrain were considered: light vehicles, buses and trucks and flat, rolling
and mountainous terrain (Table 16). It was assumed that "normal" costs would
be achieved after rehabilitation and that that level would be maintained during
the life of the subproject due to the improved routine maintenance brought
about by the project. A programmed seal coating of the roads in the fifth
year of the expected 10-year life of the rehabilitations was considered.
(iv) Typical Example
6.        Development of the analysis for a typical section between Castilla
and Km 219 along the Eastern Trunk Road south of Bogota is shown in Annex
Tables 1 to 3. Table 1 shows the input data as provided to the computer model
and the traffic projection in vehicles per year; it also shows the construction
investment costs, columns Cl and C3, for the "without" and "with" project cases,
respectively, as well as the vehicle operating costs in each case, columns C2
and C4 respectively. The difference between the two, column BC, is the net
benefit to be expected from the rehabilitation of the section. The rate of



ANNEX 6
Page 3
return on this particular section is 18.75% based on the median, being the
best estimate of the values of the variables involved in generating the
construction and the vehicle operating costs in each case.
7.        If the intervening variables are assumed to be normally dis-
tributed as reflected by input data in Annex Table 2, with means and stand-
ard deviations as noted in Table 17 of the main report, a probability dis-
tribution of the rate of return is generated as in Annex Table 3. The mean
of the distribution is 31% being the value of the rate of return with a 50%
likelihood of occurrence. The probability of the rate being below 14.75%
is nil, and this is, therefore, the minimum value that can be expected of it.
Such values are obtained by analyzing 250 randomly selected combinations
of the intervening variables. Table 2 also shows the values of the variables
in one of those samples, sample 1.
8.        Similar analyses were carried out for each section in the Program.
The combined costs and benefits of implementing the full program are shown
in Annex Table 4 for each year of the analysis. Annex Table 5 then shows
the stream of cost and benefits and the calculation of the rate of return
for the full program, which is estimated to be 36.25%.
B.   Highway Maintenance Program
(i) General
9.        The effects of implementing the Highway Maintenance Program of the
project were assessed by means of the Highway Design and Maintenance (HDM)
Model of the Bank; the economic feasibility of the results obtained were then
assessed by means of the Cost Benefit Analysis Model (CBPACK). No attempt has
been made at determining optimum maintenance policies for the country. The
analysis has been constrained to assessing whether the actions made possible
by implementing the Program in the project are justified, i.e., whether the
additional resources required to carry out the Program yield rates higher than
the opportunity cost of capital.
(ii) Maintenance Activities and Unit Costs
10.       For analytical purposes, maintenance of both paved and unpaved roads
is divided into five activities (Annex Tables 6 and 7). The frequency in the
execution of these activities and their unit costs allow defining any com-
bination of situations, the overall outcome of which is a certain level of
maintenance for the highways in the network. Table 6 defines, based on
limited available data, observation and experience in Colombia, the present
frequency of maintenance activities and their unit costs. This present
situation is defined as the "without" project case with which the situation,
after implementation of the Program, "with" project case, is compared. 1/
1/   The Rehabilitation Program in the project is assumed to be carried out
in both the "with" and "without" cases.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
11.       Table 7 defines the "with" project case and takes into consideration
a number of changes that would be caused by the implementation of the Mainte-
nance Program as well as other components of the project. In particular,
increased productivity achieved with the younger maintenance fleet is assumed.
Two factors affect equipment productivity: its availability and its utiliza-
tion. Availability is assumed to increase from the present 40-50% to about
70%, and this change would be brought about by the switch to a programmed
preventive maintenance system for the equipment, together with renewal of
aged units and an adequate supply of spare parts. Utilization is estimated
to improve substantially due to the effects of training field personnel and
improved maintenance programming. Although no utilization statistics are
kept, an improvement of 25% is not an unreasonable objective and changes of
this order have been assumed. Considering the combined effect of improved
availability and utilization, productivity is, in general, assumed to increase
by about 75% except for grading and spot gravelling where the overcoming of
present shortages of dump trucks and motorgraders would allow even larger
increases.
12.       Increases in productivity would generate reduced unit costs for the
execution of the different activities. In the "with" project case, the reduc-
tions have been estimated at about 80% of present costs. However, such reduc-
tions do not apply to labor-intensive operations such as routine cleaning of
drains and culverts, shoulder repairs or vegetation control, nor were they
considered to apply to activities which are normally contracted out by MOPT,
such as asphalt overlays and rehabilitation works. Tables 6 and 7 summarize
the unit costs used in the "with" and "without" project cases.
(iii) Analysis Network
13.       For purposes of the analysis, the national highway network was broken
down into 29 well-specified and characterized links, 20 to identify the unpaved
portion of the network and 9 to reflect the paved roads (Annex Table 8). To
assess the maintenance requirements of each link, a detailed description of
the geometric characteristics and present road condition is required as well
as details of the road width and traffic. These characteristics, together
with a definition of the climatic, altitude and other geographical variables,
determine the degree of deterioration caused on each link by the traffic.
This deterioration determines the required annual maintenance cost and the
year-to-year condition of the link.
(iv) Maintenance Operations and Frequency
14.       Tables 9 and 10 summarize the average annual volume of maintenance
operations on each link over the 10-year analysis period in both the "with"
and "without" project cases for the unpaved and paved roads respectively.
Also, for comparison purposes, the economic costs of maintaining each link
(both average annual total and per km) have been indicated. In general, costs
of carrying out the maintenance after project implementation are higher than
at present by about 50% on unpaved roads and by about 15% for paved roads.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
Maintenance operations are increased and, for unpaved roads, often doubled,
while, for paved roads, patching is greatly reduced in favor of more seal-
coating and strengthening by overlays or rehabilitation. The overall condition
of the network is consequently much improved in the "with" project situation
vis-a-vis the existing conditions; this is clearly borne out by the reduction
of the user costs through the analysis period.
(v) Benefits
15.       Benefits from the implementation of the Maintenance Program are
assumed to occur only on account of avoided vehicle operating cost increases
should the Program not be implemented. Annex Table 11 describes typical user
costs on selected links for gravel, surface treated and asphalt concrete roads
as they are perceived now and as they would become toward the end of the
analysis period. The Highway Design and Maintenance Model calculates user
costs specifically for each link each analysis-year and takes into account the
particular condition of that link. User costs are therefore not strictly
comparable with those obtained from other sources (e.g., MOPT) where estimates
are calculated for ideal road conditions, terrain types, etc. For example,
vehicle operating costs used for purposes of assessing the Road Rehabilitation
Program of the project are generally comparable but not identical to those
encountered on the select links of the maintenance model (Table 12 compares
averages for similar conditions). Having estimated the user cost on each link
in each successive year of the analysis for both the "with" and "without"
project situations, it is possible to estimate by how much user costs would
increase should the program not be implemented. These are the benefits as
noted on Annex Table 13, which is a summary of Table 18 of the main report.
(vi) Ecotiom.ic Assessment
16.       Table 13 summarizes the cost and benefit streams of implementing
the two alternatives made possible under the program, one with limited rehab-
ilitation of the surface treated roads (about 1,000 km over 10 years) and the
other with extensive rehabilitation, which would occur particularly in the
early years of Program execution (altogether about 2,400 km over 10 years).
Table 13 also presents the calculation of the economic criteria used to assess
the feasibility of the proposed Program. All criteria show the highly benefi-
cial effect of implementing either of the two alternatives. The second
alternative (extensive rehabilitation) has a higher net present value which
suggests that, in the absence of constraints, this should be the selected
option. Since both budgetary and contracting industry constraints exist, it
is suggested that the limited rehabilitation option be implemented.
C.   Vehicle Weight Control Program
17.       The economic feasibility of installing the weighing stations was
assessed assuming that deterioration of a road is directly related to the
number of equivalent standard axles passing over the roads. The reference
standard for comparison of both the existing and the future situations (without
and with projeet respectively) was the number of standard equivalent axles in



ANNEX 6
Page 6
an ideal condition in which no overloading existed. Using Colombia's flexible
pavement design standardc ('  -1ens rstructural de Pavimentos Flexibles, MOP,
1970), the equivalent number of single axle repetitions was computed for four
categories of traffic volumes (Annex Table 14). By comparing the total number
of equivalent axles with the ideal, in which an overlay of the roadway would
have been programmed for the 10th year of its life, the corresponding timing
of the overlay in the two situations, with overloading and after Program
implementation, was determined.
18.       In the absence of overloading surveys, it was assumed that trucks
moving on the roads (50% of ADT in all traffic categories) were distributed
as follows:
30% empty
50% normally loaded to the legal maximum
10% overloaded by 10% above the legal maximum
8% overloaded by 50% above the legal maximum
2% overloaded by 100% above the legal maximum
It was further considered that 90% of trucks are single rear axle vehicles
as is borne out by truck registration surveys.
19.       Because of the different traffic levels, different thicknesses are
required for the overlay to strengthen the structure to its required design
standard for a life of 10 years. For traffic levels up to 2,000 ADT, 5 cm
are adequate, and, above that, 7.5 cm are necessary. On the basis of detailed
engineering designs prepared for the Rehabilitation Program in the project,
the cost of overlaying the roadway was estimated for each case (Annex Table 14).
20.       Implementation of the Program was assumed not to eliminate all
overloading but to reduce it by half, avoiding all loads over 10% above the
legal maximum. Given the traffic distribution in each of the four traffic
categories, it was concluded that only at traffic levels above 1,000 ADT did a
weight control program have any significant effect on the timing of overlays,
and that the need for overlaying the roads with higher traffic levels would
occur in the ninth year of the pavement life as opposed to the present fifth
year. Thus the ideal 10-year overlay cycle is not reached, but only a 9-year
cycle. Lengthening the life of the pavements from their present 5 years to 9
years generates a mathematical series in which no overlays are required in
some years until the new 9-year cycle is reached for the whole network. To
avoid generating a stop-go program, differences were smoothed out within the
8-year period required to achieve the new 9-year cycle as shown on Annex
Table 15.
21.       The economic investment costs (including contingencies and super-
vision) and operating costs of the weighing stations, and the economic costs
of overlaying the required kilometreage in both the "without" and "with"
program situations are in Annex Table 15. The rate of return of the program
was calculated as shown in Annex Table 16.  The economic return for the impl-
mentation of the program is thus estimated to be 45.8%. The net present value
of the program is US$17.35 million at a discount rate equal to the opportunity
cost of capital in Colombia (11%).



ANNEX 6
Table 1
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Section Castilla-Km 219
Best Estimate Economic Rate of Return
LRUN RI5K
iNruTi DATA rILC NAME.
I CA.2t19
DATA rILE CAS21t'
1.20       5.00       4.00       4.00      25.00          NO
236550.    236550.    157700.      236550.    547500.   0.00   0.00
0.00      10.00       0.00       0.00        1.00       0.00       0.00
1.06       0.00       0.00      34.50        0.00       0.00
213S25    71175.   262000.          3.22       3.60       4.50
-303       4.43       6.34       5.07        6.0       0.'6
0.00       0.00       1.00       0.00
TRAFr IC
547S00.   591300.   6'30C04.   60,i."2.   7440.60    004457,.  C0614.
930319.  1013304.   1094455.  11C2011.  1276571.  13706977   1400CC,.
1600112.  1736761.  1075702.  2025757.  2107010.  2362044.  2551071.
2756021.  29761502.  3214622.  347179"2.   749535.  4049477.  4373456.
4723Z3Z2.  5101190.  5509273.  5950036i  6426030.  6940121.  749533,Q
corRm=          4.10730
UJ=         4.430354
0.01096
YEAR         C1            C2           C3            C4           0c
1           0.    2430100.      1577000.      2430100.    1577000.
2           0.    2630 9'7.            0.    2475951.        1.55037.
3           0.    2S062462.            0.    2674026.        100436.
4           0.    3129252.             0.    2007940.        241304.
S           0.    3436735.             0.    31'"0'4.        317751.
6           0.    3791020.       236550.    3Z60503.        105960.
7           O0    4199040.             0      . 36390O561050,
:0          0,    4660646.             0.    3929O21.        73Z.25.
9           0.    5200720.             0.    4243342.        965306.
1(0    236550.    532n932.        2Zi650S.     4502009.      1246523.
1           0.    4949433.             0.    4949433.             0.
12           0.    5345307.             0.    5345307.             O.
13           0.    5773010.             0.    5773010.             0.
14     236550.    6234059.        236550.      6234059.            0.
15           0.    6733647.             0.    67Z33647.            0.
16           0.    727233S.             0.    7272330.             0.
17           0.    71054124.            0.    7054124.             0.
10     236550.    0402454.       236550.    0402454.              0.
19           0.    9161050.             0.    9161050.             0.
20           0.    9093934.             0.    9093934.             0.
21           0.   10605440.             0.   10605440.             0.
22     236550.   11540204.        236550.   11540204.              0.
23           0.   12463506.             0.   12463506.             0.
24           0.   13460506.             0.   13460506.             0.
25           0.   14537432.             0.   14537432.             O.
26     236550.    15700424.       236550.   15700424.              0.
27           0.   16956456.             0.   1'956456,             0.
23           0.   10312972.             0.   10312972.             0.
29           0.   19770000.             0.   19770000,             0.
30     236550.   21360244.        236550,   21360244.              0.
31           0.   23067060.             0.   23069060.             0.
32           0.   24914504.             0.   24914504.             0.
33           0.   26907740.             0.   26907740.             0.
34     236550.   29060360.        23655O.   29,0603S0.             0.
35     177413.   31305192.         177413.   31305192.             0.
RATE or RETURN =        10.75
Source: Mietin
April 1977



ANNEX 6
Table 2
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Section Castilla-Km 219
Risk Analysis Input Table
El :4T R F I LE C R. s* 2 1 9
1 .II *0 -.ii            4 . 00II     4. o0        , 0            , D
, :65-0.       =b.=.0.:r-. 157- 11. .  547.00,    . 0iii
3.ci       1 o7:7 O.0                 u.004:,      15.0'' 0      0.0.
1 .0.      I  ..  .I I,.ICIO        . /4.So     c, I  r    .1:10  I I  ,       off
_.3 2         711 73D .   262,117-.   a -: .,IDI       . .6C 0     4 .58
3 .33       4.4.3        6.34    D        .07      6.02          .6
o .oo        .00         1 .00        0,.0o
Z1 LI E    1
rtlEl-    0'.94
0D.0?       0. fo:f
.Fi 1z=            1 . 49
e, 1 --RER- -T
-O.110      -0 .00
B. _1=             4.13115
P. ID =       0.47
Z 1 - -PE RC T
-0.00         0 , 00
B.R EI=      . 10.00000
0 . 0.    6
Z     - 1---ER0T
-O . OcP    -Oc . 02
BH. 1E I =         1.04090
---- --  -- --  ---T-
ZRF II , - ER--T
T RiaF.7 I
5_ 3        53I I0 I.7.   623460.   6 73 .37       73 . 6  R   7. 7 I 9167 8.  35,O1 .
?.334 .3.    997236.  1 07706..  116?2.35.  125629.3.  1 356797.  1465.3 40 .
1 532567.  I7 0917.3 .  1834590 .  199-35739  .2153065.   2325310.  2511335.
- 12242.  292221 .  .316.35D3.  3416643.  3639974.  3980  f 1 1.  43 0.39,4
46C4,3302.  3020166.  34217,3.  . 3833320.  632 P 961.  6829878.    3 376 263.
Source: Mission



ANNEX 6
Table 3
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Section Castilla-Km 219
Frequency Distribution and Cumulative Probability
Distribution for the Internal Rate of Return
FREQ.--ciJ'. PROD.                      FREQ.--CUM. PRiD.
LESS THAil v,qLUE)                     (LESS THArEN QLUE)
INiTERVAL UPPERBDU.NDS                  INTERVR.- UPPERBOUiIDUS
O        0.00                           0        0.32
14.730                                  30.300
2        0.08                           0         0.32
15.372                                  30.922
0        0.08                           0        0.32
13.934                                  31.344
0        0.03                           0        Cf.s2
16.616                                  32.166
0        0.0                           0        0.52
17.23?'                                 32.733
1        0.12                           0        O.32
17.360                                  3.3.410
0        0.12                           0        0.32
18.482                                  34.032
0        0.12                           1        0.36
19.104                                  34.634
0        0.12                           1        0.60
19.726                                  .35.276
1        0.16                           1        0.64
20.348                                  33.898
0        0.16                           LI       0.64
20.970                                  36.D20
0        0.16                           1        0.63
21.392                                  37.142
0        0.16                           1        0.72
'2.214                                  37.764
0        0.16                           1        0.76
22.S36                                  38.336
0        0.16                           0        0.76
3.433                                  -39.00S
24.0830          2        0.24                           0         0.76
24.702           t        0.28          40.232            1        0.80
1        0.32                           0        0.30
23. 324                                 40.374
2-51. 946.       2        0.40          41.496           1         0.34
0        0.40                           0        0.34
26.363                                  42.113
27.190           t        0.44          42.740                     0.88
27.312                   0-44          43.362                     0.92
0        0.44                           1        0.96
28.434                                  43.334
23.0536                   0-44          44.606                       .96
29.678           2        0.32          40.830                     0.96
1        1.00
DISTRIB-JTIU,Y M1EAN =           31.00
STRNDARD DEVIRATIONi  =         3.32703
-----  --- ---D RIiSK &2iA&tSIS -----
Source: Mission
April 1977



COLOiMBIA
SEVENTtI HIGHWAY PROJECT
Rehabilitation Program
Stream of Costs and Benefits
(December 1975 US$ Million)
f_____________                           Y   E    A    R    S
(1)         (2)           (3)            (4)         (5)            (6)         (7)           (8)         (9)           (Ic)
-Elnr,ijl . ' lll9fVt  129068;.    134 1444.   188  .94.   1'95e,9 t.    294'3IE.2   ;3b6/UIJZ   4641868.    6550346.C
,.1r,NO.I~IIXllFI 01 ;!f S73331  426441.    561V54 1.  3704i39.        1 1307l-3   1706065.    2710942.1
J45FAXIIiLIV *l 722253.  8419@4Ll;.    10206 41.   1270I 300.    l;' _%    2043.368.   261i?' 0   32C9q$42.    452"756.
-Fl   ; 3 3 -  49'4i9      141917 .      741-1:33.   155  '300.   2159955   29SJ4 -;.    4757662.
5^9|^l-,i-'i-'.    ....... 347tl9.  405215-'    4'41-: 4.    htll',49  278R91 .     9  471.   125 1770..  1588 1I 0.    359618?.
'3    '' 254328.                          4      9-5Z 1   .    2  8It        9 0379.   121 3-4308.  INe3f-s4.    31 6675,4.
i 3O'i8.      9492';    111..                     I  1054,51,      1 0  l9 88    2443592.  2         . ..  92
C5,5iiriiI   98e 0_       1123i;7       L14   8 |, 2      b5 10 0t10 2349324.    28914514.  3 5ti-7 440 170.
ttO^VHi(  j407      143600tf    ItitfEl40'.    t{37s'. if 1 . d   2 '_4"18.    27'4@3    3341.-58.   41 192J8.  50851 :66
-1 -r-    44 41         l9L1           6 '.  '46   ft6571461.    ,4c9'1    13  e,           1 15619. 751  -7 713 C -e    424b
.'c.;,mui t-ll-l.    478>:1 tl.   ~ *~'-~  Q6t .    :}, ..... s 01          U 8 9409t 3.  '- t 9-45 ; 1  2 - $ I  4 - b 2''  4. 44346 934
247 9fll1LI  665i;4L34     f 1 4_ it.    gSE:t J5.   1 16824.j_4,   I [liI-.g, 4-    187, 9224.   2:91.094.. .31S3-.- 6f-.   505s 7T t0
2            445219        52 1i8" n.464f1            8_3440.           1   3           4.   2781444.  3 5 < q - "    44172258
j491110 9' 'P.i L; R' 32    4I P749.    41'355                               F:535    11  1480        4545,0U. 2221635
- 4 s   7 t 4 fn - I341   '  42E.         554044.    :'t ? 14          81 i56.   1222472 0.   16-.4"t4.9    21780 b
iu9e1 ttQ'I   2:b|I347.  1479-       348251.    4500187I'D.   12742534      3 244    4 1027258.e 136352t:-'4   17469554
0s4briii''    2 4-flU 3     31460   ,   416718. 533028.             *                          7 . 3499  1223190.   161`4  b'-  214194'0t.
O- 4,--*. 5,    4n      -         40067  46S72.  S    1531. 4V'  1148.   8I  7 09.   101f 80    12   1'-4.   1569'-f l
3r4 "oX  5014=f E         57014     @,' "0tt7iE .     9'-! 4      4C'4,  4     1 40223.   146-477 2.^  -    1 c'       4234634.
0 0 c1-t~ 7i. 4781ti     88lr-.    lO74t. 1?,---, 1S.'-..    1 E.c|, 7 9 2                        :24.   2 39.I c"S'  4.  3  8 3 471 ,-6
8 2 n4,1, I0,   24 I 9 661823          1      ..                                                  | 74  s    1 2 ')8  ,%436  6RI  -.    3 . 724    t 06  6.
166e 00      1 Br:.' .     21 924..    281i  0        3t.  .    94I 154.           5 879         L   e    141 9. 7 2  I  1967 - 
22tir,;,l,r0    26 1 . '   1.  309"       84.4~       4f.; e4J: C.4 >|AL^,i. 2 .4F!  f        2 10 b 3_, 1 o,3:n3" 1 3  1 58831 'L
iwi''0       19'".14       2413''        3fr4  .    4436                           I eR-      9-'2- 2617;35
1', - 8 l-}O 34 .wO=,6J 3i;c 7:: . . 4                                            fl r, 5 2 1  . 7. 2  4n 33  11 1:4.-48.   14 545   .   178-
! 717359                                 8_:b,          8:S. 10144~  *_. -'f    11,-44R.    2W'IJ36. 2584'-96. 3299 e    42'0 -.
4 13i-0:.    61- ; 34       1541 U            "'    10* 9 ,.                    173e  5: 2210046.   280-403445  4 4I 1
145r000      433714.  ,5137411           6     3     4.S 1q10-' 0 . .   8:46.    13    ID5t6 j75'92       22539C'w6.   30211-R
1 5   CIO. 2f  a     3.   1  4;r    1  b43 ;. _4 1: 9  14 -.   553 4 1  4        !.  q581i   12f l_  * Z-  -470    1 6 6 4 C, t  2176K6c
1577000                                34550134.0118.4302 5.                    7   -1 51"    107i3958    3 65 1>      1769rL4
I2I C,iDO. 31000-   229C'3423,4- 2- 7                                                             601.        12.t.
7cF:>.f;nn. lS50r461;   19260034.       4336717-          S > 4194 2e.  329Q4i  469 3'O49.  19283554.  71615.6-s:        21(150l6r
( 1)    Costs                                                                                                                                             0
(2)-(10)~~~~~~~272 BenefitIai4
Souirce:  Mission 
April 1977



ANNEX 6
Table 5
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Rehabilitation Program
Economic Rate of Return Analysis
....  - LI .:. i. ...      L .-.... 
10 YE I:       1 (:.i.IT  R E hLiS     1 BE:NEF I V STRELf:-.A3
E F k   TJ  ..          TOlTAL i:s:NEFI 1   Nt. 1 BENEF:IT
.t.    7  O h.OiO + '            * u .()    -725530 S.0
2          C), 0v       I. 65065 , 0O   165065 .0 *i
;:3        ;)  (I N0     :L92603.* 0      192603+00
4           () o 00       233673 . O00     2:3?3673+ 00()
5           0 .)          9:L :L 43.00     291:1.43.00
C)          0 0           250649 i00       250649 .00
?           *.i0+ 0()    4690` 92. `()     469092. 00
O           0,00        :597836+.00        597836 .00
9           0 *O0         759656 * 00     :75965,s.00
1.0          0. * 0005.16o31 *00           J. 051 631. o
!" ,iNT
'~~~F RETURN.
Source: Mission
April 1977



COLOMBIA                                    ANNEX 6
Table 6
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Mlaintenance Activities -   '-'nit Coste
"Without" Projecrt Case
Unpaved Roads
No.      Unit                        Activity                                 Unit Costs (US$)-/
financial economic
1I     .9m pass      Dry season grading:                                     59.95       47.96
gravel roads - every 9,000 vehicle passes
earth roads - every 10,000 vehicle passes
2      Km pass       Wet season grading:                                     49.05       39.24
gravel roads - every 7,000 vehicle passes
earth roads - every 8,000 vehicle passes
3      Cu m          Spot regravelling, washout and roadway repairs:         10.90        8.72
gravel roads - replace 20% of gravel loss
but not more than 25 cu m/km/year
earth roads - replace 25 cu m/km/year
4      Cu m          Gravel resurfacing:                                      5.45        4.36
Gravel roads - resurface when thickness is
75 mm but not less than 6 years!
resurfacing but not more than
10 years/resurfacing to a restored
thickness of 150 mm
earth roads - no resurfacing executed
5      Km            Routine maintenance:                                   163.50     130.80
labor intensive activities such as
clearing drains, vegetation
control  and shoulder repairs
?aved Roads
6      Sq m          Patching:                                                4.36        3-49
30% of unpatched cracks but not more than
500 sq m/km/year
7      Sq m          Surface dressing:                                        1.09       0.87
22 years after construction
3      Cu m          Overlaying of asDhalt concrete pavements:               54.50       43.60
33 years after construction
Using asphalt paving of 50 mm
9      Km            Rehabilitation of surface treated pavements:       92,650.00  74,120.00
33 year after construction
Using asphalt paving and structural
number of 4.0 2/
iO      Km            Routine maintenance:
surface treated roads                             272.50      218.00
asphalt concrete roads                            218.00      174.40
labor intensive activities such as
clearing drains, vegetation
control and shoulder repairs
1/ Dec. 1975 USS, rate of exchange 1US$ = Col$33.00.
'/ The structural number of the pavement is determined by the thic"ness and type
of pavement courses and the subgrade strength.



COLOMBIA
ANNEX 6
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT                             Table 7
Maintenance Activities and U'nnit Costs
"With" Project Case
Unoaved Roads
No.      ',nit                         Activity                                Unit Costs (CSS)-I
financial economic
1      Km pass       Dry season grading:                                        47.96      38.37
gravel roads - every 5,000 vehicle passes
earth roads - every 6,000 vehizle passes
2      Km pass       Wet season grading:                                        39.24      31.39
gravel roads - every 3,0CO vehicle passes
earth roads - every 4,000 vehicle passes
3      Cu m          Spot regravellir.g, washout and roadway repairs:            8.72       6.98
gravel roads - (Traffic less than 160 ADT)
replace 20% of gravel loss but rot
nore than 50 cu m/km/year
- (Traffic greater than 160 ADT)
reolace 30% of gravel loss but not
more than 75 cu m/km/year
earth roads - replace 75 cu m/km/year
4      Cu r          Gravel resurfacing:                                         4.36       3.49
gravel roads - (Traffic less than 160 ADT)
resurface when thickness is 75 mm
but not less than 4 years nor more
than 8 years/resurfacing to a
restored thickness of 150 mm
- (Traffic greacer than 160 ADT)
resurface when thickness is 75 mm
but not less than 3 years nor more
chan 8 years/resurfacing to a
restored thickness of 175 mm
earth roads - no resurfacing executed
5      Km            Routine maintenance:                                     163.30    130.80
labor intensive activities such as
clearing drains, vegetation
control and shoulder repairs
Paved Roads
6      Sq m          Patching:                                                   3.49       2.79
o50% of unpatched cracks but not more than
700 sq m/Km/year
7      Sq m          Surface dressinR:                                          0.87       0.70
When cracking and patching exceeds 30%
3      Cu m          Overlaying of asphalt concrete pavements:                  54.50      43.60
Wh.'n roughness exceeds 4,000 mm/km
Using asphalt paving of 100 mm
9      Km            Rehabilitation of surface treated pavements:          92,650.00 74,120.00
Case 1 - *When roughness exceeds 4,0Y"  mm/km
but not less than 22 years after
construction
Case 2 - When roughness exceeds 4,000 =m/km
using asphalt paving and structural
number of 4.0 2/
10      Km            Routine maintenance:
surfarc  treated roads                              272.50    218.00
asphalt zoncrete roads                              218.00    17 .40
labor intensive activities such as
clearing drains, vegetation
contrcl and shoulder repairs
1/ Dec. 1975 US$, rate of exchange !US$ = Col$33.00.
2/ The structural number of the pavemert is determined by the thickness and type of pavement
courses and the subgrade strength.






AVEU-   A.ERIL THICROES   (8.(            LON          TTA            LA/            ORHflHII              IR           OTL          TET                                   JR          -   OlIHIS
LL..  ~   ~        ROLIGF                                                                           HOT0wC
TWFIC                         10        R     H.-                               -                         -1'
EEAEAAL 3.5  N  1)0-3)0  OHIO          10              H                 ON~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C  HERO  230        MV4                                    9126-
..C..O              000         ,4               5315              910            OAR             005          OR                 050                   5               200
100-3100            AVO             761,00   1   HE               t,390             EVE         1,0746           EGO                994                 II                256
________________________              OO0~~~~~~~~~~~~~L    ~~            CV oA         .O                 O3 11C NOR                                      87          ItS          ___50__                    -                  ON
A R A H 7.0    E                                                                     _  _  _  _  _ _                                                 _  _  _  _ _  _
EREROAR  OREERIRERE  0....)                                           10          TO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~790   I'l IT                                                      ,1                   152          TO         1    1
ROERAE ETORIG RR  01SIROOLAl   TO  0 IRAN                                                               (OT  100  (01                     10. TI  2009 LEo)2 10  , 100 II01I.)01TOER(.IilE     2R00.
250R)                       (         T.1RR                         15DTo                                               15 ZE    T(30OR)                              M10   -                     150     M   3 105
200-500         RFO7         453         NV                V19               1VS                                O 3-                           VEIl         280    5    II                "0I               43- 
ERG0    7.00 Ii         000-EOTO         OO0R         410         N?                "1I             004                ROE,              NO                 -              A         042        34A                311               -                 R3T               3N 
10E0-2)E            PI         Rl         (O                 (R000 M9L 88VOVO4l 10                                                                          0,017        67 7801                            4175                130               05 
2000  SFIO  148                                        ~                ~-                                                                         506 OI  ,RE   O    (WA             410                  -               42 
G TR   L                             0'.435        RO                  1               347                01              CE2 -66                                   4,905 ~15V0                    1,632              9IL                lEO              1173-
-/G01W..A 3I0 No of ORARRRE    5,
SAoure:  SOFA  -0R,,
-OEV O97?






ANNEX 6
COLOMBIA                                                   Table 9
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
HIGdWAY MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
Economic Cost and Fretuencer of Maintenance
Operations Over Analysis Period
Unpaved Koaas
I  i                AVERAGE ANNUAL ECONOMIC                 AVERAGE ANNUAL MAINTENANCE
SURFACE    LINK    LENGTH   FIRST YEAR I             COST (THOUSAIND US$)                     OPERATIONS (PER KM)
_ TYPE    NO0       K1 '1978)                    TOTAL                PER KM        NO. GRADINGS   REGRAVEL (cu m)
ADT         W/O         W           W/O     W         W/o      W        W/O   |  W
-t >-.  SMO1       85         30           44.7        50.8    0.52    0.62   ;1.6          4.6        63       78
SO 5y02         18          70     j   10.7          12.2    0.60    0.68        5.1    10 6        48       43
c3zM03      77        160           81.5!      117.6    1.06    1.52D   11.9    25.9           80      126
AVOI       205         30          130.5       140.5    0.63    0.69        1.6      4.6       85      100
AVQ2j 1,446               70        1.142.2    1.338.9    0.78    0.393        4 9    10.0         84      109
0   AV03    2 ,076         160       2.347.1    3.317.3       1.59    1.;9   1 11.8    25.4         96      142
AV04    1 ,005        350        1.772.0    2.829.4    1.77    2.81    25.7    55.3           104      198
LGOI       32-         70          317.8       371.9    0.99    1.16        5.2    11.2       126      157
LGv2       857        160        1.021.2    1.L-33.9    1.19       1.67    11.6    24.8       108      160
1,818  350       3.405.7                  1.88     2.93    25.3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~345.    18  129
!   Lb   j L~~GC3    1 ,818     350       3.0.          .333.-7  ,18        2.3      25.3  | 53.9  |129  i   34 !
| T 3   A L  - 7,908           203      lO.273.4   L4.946.2    1.30          .s(    14.7    24.2       104      165
1   ESMI       356         30          144.1       272.5    0.40 1 0.76   i 1.4           3.4       2 25     7 5
, Ci no ESM2      238        160          187.9       313.3    0.79    .1.32    10.5       19.8       25       75
EAVI       243         30           96.9       186.9    0.40   J3.76    12.4         3.4       25       75
j   j 1 3 3 ,EAV2  708        70          380.7       667.9    0.53    3.9&        4.5      8.6       25        75
m   : 0  EAV3 V    1,746         160       1,375.2    2.291.2    0.79    1.31    10.4    19.7             25       75
EAV4       687   1   350           898.9    1.440.0    1.31    2.09                j5.a    43.2  25      7 5
ELG1        92         30           36.2        71.1    0.39    0.77        1.1      3.5       25       75
ci~~~~~~~~~                                                                   
'-q  f ELG2       482         70      |26.0           433.2  I 0.53    0.94   i 4.5         8.4       25       75
ELG3                  1 683   160              891.0    0.79      1 .31     10.3  1 19.2       5        75
Z                                                                                  I 
X ELG4  j   ?29   350      ~~~~~~~952.3     1.510.7    1.31   2.CJ 7    22.4     41.9     25      7 51
-71                                         I       i         T        1 1                        i
TO I A L                    1 5,964  172  j4.870.0    3.097.S    0.82 i  1.36    11.0    20.9        25       7 5  i



COLGIBIA
SEVENTH HI QIWAY PROJECT
Highway i4aintenance Program
Economic Cost and Frequency of Maintenance
Operation Over analysis Period
Paved Roads
AVERAGE ANNUAL ECONOMIIC                AVERAGE ANNUAL M4AINTENAW(F 
SURFACE    LINK     LENGTII   FIRST YEAR                                                                          F VRG   NULEOOI  VRG   NULM1T~AC  10 YEAR PROGRAM OP
TYPE       No.                  (198)             COST (THOUSAND UsS)                    (Percent of Surface)            OVERLAYS AND 1/
LIT             TOTAL              PEP KM         -Patch  it        Seal                 REIABI ITATIONS
_                                             -                                                               w1zir1~~~~~~~IVn    W1/   w Wo      /o w V/  _
SF0b         34          150     62.4        295.2      1.83    8.68      4.3    3.0       9.9        9.9       0             34
SF07        453          350     1,339.3    3,275.9    2.96    7.23       9.3    2.5       8.5        3.3       0            389
SF08        918          750     4,193.1    5,689.2    4.57    6.20        17.0   5.7      J. 7      21.1       0            481
SF09        882        1,500     5,911.2    3,607.7    6.70    4.09       26.2   7.5          0      51.4       0              0
J    E,
ID    SF10        148        3,000      1,271.7    1 401.1    8.60    9.47       33.5   9.1       7.2      45.5       0            107
TOTAL     2,435        1,075    12.777.7   14,269.1    5.24    5.86        20.1   6.0      4.2       30.1       0          1)011
g  s     C1oi        285          350       252.5       259.0   0.88    0.91         2.0   1.5       4.1         0        0            43
o   .    AC02     842          750     1,225.6    2,667.3   1.45    3,16         5.2   2.7        1.0       1.5       0            682    6|
o b      AC03      2,247        1,500     3,575.0    4,451.2   1.59    1.99          5.6   2.5       1.3        2.5       0           930    o
ex   ACo4       1,510        3,000     5,796.8    59312.1   3.84    3.51         15.4   3.0         0        7.8       0         1,210
U)
TOTAL     4,884        1,767     0,849.9   12.689.6   2.22    2.60          8.4   2.6       1.0      3.8        0          2,865
1/ In the terminology of tlwe lIMD model, aaDhalt concr*te
roads receive overlays and surface treated roads are
rehabilitated.
Source: Mission
;.pril 1977



COLOMBI A
SEVEN'TIll IGHWIAY PROJECT
Typical Econontic Vehicle Operating Costs
(December 1975 C01,$per vehicle/kim)
1978 2/                              1988 3/
SURFACE       TERRAIN         CONDITION 1/        LI GT                                  LIGHT
LIIL         TYPE           TYPE                             VEHIC LE      BUS           TRUCK      VEIIICLE     BUS          TRUCK
SM02       Gravel           OND          Bad-Fair              3.82        4.42           7.52        3.71       4.34          7.41
SM03       Gravel           MONT           Bad                4.43         5.39           8.83        4.34       5.32          8.73
AV03       Gravel           OND           Very Bad             3.82        4.44           7.65        3.69      4.36           7.52
AV03       Gravel           MONT            Fair               4.17        4.75           7.83        4.08       4.69          7.74
SF08     Sfce. Trtd.        OND           Good                3.23         4.32           6.96        2.84      4.13           6.53
SF08     Sfce. Trtd.        MONT          Good                3.87         5.09           7.62        3.38      4.86           7.11
AC03       Asphalt          OND           Good                 2.30        3.83           5.91        2.30       3.83          5.91
AC03       Asphalt          MONT          Good                 3.04        4.69           6.74        2.85       4.34          6.42
1/ present condition of road
2/ without project
3/ with project
OND: Ondulating terrain (flat to rolling)
MONTT Mountainous Terrain
Source: Mission
April 1977



ANNEX 6
Table 12
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs Used in the Evaluation of
Road Rehabilitation and Road Maintenance Programs
(December 1975 Col $ per vehicle-km)
Light
Vehicle         Bus       Truck
Road Rehabilitation Program 1/
Flat to Undulating terrain                  3.41           4.13        5.55
Mountainous terrain                         4.58           6.34        8.66
Highway Maintenance Program 2/
Flat to Undulating terrain                  2.77           4.08        6.44
Mountainous terrain                         3.46           4.89        7.18
1/ Table 16 of Main Report
2/ From Annex 6 Table 11



COLOMBIA                                        ANNEX  6
SEVENTH HIGHWAY  PROJECT                                  Table  13
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
ECONOMIC ASSESSMENT
(US$ Million)
PROGRAM IMPLEMENTED WITH LIMITED                                       PROGRAM IMPLEMENTED WITH PLANNED
ROAD REHABILITATION                                        REHABILITATION WHEN IDEALLY REQUIRED
'i     nf'1'1' l it .'1l                                         IUlT IDLI.EN ALL
*tI1NT SUNMARY                                                   I mriPr PIMNARY
--U A r A    T .A P L f                                                 D A I A    T A E -L 
10 TYARS,    I COST siRkAMS,    I DINFrIT STRFAMS.               10 YEARs.    I CMOT STREAMS,    1 PINEFIT STRGAMI:.
YEAR   TQIAI COuI   TOTAL DENII-1   NET IIENEFIT                 YEAR   TOrAL COSr   TOTAL- SNErIT   NET DENrFir
1        16.9Y             7.41          -9.48                     1        82.29            11.33         -70.96
2        11.64            33,90          22.26                    2         36.17            69.22          33.05
3        20.92            50.26          27.34                    3         37.16           112.28          75.12
4        15.45            78.71          63.46                    4         18.40           166.33         147.93
5         3.3C           134.18         130.8                    5          3.57           249.50         245.93
6        -6.91           181.16         118.07                    6        -12.36           316.21         323.57
7         6.73           240.89         234,16                    7         -0,79           407.01         407.80
a         6.52           307.93         301.41                    a         -7.22           511.67         519.09
9         2.15           422.48         420.33                    9         -8.42           617.80         62m.22
10        2e.30           512.73         484.43                   10          9.98           743.38         733.40
xT._OC  J  *                                                    ! EXEr. PV
INPUT - 00. SF INIEREST R! SCE.                               .   INPUT-- NO. OF INTEREST RATES.
! 3                                                               !  3
1INPT4-- iTTEREST RATES.                                          INPUT-- INTEREST RATES.
292.2,292.3,292.4,                                              ! 117.74,117.76,117.78,
0t)                                                               00
PRESENST VALUER-- ----rATE(X)                                     PRESENT VALUE-------RATECIT
0.01         292.20                                               0.02          117.74
0.00         292.30                                              -0.00          117.76
-0.00         292.40                                              -0.02          117.78
COIWl                                                           I CONT
! LXEC FUV                                                        I EXEC PV
INPUT-- NTO. OF IN1TEREST RATES.                                  INPUT-- NO. OF INTEREST RATES.
--,-!  1   -                                                    T!  I
INPUT-- INTEREST RATES.                                           INPUT-- INTEREST RATES.
11                                                              ! i1
G o0                                                              I GO
PRESENT VALUE -------RATE (91                                    PRESENT VALUE -------RATE(S)
920.75           11.00                                           1511.41           11.00
CONT                                                              CONT
ExEC PCT                                                        I EXEC BCR
!F'FUT-- (TO. Or IN7ErST RATTCY.                                  INPUT-- NO. nF INTEREST PATES.
! I                                                               II
INTUT-- INTER'r!T RATES.                                         INPUT - INTEREST RATES.
11                                                              1 11
l/ C RAT  ----------RrI                                            BC RTIO        ---RES
13.71          11.10                                              11.09           11.00
So-rc; NHia.tou
Al il 19)7



COLOMBIA
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Truck Weight Control Program
Assessment of Effects
Road               Road            Frequency of Overlays           Type of        Cost of
Traffic           Length                    (years)                 Overlay        Overlay
Level          in Network                 Without     With           (mm)         (US$/Km)
(ADT)             (Km)          Ideal    Program    Program
<500                772
Negligible effect of weight control program 1/
500 - 1,000          1,760
1,000 - 2,000          3,240           10          5          9             50          25,000
>2,000             1,650            10          5         9             75          35,000
1/ This is because low traffic volumes, even though including overloaded trucks,
do not generate large enough a number of standard equivalent axle repetitions to
significantly affect the timing of overlays.
Source: Mission
April 1977
tDm



ANTNEX 6
Table 15
COLO,BIA
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Truck Weight Control Program
Yearly Overlay Reouirements
(Km)
Without Program                        With Program
1,000-2,000 ADT    >2,000 ADT         1,000-2,000 ADT   >62,000 ADT
0               650                330                 650                330
2               650                330                 415                210
3               650                330                 415                210
3               650                330                 405                200
4               650                330                 405                200
5               650                330                 380                190
6               650                330                 380                190
7               650                330                 380                190
8               650                330                 360                180
9               650                330                 360                180
10               650                330                360                180
Yearl' Costs (US$ million, Dec. 1976 value)
Investment and         Overlay       Investment-/ and        Overlay
Operating          Overlay           Operatin72/          Overiay
0                0                27.80                8.03             27.80
1                0                27.80                6.82              17.73
2                0                27.80                6.82             17.73
3                0                27.80                6.82             17.113
4                0                27.80                6.82             17.13
5                0                27.80                6.82             16.15
6                0                27.80                6.82             16.15
7                0                27.80                6.82             16.15
8                0                27.80                6.82             15.30
9                0                27.80                6.82             15.30
i0                0                27.80                6.82             15.30
I/  Fconom,ic costs, Pqtim;ted eonal to 82% of financial costs.
2/ Estimated at 85% of economic costs of the installation. Includes
personnel, including police staff, maintenance of equipment,
buildings and other staticn areas, and administration.
Source: Mission
April 1977



AN'EX 6
Table 16
COLC'!IA
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Truck Weight Control Program
Economic Assessment
--11-2UrA h A       TP L .. F-----
t t YFARS,      t CoST STRE1AMMS        1. OENEFIT STREAMS.
YF AR    TOlT2l. CQS;T   TOTAL. BENEFIT    NET BENEFIT
1.          9.03                0.00            -9.03
.2-             6 6.El2           tO.07              3.25
4- ';           6 .82              10.67             3.85
6'- 3           6 3S               1t.165            4.93
9-11            6 . 8?            1t.50              5.6
I FXEC PR
.3*:**F.ATE (IF RETIHFN =  45.850  f/-   0.050 PFR'FENT*****
NnTF: CHFCK'.TNR T1-F -"0.000  rO 1t00.000 PERCENT RANGE
(TN  INCRFMFNrS OF    1-000 FPE--RCENT)--
THE RATI  OF RETURN ABOYE IS UNIQUJE.
EXHYF' EQI
I'NFl-- NO. OF INTERFST RATES.
NF' !I - - TN'TFREST RATES.
t'
EF'-F NT VA!  --E- ----RAT F.
17.3'..            11.00
Source:  Mission
Apri! 1977



SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                           CRAUT C
-l:-TR  OF -UELI WORKS AND TRANSPORT
ORGANIZATION CHART
(|~~~~     -J            - -u -n r- -- -- --r- -- ----- - -1        
L RoFeS F    1w  4 1                                     I                  I
-4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E:
-4s,  d   IndN  [                                   L                           -          <     L
C C C   C ,~~~~~C   ' C   C C C ' C C C   CCC   C  C C C C   C C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  'C C C      C C ''  C~~~~~~~~'  C C C   C- C'C Cw   C C Cm   C C ClLP 






;(PLO. MB I A
SEVENTHl HIll;WAY PROJECi
ConsultitI  Services and Technical Assisrance Programn
V ic hn I       I
PannJng Unt
General
Direttorstes       1ICMMERCE & FINANCE |OPEATIONS|                                                                      |IAO   CONSTEIUCTION
j _, ,.Cotracts
Divisionis                ommercia                rstrit                                a                                            1r
Reorganization of          Improve availability         ImprCvE naintenanice        Invenitory of                 Rehabilitation
Psorran             stores and                 of equipment through         programming and             naturally occurring           Program
Description         purchasing Bystem.         preventive rainte-           utilization of equip-    materials and                    for 978 km of
Trainiing of MOPT          nance program.,             ment by training             specifications fon            trunk roads.
personnel.                 Training of personnel.   and seminars.                   roadworks.
1 I C It W A Y   M A I N T E N A N C E   P R O G R A M                      R E If A B I L I T A T I O N        P ('(: R i Am
Prresras  Manayer 30 rn/m         Transport Ecoi.omist 6 mn/m                              Coordinator  30 m/m
Professional        I strr  super. 3(tm/m          3 mec4anical             I plaining cost 30m/m         ConsultIrg cervices          Consulting services
Services                                             sspesrintendent        I work snperin. 24m/m         fron, local firms            from 6 firms over
Rcquirements        A storemen       60ni/m                                 2 asphalt maint.40m/m         over 2 vears*                4 1/2 yeats
(toLa3  230 m/yrs)
90m/m                         rn6tm/m                    94r/nt     professional  25m/yr         professional 180mlyr
|1 geolc List   2ism/         6c
Stecial ROPT        2 superint,   - 40m/m          6 mec'Lanieb 120W,         civil  1ngineers -                        engI6 civil egineer/ 
Counterparts        6  trnt          lO/              etnc-2)tn250m/nti                                   1 materials engineerI
Counterparts   6 stolem0el    -1 !I)v/in                              i2 inspectors - 300mImg                        24m1/ o    1            
_2 inspectors -   30Gm      |    4 technicians 24/a
I            lr~~10)wu/mI
To be financed by FONADE
Source: Mission
March 1977



COLDMBIA
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Imple.qtatio- Schedule
E V E N T                                  1 9 77                    1 9 7 8                   1979                       1 9 8 0                   1 9 8 1                    REMARKS
J F M A M J J A S O N D  J F M A M J J A S O 'tO  D  J   M A M J J A S O N D  J F MA M J J A S 0 N D  J F M A M J J A S O N D
Reh bilitation ProHrm
Eat Batch   9 Sectic.-  - St.bili.oti-o Workr         a IC                                 -pDtLodal bidding
c T~    ompleted
5tIch:  10 Let - TttaElli4  310.6 km                  A      I        C                                                     compled                                                              I.C.B
3rd BRtch:  4 Lot. - Totallig 96.3 km                                  B                    D                          I C    pl -ed                                                             I.C.B.
/rd Batch:  4 Lot. - Ttallig  1532 kI                         A       S              c                   D                          mpleted                                                      I.C.B.
%    .                                                       xi ~~~~~~                                         4completed
5th Batch:  10 Lot.   Totallilg 275.7 km                                       A            B     c                               D D                                                            I.C.B.
-  ---   --- -                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8 ..completed
6th Batch:  5 Lots - Totalling  142.3                                                                              A    X|        C X                                     5 complstd             I.C.B.
Cottucti-n Superv.idon    6 Fir                       As B      C C 4       D                                       _D _                                                                         Local Co..ultanta
'tooedimatw for Rhabillt.tj.onpccgra_ amd                         C      D                                       D
lnae.e     Stsdy        _         - A      +         -I-------                    C                   --i D _ D                                                            I-L4 IL oeg/on
IIwmtgLoey of Natarally Occurring R*Ad-!aterital          A+B   C      D                                        D       Iomade financed
Vehicle 5JeEiat, Control Prerm
Studi.., D.-i-. amd Civil Worka                             Phe  I tsd II tesiun   a                     IIj
iiwipNnt Inot.lltion                            A- ,l   B.                                                                   D ^            E                                                    ICB
aIdC.B..
CoagEWructEomRiin     l S .p iiBrtor 3 firm  -                                      A      B     _C     V                                                                                        Local Co-.Glt ta
Road laimismance Progarm
Zattnalomd to Storee and Wcrk.hcpI A   B   C                            D                                                                                                                        locl biddiog
Spare PartE. Pro-reent                                     A       B     a C             p           I                                                                                           L     -l   h....
Eqvipment Poc-mt                                           A    X   I  X        I                A ID  I    E          D                                                                         ICB.
Tech.ical AiE.tamce:                                 A   B   ICI                                                                                                                                 Con.ultaot.
ProgRam  Xeaaa_                                              r      .                  D + E       ________________D EForeEigr/Locs1
Traasport Es.c.oAt                                                                                                    0 D                                                                      F ,nreign/LocAl
Spers.WJrehod.ing   Puch.ijg                                      D                  D + E                           D_Ml                    D D+E  a       t                                 poreisnlLocsl
Mecfsmic.1l Engieer.                                          tD + E                                   IFr-tge/Lo.a.
Road Maintenmace Pro.gxreiog 6 Cuetio1                                                 D + E       __                                                                                          Foreige/Loca1
Road Maimtemamce OperatiomD.                                                                                                                                                                  Foreign/Loc-l
Propo.ed BRnk Misi.oeJ   Ecomomt                       t                 *          *              *                   *            *                   *            *            *              (27 -na-weeks)
Enginert                      *                 *          *             0                                 *                   *            *            *              (27 man-eks)
Co.nultamte (Machanlcal)                        *                                             *                                                                         (16 oem-weeks)
_______________                               J F M A M J J          A DS ONl J F M A M  J J A S O N D  J F M A M J J A S O  ND  J r M  A M J J A  S  O I    A D  J F M  A M J J A S OND_
LEIGEND:
A - Preparatiom cod Prequalifioctio.                       B - Bidding Period                C - Bt1 evaluation amd Mobilioation
D - Implement-tion                                        E - Training
X - World bRnk Approvals
.Esrce   Mission 
AprWf19J7



I BRD 123
77                                                                                                                                                                                        fN liMil  4
-p,
LL4
-6
2
lici                                                    JL
NO-                             r
-,.Jrp
64
z
15.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               a



