Document of
FILE COPY                            The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P -2OQ66.CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
June is, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their oflicial dudes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Estimated as of June 1977)
Currency Unit - Colombian Peso (Col$)
Col$1         - US$0.0272
Col$1,000     - US$27.17
Col$1,000,000 - US$27,174
US$1          - Col$36.80
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DAAC    - Departamento Administrativo de Aeronautica Civil.
ER      - Economic Rate of Return
FONADE - Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Economico
FYB     - First Year Benefit
GDP     - Gross Domestic Product
IDB     - Inter-American Development Bank
MOP     - Ministerio de Obras Publicas (up to January 1976)
MOPT    - Ministerio de Obras Piblicas y Transporte (after January 1976)
NPO     - National Planning Office
UNIDO   - United Nations Industrial Development Organization
VOC     - Vehicle Operating Costs
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  The Republic of Colombia
Amount:                    US$90 million equivalent
Terms:                     Repayment in 17 years including 3-1/2 years of
grace and interest of 8.2% per annum.
Project
Description:             The project would include:  (a) a rehabilitation
program of about 978 km of paved trunk roads; (b) a
vehicle weight control program, incuding installa-
tion of about 20 weighing stations; (c) a highway
maintenance program including acquisition of about
800 units of highway maintenance equipment, spare
parts as well as workshop equipment and store
extensions; (d) logistic support to the project,
including the purchase of vehicles, road marking,
laboratory and drilling equipment; and (e) technical
assistance.
Estimated Cost:                                            (US$ Million Equivalent)
Local     Foreign     Total
Road Rehabilitation Program    40.95      41.10      82.05
Vehicle Weight Control Program  2.85       4.00       6.85
Highway Maintenance Program     1.10      23.60      24.70
Transport Sector Management     0.25       1.00       1.25
Logistic Support                 -         0.70       0.70
Total Base Cost      45.15      70.40     115.55
Contingencies                  17.85      20.35      38.20
Total Project Cost             63.00      90.75     153.75
Percent of Total Cost          41         59        100
Financing Plan:                                          --------(US$ Million)-------
Local     Foreign     Total
Bank                             -        90.00      90.00
Government                     63.75        -        63.75
Total Project
Cost                         63.75      90.00     153.75
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onily im the perfomance
of rheir official duties. Its contents maiy not otherwise be disclosed withoet Worid Bank authorization.



Page 2 of 2
Estimated
Disbursements:                            FY78    FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82
----      (US$ million)----------
Incremental      15.0   28.0   26.0   15.0     6.0
Cummulative      15.0   43.0   69.0   84.0    90.0
Rate of Return:             The average weighted rate of return for the project
as a whole is estimated at over 90%.
Appraisal Report:           June 16, 1977.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Colombia for the equivalent of US$90 million to help
finance a seventh highway project. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including 3-1/2 years of grace, with interest at 8.2% per annum.
PART I: THE ECONOMY I/
2.        The latest economic report on Colombia (1548-CO) was distributed
to the Executive Directors in May 1977. It assesses current developments and
provide a medium-term perspective of the Colombian economy. Country data
sheets are provided in Annex 1.
Background
3.        During the past two decades substantial structural transformation
has taken place in the Colombian economy. The country has made impressive
progress in the transition from a predominantly rural and agricultural economy
made up of largely self-contained regions to an urban industrial economy, more
oriented toward international trade. Broadening of the country's productive
base has been accompanied by rapid growth of nontraditional exports (those
other than coffee) and development of a modern sector which relies to a
considerable extent on imported inputs. From 1967 to 1975 GDP rose by an
average 6.4% per annum in real terms, well above the historical average of
less than 5% (1950-67), and real per capita income increased by an average
annual 3.6%. Two mutually dependent phenomena, increased investment and
relaxation of the foreign exchange constraint, have been the major factors in
bringing about this acceleration. Merchandise exports have expanded more than
three-fold since 1967 and, most significantly, nontraditional exports have
become an increasingly important source of foreign exchange earnings, growing
from 27% of merchandise exports to about 50% at present. Much of this increase
was the result of both product and market diversification, especially of manu-
factured exports, as the share of total exports shipped to Latin American
countries more than doubled. Despite the substantial progress, Colombia still
remains essentially an underdeveloped country with a limited modern sector
superimposed on a large, traditional, and poor base.
1/   This part is identical to the one contained in the President's Report
for the Fourth Telecommunications Project (Report No. P-2008-CO of
May 25, 1977).



- 2 -
4.        When the present Government took office in August 1974, the country
was faced with several adverse developments -- weakening balance of payments
situation, impending loss of self-sufficiency in petroleum production, infla-
tion, deterioration of public finances, and reduction in public investment --
which threatened to interrupt the high growth rate achieved by Colombia in
recent years. The new administration embarked upon an economic stabilization
program with the aim of restoring the basis for sustained economic growth.
In line with this, it implemented basic reforms of the fiscal, monetary
and price systems.
5.        To help strengthen public finances, the new Government implemented
a tax reform which covered almost every important component of the tax system
and represented a significant improvement in terms of progressivity and elas-
ticity. The Government also made certain changes in the financial system with
the purpose of stimulating private savings and improving the allocational
efficiency of the financial system. The action included a restructuring of
interest rates, simplification of the complex reserve system, and elimination
of many of the more rigid and cumbersome controls.
6.        The Government also took steps to correct major distortions which
existed in the price system. Price controls on a number of important agri-
cultural products were removed. In May 1976, the Government introduced
far-reaching modifications in its petroleum pricing policy which aim at
regaining self-sufficiency in production of crude petroleum by improving
incentives for exploration and exploitation. Under the new policy, foreign
oil companies are now paid the international price of crude CIP Cartagena
for new petroleum produced in association with the government petroleum cor-
poration.   (Previously the foreign oil companies received less than US$7 per
barrel for new crude.) The Government is also encouraging incremental produc-
tion from existing fields and, in this connection, eliminated the special
petroleum exchange rate, effectively increasing the price of crude oil
by about 20%. Furthermore, retail prices of gasoline have been raised in
successive steps from US$0.11/gallon in August 1975 to US$0.27/gallon in
January 1977, or by almost 150%. The Government proposes to continue this
policy until the prices of gasoline and other petroleum derivatives approach
international prices.
7.        Economic growth slowed in 1975 (from 6% in 1974 to about 5%) and
unemployment increased, reflecting both the impact of the stabilization
measures adopted at the end of 1974 and the effects of the world recession.
Towards the end of the year the economy began to recover, stimulated by
increased exports, larger agricultural output and heightened industrial
activity. The recovery continued in 1976 with real GDP growing by about 6%.
During 1974-76 National Government savings increased substantially; due to
the 1974 Tax Reform, tax revenues increased by over 40% a year while nominal
GDP grew at an annual rate of about 30%. Private savings mobilized through
the financial system also increased rapidly, growing by almost 50% a year
during 1974-76. Moreover, the balance of payments turned favorable in 1975
as a result of the sharp increase in world coffee prices and expansion of



- 3 -
non-coffee agricultural exports. The favorable balance of payments perfor-
mance continued in 1976 with foreign exchange reserves reaching almost
US$1,150 million, sufficient to cover over 5 months' imports. With increased
export earnings, the public debt-service ratio declined from 17.0% in 1974 to
11.7% in 1975 and about 11.4% in 1976. However, despite strengthening of the
Government's monetary and fiscal policies (which had reduced inflation from
27% in 1974 to 18% in 1975), the rate of inflation increased to 26% in 1976.
Colombia, through a combination of domestic policies and fortuitous external
developments, has come through the period of world recession and economic
adjustment with a strong foreign exchange reserve position and a rapidly
recovering domestic economy.
Recent Economic Performance
8.        The economic forces have continued to be favorable.    Coffee prices
are high and the balance of payments remains strong; foreign exchange reserves
stood at more than US$1,400 million at the end of the first quarter of 1977,
the highest level in Colombia's history. The increased demand generated by
the higher incomes of the coffee producers has been a powerful stimulus to the
economy. Real GDP growth in 1977 is projected at 7%. As a result, urban un-
employment, down from about 13% in 1974 to about 9% by end-1976, is expected
to decline further.
9.        The inflow of foreign exchange from coffee sales has, however, led
to a resurgence of inflation and this has prompted the Government to continue
to give priority to short-term management of demand. Several measures have
been taken. Legal reserve requirements have been increased and limitations
on private external borrowing have been established. Import duties have been
drastically reduced to shift part of the inflationary pressures to the exter-
nal sector. Fiscal management was quite restrictive in 1976; the Treasury
accounts had a surplus, which was used for repayment of the Government's
short-term domestic debt. Almost two-thirds of coffee earnings are being
kept from increasing the monetary base by measures adopted recently. 1/ The
Government's liberalized import policy will (although with a lag) increase the
supply of goods, thus dampening pressure on domestic prices. Nevertheless,
inflationary pressures are likely to persist. Even after the sterilization
measures taken, the record coffee export receipts will add to the monetary
expansion. Furthermore, current price and cost trends (the Government is
attempting to hold wage increases in the public sector to 18%, but private
sector wages will probably increase substantially more) as well as "corrective"
adjustments in public-service prices make substantial deceleration of price
1/   The measures are:   15% of payments to coffee producers to be made in
three-year compulsory savings certificates; an increase in the coffee
retention tax from 23% to 46%, and investment of a substantial portion
of this tax, including the four percentage points received by the Coffee
Federation, in Government bonds.



- 4 -
increases unlikely during 1977. However, the rate of inflation is expected
to decline over the medium term as the Government remains strongly committed
to reducing inflation and its monetary, fiscal and trade measures begin to
take effect. Although the reserves being built up during the "coffee boom"
strengthen Colombia's longer-term prospects, the rapid increases in liquidity
add toathe difficulties of short-term economic management and illustrate the
special problems facing economies with a heavy reliance on a single export
commodity. Although inflation needs to be brought under control, the economy
seems now poised for a period of rapid growth.
Development Strategy and Prospects
10.       The Government's development strategy is embodied in the 1975-78
development plan. The plan aims at creating the conditions necessary for sub-
stantially reducing unemployment through increased capital accumulation in the
private sector, improvement in the efficiency of the price system in order to
encourage more labor-intensive production techniques and expansion of public
investment. The plan places increased emphasis on the need to strengthen
public sector institutions; particularly, public enterprises are in the future
to earn a satisfactory rate of return on their revalued assets and financial
intermediaries are to maintain the real value of their capital. In terms of
public investment, the main thrust will be on providing adequate economic
infrastructure to stimulate rapid growth and employment in industry and agri-
culture, as well as on socially oriented projects to help eradicate rural and
urban poverty. Within infrastructure, special priority has been assigned to
the development of domestic energy sources to help reduce the country's
impending dependence on imported energy. Also, the Government continues to
stress agriculture because it is in the rural areas where the greatest con-
centration of poverty exists and in agricultural activities where increases in
employment can be most quickly achieved. Commercial agriculture is to receive
support due to its strong contribution to export as well as employment growth.
A substantial portion of public expenditures is being reoriented toward
nutrition and primary education programs which affect the productivity of the
poorest 50% of the population. Policies for promoting decentralization of
industry away from the largest cities have been adopted to accelerate inte-
gration of more backward areas into the modern sector of the economy.
11.       Colombia's strong balance-of-payments prospects for the immediate
future should make it possible in 1977 for the country to resume the high rate
of growth of GDP (6-7%) achieved in the early 1970s. Export prospects for the
next several years are excellent, as world coffee prices remain strong and
economic growth is resuming in the industrialized countries. With the contin-
uation of appropriate incentives, minor exports should grow very rapidly once
again. Manufactured exports--textiles, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, mechanical
and electrical equipment, and paper products--are over the long-term expected
to lead this recuperation, along with non-coffee agricultural exports. Given
the improved outlook for coffee, Colombia is likely to maintain a favorable
trade balance throughout the late 1970s. Under these circumstances an annual
growth rate of GDP of about 7.4% is expected to be accompanied by a 10% annual



- 5 -
increase of imports in real terms. In light of favorable external economic
conditions and domestic policies the marginal savings rate over this period
is projected to be about 30% and public sector savings are projected to be
about 8% of GDP. However, Colombia's public sector investment program calls
for a high level of expenditures if both economic and social objectives are to
be fulfilled. Capital expenditures are expected to be about 10% of GDP.
12.       Colombia is expected to require gross capital inflows of US$4.2
billion during the five-year period 1977-82, of which almost US$350 million
will be disbursed from commitments made through the end of 1976. To attain
this level, annual gross capital inflow will have to increase from US$421
million in 1976 to US$990 million in 1982. Direct foreign investment is
expected to provide only a small part (8%) of the required capital inflow,
with approximately 50% being provided by official multilateral and bilateral
sources and the remainder by suppliers', financial and other credits from
private sources.
13.       Colombia's public external debt repayable in foreign currency
amounted to US$3.3 billion at the end of 1976, or about US$2.6 billion excluding
undisbursed commitments. The Bank Group's share of this external debt (dis-
bursed only) as of the end of 1976 was about 28% and is expected to decline
to about 25% by 1982. Service on this debt was about 11.4% of exports of goods
and non-factor services in 1976, and is projected to remain at that level,
assuming recovery of minor exports and the favorable outlook for coffee over
the next few years. Balance-of-payments prospects beyond 1980 will depend to
a significant extent on the results of petroleum exploration and on progress
made in implementation of several resource-based export projects currently
under preparation. The Bank's share of public debt service in 1976 was about
26% and is expected to decline marginally to 25% by 1982. With the maintenance
of sound economic and financial policies, Colombia should have no difficulty
securing or servicing the external capital it needs.
PART II:   BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
14.       The proposed loan, the 68th to be made to Colombia, would bring the
total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$1,526.4 million (net of cancel-
lations). Of this amount, US$1,040.4 million is now held by the Bank; IDA
made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in Colombia in 1961. Disburse-
ments have been completed on 43 loans and the IDA credit. IFC has made
effective investments and underwriting commitments of US$51.2 million in 23
enterprises and now holds US$28.5 million. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans and the IDA credit as of March 31, 1977, and IFC
investments as of April 30, 1977. The Annex also contains summaries on the
execution of the 22 on-going projects.
15.       Since FY68, Bank lending in Colombia has become more diversified
and has been concentrated on production-oriented programs and activities
which carried social as well as economic benefits. Eight of the eleven



- 6 -
agricultural loans have been made since then, seven of the ten loans for
industry, all three loans in the education sector and all six loans for water
supply and sewerage. This compares with only seven loans since FY68 in
the power and transport sectors.
16.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY76 consisted of one loan for develop-
ment finance companies totalling US$80 million. In addition to the present
project, the FY77 program includes the recently approved Integrated Rural
Development, Second Agricultural Credit, Fourth Telecommunications Projects
and Second Small-Scale Industry Project. Work is also under way in nutrition
and health, development finance companies, slum improvement, power, water
supply and sewerage, tourism, mining, small farm development and agricultural
extension for possible consideration by the Executive Directors during the
next two years.
17.       In lending to Colombia, the Bank tries to assist the Government in
achieving four major objectives. These objectives are interdependent and
complementary. One objective is to spread the benefits of growth more widely
than before and, more particularly, to attack directly the problem of rural
poverty. A second objective is to help Colombia expand output, including
exports, by supporting projects that directly or indirectly make large contri-
butions to production and employment. A third objective is to support programs
that will bring about improvements in the management of the economy and, par-
ticularly, that will help to strengthen public institutions and financial
intermediaries. A fourth objective is to transfer sufficient external re-
sources to complement Colombia's domestic savings and provide the necessary
funds for maintaining an adequate level of economic and social investments in
a framework oLsound domestic finances and a viable balance of payments.
18.       While the last objective primarily influences the magnitude of the
Bank's program in Colombia, the other three jointly determine its composition.
Naturally, many operations serve more than one of the ends listed and may,
moreover, support more specific Government objectives. Thus, the Seventh
Highway Project will help Colombia expand output, including exports, by
improving the efficiency of the trunk highways, the backbone of the transport
system and the principal link to the country's ports. In addition, the proj-
ect will support the Government's efforts to strengthen transport planning
and to improve highway maintenance practices.
19.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex I.
While IBRD, IDB, and AID provided about 75% of total external financing to
Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has decreased since then to
approximately 40%. Like the Bank, IDB and AID have given increased emphasis
to social projects. For instance, the IDB has assisted projects in low cost
housing, rural development, agrarian reform, university education, water
supply, and land erosion. AID has supported programs in education, urban
development and small farm development. More recently, it has moved to small
project loans aimed chiefly at improving the distribution of income. It is
expected to phase out its aid program in Colombia in the current year.



- 7 -
PART III: THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
The System
20.       Colombia has coastlines on both the Pacific Ocean and the Caribbean
Sea, but this advantage of having two coastlines is offset by the difficulty
of movement between the coasts and the interior. The three massive ranges
of the Andes Mountains which run from south to north present formidable
barriers to communication between the main areas of population, which until
recently developed as separate and almost isolated communities. Transport
investment policy over the past twenty years has been aimed at national
integration and at overcoming the situation imposed by geography.
21.       Colombia has a road network totalling about 51,000 km of which
21,000 km are national highways under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of
Public Works and Transport (MOPT). Almost all the remainder (27,500 km) are
the responsibility of the departments. About one-third of the national system
is paved against about 3% of the departmental roads; the remainder are gravel
or unsurfaced roads. The national highway system includes the trunk road
network which connects the main economic centers and ports and secondary
roads linking smaller towns to the trunk roads. The two major transport
corridors run north-south along the Cauca and Magdalena valleys and are
connected by two paved roads in the central region, one via Ibague-Armenia
and the other via Honda-Manizales.
22.       The Colombian National Railways (CNR) operate a unified network of
lines totaling about 3,400 km, all single track and narrow gauge (914 mm).
Most of the system runs north and south in the two principal mountain valleys.
The northern terminal of the system is the Caribbean port of Santa Marta and
the southern terminal is at Neiva in the Huila Department. The terrain has
made the construction and maintenance of the railroad both difficult and
costly. As compared with highways, railways are a more difficult mode in
mountainous terrain. Railway costs increase sharply with high gradients and
good equipment, high operating efficiency and large volume are essential for a
profitable operation.
23.       Under these conditions, it is not surprising that Colombia's railways
have fared badly in competition,with the rapidly developing road network. The
cargo volume carried by the railways, although, in absolute figures, rising
from about 800 million ton km in the early 1960s to about 1,200 million by
the 1970s, has shown limited growth in recent years. As a result, CNR has
been requiring increased financial assistance from the Government. The rail-
ways, however, appear to have a long-term economic role as carriers of bulk
cargo over long hauls. To examine the future of the railways, a study is
being carried out under the direction of MOPT.
24.       While the traditional importance of inland shipping has decreased
due to the development of rail and, later, road transport, it is still of
some importance. About 95% of the inland shipping traffic is carried by the
Magdalena River, which, although of difficult navigation, is quite dependable



- 8 -
in all seasons down river of Gamarra (about 470 km from the coast). Up river
as far as Honda (930 km from the Barranquilla river sea terminal) navigation is
only seasonal. The 71 mile Canal del Dique, which was constructed in Colonial
times and connects the Magdalena River with the sea port of Cartagena, carries
a substantial volume of traffic. Much of this traffic is transshipped to road
and rail at Cienaga and a number of river ports further upstream. River cargo
consists mainly of a few bulky commodities, of which petroleum products are
the most important. The under-populated eastern part of the country has
practically no highways except for a few penetration roads and is mainly
dependent on river transport.
25.       The principal seaports of Colombia are Cartagena, Barranquilla and
Santa Marta on the Atlantic and Buenaventura on the Pacific coasts. Between
1966 and 1972, the traffic in the four main ports increased from 2.1 million
tons to 2.6 million tons (about two-thirds for imports and one-third for
exports). With the improvements of the transit storage and cargo-handling
facilities carried out with IDB financing, the four main ports are now able
to handle over 4 million tons of general cargo per year.
26.       Colombia's difficult terrain has encouraged the development of air
transport as a means of domestic and international traffic. There are about
650 landing facilities in the country; four of these handle international
traffic, and there are at least 25 others with volumes of domestic traffic
upward of 1,000 passengers a month. In view of technological improvements
in the aviation field and the inherent difficulties of surface transport,
aviation is most likely to continue to have an increasing role, particularly
in the movement of passengers in the more remote areas of the Colombian
Amazonas.
Transport Investment, Regulation and Coordination
27.       The effort to complete the basic transport network required a
considerable proportion of the country's total investment. Transport repres-
ented between 10% and 15% of domestic investment and about half the Central
Government's investment in the late 1950's.   When the trunk highway system and
the Atlantic Railways were being completed, that proportion rose to more than
60% of Central Government investment in some years.   More recently, however,
the proportion has been declining; in the late 1960's, it was about 35% and,
as of 1970, it was on the order of 25% of total public investment.    In 1975,
about Col$3,200 million were invested in the transportation sector (around
US$107 million); of these, about 60% went to road transport, 18% to rail
transport, 11% to aviation, 8% to ports and marine transportation and 3% to
inland waterways and shipping.
28.       Road-rail competition, the most important area for transport co-
ordination, has developed largely in an unregulated environment. Several
studies, the last of which was the "IMagdalena River Basin Transport Study"
(Netherlands Economic Institute, 1974), have not had a significant impact
on creating a framework for improved transport coordination. In 1966,



- 9 -
Decree 3160 attempted to tie in the various entities responsible for transpor-
tation with the Ministry of Public Works (MOP), and some form of central
control was imposed. More recently, however, coordination of the modes has
been tightened up. Decree 154 of January 27, 1976, restructured MOP and
turned it into the Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MOPT). The decree
assigns to MOPT's planning office responsibility for intermodal planning and
coordination for the transport sector except aviation. The Minister has been
given the power to approve the budget and the investment programs for all
modes, excluding aviation. The Ministry has initiated the preparation of
a national transport plan. One obstacle to making transport planning effective
is the fact that MOPT's Planning Office until now has also been responsible
for highway planning and, therefore, has been identified by the other modes
as a highway planner only. At the suggestion of the Bank the Government will
therefore soon shift the responsibility for highway planning to another
division within MOPT which will be set up as an advisory group to the Vice-
Minister (Section 4.05(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Road Transport and Traffic
29.       The Colombian economy has become highly dependent on the availability
of roads and their capacity to bring products to ports and imports to their
inland destinations. In the early 1950s road traffic accounted for about 43%
of total freight movements; in the mid-1960s that share had risen to about
53% and in 1974 the share was estimated to be close to 70% of all interregional
and international traffic. By comparison, river transport and coastal shipping
accounted for about 15% and railways for about 15% of total interregional and
import-export traffic. Meanwhile, total freight transported by all modes rose
from 3,800 million ton-km in 1960 to 8,400 million ton-km in 1972.
30.       There are about 500,000 motor vehicles in Colombia, of which roughly
three-quarters are passenger vehicles, mainly automobiles, and the rest are
freight trucks. The fleet has grown at a rate of about 9% per annum over the
five years 1970-1975. The number of trucks has been increasing faster than
the number of automobiles (12% per annum compared with 7% per annum for
automobiles). There are no reliable statistics on the composition of the
fleet, but a survey carried out in 1973 by the Transport Finance Corporation,
a Government agency, showed that 60% of the truck fleet has a payload capacity
of less than 7 tons, 30% of between 7 and 10 tons and only 10% of over 10
tons. Since about 90% of trucks are single axle vehicles, overloading is
common. Colombia instituted vehicle weight control regulations in 1955 but
they have been enforced sparingly. Improved maintenance practices would
require a stricter vehicle weight control. As part of the proposed project,
a vehicle weight control program would be established (see paragraph 54
below).
31.       Traffic on the main trunk network of the country has been growing at
an average rate of 8% per annum. Traffic volumes on most paved roads are
in the 1,000 to 2,000 vehicles-per-day range, except around the major urban
centers of Bogota, Cali and Medellin, where they amount to about 4,000 to



- 10 -
6,000 vehicles per day. The average composition of traffic is about 30% to
40% automobiles, 10% to 20% buses and 40% to 60% trucks. On the roads to
be rehabilitated under the proposed project, trucks account for about half
of the traffic.
Highway Administration, Engineering and Construction
32.       Within the MOPT, the Directorates of Construction and Operations are
responsible for constructing and maintaining the national highway network
under the supervision of the Vice-Minister. The Directorate of Construction
is divided into five divisions: Studies and Designs, Construction Materials,
Contracts, Contract Supervision and Special Highway Programs. The Directorate
of Operations consists of two central divisions, one for Road Maintenance and
the other for Equipment and Workshops, and 19 districts. The districts will
soon be increased to 26. Each district is headed by an engineer who is
responsible for the maintenance of the national highways (250 to 2,250 km of
road per district). The districts also maintain the plant and equipment
assigned to them under the guidance of the Equipment and Workshop Division at
Headquarters. The two central directorates are reasonably well staffed, and
their senior personnel are experienced and capable. There is, however, too
little field labor in relation to supervisory staff. A drift of personnel
into senior positions and a freeze on new hiring are the causes of this
situation. MOPT is aware of this problem and proposes to correct it.
33.       MOPT has limited design capacity and uses consultants for this
purpose. While the recent reorganization has increased its engineering
capability, it will continue to depend on consultants for most design work.
The consulting profession is well established in Colombia. There are a number
of capable Colombian engineering firms, most of which have benefitted greatly
from their participation in foreign-financed projects in highways, power and
other fields.   Except for unusually large projects in which foreign consul-
tants have been associated with Colombian firms, most road projects have been
carried out with the assistance of local consultants.
34.       Modern methods of highway construction were first introduced to
Colombia in the early 1950s, when experienced foreign contractors were employed
on the First Highway Project.   There are now about 25 local firms, each capable
of handling over US$1 million worth of asphalt road construction. Ten of
these firms have the capacity to handle contracts of at least US$2.0 million.
Few foreign civil contractors are presently working in Colombia. A permanent
register of firms, showing their technical and financial capacity, is main-
tained and updated annually by MOPT. Each firm's capability to undertake a
particular contract is reviewed after presentation of bids. As a result of
several improvements introduced during the past year, MOPT now has a strict
and equitable basis for contracting. A system of prequalification of bidders
has been established and the required budgetary resources have to be approved
by law before contracts can be awarded.
Highway Maintenance
35.       Unstable soils, bad weather, overloading and deficient maintenance
practices are the principal causes of the generally poor condition of the



- 11 -
national road network. At least half of the paved roads need asphalt over-
lays or seals to strengthen and preserve the pavement structure.
36.       As stated above, MOPT is responsible for the maintenance of the
national road network through its maintenance districts. Budget requests are
made annually by the districts for routine maintenance activities and for
special maintenance which includes urgent works such as protection and stabi-
lization, asphalt seals and overlays, road upgrading and reconstruction.
Usually the budget requests are reduced substantially through administrative
review. Over the last few years, the actual budgetary allocations for road
maintenance have been grossly insufficient. Over 80% of the reduced alloca-
tions was used to pay fixed personnel costs and very little was spent on
purchasing spare parts, fuel, materials, and equipment replacement. Periodic
maintenance of paved roads (asphaltic seal coats and overlays) was neglected
and only urgent repair works have been carried out.
37.       MOPT does not have a replacement program for its maintenance fleet.
Purchases have been sporadic and on a stop-go basis. The last significant
purchase of equipment was in 1971/72 financed with US and UK credits of US$21
million equivalent. MOPT presently has about 4,200 heavy equipment units in
its fleet, which would be more than enough if the units were in good condition.
The average age of the fleet is over ten years and its general condition
is critical. About 25% of the units are obsolete and cannot be economically
repaired and another 35% are out of order or in need of a major overhaul.
38.       The proposed project would help correct the foregoing.    During
negotiations the Government has agreed to cause MOPT to: (a) separate the
budget allocations for routine periodic and emergency maintenance from those
for non-maintenance activities (Section 4.04(b) of the draft Loan Agreement);
(b) plan and implement a program of periodic maintenance on a continuing basis
over the period 1978-81 of about 400 km of roads annually (Section 4.04(c) of
the draft Loan Agreement); (c) continue systematic renewal of its fleet of
maintenance equipment; and (d) carry out annual programs for purchase of
spare parts in order to increase equipment availability (presently estimated
at only 40-50%) and help reduce the number of units needed to maintain the
highway network adequately (Section 4.04(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Highway Financing and Road User Charges
39.       The National Highway Fund (Fondo Vial) is the main source of funds
for construction and maintenance of the national highway network. The Fund
derives about 80% of its revenue from the gasoline tax and the remaining 20%
from Government contributions and external loans. On average, about 10% of
the Fund's expenditures are for feeder roads, and 90% for the national road
network, of which 30% is for maintenance and 60% for construction and paving.
As already mentioned, since August 1975 the Government has been following a
policy of gradually increasing the price of petroleum products and gasoline
until prices reach international levels. As a result, revenues from the
gasoline tax are expected to increase significantly in the future. During the



- 12 -
next five years the National Highway Fund should have sufficient revenues to
sustain the increased level of maintenance expenditures proposed under the
project. To cover all maintenance and the rehabilitation program proposed
under the project, the Government has agreed to make contributions from
general budget revenues (Sections 3.01 and 4.04(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
40.       In addition to the gasoline tax, there are several additional taxes
levied on road users, but the proceeds accrue directly to the National Treasury
and/or Local Governments and not to the Highway Fund. The most important of
these taxes is the import duty on vehicles and spare parts. For automobiles,
the duty, based on c.i.f. value, varies from about 200 to 450%, depending on
the type of vehicle. Import duties on trucks and pickups fluctuate between 70%
and 200%. There are also toll charges on some roads but the revenue collected
is insignificant. Annual license fees are collected by the municipalities and
the municipalities also levy a 20% surcharge on all vehicles weighing more
than 1,400 kilograms (about 3,086 lbs).
Bank Involvement in the Transport Sector
41.       The Bank has played a crucial role in the development of Colombia's
transport sector. Since 1950, it has lent a total of US$255.2 million. Over
the period 1953-1973, Bank disbursements accounteA for about 10% of total
investment for highways and 30% for railways. The Bank started financing
transport investments as a result of the findings of the 1949 General Survey
Mission, which found the transport system in exceptionally bad condition.
The Bank has made twelve loans and one IDA credit to the sector. Six loans
and one IDA credit totalling US$135.6 million have assisted construction and
upgrading of the trunk highway network, which connects the main populated
centers in the country. Two loans for US$40.9 million financed the construc-
tion of the Atlantic Railroad, from La Dorada, near Bogota, to Fundacion, near
the port of Santa Marta, a distance of 672 kms. Four loans totalling US$78.7
million supported a railway rehabilitation program, which helped provide roll-
ing stock for the new Atlantic Railroad and rehabilitate many sections of
track.
42.       The first three highway loans were made to support an emergency
program (First Highway Plan) and, therefore, did not have economic or detailed
engineering studies. As construction progressed, standards were raised
substantially and, as a result, more construction time and financing than
originally envisaged was required. 1/ In spite of the delays and cost over-
runs, an Evaluation Report in 1972 2/ concluded that the road projects proved
1/   In August 1961, IDA made a credit of US$19.5 million (Credit 5-CO) and the
Bank made a loan of US$19.5 million (Loan 295-CO) to complete parts of the
First Highway Plan which were unfinished after ten years.
2/   Report by the Operation Evaluation Division on Bank operations in Colombia
(Doc. Z-18 distributed to the Executive Directors on May 25, 1972.)



- 13 -
to be, on the whole, very successful investments. The average rate of return
(IRR) of 24 road sections analyzed based on road user savings (but omitting
time savings) was 25.1%. The projects resulted in the reconstruction or
upgrading of 3,200 km of trunk roads. They contributed to the development of
a unified trunk road system and to the emergence of road transport as the main
means of transportation.
43.       Two loans were made in 1968 and 1970 (the Fifth and Sixth Highways
Projects, respectively) for construction and/or paving of about 2,300 km of
main roads as well as construction of two major bridges over the Cauca and
Magdalena Rivers, respectively. Construction under the Fifth Project was com-
pleted three years late and with a 20% cost overrun. In the case of the Sixth
Project, which also suffered lengthy delays and large cost overruns, the Bank
agreed to a Government request to reduce its scope from the original 1,618 km
to 874 km. As of this writing, seven sections in the program are still under
construction and about 200 km still have to be paved. About 10% of the Loan
remains undisbursed. Project completion is now expected for 1979 (as against
the original target date of 1974). Design revisions to allow for stronger
pavements were a major cause of substantial increases in quantities and costs.
Delays in execution have been due also to lack of local funds, poor contract
management and insufficient supervision and coordination by MOP. Nevertheless,
the Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects, despite their shortcomings, have made
important contributions to the trunk road system and assisted in the estab-
lishment of better engineering practices and improved contractual procedures.
Furthermore, they contributed to the development of the local consulting and
construction industries. Under the proposed project, the risk of a recurrence
of earlier difficulties has been substantially diminished. Final engineering
design has been completed, Government contracting procedures have been improved,
the availability of local funds is being increased and supervision of works
is being strengthened (see paragraph 61).
44.       During its association with Colombia's highway subsector, the Bank
has been very much concerned with road maintenance, and all the six highway
projects have included provisions in one form or another for assisting MOPT's
maintenance effort. The Fourth Project, in 1961, provided for the purchase of
maintenance equipment and for a reassessment by foreign consultants (COMEC-
Harris, Mexico-USA) of the Ministry's organization and procedures. Under the
Fifth Project, the Government committed itself to implementing the recommen-
dations of the consultant. The present field organization, which is basicaly
adequate, was established and staffed. Initially, road maintenance improved.
However, with the passage of time road maintenance has again deteriorated,
and a chronic lack of funds has prevented it from being improved. The Govern-
ment, however, is determined to change this state of affairs once and for all,
and has requested Bank assistance for this purpose. The proposed project
would assist the Government in establishing the basis for improved and sus-
tained road maintenance.



- 14 -
PART IV: THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
45.       To assist the Government in protecting past highway investments and
in sustaining improved maintenance practices, the proposed project would:
(a) rehabilitate parts of the main trunk highways; (b) mount a program to
reduce vehicle overloading; (c) improve the condition and availability of
the highway maintenance fleet; (d) improve efficiency of road maintenance
operations; and (e) improve intermodal transport planning.
46.       The Rehabilitation Program of the project developed out of a survey
carried out in 1973 by the French consultant firm INGEROUTE under the Fifth
Highway Project which showed that about 1,700 km of the 6,500 km paved
national highway network required urgent rehabilitation. The Highway Mainte-
nance Program of the project was largely developed by MOPT and Bank staff and
a Bank consultant assisting the appraisal mission. Negotiations were held in
Washington in May 1977, with a Colombian delegation led by Dr. Javier Restrepo
Toro, Vice Minister of Public Works and Transport. A project appraisal
report, entitled: "Colombia: Seventh Highway Project" (No. 1557b-CO dated
June 16, 1977) is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Description and Execution
47.       The project consists of:   (a) a rehabilitation program, including
about 978 km of trunk asphalt paved roads, and comprising improvement of
terrain stability and drainage, strengthening and widening of the roadway,
where necessary, and overlaying the existing pavement, as well as supervision
of civil works by consultants; (b) a vehicle weight control program, including
a study and installation of about 20 weighing stations on main trunk roads for
enforcement of vehicle weight regulations; and supervision of civil works and
equipment installation by consultants; (c) a highway maintenance program
including acquisition of about 800 units of equipment and spare parts as well
as workshop and store extensions to support improved methods of highway
maintenance and equipment utilization; (d) acquisition of vehicles, road
marking, laboratory and drilling equipment; and (e) studies for transport
sector management.
48.       The execution of the project would be the responsibility of MOPT
through its Directorates of Construction and Operations. The rehabilitation
program, the bulk of the proposed project, would involve civil works to be
carried out in 33 road lots over a 4-1/2 year period starting in mid-1977. In
addition to strengthening and paving, the works would include installation of
proper drainage to stabilize the terrain and protect the pavement; widening
the pavement when needed but not necessarily widening the shoulders since this
would often produce unjustifiably high costs; and provision of complementary
works such as retaining walls, erosion control, and signs to protect the



- 15 -
roadway and improve the safety and continuity of traffic. Overall supervision
of the contracts would be carried out by the Supervision Division of the
Construction Directorate but coordination of the program would be the respon-
sibility of the Directorate's Special Highway Programs Division. This Division
would require strengthening to provide the necessary control for the project's
execution. Six experienced engineers would be hired or recruited within the
Ministry for this purpose; an additional engineer would be provided under the
project mainly for general coordination and to provide technical advice for,
and coordinate, the rehabilitation program (Section 3.02(b)(i)(A) and Section
3.03(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
49.       The highway maintenance program would involve the purchase of equip-
ment and spares to improve availability of the road maintenance fleet from
the present low level of 40-50% to about 70%. The increased availability would
allow a reduction of the size of the fleet from the present 4,200 units to
about 3,740 units. The program would also involve assisting the districts in
making better use of their resources, including the equipment and spares.
This program would be executed by MOPT's Directorate of Operations.
50.       The equipment replacement program would be carried out during the
1978-81 period. The total cost of the program is estimated at US$50 million
equivalent in 1976 prices. Of this amount, US$18 million is included in the
proposed project and would be financed by the Bank. The remaining US$32
million of capital expenditures for this program would be financed by the
Government from other sources (and is included in the US$246.0 million men-
tioned in paragraph 49 above).
51.       The project would provide for the purchase of spare parts to overhaul
about 1,230 economically repairable units which are under 15 years of age. In
addition, the project would finance an initial stock of spares to carry out
preventive maintenance on 1,060 units of equipment purchased after 1970.
UNIDO experts have prepared preventive maintenance schedules for this equip-
ment and have demonstrated their application to the maintenance districts.
MOPT would procure all other spares for the remaining preventive and correct-
ive equipment maintenance program.
52.       The vehicle weight control program would be defined in greater detail
following the completion of studies now in progress. Before disbursement
would take place for this program, adequate laws and regulations establishing
vehicle dimensions and weight limits, administration procedures and an organi-
zation for their enforcement would have to be in operation (Section 4.06 and
Schedule 1, para. 4(c) to the draft Loan Agreement.) Funds earmarked for this
program would not be transferable to any other category of the loan (para. 5
of said Schedule 1).
53.       The project would provide technical assistance to help MOPT achieve
improvements in road maintenance performance. The technical assistance would
be mainly on-the-job training for engineers, mechanics, storemen and field
personnel. Twelve engineers and thirty specialists would be provided by con-
sultants over two to three years for this purpose. Consultants would be



- 16 -
engaged to conduct studies and prepare an inventory of locally available road
construction materials (Sections 3.02(b)(i)(B) and 3.03(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement). Also, the technical assistance would provide additional support
to MOPT's Sector Planning Office, which, with the assistance of the Netherlands
Economic Institute, is carrying out studies for the preparation of a national
transport plan. A total of about 230 man-years of professional services would
be required for construction supervision and technical assistance. The cost
of professional services would range from about US$50,000 equivalent per
man-year for specialized technical assistance experts to about US$15,000
equivalent for construction supervision by local professionals.
Cost and Financing
54.       The cost of the project is estimated at about US$153.75 million
equivalent. Foreign exchange expenditures are estimated at US$90.75 million
or about 59% of the total project cost, of which US$90 million would be
financed by the proposed loan. Construction cost estimates are based on
detailed engineering by Colombian consultants, reviews carried out by MOPT
and Bank staff and on unit prices for similar works recently contracted. Cost
estimates for spare parts and maintenance equipment were based on detailed
analysis of the requirements by the United Nations Industrial Development
Organization (UNIDO) and MOPT and recent quotations obtained in Bogota. The
price contingencies amount to about 26% of base costs and are estimated on
yearly price increases, in line with current Bank guidelines. A contingency
of about 10% of civil construction costs has been included to allow for
increases in quantities.
55.       The proposed Bank loan of US$90 million would cover about 58% of
total project costs. The remaining costs as well as MOPT's budgetary needs
for routine, periodic and emergency maintenance over the project period
1978-81, estimated at US$246.0 million equivalent, would be financed by the
Government. The latter includes expenditures for spare parts, and periodic
maintenance which, although essential for the success of the project, have not
been considered as project expenditures because of their recurrent nature.
Procurement
56.       The procurement arrangements for each project component would be
as follows:
(a) Rehabilitation Program
Except for urgent stabilization and drainage works, construction
contracts would be procured by international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank guidelines. The contracts would be grouped for bidding purposes
into six time-spaced batches, each containing 4 to 10 lots. This would enable
firms awarded contracts in the early batches to participate in later batches
without overextending their capacity. The estimated value of individual con-
tracts would range from US$2 to US$4 million. The stabilization and drainage



- 17 -
works, part of which are already being executed, would be contracted under
similar conditions and specifications but in smaller size lots (under
US$1,100,000 equivalent). The works are concentrated and located in rela-
tively isolated zones.  Foreign contractors, therefore, unless established in
Colombia, are not likely to be interested in the work. Bids have already
been advertised locally to facilitate an early start of the stabilization
work.
(b) Weighing Stations
Contracts for construction and installation of weighing stations
would be procured by international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines, in two or three packages depending on geographic location. The
packages would be between US$1.5 and US$3 million. The weighing equipment
would also be procured by international competitive bidding, in accordance
with Bank guidelines.
(c) Highway Maintenance Program
Procurement of spare parts, maintenance equipment and the logistic
support items would be carried out by international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Spare parts of specific makes for existing
equipment would be procured directly from established dealers in accordance
with a purchase program acceptable to the Bank. Expansion of existing work-
shop and store facilities of MOPT would interest only small contractors and
would be procured, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
US$1,600,000, under local competitive bidding satisfactory to the Bank.
57.       The Bank would review and approve in advance all bid documents and
specifications for civil works, equipment, spare parts and logistic support
items. In view, however, of the Government's improved contracting practices
(see paragraph 34 above) contract awards for (a) civil works and (b) equipment,
spare parts and logistic support items amounting to less than US$3,000,000
and US$1,500,000, respectively, would be reviewed by the Bank after they have
been awarded.
Disbursement
58.       Disbursement of the loan would be made as follows:    (a) 50% of the
total cost of civil works and related supervision; (b) 100% of the foreign
expenditure for imported goods and for advisory services; (c) 80% of total
expenditure for imported but locally procured goods and of local expenditures
for advisory services; and (d) 90% of ex-factory cost of locally manufactured
goods. Retroactive financing of up to US$1.0 million equivalent would be
provided for civil works carried out since April 1, 1977, for stabilization of
critical sections of three roads (Versalles-La Pintada, Pereira-La Felisa and
Ibague-La Linea-Armenia).



- 18 -
Justification and Risk
59.       A detailed economic assessment has been made of the three main
components of the project for which quantifiable benefits could be estimated.
These are the Road Rehabilitation Program, (with a share of 71% of total
project cost); the Highway Maintenance Program (21%) and the Vehicle Weight
Control Program (8%). The average weighted rate of return for the project as
a whole is estimated at over 90%. The evaluation of the Rehabilitation
Program shows a weighted economic return of 36% and first year benefits of
23%. The range of the rate of return for the different sections of the
program goes from 14.4% to over 100%. The economic rate of return for the
Vehicle Weight Control Program has been calculated at 46%, and that for the
Maintenance Program at above 100%. As regards the Rehabilitation and Mainte-
nance Programs of the project, calculation of benefits include avoided further
increased vehicle operation costs which, in turn, would eventually raise the
prices of exports and internally consumed goods. The execution of the project
would, of course, result in an immediate financial benefit for the road
transport industry. But since this industry in Colombia is quite competitive,
it should, in the long run, pass on some of these financial benefits to the
rest of the economy, thereby ensuring a wider distribution of the effects of
the project.
60.       Additional benefits from the project which are not included in the
foregoing calculations of the economic rate of return include those deriving
from keeping the roads open to traffic at all times. This is an important
factor, given that the roads involved are trunk highways, the backbone of the
transport system. Some of the roads in question lead to ports and facilitate
the country's exports. Their interruption or continuing deterioration would
create great disruptions of domestic economic activity. Lastly, further
benefits would accrue from the project's civil works since they would help
create jobs for up to 3,000 skilled and unskilled workers during the time of
project execution.
61.       Past experience with highway projects in Colombia shows that they
entail considerable risks in the form of delays and cost overruns which are
caused by unforeseen geomorphological problems, inappropriate contracting
conditions and the resulting poor performance by contractors, insufficient
local funding and inadequate administration. In view of this background,
special care has been taken in this project to have the engineering studies
completed in advance so as to minimize the risk of underestimating physical
quantities and to avoid the consequent cost overruns and delays in execution.
Furthermore, the Government's improved contracting conditions (see paragraph
34 above) should encourage better performance by contractors in the future.
Finally, the Government has committed itself to provide sufficient funds for
the project and for routine, periodic and emergency maintenance. Indicative
figures have been agreed upon for these purposes (Sections 3.01 and 4.04 of
the draft Loan Agreement). These commitments are supported by the Govern-
ment's policy of channelling increasing volumes of resources to the National
Highway Fund by way of raising petroleum prices and its greatly improved
fiscal position (see paragraph 39). In addition, the MOPT's capacity to
administer and supervise adequately all works has improved in the last few



- 19 -
years and further assistance will be provided through the comprehensive
technical assistance program associated with the project, including on-the-job
training. These considerations should help reduce project risks.
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Republic of Colombia,
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement, and the text of a draft resolution approving the
proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
63.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex III.
Retroactive financing is provided to a maximum of US$1 million for civil works
carried out after April 1, 1977 for the stabilization of critical sections of
the Versalles-La Pintada, Pereira-La Felisa and Ibague-La Linea-Armenia roads.
Disbursement will not take place for the rehabilitation program until at least
four of the six engineers for control of the rehabilitation program and the
civil engineer who will give technical advice to MOPT and coordinate the
rehabilitation program as well as the inventory of road materials have been
hired by the Borrower (MOPT). In the case of the weight control program, dis-
bursement would be contingent on putting into effect a plan of action including
the necessary legal, administrative and organizational measures. Similarly,
disbursement for the maintenance program would be conditional on MOPT's com-
pliance with agreed counterpart staffing for the maintenance program. Dis-
bursements for spare parts for preventive maintenance under the program
would be conditional on the reorganization of MOPT's purchasing, warehousing
and distribution procedures (Schedule 1, para. 4 (a)-(e) of the draft Loan
Agreement.)
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 16, 1977






CO~LOBIA              SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SNBET
LAND AREA ITH1t400 82 
------------                                 COLOMBIA                             REFeRENCE COUN8TRIES (19101
TlOTAL     1138.9                                       MOST RECENT
AGRtI C.   127.8'                       1960      1910    ESTIMATE          tURREY         BRAZIL.        MEXICO'
GNP PERt CAPITA (US$)                    210.0     340.0      550.0              480.0       540.0       180.0
POPULATION AND VtTAL STATI SIICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)            15.4      20.6       23.8               35.7        92.8        50.4
POPULATION DENSITV
PEN SQUARE KM.                        14~0      18.0       21.0               46.0        11.0        26.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND           .       92.0       99.0               67.0        66.0        52.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE I/HOU, AV)           46.1"     44.3*      40.6*              40.6        38.4        43.8
CRUDE OEATH RATE I/THOU, AV)          14.1      11.0        6.8               14.4         9.9        10.2
INFANT M4ORTALITY RATE (/THEJU)     100 *    0.i OL'j       .               145.0       110.0        68.9
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YR$)        54.7L     58.5       60.9               54.4        59.7        61.D
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3 .2       3.2       3.1                2.6 .Lkb    2.6         3.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE III
TOTAL                                  2.9       2.9        2. 9               2.5         2.9         3.4
tURBAN                                 6 .0/b    5. 5/b     4.9                4.9/c       5.0         4.e
URRAN POPULATION II OF TOTALI           S 3.0/Lc  60.0       63.0               38.5        56.0        58.7
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0TO 14 YEARS                        46.c      46.6       44.1               41.8        42.0        46.2
15 TO 64 TEARS                       5.47e      50. 4      52. 7              53.9        55.0        50.1
65 YEARS AND OVER                      3.07:     .3.0       3. 2               4.3         3.0         3.7
AG1 OFPFDE.ONCY PATIO                     .0/c     1.0        0.9                 0.9        0.8         I.
ECONOMI1C OFPENOENCY RATIO               I.7       16L,       1.6La,!.L/                     1.5         2.0
FXMILY ELAPNNl'G
Arr EP TOR S (CUMULAT IVFE. THOU I    0.5      306.9      955.1.                         2 5 -.0      55.s
UScES    I (I F 4ARRIED WOMEN)           .        .        31.0                821.6
C MPL 11 T'N
TOTAL LABOP FORCE (THOUSAND)         5140:0/c   6200.2     68C.0.            14503. 0 /8  29602.0    1300J.0
LANO0R ~OrCC IN AGRICULTtIRF (S!K       47 0C     39.          ..               67.0-       44.0        40. 0
UN'PPLI1YES IT OF LPAIT  FORC'I           8.1       1.0      14.3                 4.0/f
INCOME SISTPIRUJ'ION
I OF 'PIVZTE I-CCTmE 'EC*C RY-
HIOI1EqT  5F OF HOUSE4CLfS            41. 2/c Ef 31 .,q/d    ..32.8A~                     35. 0/.     37.8
HICHEST 3Z)Y OF HOU,SPHOLCS           6.7'7     60.1/d       .                60.6ZA      62.0O0      63.2
(COWEST  2)T OF HOUSKFCLOS             2.ij~     3.5Th       .                 2.          3.0/a       4.2
tnwE`ST  404 OFp HOUSEHOLnlS           6.8~     10. 17d                         9.49~     lu.0/a      10.2
OIS 5TRI BUT ION OF L AND OWNERSHIIIP
T OWNrD BY TOP 1QY OF OwNERS                                 B.).8. 0L/b30                  450         3.
0 'UWNFr By SPAALLFST IO5 OIwNERS         j.         .         . 2 /6            3.9       145 0.37
HEALTH 4ND F.'JTPITICN
PIIPULAT IIN PER PHYS~IC IAN1         2400.0    2110.0     2100.0k,           2250.0      IlQa.0       2480.0
P0PUJLA'ION P~R NIIRSING PFPSrN      352C.0/         ..    1450. 0 a          1770.0/h    3220.0/b     16A20.0
POPULAT ION PFR HOSPITAL EFI)          580.0     430.0      460.0/b             503.0      2b0.u-       96O.o
PFR CAPITA SUJPPLY OF -
SALONIES IAl SF 8TDLINEMENTS)         94.0      97.0       95.0_/8            1 10.  2.0              I .) 10. 0
P FOT It, (GRAMS PER PAyPTs 50.0                 1.0       51.0/d             78.2        64.3        65.0
-CF WHICH- ANIMAL AND PIuLSE       28.0O/h    29.0/e       .                22.0/i      39,0        28 .0/8
CFATH -ATF 1/THfIUl AGES 1-4            16.3        8.4        L. 5.0/b                        .          9.8
F DUCANTIC(71
AOJUSTED FNROLLRENT PATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       73.0      102.0      114 O/c            111.3        9. 0       106.0
SFCONOARY SCHOO,L                    12.0       J3.0        e OZ.0            78.3        28.0        23.0
YEARS OR ScHonLING PROVIDES
(FIRST ANO SEC0ND LFVFLI             11.0       11.0       11.0               11.0        13.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL C'APIULLMFNT
It (IF SCCON04PY1                    3 1.0/ O.  20.0j-f    21.0 /ce           14.3        17.o        24.0
ATULT LITFRACY RATE 151                   ..        3.0      74.0 /              59,0A      68.0        76.0
HOUSI NG
PERSONAS PEA PO08 (URRANJ)                ..         .         .                   .9         1.0        2.2
OCCUlPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
FIFED wATEP U%                       59 oI~c.     .                           64.0        (3.0/c      61.0/Ob
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                                                                                       _
IX DF ALL DWELLINGS I                43. 0 /c     *           .41.3                       48.0        59.0
RURAL nW~LLINGS CONNECTED
To ELFCTRICITY lIki                    8.0 /C      .                           18.0        8.0        28.0
C SN SUNFTI ON
RADIO PECEIVEPS (PEP THOU P5lp)        139.0      105.0     120.0                89.0i      60.0       276.0
PASSENSFR CAR5 (PE4 THOU POP)            7D.0/     12.0      14.0                 4.3       2 5.o       2 4 . 
ELECTRICITY (R4H/YP PEA SARI           244.0     414.0      499.0              247.0       491.0       567.2
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR 358 CAP)                2.4        2.8       1.8                 0.7         2.7         3.7
SFE NOTFS ANT OEF INIT IONS ON] PEVERS F



o -            0.                        000l'0  0.0    00.             0.;-            lo          0.0                      -
1.                          o   0       '00000   -  0.10                           0   0  I               0 -     oO.0   0
0                               .0    0.0' agO        *1       -      0. -   '011.00 fr. 00
000.0 -,  11.10
1-I     -                   1. ooooo.-2'      00.0            000    00.! -   00  0.    '0000
I.                       00000000000             00.000  0                          0         0.0 0--..o   1.   0000   0    0.0
0(4  0.  1. 0            -              ooOoo1.1.olo    0 0-00000.                 1.0 000..-. 00.000      1,0 0.0 0.0       01.1.1.0 0
0.0                       .00                              00   00000.0.00        -,     8.;                               0O               .00
oo            o   22             .                                  s        0          .0000000.0          0     1,0 00
00       - -                             0100      0b00                                                 50-.'..'
0                                                                    01000. 080.00.   00  0    00. g1. 0.0       .oO -   so  '00  --
0                 oO                                  0.1.20000       0.00   .0 -   0. -          02      0                                  ,2oo-o         .00.
00      IO                         00   0.1 00.00    0000000.      0.00      00-    000-      00               .00        0 01. 00   - - 00
00           0             1.  00.1 00.0-0000      00.0 00.0,  00  00  000, 0o  a 00  .000  .0 00.01  .21  0 -  0.-Oc  .5  000
0 0      1.00  20   Ao  .21
1.1.     *'.                        00  1.         j                   0.0
-  0        0   00  00
.00. 0 000                                                         001.00000.0 0
00                                     o 00   .101.0 0.             0 -      0                          00000o0           00000      0     110
.0.0      .0.0          0                                                                   10      .08
00000002 0 0              00            00            001.0000000
0.0   0 0.   000                         .000000000                                  000  00000.0     01.0    00  00  0.0       0.00   1.0 'o0.
Y:    iII%!'t      "                           0                                        1                                            o:0:o:    00 .0901
.00                                                           0    0000             '11.0 .01.0           0o0             8.288  .2
1.                                 0                                 50 0 0000
01.000  *..ooo8oa                 1,00    0001.000           00
00    010  01 10.0 0 0                         .000000   00.0.00000   0.0 01 0            - 0.    00   0     000
00o0001.                                   '0'
L.>..'Oz0..c                           oifIor'ooo.g              000.0.0000
                          0 00. 1. 0 00
00                                     000.000      .00 001.0  0110101      .2.0 00002t        o,
0 0 88:8z8" 8 11,884110 00.0 0000 *00000l q..8s.00
0.000000.00.001       0.200    00                 00               1.0000              0.00  00
.0 00   1.0                             00  0.000000-00.000      0 00.00    0     .0                         000  0 00                         XI
000.00000    0 0.0000.0  -0000000         t000            000   0   0.000.0000
0    OOl                               0 800tJ 0 0.05 J                 1000. .000    'Vi                                ..z   01800j
o-  0.u0-e:  - 00.008:00000.0          0   0(00..00 oo"o                        .000   .0 f 0
0.;  84      0  1.                              010 00000      0.0      00  0.0    00.000.000
01.0.  00       0                    01                             ..2      0
401 g                                    oltor 0000000-0                 0 .00                    100                             :           a
0  00  01.                                     .;o8.200.  0 0000.00.00           00 .0 0               I     01.000         0000   000    0
.0 00   001                             8.0101                             1                  0if0(0000                       00001.0  00   0
00010.00  0 .0  <.000.01.001     01.00  o.0000.0oo.0o10  .0 01,00  01 oooooo.oooOb00Z.2.o
0 00   0000000.   000  0 0         1.0.0101.  0-              1                 0.ooo
00.0       00   00.000 000000  00  0000  0001.0011,0  0000  0.0.00  0 OiBOO 000.000  0  100000001.0
00.0                                                  j..; 2.2.1.2?C 1.0
.Ool 01. 0   00   .00.0                    8
.4     fl(           000      00    010
-       00             0       0                            0
10  01010       $10
1.001  0   .00                                                               0   0    I           a   .           1.  0.0.       1   1,  0
0   0 010.      1.   0 00                00J     0     000 .0
.2"1    :                 -                  N          ..   as          0.&'   0 o         0       q    :00.1.01.       81 IC          I
to.       10 010                          r          01   0            00.                            1,                          0 00
10 000400.0.08 .;8-                             5     1.2         oC                      .0.,.0 .0 .0001.                         5150      0
0    0.0  .00 0.        I 0    0.                      08  *     0  01 0     0           000      0010   000  00   0 00. 0       00     55O1
.5   .00.40100.000        11                -     0.0 .o.0      .0 0     00  00   0   1. 00.0    00  00    00  0 010 0.0      0. 01.   000     0   0     0
000   OlO  I   00  0100    0                          00     0   0       00              00.0  0 0.0      000                  0         00   .00.
00    0.0040.     1000   0                       0.00.0         oo      0   o                             "      0000                  0.0   0    .0
.000                                                        0      0    00    00.0000.01.
.00.  0.    0   0 .0    .001  00  0 0   000      0.              1.0 00                           .2
000                                                .                                   0<  0 0    0   01 0    2q   0      0>0l.'j             0
'0  o                     01.0                    :-;            00. 0 0.                00
0   0    .0                                        Hf                             00.0
00..                                                                                8       'go         1.0
0     0                                                                          0.0
.000                 0.0                         00          0   0            0   1. .0.0 00000           010.0 .0     0:     00    0  00000
0                                                                          0 0001.0    00
.0   0001   0      01                                o0.o  1         0       S.0J           000      00  001000    0                    00  0      0   .0     8
U   "0    0  0     01                          08    00    0    &             0 0        0.0 2  1.0 0.0  00   0 00    0         01 010100    00
                  i-si                             001. 8.2    0 8             0 0000000 .00. 10?..;00.0                                      -a         0.0.
00    1.0                    1.0 0       00.  8 00                           00000000.0             5
:   11   .    1 0.   8.21:  .2                          1.0      . -                                                                     0.           t
8        o  if   00 .2 8     5 .0                        o     .00 0                      0.0  w 8.. *                 00     00  000.   00   00
01 0    0 t 0018                                    .00 .2       too.J 0         o8if            00.0. 0                kIlj       0..   0
0.1.0.0  0.0                                              000                     00        0   .0 00     8- 21081.60      05
Os  .-  0 0                   moo                                           0   o   .0 000   0             00     O       -
0101 0 0      0   000.      0000000.0.00               0 0.1    00   000-0  if. 001
0'                                          1                     j"jn P  001 d 
1.0  0.                                                                                                1                                 00
010'10 .0          00      0 .0                       00     oo  I 1.      00000     0 if 000  81;2 .0  00001.00.     01     0 0000.000           I
.00      000                                                                    .00  121f       0.0g  001.0        -0 .000   00 *0  00. 0  j  00  .000.0.00.00.0.0000
2   188   8          01      0.                          0      0  0        1010.101.0  00 1.                           '.     2.;.;05Rr..    .0
10   0 0               0.000   0                       od        I0 0                                    a'.' -ra;        0
0 00   0 .0    100. 00     0000   0-0.00    0.
.0000                                                                            01   00.  0100 0.     0.0      0000   .000
-              8        000                        if                        .10108...-if!IZE     A200.     00"'        000
00.010  0 -                    I                          0
000.0                           81     S&11          8      <    10.0"0 1011.     0.0.0      0        00.0
0                                                                      0 000. 0000    8    Oo0. 0
    1.F.0                         10      -     0            01011   hOOlOlOsfol                      I            o0.;    1:     :
0   00 000  0          t0  t 8                           1.0  0.01.              1           0.000001       SjO   00.00   0100000. 5' .28          -o
.0   oopj'fl   2I     0.000  o                          1.      -             00.    00  gO     .00              000.0         00    .0            .05
*0'10                             0 000.00100
0010.             00.0.0  0 0'                   g    o. .8     0      8.;0O0.1.0   -o   . - 0. ol. .0 0    0 0 00.      00   0.ooo.00.    0          
0.00 .000  0       000000.00                0 80     Oo          .0     0000  1.
0                 1.  00.0                                                      I
.000                                              .5  000  000    .;A    8.'ooo        0010  'tOO  oS   00  0181    .00.0.01.1.0000     0 o-      0
0..oeoo   0J1    00        0             0
0         00..Oooo.o;oo                       .0   000                          0.00 1001  1
if                                       2.;
:    -'I  I     .21     .21.21              .81.00.            .00.00.001000.00010          0                             000.001000 jO
01.0  0           01      0 0                          0   0  0      0    00   00 .00   0                 010000.
-1     4         o       000 0.0000000.ooOo.,0          00.00  .00  000     00000.00 00  101.000. 00-1, .0 0.01 0 1. 000  .0  00  0.00.0.0.00000  81  8  8.
tl1 ..1 I                      ...I                   0 .a                          01                                  00    01180.0.0       0110
.0.0001.                                                        000000       :;I;iiii0i00      0000000     0000           .00.0.0000.00 000          o    1
000   000' 888    0    it                  1.            .2.24-4:;:;::.     p:r:          8-
0    o0                                                             000 000000000       001.8th          0000.0                             40.'       0
0.0 .0.00 0                                                          0000 01.0.00000                                             I                1!
0.  00  0"    .00  .2,.211bl   14             0   1.0  0 08    82  0   O0.
.00000.00000000000.0           - 0000000,00000000                I    0.000   .0""  0.00     o0
I)                                          140.0.0.0.                                     0.0.000000800800                 00          0.0
.8  2i8  01                                        j            011, 811  00  0.00.0.001  00.00000000    .00  00000.00000        .0     0   0      00 .0
COo                                                         00   0      .11.  01  .2          0 0   0              .0'.      1.0.0.0.00000001.00
00' 000. 0000    00.000 000000001000 0.000000       0 0.0.0           0000000.0.0      000
0.00    0   0100050      0.0.0.00.0.000.00. 0. 0.0          0.0.       -      0    0    4          81
o              01   110.



~~m,gic PEYUOP5T                                      I'a9~~~~~~r.g  3 of 4 page.
(I. Million. of US WOIat.)
Aotual              BRatmated          Proiectsd         A-Aaa. Annual Uneeth Rate.           A. Percent of CDP'
1967-69
Average     1974       1975       1976        1977       1982      (19672A69..74 1974-76  1976-82    1974       1976      1982
1976 Ntices and gochange Raet.
National Accou..t.
Gross Dxestic Product                   9,765     14,405      15,061     15,900     17,063      24,459        6.7        3.2       7.4     100.0      100.0      100.0
Gains fron Tern.s of Trade .             -751       -390       -458         -          715        -141       -7        ___         .:-       2.7       _.         0.6
Urn.. I~~~eerio Incona  9.034  ~~~~~~      14.603 ~   T~T5o,0     17.778      243198        7.6       6.7        7.3      97.3      100.0      99.4
Inport (md-. NFS)                       1,491      2,323      2,229       2,436      2,806      4,323         7.7       2.5       10.0      16.1       15.3      17.7
excorcs  "     (Import Capacity)        1.419      2.114      2,4        ....2,71    3.665      4.360         6.9      14.7        7.9      14.7       17.5      17.9
.e..urce Gap                              72        209        -20        -345       -859         -33       1_9.4       -         -          1.        2.        0.
Conesoption Expenditur.a                7,443     11,429     12,389      12,313     13,451      18.012        7.4       4.6        6.3      79.3       78.7      73.6
Inveatnee     "1   (Inn. Stock.)        2,101      3.268      2,526       3,145      3,363      6,291         7.6      -3.3       12.3      22.7       19.8      25.7
Omsneetc Saving.                        1,589      2,396      2,214       3,441      4,327      6.306         8.3      13.4       10.6      20.0       21.6      25.8
Rational Sevinga                        1.865      2.833       2.333      3.387      3,986       6.187        7.3        6.1      10.6      19.8       21.3      25.3
Merchandise Trode                                        Annual Dote at Current Pric.a                                                          A. Percent of Total
Inport.
Capital Goode                           290        323        540         655        834      1.753        10.4      11.7       17.8      34.0       36.1      32.3
Intesnedlats Good. (Ex.d. Fuels)       254         all        759         872      1,087      2.437        21.4       3.7       19.7      53.7       48.1      45.0
Fuel. and Related Material.               3          6         14          73        133         716       12.3     500.0       46.3       0.4        4.0      13.2
of Which:   Petroleum                 ()          -)        (14)        (73)      (153)       (716)        -         -       (46.3)      (-3       (4.0)    (13 2)
Conaumption Good.                        61        167        168         214        267        313        18.3      13.2       15.9      11.1       11.8       9 5
Total March. Imports (FOR)             608       1,309      1,460       1.914     2i,3-41     5.,421       16.4       9.'6      20.0     100.0     170-0.0    T6100.
Exports
Primary Products (Gadl. Fuels)         418       1,001      1.179       1.683      2,716      4.137        11.7      29.7       16.2      67.0       74 6      72.8
Fuels and Related Materials              71         95         87          87        102        214         5 0      -.         16.2       6.4        3.8       3 8
of Which:   Petroleum                 (56)        (4)                         (-) () (         -       (-35.5)                  -       (0.3)       (-) 
Maoufactured Goods                      117        398        428         499        569       1.333       22.5       10.7      19.2      26.6       21.6      23.4
Total Notch. REports (FUB)              606      1,_494     1.,6-94    1,2.259     3.387       5,694       16.2       23.0      16.6     100.0      100.0     100 0
Tourium and Border Trade               -           -          -           -          -          -            -         -          -        -          -         -
Merchandise Trade Indice.
Expo-t Price Index                    21.2        72.4       74.5       100.0      141.5      151.1
Iopcrt Price lndex                    34.0        90.0       93.0       100.5      108.9      157.4
Terno, of Trade Index                 62.3        80.4       80.1       100.0      129.9        96.0
E.porta Volum   End..                126.6        92.2      100.7       100.0      106.0      166.6
Value Added hy Secrt.AnaEosa                                  96-Prc.adEcag               ae               A-cr.g. An..usl Grmth Rate.        A. Percet of Total
Agriculture                          2,951       3.828      4,080      4.239       4.451      5.745         4.4       5.2        5.2      28.6       26.5      23.3
Induntry and Mining                  2,444      3.911       3,877      4.518       4,925      7.759         7.7       8.9        9 4      28.5      28.3       31 5
Services                             4.439       5.746      6.035      7.228       7,3       11 112         4.4      12.2        7.4      42.9      45.2       45 2
Total                                9.34      13.385      l4,012     15,985      17,110     t  ftr         5.37  93             7.-5    100.0     1O000      100.0T
Public Finance
Annua  Dote at Current Prices                                                          As Percent of GDP
(Central Guvermnet)
Current Receipt.                     413       1,194      1,402      1,351       1,924      2,944        19.4      13.9      11.3         9.5        9.9       9.6
Current E.penditureu                 262         640        702        734         933      1.428        16.0       7.1       11.7        5.1       4.7        4.6
Budgetary  Suvinga                   111         554        700        817         991      1,516        24.2      21.5       10.9        4.4        5.2       5.0
Other Pbhlic Sectur S-ingo           434         150        394        334         390        810       -16.2      49.0       15.9        1.2        2.1       2.6
P.hlic Sector .netet612                       1,189       1,382      1,496       1,753      2,995        11.7      12.2      12.3         94        9.5        9.7
Selected Indicators                                1965-70    1970-73    1973-76     1976-82                 Detail    PbFulie Sector
1--tstoant P.roran and Financing          A. " of Total
(Calculated fron 3-year -veraged data)                                                                                                            1~975.76   1977-82
Average IWDR                                    3.17       3.02       3.22        2.93                   Social Sector.                            33.5      38 2
Import Elasticity                              1.16        0.28       0.32        1.42                  Agriculture                               10.2       12 0
Marginal Dlomstic Saving. Rate                 0.20        0.12       0.23        0.33                   Industry and Mining                        9 5       9 7
Marginal National Sa-ing. Roat                  0.14       0.17       0.24        0.33                   Fevr                                       6.5       9 5
_________________________________________________________________________________  Tran..orp andand.Cc.ilcttinns220.2                 114.
Other                                     20.1       15 8
Lahor Fore. and Output per Worker.                       Total Labor Force                                   Total Expenditure.                       100.0     100 0
In Million.            % of Total       Gromth Rate
1964       1973        1964       1973       1964-73
Financing
Agricultur                         2.427       2,057       47.3       30.2        -1.9
Industry                           0.958      1.212        18.7   .   17.8         2.7                   Public Sector Savings                     62.7      68.5
Service                            1.749      3.542        34.0       52.0         8.2                   Foreign Project Aid                       13.4      24.6
Total                              5.134       6.812      100.0      100.0         3.2                   Otbar                                     23.9       6.
Total Yi manceing                        100.0      100.0
Vslue Added Per Worker (1976 Price. and Exohenco Rates)                 _______________________________
in US Dollar.          % of Averag,       Growth Rate
I 6A       im          1964       zm         1964.73
Agriculture                          903      1.517        66.4       99.6         5.9
Industry                           1,937      2,532       135.2      148.6         3.7
Service                            1.730      1.546       127.3       90.0        -1.2
Total                              1.359       1.717      100.0      100.0         2.6



BAIANCE OP PAYN0BT. EXTERNAL. ASSISTANCE An DEBIT
(Amount to Milliun. of TID. lto  .a  CurrantNin.).
1971        1972       1.97        1974        197-5       113F-       1977        1978        1979        1980        1981        199 2
Suinyr Balanc  of Pannence
toun  m. NPI)               974       1,207       1,546       1.858       2,100      2,781       3.988       4,1547      4 648       9.097       5,863       6.828
laoea(In  P)             1J285       1.236     1i424        LZ          L27i         .436       3.05        3.613      4.237        1 DID       9.90        6 77U
REcour   Balanc  (0- 0)          -311         -29         124         214         18         345         935         934         411          17         -40          51
F-rn- S-ei-ce                    -176)       -197)       -215   ~    -192       -241        -258        -275        -292        -327        -371        -399        -430
Proof,ta                       (-70)       (-73)       (- 74)      (-60)       (-06)      (-82)      (-100)      (-117)      (-137)      (-164)      (-172)      (-180)
Other                         (-1 06)     (-124)      (-141)      (-132)     (-175)       (176)       -175)      (17 5)      (-901       (-207)      (-227)      (-250)
Curren Tran-ten   (N.,)            34          35          3)          55         47         100         112         125         138         152         167         186
Curr.. e..C n Account       -453        -191        -56        -351        -176         187         7 72        767        -222       -282         -272        -191
Prtiane Dtrn-Inoan                 40          17          23         36          43          45          32          39          57          65          74          72
PublIf AbLT Lono
Di,ibur-eeoc                    2 22        351         417         36.4       303         376         412         518         583         635         799         917
REoo,uen--9                                  -96       -132        zg11       z134         -181        -173        -215       -230        -298        -386         -477
Ntt Disbur--etn                 130         755         285         153         249        195         239         303         333         337         413         440
Dtnburoooenno                    145         137          60          Sf         _76        -           -           - 
-R:poyttenn                      -79        -64         .58         -58        _-87         -                       -----
Non Di.buroe-enta                66          55           2          -8         -11        -           -                       ----
CopitoI Tr-uca   ..u. net.        135          78         -41        -219          13        157         ---                                             --
ChuuoinSt      uero                82        -164        -213         389        -118       -584      -1,043      -1.109        -612        -200        -215        -321
Gran ond Loon Coned   ..t
OffIcIal Grant and
GratlIe           - -lk                                 -                                         D. - lbo and Debt                            Ac--l                           EotLi-td
S.-i..          ~~1971     1972        1973       1974       1 97)5     1976
Public MiLT Loan                                                                                      Publtr Dbn
tolrt                   1~~    ~    ~~~        ~~~~53  74  162  8       88          80        0, eantoad
IDA                     -~         ~      ~    ~      ~    ~     ~     ~ ~~-  -   -   - -     lta   sd            1.38.n,    1,650.0    1,934 0    2,117 4    23,3608 I  3560 a
Ion-re.n in Pub
Other-  ltoeo                    42          41          29          64         -            26       Debt                   49.2       57 9       78.5      503 7       112 3      136 9
Gcvr-oeo-                        110        114          67          55          65         131       Repoy.o.ta ..
Suppltn                           35         37          31          45          75          32        Public Debt           92 0        95 9      131.9      211 4      134 4      18009
Pr-von  Bunko                     38         84         190          18         16 2        162       Tonal Pu~blIc,
B.ndo                                                    45         -           -          -          Debt  et              161 2      155 8      210 4      315 1       246 7      317 8
Public Lu-c -.ei.               -8                        1           4           1        -        DOthe  Debt
T-1o Public 941T Luoo.            37B         3 58        525        234         391         431      Servic  (Net)           133 1      155 1      126.6      118 6       108 0      160 0
Tota Debt
tervlce (N.,)           274 3      308.9      337.0      633 7      354 7      477 8
It tanandino on 12131/76                                                   Borde  on tEpoc
Oleb_cou                                                                E-rLigo (7.)
tutorol Pblic febn.             O.l          Peren                                                    Pntlt       S'bn  erc    14.5       1 2 7      13.6        16 9       11 7       11 4
W-rld Bunk                      706 8        27.6                                                   Total25 Debt Oe33                                                     19v17e
IDA                              22.3         0.9T-:Db                                                            S i.
Otbhc Ptcltlln-l                 148.3        6.6                                                    Plus  Forign Inc
G.... :..ot                     977 3        38.2                                                    I-.oa.                  35 3       31 6        26 5       26 6       20 0       20 1
SoPplln-                        169.4         6.6
Prinac  Dut435 7                             17.0                                                   Averge Ta-o of
B-ds1                            48k.'.6      19P.btoDebt
Public Debtnn e.i.               31.6         1.29                                                  to--sta .. Prfior
SeorDo".                  3          4 2        468        53         53          58B
T-Io Public M&LT Loo          2,560.0       109.0                                                   A.ert-eaion    s   Prior
Tear 966                  7.4        6.9        8.0       109         64.3       7.7
1800D Debt Oo--edin0
aed Dieb-red            390 8      453 4      504 5      561 7      633 5       706 9
18I   e   Poblt
Debt 060                 28.2       27.5       26 1       26 5       26.8       27 4
111R0 a. Z Poblit
DebtServIce              29 4       30 9       '89        236        32.3       25 8
IDA Debt On-anodi
and  labut-ad            19 4       20.9       23 0       22 8        22.5      22 3
IDA as 0PblIc Debt
06D                       1.4        1.3        1 2        1.2        1.0        0.9
IDA .:a ftPbtln Debt
leevcs                    0 2        0 3        0 2        -          08.2       0.1



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1977)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                           Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                        Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Fully disbursed loans and credits                              667.3    23.5 /1  --
575     1968  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.   Power             18.0             .3
680     1970  Colombia                        Roads             32.0            3.9
681     1970  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.   Power             52.3             .5
682     1970  Empresas Municipales de Cali    Water Supply      18.5             .7
738     1971  Empresas Municipales de
Palmira                       Water Supply      2.0              .3
740     1971  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones            Communications   15.0              .3
741     1971  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota      Water Supply     88.0            31.6
849     1972  Instituto Colombiano de
la Reforma Agraria            Irrigation        5.0             4.5
860     1972  Instituto de Fomento
Municipal                     Water Supply      9.1             4.6
874     1973  Empresas Publicas de Medellin   Power             56.0           23.7
903     1973  Banco de la Republica           Industry          60.0            9.4
920     1973  Colombia                        Education         21.2           13.5
926     1973  Ferrocarriles Nacionales        Railways          25.0            4.6
971     1974  Colombia                        Pre-Investment
Studies          8.0            6.7
1071    1975  Banco de la Republica           Industry           5.5            1.4
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                     Water Supply     27.0            24.2
1073    1975  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones            Communications   15.0             8.2
1118    1975  Colombia                        Rural Settlement 19.5            17.0
1163    1975  Colombia                        Agriculture       21.0           20.8
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica           DFC               80.0           73.9
1352    1977  Colombia                        Rural
Development     52.0           52.0 /2
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica           Agricultural
Credit         64.0            64.0 /2
Total                                          1361.4     23.5  366.0
Of which has been repaid                        310.7      1.2
Total now outstanding                          1050.7     22.3  366.0
Amount sold                     28.7
Of which has been repaid        18.4             10.3
Total now held by Bank and IDA                 1040.4     22.3
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                                               366.0
/1   Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
/2   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of April 30, 1977)
Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                  Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1959       Laminas del Caribe, S.A.         Fiber-board      0.50      -      0.50
1960-1965  Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                     Food products    1.98   0.08      2.06
1961       Envases Colombianos, S.A.        Metal cans       0.70      -      0.70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                    Home furniture   0.08   0.09      0.17
1961       Electromanufacturas, S.A.        Electrical
equipment     0.50       -      0.50
1962       Corporacion Financiera           Development
Colombiana                       financing         -   2.02      2.02
1962-1963  Corporacion Financiera           Development         -   2.04       2.04
Nacional                         financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de           Textiles         1.98   0.15      2.13
1968-1969 Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financiera de        Development
Caldas                           financing         -   0.81      0.81
1964-1968  Forjas de Colombia, S.A.         Steel forging       -   1.27       1.27
1966       Almacenes Generales de           Warehousing      1.00      -       1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966       Industria Ganadera               Livestock        1.00   0.58       1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENKA de Colombia, S.A.           Textiles         5.00   2.61       7.61
1969       Compania de Desarrollo de        Tourism             -   0.01      0.01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del       Development         -   0.45       0.45
Norte                            financing
1969       Corporacion Financiera del       Development         -   0.43      0.43
Valle                            financing
1970       Promotora de Hoteles de          Tourism          0.23   0.11      0.34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                Tourism          0.80   0.25       1.05
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de        Housing             -   0.45      0.45
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974       Cementos Boyaca, S.A.            Cement           1.50      -       1.50
1975       Cementos del Caribe, S.A.        Cement           3.60      -      3.60
1976       Las Brisas                       Mining           6.00      -      6.00
1977       Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.           Utilities       13.00   2.00     15.00
Total Gross Commitments                          37.87  13.35     51.22
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                           17.63   5.04     22.67
Total commitments now held by IFC                20.24   8.31     28.55
Total undisbursed                                19.00   1.23     20.13



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
1.   Ln No. 575 Electric Power (Interconnection); US$18 million, December 1968.
Effective date: February 25, 1969
Closing Date:     original - February 29, 1972
current - July 31, 1977
The original project was completed and commercially operational
in 1971. The Bank agreed that an undisbursed balance could be used to finance
a 220 kv transmission line, Guatape - Barrancabermeja. The cost of the line
is estimated at US$7.2 million of which about US$4.1 million represents the
foreign component. Work on the line is almost fully completed.
2.   Ln No. 680 Highways VI; US$32 million, June 1970.
Effective date: March 29, 1971
Closing date:     original - November 30, 1974
current - November 30, 1978
The largest component of the project, the paving program, has
experienced considerable cost increases and delays. As of this writing, seven
sections in the program are still under construction and about 200 km still to
be paved. Project completion is now expected for 1979. The other components
of the project were completed with much less delay. The Ministry of Public
Works has taken several steps to hasten project execution and strengthen the
performance of contractors.
3.   Ln No. 681 Chivor Hydroelectric Power; US$52.3 million, June 1970.
Effective date: September 1, 1970
Closing date:     June 30, 1977
The project has experienced considerable delay and project costs
are expected to be 35% higher than originally estimated. Work is now proceed-
ing satisfactorily and the first generating units are expected to be put into
service in mid-1977.
4.   Ln No. 682 Cali Water Supply and Sewerage; US$18.5 million, June 1970.
Effective date:   September 2, 1970
Closing date:     original - June 30, 1974
current - June 30, 1977
As of March 31, 1977, about 96% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Disbursements were delayed due to a late project start, but the entire project
is now under execution, and it is expected that construction activities will
be finished by mid-1977.
/1   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
5.   Ln No. 738 Palmira Water Supply and Sewerage; US$2 million, May 1971.
Effective date: December 29, 1971
Closing Date:    original - March 1, 1975
current - March 1, 1977
As of March 31, 1977, about 85% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Disbursements were delayed due to initial management and fiscal problems. A
financial crisis in early 1973 was resolved through higher tariffs and tight
budget control. The Bank is now awaiting proposals from the company as to the
use of about US$300,000 still undisbursed which will not be needed for the
original project.
6.   Ln No. 740 Telecommunictions II; US$15 million, May 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:    June 30, 1977
Contracts for all Bank-financed goods have been signed and technical
and financial consultants have been retained. Due to initial delays in the
procurement of project equipment, some of the project's works will be completed
18 months behind original schedule.
7.   Ln No. 741 Water Supply (Bogota II); US$88 million, May 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:     June 30, 1978
Disbursements up to March 31, 1977 amounted to 64% of this loan.
Slow progress in the construction of the vital Palacio - Rio Blanco Tunnel is
the main reason for the project's delay; the original contractor was replaced
by another firm which has already made an impressive start. The progress of
the project, however, is endangered by serious financial problems which are
currently the subject of consultations with the Government and the Borrower
concerning necessary corrective measures, including further tariff increases.
8.   Ln No. 849 Irrigation (Atlantico II); US$5 million, June 1972.
Effective date: November 14, 1972
Closing Date:    March 31, 1978
The project is the second and final phase of a scheme to develop
about 17,000 ha of seasonally inundated land for agricultural production.
Work is continuing satisfactorily on project roads and a main drainage canal;
the final two main drainage canals are scheduled to be completed during 1977.
Land clearing, tertiary drainage works and allocation to farmers are behind
schedule, but improved in 1976. The organization and settlement of farmers
within the project areas and the technical assistance and farm credit oper-
ations are not yet satisfactory. At Government request, the Bank has agreed
to cancel US$2.8 million of the original amount of the loan.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
9.   Ln No. 860 Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$9.1
million, October 1972.
Effective date: March 7, 1973
Closing Date:    original - September 30, 1976
current - September 30, 1978
As of March 31, 1977, about 50% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Disbursements were delayed due to initial project management problems, but
progress of works has since accelerated.
10. Ln No. 874 Guatape II Hydroelectric Power Project; US$56 million,
January 1973.
Effective date: March 13, 1973
Closing Date:    December 31, 1978
The progress of the work is generally satisfactory except for
delays in the resettlement of El Penol and Guatape villages, which means
that filling the Santa Rita reservoir cannot be started before mid-1978,
three years behind schedule. This would be likely to lead to an energy
deficit in the interconnected system from 1978 to 1981. The revised project
cost estimate is substantially above appraisal estimates, mainly due to higher
costs of the works at El Penol and Guatape.   The Borrower experienced serious
financial problems but as a result of a series of tariff increases, the
company is projected to achieve the covenanted rate of return in 1977. Finar.-
cial gaps, however, remain to be met if the investment program is to be com-
pleted on schedule.
11. Ln No. 903 Development Finance Companies V; US$60 million, May 1973.
Effective date: November 9, 1973
Closing Date:    June 30, 1977
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are still behind sched-
ule, but in view that the loan is fully committed, they should be completed by
the Closing Date.
12. Ln No. 920 Education III; US$21.2 million, July 1973.
Effective date: January 10, 1974
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 30, 1979
Project implementation had been suspended in mid-1975 pending rede-
finition of sector priorities by the Government. Implementation has resumed
recently after the Bank agreed to reallocate part of the loan to finance rural
primary schools instead of rural secondary schools as originally proposed. As
the number of primary school graduates increase, the primary schools will
gradually become secondary school centers.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
13. Ln No. 926 Sixth Railway Project; US$25 million, August 1973.
Effective date: December 6, 1973
Closing Date:     original - June 30, 1976
current - December 31, 1977
The operation of the railway has improved and for the first time
since 1974 the 1976 traffic approximately equalled the previous year's level
(in terms of ton-kms it was slightly higher). The financial condition of the
railway, however, continued to deteriorate as tariff increases have not kept
pace with cost increases. In 1976, operating ratio of 137 did not meet the
appraisal target of 104. As a result, the railway has requested financial
support from the Government. Track rehabilitation work and procurement have
improved, but derailments and availability of rolling stock continues to be
poor.
14. Ln No. 971 Preinvestment Studies Project; US$8 million, March 1974.
Effective date: June 27, 1974
Closing Date:    December 31, 1978
The Bank has approved 26 sub-projects. Commitments under the Bank
loan are proceeding at a satisfactory rate.
15. Ln No. 1071 Small-Scale Industry; US$5.5 million, January 1975.
Effective date: May 20, 1975
Closing Date:     June 30, 1978
After a slow start due to a change of management in Corporacion
Financiera Popular, the beneficiary institution, commitments moved well and
are now on schedule. The second tranche was released by the Bank in view of
the satisfactory performance of CFP. It is expected that the loan will be
fully committed by June 30, 1977.
16. Ln No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$27
million, January 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:     June 30, 1980
This loan became effective on April 14, 1975 but there have been
substantial delays in making the eight subloans effective. The last subloan
(Barranquilla) was made effective on September 9, 1976. After a slow start,
disbursements are beginning to increase.
17. Ln No. 1073 Telecommunications III; US$15 million, January 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    December 31, 1978
This loan became effective on April 14, 1975 and US$6.8 million has
been disbursed.   Contracts for all Bank-financed goods have been awarded.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
18. Ln No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million, June 1975.
Effective date:   April 1, 1976
Closing Date:     October 31, 1979
This loan became effective on April 1, 1976 after a six-month delay.
Since then, implementation has proceeded rapidly and some of the lost time
regained.  Road and bridge construction is well ahead of schedule (79 km have
been completed). School construction, however, is behind schedule, while the
credit program is proceeding well.
19.  Ln No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 million,
September 1975.
Effective date: March 30, 1976
Closing Date:    December 31, 1980
A few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give
responsibility for project execution to another agency. This decision delayed
the initiation of the project. Implementation is now proceeding satisfactor-
ily, but still behind schedule.
20. Ln No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 million,
March 1976.
Effective date: September 1, 1976
Closing Date:     June 30, 1980
This loan is proceeding satisfactorily and according to schedule.
21. Ln No. 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
December 1976.
This loan was signed on January 7, 1977 and has not yet become
effective.
22. Ln No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million, December
1976.
This loan was signed on February 4, 1977 and has not yet become
effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 4 years
(b) Agency which prepared project: Ministry of Public Works and
Transport (MOPT) with assistance of Colombian consultants and
the firm of INGEROUTE, France
(c) First presentation to Bank: April 1975
(d) First mission to review project: April-May 1975
(e) Departure of appraisal mission: September 1976
(f) Completion of negotiations: May 27, 1977
(g) Planned Date of Effectiveness: October 14, 1977
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a) MOPT will set up a separate unit within the Ministry that
will be responsible for highway planning (paragraph 28);
(b) Starting in 1978, MOPT will budget routine and periodic
maintenance separately from non-maintenance activities
(paragraph 38);
(c) MOPT will plan and implement a program of periodic maintenance
on a continuing basis over the period 1978-81 of about 400 km
of roads annually (paragraph 38);
(d) MOPT will continue systematic renewal of its maintenance fleet
and purchase of spare parts on an annual basis in order to
increase equipment availability (paragraph 38);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) The Government will provide sufficient funds for the project
and for routine, periodic and emergency maintenance during
1978-1981, and indicative figures have been agreed upon for
this purpose (paragraphs 39 and 60);-
(f) MOPT will hire or recruit within the Ministry six experienced
engineers to provide the necessary control for the project's
road rehabilitation program; an additional engineer will be
hired to provide technical advice (paragraph 50);
(g) The Government will ensure the review of the existing laws and
regulations establishing vehicle dimensions and weight limits
and will prepare by February 28, 1978 a plan of action for
weight control and administrative and organizational procedures
for its implementation (paragraph 54);
(h) Funds not utilized by the weight control program would not be
transferable to any other category and would be cancelled
(paragraph 54);
(i) MOPT will hire not less than twelve civil engineers and thirty
specialists for the execution of the remainder of the project
(paragraph 55); and
(j) MOPT will engage consultants to improve the efficiency of road
maintenance operations and to prepare an inventory of locally
available road construction materials (paragraph 55).
2.   Conditions of disbursement will be:
(a) in the case of the rehabilitation program, that at least four
of the six engineers for control of the program have been
hired by MOPT, as well as the civil engineer who will provide
technical advice (paragraph 62);
(b) in the case of the weight control program, that a plan of
action including the necessary legal, administrative and
organizational measures has been put into effect (paragraph
62);
(c) in the case of the maintenance program, that consultants
for technical assistance have been appointed and that MOPT
has complied with agreed counterpart staffing for the program
(paragraph 62); and
(d) in the case of disbursement for spare parts for preventive
maintenance under the program that purchasing, warehousing
and distribution procedures have been reorganized
(paragraph 62).






75 78'                                         74-                     72- 
COLOMBIA               o    50   100   'p  200   250   300
NATIONAL HIGHWAY NETWORK                       KILOMEIERS 0  2    300
IZ-                                  0       50       100     IS0      200        /                      2
Proposed Seventh High..y Project        MILES                       /
-S Sxth -ighay Projeci                                                  /
  Fifth H,gh.oy Project           C                               -    o, _bh
t  Mojor bridges                  CJrv'ar   Sea            OH,5HA/d        r
Paved trunh roads                                                      /
- Paved roads           I                               biv   ~    ~   ~    0
Unpaved roads                - Lr             -               j.
0 MOPT districts .
,Railroads                        -    ,                                         -
-  - ,   ailroad disContin.ed     IL v    O I.
O  International arcports                          Ir    -     .
Lb  Paved airports                        . /-
*  Unpaved airports          t    .         .
4  Seaports
4  River ports t
.Navigable rivers
o0       _ _  iOther rivers
Elevations sbove 1400 neters  )    I  .-         :O,Orv
D.='epart,nent boundaries                       /AR                             -ih
*-._ _;nternotional hobndo-ien                           I ES,ARJ \           Ma,vCv?bv
==;Sb~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~~~~5~*v oJ,I.          N             -t 
w--
PANAMA                 7 R.                       I                          VENEZUELA
XP A N A M A \   9   Mr Nr 7it~~~+.   j  -1  i 0  1     \  ~V E N E Z U E L A
C        t   4  \    t   Mo^felsr.,  t ;  I                    ivP.i .1  5v.i;vd
UtA
/  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   0                     iv ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FCARACAS
0  X             r      W       01ag           , B 5,      $             i -1
/         e~,vvvv,.,~'R-          P
ANTIOQUIA,'               4 1   f'-   '/      A R      zo AnioC
8  \            S        M E T D      0 ;         <      EN[SH 8 \AOCUTH 9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P EI 
I ..., Sv;i..        *Onvl       <E                                   A 
________  -  5t.                    juO,,d    On.0 ,Iff;  (s< l i A M/I / \b -                    (-- 
-S SveAndree -                >  v    N    Q A O     U  E   I                    T1-- L  - (  A
en _                  CIOLI     5,0=                     C UAvORv)  'tU
I            -Nick op.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'Ah -]
ALLEr.                S                 dov  d,,, d - i d 0                    UTH
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E                 T  A D -lrgEz -O20O ilm4 i        fi
5i .,.                       _  ..   '.  ./0.,00    5..   -v                            .         1
SA  Gj..- vL AAP U-                             O. 
-v                  v.01.5  i~~~  ~  c 01
N                                              - R I NO  i- A,
S                   \5II~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~ Q'~v.&- L).nE.4'  Aof
Piic CEasv0~QUtJ*                            C CUDR0                  200t ---  U ....
v,,bviv,,  ,/(~~~~~~~~~~~~~,o  ,  ~~~~~~  Oil        20.,6.1



