Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3457 
Operation Name 
Fourth Poverty Reduction Support Credit 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (40%); Sub-national 
government administration (20%);General agriculture, fishing and 
forestry sector (20%);General industry and trade sector 
(10%);General finance sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P103277 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MOZAMBIQUE 
Implementing Agency 
 
Date PID Prepared 
November 13, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
November 28, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
February 14, 2008 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Mozambique has been a very strong performer in Africa, with rapid growth and poverty 
reduction, as it recovers steadily from the damage of the civil war.  Following political 
stabilization and market-oriented reforms, and steady improvements in infrastructure, the 
economy has registered an average annual growth rate of 8 percent between 1996 and 2006, and 
incomes have risen considerably.  The poverty headcount index has fallen from 69 percent in 
1996/97 to 54 percent in 2002/03. In addition to the major reduction in poverty, other social 
indicators have also shown significant improvements. Economic expansion has been made 
possible by overall macroeconomic stability, policy reforms and continuing strong donor 
support, permitting broad-based expansion across most sectors of the economy, and a series of 
significant foreign investment projects (“megaprojects”).  
 
Despite the promising progress, significant challenges remain. The country remains poor ($347 
per capita income in 2006), infrastructure is inadequate, and social indicators are low. Adult 
literacy rates are low (approximately 47 percent), chronic malnutrition amongst children does not 
appear to be improving, and life expectancy at birth (42 years) is one of the lowest in Africa.  
The country also relies heavily on foreign aid, which makes up about half of its overall budget. 
Additionally, the impact of HIV/AIDS and malaria on the population has serious consequences.  
Malaria alone accounts for 35 percent of deaths among children below five years of age, 60 
percent of admissions in pediatric wards, and 40 percent of overall outpatient consultations.  It 
has been found that in Sub-Saharan Africa, malaria reduces GDP growth by an estimated 
average of 1.3 percent per year.  As for HIV/AIDS, current projections indicate that in 2010 the 
Mozambican economy will be 14-20 percent smaller than it would otherwise be due to the 
impact of HIV/AIDS.   
 
Mozambique is likely to achieve the poverty Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) as well as 
the water MDG targets. Assuming that the current trend continues, Mozambique is expected to 
halve the population living in absolute poverty by 2015.  As mentioned, however, reducing 
Page  2
hunger and child malnutrition remains a challenge.  The MDG for sustainable coverage for urban 
water supply is also expected to be met, although significant progress is needed to increase 
access to water in rural areas.  There has also been substantial progress toward other MDG 
targets, specifically on improving universal primary education, gender equality and women’s 
empowerment, reducing child mortality, and improving maternal health. Nevertheless, more 
progress will be required to meet these MDGs, while combating HIV/AIDS, malaria and other 
diseases remains a serious challenge. A detailed discussion of progress towards each MDG was 
include in the PRSC-3 Program Document.  
 
Constraints to private sector development and trade remain substantial. Concerning the business 
environment, Mozambique is 134th out of 175 countries in the 2008 Ease of Doing Business 
Rank.  Mozambique is 129th (out of 203) on the 2007 Governance Survey Overall Index, 
surpassing the SSA and low income group averages on all four aspects of the index (government 
effectiveness, regulatory quality, rule of law, and control of corruption). The Government’s 
development and poverty reduction strategy focuses on tackling many of these concerns. 
 
The short-term macroeconomic outlook is favorable. The sixth review of performance under the 
PRGF program concluded in June 2007 that the prospects for 2007-2008 remained favorable, 
including for strong growth, single digit inflation, and the maintenance of a sustainable external 
and fiscal situation, as the Government is committed to take the necessary fiscal measures and 
pursue a monetary program consistent with a further reduction of inflation.  The Government 
remains committed to take measures to continue to strengthen the banking system, foster private 
sector development and move forward the public sector reform. After recording an 8 percent 
growth in 2006, real GDP growth is expected to continue to be strong at 7 percent in 2007, and at 
around the same level in the next few years. The leading sector would be agriculture, followed 
by wholesale and retail trade, and also transport and communications, and construction.   
 
Mozambique needs to implement growth-enhancing reforms and challenging institutional 
reforms to avoid a slow down in growth in the medium-term.  Mozambique appears to be well 
placed to experience a long period of sustained per capita growth. It would be hazardous, 
however, to assume a “business as usual” rate of 7 percent, because such “growth spurts” rarely 
extend more than a few years, Mozambique faces meteorological and other risk, the agricultural 
catch-up is now exhausted and the sector is growing at a lesser rate than it did before. Most of 
the “easy” growth-enhancing reforms have been done, and aid is projected to fall as a share of 
GDP.  The likely growth scenarios for the future – and the corresponding poverty scenarios – 
will heavily depend on the Government’s role in warding off threats to continued growth, as well 
as its role in seizing new opportunities for growth. Only rapid progress in certain key reforms, 
can keep the growth rate as high as 7 or 8 percent in the medium term, and continue the rapid 
rate poverty reduction of the past decade.  For instance, the 2005 CEM estimates that 
Mozambique could enhance its growth performance by improving its business climate to East 
Asian levels. Gains of up to 1 percentage point per annum could be made by avoiding banking 
crises, or by improving governance, or by reducing government nonproductive spending.  Bigger 
gains of up to 3 percentage points per annum could be secured by – in time – improving 
infrastructure, or by raising access to secondary education.   
 
Page  3
It is critical therefore that the Government pursues a reform program to resolve the key 
challenges to growth and poverty reduction.  The 2005 CEM identifies key constraints to 
accelerating shared growth are the weak public financial management, the need for key 
institutional reforms, a poor climate for private sector development, the lack of adequate 
infrastructure, the low smallholder agricultural productivity, the impact of the HIV/AIDS 
epidemic, and the need to improve significantly the management of natural resources.  Most of 
these challenges have been articulated in the PARPA-II, and are part of the government program, 
which is supported by this PRSC series. 
 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The PRSC series supports a strategic subset of objectives from the PARPA II results matrix.  As 
intermediate outcomes the PRSC series supports improvements in: 
(1) 
Macroeconomic management: Consolidate and deepen institutional reforms to 
strengthen public financial management system.   
(2) 
Reforms in governance: Support public sector reform, and also accelerate 
decentralization/deconcentration to enhance service delivery at the provincial and district 
level, and empower communities.  
(3) 
Economic development: Improve the business environment, by removing 
constraints to growth, such as infrastructure, and promoting agricultural growth.  
 
The PRSC-4 would support specific ongoing reforms which are part of the above program.  The 
PRSC-4 would supports reforms to improve macroeconomic management by maintaining at least 
65 percent of the budget on priority sectors, continuing the rollout of e-SISTAFE, strengthening 
the Central Revenue Authority, continuing the implementation of the new State procurement 
system, and increasing the coverage and efficiency of internal and external audit bodies.  The 
reforms to improve governance focus on carrying out a census of civil servants, as a basis to 
create an integrated payroll management system. Finally, in terms of economic development, the 
PRSC-
4
supports the government’s efforts to increase the amount of road maintenance and 
rehabilitation, expanding the irrigated area, and expanding the number of farmers who benefit 
from extension services, in order to increase the adoption of new technology. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The PRSC series is a key component of the Country Partnership Strategy approved by the Board 
in May 2007, and closely aligned to the Government program. Bank support to the PARPA II is 
through the Mozambique FY08-11 Country Partnership Strategy (discussed May 30, 2007).  As 
government policies and budget are the key instruments for implementing the PARPA, the Bank 
is committed to supporting and aligning with the budget process. The indicative lending scenario 
of the CPS envisages programmatic support through four consecutive PRSCs, with a focus on 
supporting Mozambique’s efforts in increasing accountability and public voice and fostering 
sustainable and broad-based growth. In line with the government program, and as reflected in the 
CPS, the program supported by the PRSC series recognizes the centrality of the new growth 
agenda and the importance of accelerating shared growth through infrastructure, rural and private 
sector development, and enhanced governance reforms.  The PRSC series is also well aligned 
with the Bank’s principles on conditionality, namely (i) reinforce ownership; (ii) strengthen 
Page  4
harmonization; (iii) customize program to country circumstances; (iv) select only critical actions; 
and (v) ensure transparency and predictability of process.   
 
Development policy lending will be complemented by investment support and technical 
assistance. PRSC support will continue to coexist with investment support to well-articulated 
sector programs, and with technical assistance to develop government systems and capacities 
necessary for an increased reliance on them.  IDA’s investment portfolio, with 17 projects, is 
diverse and supports the three pillars of the CPS. As of June 2007, total IDA commitments were 
$783 million. The PRSC series supports PFM and public sector reforms, embraces the new 
growth agenda, and supports the Government’s focus on development at the district level. These 
objectives are also supported by several IDA projects, thereby creating strong synergies. 
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
60 
 Total 
60 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Bank’s supervision of the PRSCs is aligned with the supervision of the joint General Budget 
Support program of the G19 (for details see website: 
http://www.pap.org.mz/
). In order to 
reduce the transaction costs for the Government, the Bank carries out all supervision jointly with 
the other donors. It participates in the Troika Plus (consisting of three donors/a chair/co-chair 
and outgoing chair, forming the troika chairmanship – EC and WB are permanent members, thus 
forming the Troika Plus), the overall coordination mechanism set up by the G-19, and all the 
relevant coordination meetings. All Bank sector missions working for the PRSC team liaise 
closely with and through the respective joint sector working groups to assure maximum 
coordination with all other sector partners. 
 
The MoU defines two key review events per year. A Joint Review takes place each year in April 
(year n). It assesses the performance of the government in the previous budget year, which 
corresponds to the calendar year (year n-1). The review focuses on evaluating progress with 
regard to the indicators defined in the Performance Assessment Framework and makes an overall 
assessment of progress. The second event is the Mid-Year Review in September. This review is 
mainly forward-looking and formalizes the agreement on the performance indicators and targets 
for the following year (year n+1).  Both the Joint and the Mid-Year Review are a multi-sector 
exercises, and Bank staff participate in all relevant sectors. The reviews are prepared at the 
technical level by the various joint sector working groups. 
 
In addition, the supervision of the PRSC is done on a continuous basis in harmonization with the 
other general budget support donors. The Task Team Leader for the operation is based in the 
field, and participates in all relevant coordination and the monthly joint government-donor 
steering committee meetings.  Progress in each sector is monitored by joint government-donor 
Page  5
sector working groups.  Bank staff actively participates in these meetings through its staff in the 
field offices and Washington (through missions or by videoconference).  
Furthermore, the Bank participates in joint IMF-Bank missions to monitor progress in the 
macroeconomic framework. The Bank and the Fund also monitor jointly progress in 
implementing the PARPA-II. 
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits:
 The operation will help the Government to maintain macroeconomic stability while it 
continues to pursue a reform agenda that cannot be fully financed from domestic sources. The 
reforms would enable Mozambique to make further progress in reducing absolute poverty, 
improving the delivery of services and achieving the MDGs. The alignment with the general 
budget support programs of 18 other donors and a joint focus on the priorities set out by the 
Government in its comprehensive poverty reduction strategy, and on a common set of indicators 
to measure progress, should help improve the resource flow and improve aid effectiveness, 
thereby enhancing the chances of progress towards the MDGs. 
 
Risks:
 A
first set of risks is concerned with the potential for macroeconomic instability, which 
may arise as a result of terms of trade shocks, deteriorating finances, or unpredictability of donor 
disbursements. While terms of trade shocks and regional instability are exogenous, better public 
finance management, and the adoption of MoU’s with development partners has made aid flows 
more predictable. A second set of risks concerns weak administrative capacity to implement 
reforms. To mitigate this risk, the Government and donors have agreed to develop an integrated 
strategy for capacity development in public finance management, including at the decentralized 
level, and to strengthen the coordination and management of reforms. A third set of risks 
concerns a deterioration in governance that could compromise economic reforms and poverty 
reduction efforts. To mitigate this risk, the Bank has intensified its policy dialogue on 
governance issues in harmonization with the G19 and has restructured its public sector reform 
project to support the second phase of public sector reforms; a new component in support of 
capacity building in the judiciary sector has also been included. A final set of risks concerns the 
potential impact of HIV/AIDS in reducing human and institutional capacity to deliver public 
services; it also may pose a contingent liability regarding the future costs of treating this disease. 
Should donor support wane at some point, there would be big pressures for the health budget to 
pay for it. The Bank is taking the HIV/AIDS pandemic very seriously and is dealing with it as an 
essential cross-cutting issue in all of its projects in addition to having two dedicated HIV/AIDS 
prevention and treatment programs. 
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The PRSC series supports policy actions that create the enabling environment to support poverty 
reduction, and which by themselves do not have a significant environmental impact. It is 
expected, however, that regular investment activities will benefit from such policy actions, and 
may therefore have stronger impacts on both poverty and the environment.  The legal framework 
for the environment is relatively well developed in Mozambique. The framework for 
environmental management in Mozambique is defined by the Law of the Environment (Law n° 
20/97), which applies to all public and private activities that may influence environmental 
Page  6
aspects. All activities that may result in a significant impact on the environment are subject to an 
Environmental Impact Assessment, which has to precede any issuing of licenses and investment 
activity. The Ministry for the Co-ordination of Environmental Affairs (MICOA) is the main 
entity responsible for conducting Environmental Impact Assessments. The capacity of MICOA, 
however, is limited due to financial and technical capacity constraints, and the potential 
environmental impacts of such interventions is analyzed and monitored by the responsible 
authority. For example, in the case of the rehabilitation and construction of the road network, the 
National Roads Authority has received institutional strengthening for environmental 
management under the Bank-supported Roads and Bridges Management and Maintenance 
Program, in particular through the social and environmental unit of the National Roads 
Authority.  A similar situation prevails in the case of the expansion of irrigated agriculture. The 
Ministry of Agriculture has received much support 
–
including from the Bank – to build up its 
capacity to carry out EIA’s. The institutional framework for the water sector is largely consistent 
with international good practice, and includes the ongoing establishment of Regional Water 
Administrations (ARAs) responsible for water resource management. Some additional details are 
provided below: 
 
·
Roads rehabilitation and maintenance:
 IDA’s project on Roads and Bridges Management 
and Maintenance Project (RBMMP) finances routine and periodic maintenance of the 
national road network through a pooled fund, while construction and rehabilitation are 
funded directly by IDA investment lending. As part of this operation, the Bank has 
already verified the government capacity to adequately address and mitigate any 
environmental risks.  
 
·
Irrigation:
 Although IDA is not presently involved in financing irrigation in 
Mozambique (a project focusing on the development of irrigation is in the pipeline for 
FY09), irrigation investments are part of the second phase of the government’s National 
Agricultural Program (PROAGRI II), and is funded by a group of development partners. 
As part of the PROAGRI II a Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) has been 
carried out in order to provide the Ministry of Agriculture (MINAG) and other 
stakeholders with a tool for strategic management of environment issues that will result 
in the implementation of PROGAGRI II. An action plan to mitigate potential negative 
impacts has been prepared as part of the SEA. Moreover, it should be emphasized that 
since the late 1990s until present, MINAG has been emphasizing small scale irrigation 
projects (2 to 20ha), which are less likely to have significant environmental impacts.  
 
·
Extension systems and Integrated Pest Management (IPM):
 While the Bank is not 
directly involved in supporting the extension in Mozambique, the relevant Government 
departments are aware and able to address any negative effects related to the use of new 
technologies in agricultural production. The government’s extension system supports 
IPM. During the PROAGRI I, an environmental unit was created within MINAG, which 
pushed for the establishment of IPM and safe use of pesticides. This environmental unit 
also trained public and private sector extension staff on management of pesticides.  A 
Pilot Plan for IPM was started and implemented, and the plan is currently being revised 
in order to scale up implementation.   
 
Page  7
Beyond the need to ensure that the environmental impacts of reform supported by the PRSC is 
mitigated, the sustainable use of Mozambique's natural resources (land, mining, fisheries, 
forestry, water) represents a great opportunity for poverty reduction as well as social and 
economic development, and needs to be strengthened.  As outlined in the 2005 CEM, public 
revenues from natural resource rents could be increased from USD31 million to USD82 million 
per year under current economic conditions, mostly by improving transparency and fairness in 
the issuing of licences, quotas and concessions and in the collection and use of revenue. 
Sustainable exploitation of natural resources by communities and individuals should be 
promoted to contribute directly to poverty reduction and livelihood security.  Investments in 
extractive and exploitative industries can promote further growth and economic activity through 
providing markets for local goods and services as well as inputs for processing industries.  
Licensing and taxation of natural resource use can provide significant revenue for Government, 
which in turn, can support funding development and poverty reduction programs, especially 
where (local and global) market demand and prices allow significant margins.  However 
managing these resources is complex. While GOM legislation and policies recognize and seek to 
facilitate the role of different models of resource use for poverty reduction and development, 
little attention has been given to the specific mechanisms for: (i) access, (ii) promoting efficient 
use and (iii) monitoring and compliance with existing norms. This has lead to a situation where 
regulations appear to have produced unnecessarily complex procedures that create opportunities 
for rent seeking and corruption, harming both the poor and private commercial interests. Over 
the next few years IDA, in collaboration with the IMF and other development partners, will work 
closely with Government to maximize the benefits from the sustainable exploitation of natural 
resource.  An important step to enhance the revenue collection efforts was the approval by the 
parliament in December 2006 of the new laws on the fiscal regimes for the mining and oil 
sectors, which have become effective in mid-2007. 
 
Analysis has been carried out of the impacts of growth on poverty reduction. As highlighted in 
the Program Document for PRSC-3 the poverty reduction impact of the policies supported by the 
series is expected to be significant, increasing the likelihood that Mozambique will reach the first 
Millennium Development Goal. 
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Antonio Nucifora 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5333+2371 / +258-21-48-2371 
Fax: +258-21-492893 
Email: anucifora@worldbank.org 
Location: Maputo, Mozambique (IBRD) 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Page  8
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
