Documeat of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11702-PU
STAF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBILIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
UJRRA  EALTR AND NUTRITION PROJECT
NAY 14, 1993
>'5t'tt);T{','   .    ~'. ! . 
;  ,     !1i>h}-.   Jli'AJ  FST-   /it '   ..ti !.j
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
lTis document has a resMited distbutbin and may be usd by redpiens only in the perfonmance of
their officWi duties Its contents may no otherwise be didosed wihout Wodd Bank autoiion



CURRENCY BOUIALEN
Currency Unit - Philippine Peso (P)
US$1.00 - P25.5
(as of January 1993)
ABBREVIATIONS
AIDAB        -    Australian International Development
Assistance Bureau
BHW          -     Barangay Health Worker
BNS          -     Barangay Nutrition Scholar
CHO          -      Zity Health Office
DBM          -     Department of Budget and Management
DECS         -     Department of Education, Culture and Sport
DILG         -     Department of Interior and Local Government
DOF          -     Department of Finance
DOH          -     Department of Health
GIS          -     Geographic Information System
GOP          -     Government of the Philippines
HIS          -     Health Information System
IAA          -     Inter Agency Agreement
ICB          -     International Competitive Bidding
IDA          -     International Development Association
IEC          -     Information, Education and Ccmmunication
inE          -     Infant Hortality Rate
LCB          -     Local Competitive Bidding
LGU          -     Local Government Unit
NIS          -    Management Information System
MOA          -    Memorandum of Agreement
NCH           -    Maternal and Child Health
MDF          -    Municipal Development Fund
MHO          -     Municipal Health Office
NGO          -    Non-governmental Organization
NCHS         -     National Center for Health Statistics
NCR          -    National Capital Region
NNC          -    National Nutrition Council
PCU-UHNP     -     Project Coordination Unit -
Urban Health and Nutrition Project
PEK          -     Protein-energy malnutrition
PHC          -     Primary Health Care
PIHES        -     Public Information and Health Education
Service
PPAR         -     Project Performance Audit Report
TB           -     Tuberculosis
UBSP         -     Urban Basic Services Program
UHNP               Urban Health and Nutrition Project
UNICEF       -    United Nations Children's Fund
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate   The percentage of married women of reproductive age
who are using a modern method of contraception at any
tim.
Dependency Ratio.               Population 14 years or under and 65 years of age or
over as percentage of active population (aged 15 to
64 years). Indicates proportion of population that
needs economic support.
Incidence Rate                  Number of new cases of a specific disease during a
given year divided by the estimated population at
mid-year times 1000.
Infant Mortality Rate           Annual number of deaths of infants under one year per
1,000 live births during the same year.
Low Birth Weight (LBV)          Infant weight at birth less than 2,500 gr.  LBW may
be associated with either pre-term (less than 37
weeks gestation) or full-term but small for dates (38
weeks or more) of gestation.
Maternal Mortality Ratio        Number of maternal deaths per 100,000 births.
attributable to pregnancy, childbearing, or puerperal
complications (i.e., within six weeks following
childbirth).
Morbidity                       Any departure, subjective or objective, from a state
of physiological or psychological well-being. In
this sense, sickness, illness, and morbid conditions
are synonymous.
Prevalence Rate                 The number of cases present at a given time divided
by the estimated population at the same time times
1000.
Risk                            A probability that an unfavorable outcome related to
morbidity or mortality will occur within a stated
period of time or age.
Total Fertility Rate            The average number of live children that would be
born per woman if she were to live to the end of her
childbearing years and bear children according to a
given set of age-specific fertility rates. The Total
Fertility Rate often serves as an estimate of the
average number of children per family.
This document has a  ustic  distribution d may be used by recipients only In thC peformnce
of their offci dutie Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wod Bank authorzation.



- iL .
REPUrLI  OP THIE PHILIPPN
URBAN HELhiAN  NUTRITIO  Zia=LK
Table gf ggMtepta
MU No.
DEFITIONS             . . . . . . . . . . . .                     . . . . . . .        i
CDIT AUWD PROJCT SUIIR   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 v
I.   .A     D         . . .  .  .      *.. .......   . . .. . . .   S . . .            I1
A.   Country Background . . . .                                               1. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  I
S.   Country Development Goals and Strategy . . . . . . . . . . .             1
C.   Health, Nutrition and Urban Development Strategies
and Programs .. . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .               2
D.   Urban Health and Nutrition Sectoral Issue  . . . . . . . . .             4
S.   Project Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             6
F.   The Role of Foreign Assistance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            12
G.   Rationale for Bank Group Involvement in the Proposed Project            1S
THE ZLQE=   . .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .,                                           16
A.   Project Goals and Obj      d      Je¢tlves...........                   16
B.   Geographic Scope . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            17
C.   Str tegyg .18                           0......#...i
D.   Project Description  ....................                               21
IlI.    Pw=  COSTS. FINCING-                      AND                 . . . . .       29
A.   Cost Estiuates        .      .....  .  .  . . . .                       29
B.   Financing      .    .    ..  .  .  .  .  . . . .                        33
C.   Procurement              . . . . . .  .  .  .  . .... . .               33
D.   Disbursuemnts                 . .         .  .  .  .  .  . . . .        37
The swpwt ts bsd   the findin of prepW"Gel a and p"s1t idim to  e Phitipplas in nd 1rit992 M  Jam
1993. Te PeeJt To  Includ  Nlassr. S. Sdw, Snor P.MfI Ibdth SpeelaUst - Tsk No"r, A. Nwb   Snior
Nswgeme tpcluelstf, en N. C. Fogl*, Populttlftn Spwedlst, N. Nw1 Do4d. Seow Pepulttlan Spedl*tIst, C. Neu,
porftlew Te olqr, a  th follmtng coultant pecilistos  _e r. R. Cepat, D. Cared, C. _eAn, M. Tewtlo
an A. VItlIam. _e. A. Larson an N. Ihittakr reprAntad the AuBtrIat Intrwnstlfsl DeOpI_et Aflstance
swes. Per revlesr wer M. J. NcSIre (PUN), Nutrilton, E. Scheber (LAIM), evcs od Mr. T. Uchhea
(1AII*), Dewlution. lhe Iport mm ceed by Messrs. J. ShIb_vei  (ChieflA, 11). and C. f. Meds (Diretor, EA1).



- iii -
IV.    PIOJECT  IMUENUZaIN...  . . .               . . . . . . . . . . .     38
A.  Status of Project Preparation  . . . . . . . ........             38
B.  Organization, Management, Finwaclng and Sustainability . . .      39
C.  Accounts, Auditing, Reporting and Supervision  . . . . . . .      43
D. tonitoring and Evaluation  ............. ....                      44
V.      PR         ABENEFITS AND RISKS  ..................                    45
A.  Benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       .      .       4'
B. Risks.                    . . . . . ... . . .                      45
C.  Impact on Women  . . .. . . . ..                                 46
D.  Environmental Aspects                            ....             46
VI.    AGEMENUS RAL CHED AND RjZQDfflM     NS  ....    I . . . . . . . . .    47
TABLES IN MM TMXT
Table 3.1 - Project Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .      31
Table 3.2 - Procurement Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       32
Table 3.3 - Financing Plan.. . . . ..                                         33
Table 3.4 - Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ..34
Table 3.5 - Disbursement Categories . . . . . . ... . . . .                   37
AE
Annex 1  - Demography and Epidemiology of the Urban Areas
Annex 2   - Department of Health Reorganized Structure
Annex 3   - Local Government Revenues
Annex 4   - Current Donor Activity in Urban Health and Nutrition
Annex 5  - Interventions and Objectives
Annex 6   - A Study of the Urban Poor in Quezon City
Annex 7   - Health Service Targeting
Anmnx 8   - Incremental Staff
Annex 9   - Guidelines for Facility Development
Annex 10 - List of Items to be Procured
Annex 11  - Training
Annex 12 - Component 2: Institutional Development
Annex 13 - Organization and Management of UHNP Project
Annex 14 - Community Partnership for Health and Nutrition in Urban Areas
Annex 15  - Women's Health and Family Planning.
Annex 16  - Operations Research on Nutrition
A rvix 17 - Basic Services to be Provided and Technology Options for
Environmental Health in Urban Poor Comuities
Annex 18  - Project Components by Year
Annex 19 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Annex 20  - Implementation Schedule



-iv-
Annex 21 - Draft Memorandum of Agreement (NOA) between the Department of
Health and Local Government Unit and the Department of Interior
and Local Government
Annex 22 - Fund Flow Under Municipal Development Fund
Annex 23 - IDA Supervision Plan
Annex 24 - National Capital Region Naps
Annex 25 - Selected Documents Available in the Project File
dut    IBRD No. 24774



V
AmfPmTIc  OP THE  ILIPP=R
URANRALTH AND NUTRITION PROJcT
REBIT AND PROJECT SUNNARY
Bgorrowe:   Republic of t   PhilippinLes
Ao,m:        SDR 50.5 mllioU (US$70.0 million equivalent)
:1:          Standard with 35 yers maturity
Cofian~1ng: GovernMent of Australia, US$3.1 million equivalent
Demcr£tlo: The project would directly address poverty alleviation through the
following objectives: a) to improe the health and nutrition status of
slum-dwellers in the urban areas of Metro-Manila, Metro-Cebst and Cagayan
de Oro; b) to build the capacity of city and municipal governents in
these areas to plan, finanme a i  plement cost-effective slum health
and nutrition programs; c) to help slum communities to ldentify their
own helth, nutrition and environmental problems and participate in
Planning, implementing and monitoring appropriate interventions; and d)
to help the Departmnt of Health develop policies and strategies which
would improve the outreach and cost-effectiveness of bealth and
nutrition delivery systems.
The project would support the following components: (i) Service
Delivery, to improve the outreach, range, quality and cost-effectiveness
of priority health and nutrition services, through improvements in
health risk assessment and client targeting systems,
additions/improvements to health staffing and fcilities, and provision
of additional equipment, contraceptives, drugs and supplies and food and
micro-nutrient supplements; (ii) Institutional Development, to improve
the capacity of project local governments to plan, manage, monitor and
evaluate their health programs, and of DOH to support local governments,
through strengthening msn gement systms and planning and evaluation
capacity; training technologies, programs and infrastructure; and
communications technologies end programs; (iii) Community Partnerships
for Health, to support community mobilization and community-based health
and nutrition service delivery, through financing grants to strengthen
local NGOs, to develop community/ b)/local government fora, and to
implement joint community/local government/EGO sub-projects in health
and nutrition; and (iv) Policy Research and Evaluation, to support
operations research studies testing alternative service delivery models
for key interventions, and studies to evaluate project progress.



. vi -
BagDQtit     The proposed project would assist GOP in developing operational
models for health and nutrition service delivery and community
empowerment in urban slum areas. It would test innovative approaches to
client targeting, to training and communication methodologies and to
nutrititon service delivery which have potential applications on a
natioral scale. It would build DOH'as capacity to fulfil its new role
after devolution of providing support to, rather than management of, the
health departments of local governments. Within the project area, the
project would directly benefit about 0.9 million slum households in the
three target cities with better access to health and nutrition services.
It would increase the capacity of the 21 local governments in the
project area to plan, manage, monitor and evaluate their health and
nutrition programs. It would build local communities' awareness of
their health, nutrition and environmental problems, and involve them in
a pro-active way in seeking solutions to them.
Risks:       The main risks foreseen are (i) whether LGUs would be committed to
implementing the project and able to provide and sustain the financing
re't±lired for the project; (ii) whether LGUs with newly devolved
responsibilities would have the capacity to manage the proposed project;
(iii) whether implementation would be delayed through shortfalls in and
slow release of project funds by the central government; and (iv)
whether all 21 LGUs would agree to participate in the project, as well
as as the likelihood that project outcomes would not be uniform in all
21 LGUs. Since many of the project's activities are community-based, it
is unrealistic to assume that project objectives will be fully achieved
in all communities. With regard to the first risk, strong commitment to
project goals was generated by the participative approach to project
preparation; this would be formalized through the proposed central/local
government MOAs, which would bind local governments to implement the
project as planned. With regard to the second risk, LGU managerial
capacity would be strengthened by project institution-building
activities; in addition, the flexible approach to implementation which
is proposed would allow scope to deal with managerial problems as they
arise. With regard to the third risk, the current GOP/Bank project and
program prioritizing and restructuring exercise would help to ensure
that central government funds are concentrated on fully funding a
limited number of priority projects, including the proposed project.
Also, the proposed system of releasing project funds in six-monthly
tranches into the Municipal Development Fund would help to ensure an
adequate cash flow. Fourthly, all 21 LOUs participated in project
preparation and the project design includes financial incentives in
grant form for communities to participate in the project.



- vii -
(USS lttion)
I          Total
Foreign        Nao
Estimated Cost                             Local      Foreign      Total       Exchange       Costs
A. Service Oeltvery
Women's Health                              4.5         6.4         10.9          59            15
childsa Health                              4.6         4.7         9.3           50            12
T8 Control                                  4.7         0.8         5.5           14            7
Service Upgrading                          10.8         S.3         16.0          33            21
Incremental Service Delivery Staff          9.S          -          9.8                         13
Subtotal Service Delivery                         34.4        17.1        51.6          33            69
8.    Institutional Oevelopment
Area Based Planing                          0.4          -          0.4           2             1
Information, Education & Commication        1.S         0.7         2.2           31            3
Training & Human Resource Development       1.3         0.2         1.6           15            2
anagement Syste  Improvement                0.6         0.5         1.1           47            2
Admin. Facitity Upgtrding                   4.1         1.S         5.5           2?            7
ProJect Management 8 Coordination           2.9         0.7         3.6           19            5
Subtotal Institutional Development                10.9         3.6        14.5          2S            19
C. Comafty Partnership for Health
Planning Grarts                             1.0         0.1         1.1           a
Institutional Grants                        0.1                     0.1
Project Grants                              3.7          -          3.7                         5
Subtotal Commeity Partnership for Health          4.8          0.1         4.9           2             6
0. Research & Evaluation
Baseline & Evwluation Surves                             -           -            -
Environmantal Health Development            2.4         0.2         2.7           9             4
Women's Uealth & Family Planning             -          0.4         0.5           90            1
Nutrition Development                       0.3                     0.3           1             -
Operations Research                         0.5          -          0.5                         1
SubtotaL Research & Evaluation                    3.3          0.6         4.0          16             5
Total BASELINE COST                               53.4        21.5        74.9          29            100
Physicat Contingencies                      0.8         1.0         1.9           SS            2
Price Contingencries                        4.0         1.4         5.4           27            7
Total PROJECT COSTS                               S8.2        24.0        82.2          29            110
Finamnci Ptan:
Ltocal      Foreign      Total
Governuent of The Philippines
Central                                     0.7                       0.7
Local                                       8.0            -          8.0
Subtotal                                         8.7                       8.7
Coffmmnity Contributions                         0.4            -          0.4
IDA                                              46.9          23.1        70.0
Goverrnent of Australia                          2.2           0.9         3.1
Iqui                                             S8.2          24.0        82.2
EjtfmJ-jd Disbursements:
IDA FY                 1i       1245                                 m        199 1                    Q
Annual                 0.2      4.9          10.5        14.7       16.1       13.3        7.0         3.3
Cumulative             0.2      5.1         1S.6        30.3       46.4        S9.7       66.7        70.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not Applicabte



REPUBLIC OF TE PHILIPPINES
URBAN HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROIECT
1. BACKGROUND
A. CountrX Background
1.1       At the beginning of the 1970s, incomes in the Philippines were at
levels comparable to those in Korea, Taiwan, Indonesia and Malaysia. During
the 1980s, these countries averaged growth of over six per cent a year while
the Philippines grew at less than one per cent a year. Poverty reduction in
the Philippines has lagged behind these countries partly because of slower
growth, and partly because growth was concentrated in a higher wage formal
sector protected by minimum wage legislation; in the dualistic Philippines
economy, growth did no more than trickle down to the majority of people
working in the low productiviry agriculture and informal sectors. A
combination of slow growth and economic and political crises during the 1980.
left the Philippines in 1992 with a real per capita income 7.2X lower than in
1980.
1.2       Similarly, while health, nutrition and fertility conditions in the
Philippines have improved since the early 1970s, progress has been far slower
than in other East Asian countries. As a result, the Philippines infant
mortality rate, which was comparable to those of China and Thailand in the
19709 has not improved, and is now roughly twice as high as their rates. Slow
growth in the incomes of poor people and the government's difficulty in
financing adequate health and nutrition programs for the poor has resulted in
minimal improvement in health status. In addition, in the early 1980s,
budgetary constraints, coupled with low levels of commitment to preventive
health care for the poor, resulted in the urban poor suffe:lng from both lack
of public services and from the income effects of economic crisis. High rates
of fertility, linked to weak commitment to family planning programs, have also
contributed both to slow per capita economic growth and, directly, to
relatively high death, disease and malnutrition rates among women and young
children.
B. Country Development Goals and Strategy
1.3       The National Economic Development Authority has completed a draft
of the Medium Term Development Plan, 1993-98, which will be sent to Congress
shortly. There are two broad themes in the Plan: (i) the need of the
Philippine economy to strive for world competitiveness; and (ii) the need to
provide people with the economic means to gain control of their lives. The
Plan's three overall human development goals are to: a) enable the majority of
the population to meet their basic minimum needs; b) provide focused basic
services at a level which shall allow them to manage and control their
resources as well as benefit from developmental interventions; and c) harness
the productive capacity of the country's human resource base toward
international competitiveness.



- 2 -
1.4       The draft Five Year Plan, unlike previous Plans, presents broad
programs and strategies, but not as yet detailed sectora' chapters or
investment plans. The broad strategies proposed for poverty alleviation,
equity promotion and human resource development include: focusing social
services on the poor; developing and maintaining social safety nets; directing
public resources and efforts at basic social services, disadvantaged regions
and specific groups; expanding schemes to promote the physical well-being of
the homeless population; promoting balance among population, resources and
environment; improving and strengthening the mechanisms for planning, policy
formulation and implementation of social development programs; and providing
the necessary infrastructure facilities to facilitate and improve delivery of
basic social services.
C. Health. Nutrition and Urban Develonment Strategies and Programs
1.5       Health and Family Planning Strategies and Programs.  The Department
of Health (DOH) has been the principal health policy-making and implementing
agency of the Government. DOH policies have undergone a series of significant
shifts in the last decade. In the early 1980s, the Government initiated a new
national community-based primary health care program to improve the outreach
of health services to the poor. This program had achieved near national
coverage by 1985. It involved a decentralization of program management and
budgeting to the provincial level; the strengthening of the para-medical mid-
wife cadre to a coverage of about one per 10,000 population; and the creation
of cadres of voluateer 'Barangay Health Workers' (BHWs) in each village and
slum, with the aim of a ratio of one BHW for every 20 households.
Simultaneously, previously vertically organized disease control programs, for
example for TB and malaria, were largely dismantled in the expectation that
they would be implemented on an integrated basis as part of the PHC strategy.
1.6       The new strategy had mixed results.  It increased outreach and
community involvement, but the disease control programs deteriorated rapidly,
leading among other things to a significant resurgence of malaria. It proved
too much for the decentralized primary health care system to maintain the
technical integrity of these programs on top of the demands of the maternal
and child health (NCH) program, and in 1987 a vertical logistic support and
technical supervision system for tha disease control programs was reinstalled.
The BHW cadre, expanded by this time to over 60,000 volunteers, also suffered
from weak support. Poorly trained and supervised workers had difficulty in
handling the multiplicity of interventions; many volunteers dropped out. In
response, in the late 1980s the DOH introduced an 'at risk' approach in which
partnerships between the DOH, communities, health workers and NGOs were to
identify the highest risk communities and families in their area and
concentrate resources on them.
1.7       These changes were part of a broader health sector strategy
developed by the Aquino Government in 1987. This Government increased
resource allocations to the health sector from 2.7% to 3% of public
expenditures, succeeded in raising immunization coverage--at least
temporarily--from 23% to 801, improved program performance in diarrheal
disease control, and launched a program for control of acute respiratory
infections with assistance the Bank (para 1.50). In order to use limited



- 3 -
resources more cost-effectively, the Government also a4opted a new drug policy
expected to rationalize drug use and moderate price increases, and revised its
resource allocations to community health so as to minlmize regional
disparities and to focus resources on those most in need.
1.8       In the cities, the Aquino Government took two major initiatives to
develop health services in the slums. A decision was taken to legalize health
service delivery to all slums, irrespective of the residents' land tenure
status. And the Government created a new Health Region covering the National
Capital Region (iiCR), also known as Metro-Manila, as a way of strengthening
the public health programs of the City Health Offices and channeling
additional technical and financial support to the metropolitan area.
Discussions on the proposed project were begun followipg this decision, with
the idea that the project would be an additional vehicle to address health and
nutrition problems and increase resource transfers to slum communities.
1.9       The Ramos Government which took office in 1992 has broadly endorsed
these strategies, and proposes to consolidate and build on them. It has
developed two major new health policy thrusts. The first is a program to
implement the devolution of health services which was mandated by a new Local
Government Code legislated by the Aquino Government in 1992.  This devolution
is much more radical than the decentralization program of the early 1980s.
From early 1993, the budget for and management of health services will shift
from DOH to the 75 provinces and 60 chartered cities and about 1,500 local
governments. The role of DOH will shift from being that of manager of the
nation's public health programs to being a source of advice, traini-g and
tnchnical assistance to local governments who will henceforth have
iiplementation authority.  The aim is to make services more responsive to
local peoples' needs by putting them under the control of their own
representatives; but the rapid pace at which this strategy is being
implemented raises issues about government' capacity to manage these programs,
and hence to sustain program performance over the near term (para 1.16).
1.10      The second major policy thrust is to give much greater priority to
women's health and in particular to women's reproductive health issues. This
stems from recognition that one reason for high matetnal mortality and
morbidity levels is that health care for women has taken second place to
interventions targeted at infants and children. It stems also from a
commitment to widen women's choices with regard to the adoption of family
planning--a program which for years has lagged behind other NCH se.vices in
the Philippines. Family planning is to become a core intervention under the
new health policy, because of its potential simultaneous benefits in terms of
improving women's health; reducing child mortality (by as much as 251); and
reducing the high fertility levels that currently absLrb much of the benefits
of economic growth.
1.11      Nutrition Strategied  ad Programs.  The main agencies active in
nutrition are the National Nutrition Council (NNC); the DOH; the Department of
Education, Culture and Sport (DECS); and a variety of NGOs. The NNC is
responsible for developing nutrition policy and coordinating interventions in
the sector. The DOH is responsible for health and nutrition education; micro-
nutrient distribution programs; growth monitoring and food supplementation of



- 4 -
malnourished pro-school children and pregnant and lactating women. The DECS
is responsible for food supplementation programs for school age children. The
NGO sector runs a wide variety of small scale income generation, health and
nutrition promotion and food supplementation programs, especially in the
poorer urban barangays.
1.12      Nutrition has traditionally been a very small share of DOH
spending, and no major nutrition policy or program initiatives were taken by
the department during the early 1980s. DOH's main nutrition policy initiative
under the Aquino Government was the development of a national Comprehensive
Nutrition Program for the years 1992-96. This program focusses on
strengthening and expansion of the micro-nutrient deficiency and PEM control
programs. However, funding for the implementation of these programs has not
yet been secured.
1.13      Outside the DOH, the food price stabilization and subsidy program
run by the National Food Authority plays an important role in ensuring the
food security of the urban poor. The Government is currently reviewing
whether and in what form this program should continue, in view of the current
fiscal difficulties and the program's high costs (about three billion Pesos in
1992), which are largely due to the fact that it is not targeted tightly on
the poor.
1.14      Urban DevelonmentvPolicies and Programs.  The Philippines lacks a
declared national urban development strategy. A 1992 review of the urban
development sector by the Housing and Urban Development Coordination Council
noted the lack of a planned location-specific response to the problem of urban
and in particular metropolitan growth; poor coordination of public sector
interventions, especially environmental concerns; and an inadequate response
to the special problems of urban poverty. Since in the future under
devolution urban planning would be the responsibility of city governments, the
review recommended a national urban development plan, which would provide a
framework for city planning and would balance national, metropolitan, local
and sectoral concerns.
D. Urban Health and Nutrition Sectoral Issues
1.15      Under-financing.  Inadequate human, physical and financial health
care resources have been allocated to poor urban communities. This inequity
is the result of chartered citieos throughout the country failing to allocate
comparable budget support (on per capita terms) for their independent health
departments than did the Department of Health (DOH) for the provinces and
municipalities whose health activities were its direct responsibility. And
even though past per capita allocations to the 13 municipalities in Metro
Manila were higher than were those for the four Metro Manila chartered cities,
the rapid influx of population into these smaller, poorer municipalities
surrounding the city core overwhelmed their resources and resulted in the
growth of slums without even the most basic primary health care, water and
sanitation services. Following the return to budget stringency in 1991-93
after a period of real growth in health sector allocations from 1986-90,
resources from the DOH have not been adequate to fill the investmp,pt gap in
the urban areas. *rw                                                      *1



- 5 -
1.16      Imilcationg  of Devolutiot.  There Is a danger that budget
stringency coupled with the devolution of health services to local governments
couAld result in even greater inequities for the poor. The new legislation has
devolved over 401 of DOH's budget and over 701 ec Its field staff to local
governments on a formula basis which does not take into account the variation
in size of their alum communities and severity of their health and nutrition
problems. Local governments now will plan, finance and manage health services
independently of the center. Some will not have the money to provide adequate
services in the slums; others may lack the commitment. One risk is that,
unless local governments give far greater priority than they ever have in the
past to health and nutrition, allocations for health may fall. A second risk
ls that, even if health allocations are maintained, health resources may be
diverted away from preventive toward curative care. A third risk is that
public health service quality may fall because the health anagement systems
of local governmnts are weak.
1.17      Inefficieny of Resource Use. In this situation, there is a clear
need to increase the efficiency with which existing personnel, facilities and
other resources are used in reaching the urban poor. The issue is how to
target resources more effectively on those clients at greatest health and
nutritional risk, in two dimensions. The first is geographic, given both that
slum populations are scattered among better off populations, and the large
variations in health r4sk between households in the same slum. The second
dimension is over time; individual risk varies greatly at different points in
the reproductive cycle, with, for example, poor women being at much greater
risk in the period before, during and after delivery.
1.18      Noed for Greater Community self-Reliance. Another issue facing the
Government is how to facilitate, learn from, and 'scale up' past efforts to
organize and eMpower communities to achieve greater self-reliance and
ownership in addressing health problems in their own communities. Here,
devolution of health services to the local governments should provide greater
opportunities to achieve effective partnerships between NGOs, other local
private resources, government and the communities to achieve this important
objective.
1.19     WigUgkoAd  of Staff st the Periuhery. Reaching the poor requires
outreach by para-professional workers into the community. Successive
Governrents have much increased the numbers of mid-wives to clients; the
policy is now a ratio of 1:5,000. One issue is whether this ratio can be
achieved and sustained by local goverAments in urban areas, and whother this
ratio is In fact adequate to dellver a full range of health and nutrition
services. A related issue is what contribution can be made to the outreach
efforts of mid-wives by volunteer community workers. On the one hand, such
workers can strengthen links with the community, and may provide services for
one to two hours a day. On the other hand, they are not under the control of
the health system, so that accountability for service quality is hard to
ensure; and the training and support of an average of 16 volunteers itself
adds significantly to the workload of a mid-wife.
1.20      sranlztion of Women' s Health Services. Modern methods of family
planning are not widely available in the project area. Where health centers



-6-
offer contraception, a full range of methods is seldom available, thus
limiting women's freedom of choice, and leading to high rates of abortion and
low birth weight, and a high health toll from obstetric complications. Nost
births take place in the home, assisted, often unhygienically, by untrained
traditional mid-wives. A large proportion of normal births also takes place
in hospitals, rather than in the Lying-In Clinics, thus unnecessarily
straining the bed capacity of tertiary institutions. The issues are how to
deliver an integrated package of women's health education and services on an
outreach basis, since low awareness means that clinic-bg ed services would not
be spontaneously sought; and how to design a referral system to ensure that
complications of pregnancy and child-birth find their way rapidly to the
appropriate levels of care.
1.21      Organization of Nutrition Services.  Reliance on an all-volunteer
community outreach system has posed particular problems for reducing protein-
energy malnutrition (PEN). Mothers do not easily recognize moderate
malnutrition in their children in the absence of a regular weighing program;
yet growth monitoring programs are labor-intensive, and difficult to organize
with high quality. DOH's growth monitoring program (Operation Timbang) only
attempted to weigh all children once a year, and in practice has had less than
751 coverage in urban slum areas even with that frequency. Thus, some
malnutrition is never discovered; and most malnutrition in children under two
is discovered only some months after it has set in, making it harder to
correct. The issue is how a high quality PEN control program should be
organized in a system which relies heavily on volunteer workers.
1.22      A second set of problems relates to food supplementation of those
with PEN.  The main supplement available for malnourished children--the bulgur
wheat and peas donated by the United States Government under Public Law 480--
is not found very palatable by them, and is also too bulky for weaning age
children to consume much of. Also, the current supplementation strategy tends
to supplement too little, and too late. Ration sizes are too small to lift
children quickly out of malnutrition, and supplementation is limited to too
few of the moderately malnourished children--only the bottom 201 or so. With
regard to the timing of supplementation, there is more emphasis on child
rather than maternal supplementation, despite the high prevalence of low birth
weight; and the bulk of supplements go to children over three, whose stunting
is hard to correct, rather than to correct wasting and prevent stunting among
t'- -.--nJer threes. The issues are: Who should get supplemented out of
government as opposed to family .'vod resources?  How much should they get?
And for how long?
E. Project Background
1.23      Introduction.  On average, health and nutrition conditions in the
urban areas of the Philippines are better than in the rural areas. But
conditions in many of Philippines' urban slums are worse than those in the
poorest rural areas of the country. This is partly because the slums are an
exceptionally unhealthy environment; partly because slum-dwellers find it
difficult to access the clinics and hospitals which serve those with higher
social status and the ability to pay; partly because Government has invested
less in outreach services and demand creation in the slums than in rural



-7-
areas. Without significant further investment in the slums, health conditions
there will continue to deteriorate, driven by persistent in-migration and
worsening pollution.
1.24     Urban Growth and the Slums. While the Philippines' population more
than doubled since 1960, the urban population more than tripled. The urban
areas grew by 46Z between 1980 and 1990, while the rural population grew less
than 17X. Today, the urban population totals 26.2 million, of whom 12.9
million live in the 60 chartered cities. The three areas of Metro-Manila,
Cebu and Cagayan de Oro which are targeted by the proposed project contain 9.2
million people--roughly 151 of the total Philippines population of 63 million.
About one half or 4.6 million people in the targeted cities live in slums,
most of which are on vacant private and public lands near commercial or
residential areas, along creeks or rivers, factory walls or sidewalks,
railroad tracks, garbage dumpsites, or even cemeteries. Other than the
availability of vacant lots, proximity to sources of livelihood is the primary
reason for settling in these sites.
1.25      Slum-dwellers can be classifled into squatters or non-squatters
based on their land tenure status. 'While land is generally legally owned in
non-squatter communities, uncontrolled sub-tenancies frequently lead to
serious overcrowding, services are poor, and housing is generally physically
deteriorating. Squatter settlements or shanty towns, on the other hand,
usually begin as illegal settlements on public or private land. Because of
their illegal status, structures are haphazardly planned, and housing is
makeshift. The future of squatter settlements depends on local political
conditions. Sometimes, occupied land is sold to the squatters, leading to
subsequent upgrading of housing and services. More often, occupancy remains
illegal, and Government therefore excludes these areas from water supply,
power, and sewerage program coverage.
1.26      In the slums, water is generally bought from ambulant peddlers or
from better-off neighbors with piped water connections. A few settlement
communities may have commnal faucets, and some resourceful households may
organize illegal water connections. Excreta disposal is generally through the
"wrap and throw" method, leading to pollution of the creeks in which exereta
are thrown. Creeks or rivers are also often used directly as toilets for
children and adults alike, while small children often defecate in the streets
or pathways.
1.27      The health authorities recognize the risk that continued neglect of
squatter communities poses to the health of the whole urban population. Most
slums are therefore recognized as legitimate clients and targets of government
health services. Most slum-dwellers live within reasonable reach of a public
health facility. However, the impact of these clinic-based services is
reduced by the absence of an effective outreach system; and there are anyway
limits to what health services can do in the absence of other basic services
such as water supply, drainage, and exereta disposal systems.
1.28      Getting health services to slums is also complicated by the
variation in size of slum communities and their rapid rates of growth. Some
commmities may be small pockets of poverty consisting of less than 20



-8-
households squeezed within a residential, commercial, or business area, while
others may be quite large, with as many as 3,000 households. Slum communities
can sometimes grow overnight, as happened, for example, after Ute eruption of
Mt. Pinatubo. The uncontrolled growth of slum communities and the resulting
high population densities pose severe constraints to attempts to improve
living conditions. In particular, rer-crowding makes it very difficult to
put up additional service delivery facilities.
1.29      Metro-Manila comprises 4 cities and 13 municipalities with a total
199C population of 7.9 million. Overall, between 1980 and 1990 Metro-Manila
grew at an average rate of 2.9X per year as compared to a national average of
2.32 per year. But the demographic characteristics of the 17 cities and
municipalities vary widely, from Pateros with 51,000 people and a density of
4,900 per square kilometer to Manila with 1.6 million and a density of 41,400.
Between 1980 and 1990, the peri-urban municipalities of Las Pinas, Muntinlupa,
Taguig, Kaloocan and Valenzuela grew at an average annual rate of more than
4.51, while the core city areas of Manila and San Juan actually decreased in
size (see Map No.1). The proportion of the population living in slum
conditions ranges from 30X to 701, with the slums in many of the poorest,
peri-urban municipalities experiencing the fastest growth. These
municipalities lag far behind the others in the services and resources they
can make available to the poor.
1.30      Metro-Cebu, which includes the cities of Cebu, Mandaue and
Lapulapu, is the second largest urban area of the Philippines. Its population
is nearly 1 million, of whom 531 are slum-dwellers. Although the average
population density of Metro-Cebu is much less than Metro-Manila, just nine per
cent of the total area, including slums in the older parts of Cebu City and
along the waterfront, contain half of the city's 80 barangays and over two
thirds of the total population. The cities of Mandaue and Lapulapu also have
substantial slums.
1.31      Cagayan de Oro is a much smaller but rapidly growing city in the
Mindanao region; its population has been swollen by a large influx of
displaced people. The city Government has very limited resources to address
the problems of slum-dwellers, who number about 100,000 or 301 of the
population of 340,000.
1.32      Health and Nutrition Status and Trends.  The main causes of death
in urban as in rural areas continue to be infectious and preventable diseases,
especially pneumonias and diarrheas (often compounded by malnutrition) among
young children, and TB and heart disease among adults. Maternal mortality is
a concern, around 80 to 90 per 100,000 live births nationally and probably
more in the slums. One study of 78 hospitals showed that a quarter of
maternal deaths were related to induced abortion. As in other countries, high
child death rates from infectious disease are strongly correlated with low
educational levels among mothers; and also with poor environmental sanitation-
-both particular problems in 3lum areas.
1.33      Changes in the infant mortality rate (IMN) are a useful indicator
of health conditions overall. In the early 1970s, the Philippines had an IMN
of about 64 per thousand live births, comparable to that of China or Thailand.



-9-
But between 1970 and 1990 the decline in INR in the Philippines was the lowest
of all the major Asian countries, reflecting the country's uneven commitment
to and success with economic development and anti-poverty programs. There is
controversy about recent levels of IMR, In 1990 it was probably in the region
of 60 nationally (as against 31-32 in Thailand and China). In Metro-Manila it
was probably about 50--a metropolis-wide average which hides higher rates in
slum areas; however there has been no survey of infant mortality in the slums.
Since urban mortality data do not distinguish between the slums and better off
urban areas, the overall decrease in death rates reported in the urban areas
during the 1980s is somewhat misleading. There is some evidence that,
nationally, death rates have declined slightly for the non-poor and risen for
the poor, suggesting worsening conditions in the slums.
1.34      Child disease patterns and causes of death in the slums are typical
of the early stages of the epidemiological transition. High incidence of
measles, diarrheas and respiratory infections reflect both poor environmental
conditions and the inadequacy of health outreach services. However, in a
pattern becoming common in slum areas throughout Asia, a large proportion of
all deaths is now caused by chronic, degenerative diseases more typical of a
late stage in the epidemiological transition. Cardio-vascular diseases,
injuries, cancers, and asthmas are among the ten leading causes of morbidity
and mortality for adults; they are attributable to a mixture of sedentary
life-styles, poor nutrition, widespread smoking, high levels of air and water
pollution, and the stress of coping with precarious livelihoods in the slums.
Over-crowding also leads to a very high prevalence of TB--more than three
times the national average in the denser slums.
1.35      Fertility levels in the slums are high; though no special survey
has been done in slum areas, the total fertility rate is probably around four.
This has led to a high dependency ratio; 45% of slum-dwellers are under 15.
Contraceptive prevalence is low, with probably no more than 201 of women of
reproductive age using modern methods. It is estimated that about a third of
reproductive age women have an unmet need for contraception, which helps to
explain the high levels of illegal abortion (para 1.32). Child-bearing begins
young; one 1991 survey in Quezon City found that over half of women slum-
dwellers had their first child by the age of 21, and one fifth before they
were 18. Pregnancies during adolescence and pregnancies which are too closely
spaced increase the number of complications and emergencies associated with
pregnancy and delivery, as well as leading to gradual maternal depletion.
Pregnancy and childbirth are the leading cause of hospitalization in the
project cities.
1.36      As with health data, urban nutrition data are aggregates which tend
to hide the malnutrition problem among the poor. Nevertheless, it is clear
that iron-deficiency anaemia is highly prevalent in urban as well as rural
areas, affecting almost half of all pregnant and lactating women, over a third
of children under six, and half to two thirds of all infants. Vitamin A
deficiency is much less widespread, but still a significant problem. Clinical
Vitamin A deficiency (Bitot's spots) affected just under one per cent of
children in Metro-Manila in 1987, and sub-clinical deficiency 1.6%. But a
survey of two particularly depressed barangays in Navotas, Nanila found rates
in 1987 that were five times the city average.



- 10
1.37      Severe protein-energy malnutrition (PEM) has declined from 2X in
1982 and 1987 to 1.4X nationally and to less than one per cent in the NCR in
1989/90--the latest survey. This declining trend has probably been paralleled
in the urban slums, despite a temporary rise during the economic dislocations
of the 19q09, which particularly affected the urban poor. Severe PEN is no
longer a major public health problem in the urban slums in general--especially
since the Philippines reference standard tends to overestimate levels of
severe malnutrition compared to the internationally accepted NCHS standard.
Nevertheless, a study in the Navotas area of Metro-Manila indicated severe
malnutrition levels of 2-31, a figure which may be more representative of the
situation in particularly depressed slum areas.
1.38      But moderate malnutrition--which recent research has shown to have
significant adverse effects on both children's susceptibility to illness and
on their learning ability in school--remains a serious public health problem
throughout the slums. The 1989/90 survey showed moderate malnutrition rates
(less than 75Z of standard weight for age) of 10.81 in the NCR, as against
14.41 nationally. But the Navotas survey found rates of 16-18% in two
depressed barangays. The only other large scale data set available is the
service statistics from an annual growth monitoring program called Operation
Timbang. These are poor in quality, but tend to confirm that moderate
malnutrition in the slums remains as bad as or worse than in rural areas, and
very variable from slum to slum. However, in the case of moderate
malnutrition, the Philippines standards Yu derestimate the extent of the
problem as compared to the NCHS standards; NCHS standards would more than
double the prevalence of this form of malnutrition. It can therefore safely
be said that moderate malnutrition affects at least a third of under six
children in the slums in general, and well over 401 of children in the worst
off slums.
1.39      When the child malnutrition data are disaggregated by age, they
show that the problem is quite heavily concentrated in children under two.
This is a common developing country pattern, and one which suggests that the
causes of malnutrition are less food insecurity than behavioral and maternal
and child health factors. This peaking of malnutrition in the under twos is
partly the consequence of poor weaning practices; partly due to the upsurge in
disease as children begin to take food other than breastmilk; partly the
legacy of poor maternal nutrition. Nationally, 181 of births are of low birth
weight children, indicating a serious PEM problem among women of reproductive
age, in addition to the high prevalence of anaemia from which they suffer.
The high percentage of low birth weight babies also reflects the high
percentage of babies delivered to adolescent mothers, and cumulative maternal
depletion from close spacing of pregnancies (para 1.35).
1.40      Further information on the demographic and epidemiological
characteristics of the target cities is given in Annex 1.
1.41      Service Structure in the Project Area. Health services are managed
out of City and Municipal Health Offices (CHOs and MHOs) reporting to the
mayor and council of the local government. The organizational structure for
health service management varies significantly between cities and
municipalities. Annex 2 illustrates, for comparative purposes, the health



- 11 -
organizational structures of Quezon and Kalookan cities, and of the MHOs of
Taguig and Pasig. In the cities, hospitals are self-managed and not
administratively integrated with the CHOs as they are in the rural areas. In
Metro-Manila, four District Health Offices (DHOs) provide support and guidance
to the 13 MHOs, and are in turn supported by the National Capital Regional
Health Office. In Cebu and Cagayan de Oro, Regional Health Offices support
the CHOs and NHOs directly.
1.42      In both cities and municipalities, primary and secondary services
are delivered through a network of Health Centers, Lying-In Clinics and Social
Hygiene Clinics. Health Centers serve around 30,000 people, but this average
varies widely. A typical Health Center is staffed by physicians, nurses
and/or midwives; some also have dentists and microscopists (usually a medical
technologist). The ratios of health staff to client population vary widely
from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. The Health Centers provide a broad range
of health services, including maternal and child health services, family
planning, clinical consultation, health education and counselling,
immunization, disease surveillance, and nutrition services, among others.
1.43      Lying-in Clinics are designed to provide basic maternity care.
However, they have a low capacity to deal with complications of pregnancy,
hence the level of self-referrals to hospitals is high. Social Hygiene
Clinics provide diagnosis and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases;
because of the social stigma attached to these clinics, their clients are
almost exclusively commercial sex workers. Below the Health Center, BHWs and
Barangay Nutrition Scholars (BNS) assist with community mobilization and
health and nutrition education, and take turns in helping at the Health
Center. BNS are paid an honorarium of about P300 (US$12) per month. Cebu
City is unusual in paying its BHWs P500 (US$20) per month; most jurisdictions
provide no financial incentives to their BHWs.
1.44      Program Funding.  Health expenditures vary greatly between cities
and municipalities, for three reasons. First, prior to devolution chartered
cities received less support from the central government than did urban
municipalities. The distribution of funds after devolution will reverse this
pattern, with the cities benefitting disproportionately from central funding.
The result will be that peri-urban municipalities with large and fast growing
slum populations will receive proportionately less per slum-dweller than the
cities, making it even harder than it has been in the past for them to provide
even basic health and nutrition services to the influx of population.
1.45      Second, health expenditures also vary depending on local revenue-
raising capacities. For example, total locally raised revenues will be about
P723 (US$29) per head in 1993 in Manila as compared to P495 (US$20) per head
in Cebu--reflecting the different resource endowments of the two cities.
Finally, low health expenditures in some jurisdictions are not just the
product of local resource constraints and low support from the center, but are
also due to relatively low priority for health care on the part of local
government. For example, health expenditures as a percentage of total
revenues vary from 8.31 and 6.51 in Manila and Quezon Cities to 2.91 and 1.31
in Cagayan de Oro and Mandaue. Thus, for a combination of these four reasons,
per capita health expenditures vary from P86 (US$3.4) and P60 (US$2.4) per



- 12 -
head in Manila and Quezon cities, to P24 (US$0.9) and P9 (US$0.4) per head in
Cagayan de Oro and Mandaue. Annex 3 contains tables illustrating each of
these dimensions of health spending for the project cities and municipalities.
1.46      In sunmmary, it can be said that many low spending municipalities
could do more for health by bringing their spending as a percentage of
revenues in line with other jurisdictions. But this would be a still
inadequate response to their requirements for additional slum health and
nutrition services, which, at least in the medium term, can only be met by
greater support from central government than their entitlement under the Local
Goverment Code. Given that the growth in their slum populations is mainly
due to in-migration, and is therefore not essentially a local problem, such
external support appears to be justified.
F. The Role of Foreign Assistance
1.47      The Bank's Role. The Bank Group's involvement in the Philippines
health sector began with two Population Projects (Ln. 1035-PH and Cr. 923-PH)
in the 1970s. The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR 5544) for the first
project noted that the increase in quantity and quality of the mid-wife cadre-
-the main project intervention--had proved a sustainable investment and
facilitated the decentralization of PHC services begun under the Second
Population Project. The PPAR (No. 9380) for the second project, which began
in 1979 and ended in 1988, criticized the Bank for acquiescing in a number of
changes in the original design, which led to a greater emphasis on building
PHC infrastructure during implementation than on improving family planning--
the main aim of the project. Both Population Projects suffered from
disbursement lags due to cumbersome government financial procedures for
budgeting, accounting and funds release.
1.48      The Bank has a long history of involvement with slum communities in
the Philippines dating back to the 1970s. The Manila Urban Development
Project (Loan 1272-PH/1282-PH) was approved in 1976, followed by the Second
Urban Development Project in 1979 and the Third Urban Development Project
(Loan 1282-PH) in 1980. All three projects emphasized providing shelter and
basic services to the urban poor through the upgrading of slum areas and the
development of new sites for housing construction. The first and third
projects focused on Metro Manila while the second combined investments in the
capital with expansion of the shelter program to three regional cities.
Implementation was carried out through national government agencies with the
National Housing Authority (NHA) taking the lead.
1.49      While all three projects achieved successful physical results,
doubts have been raised on the sustainability of this approach. First, poor
cost recovery called into question NHA's ability to replicate the sites and
services and slum upgrading operations on a broad scale. Second, completed
facilities were not adequately maintained because responsible agencies, such
as the local governments, were not directly involved in the execution of the
project. Third, these projects involving multiple objectives and sectoral
institutions proved to be extremely complex to implement. Subsequently, the
Bank moved to a clear sectoral focus, addressing the overall needs of the
housing sector through a Housing Sector Loan (Loan 2974-PH) and providing



- 13 -
local governments the option of carrying out slum upgrading under the First
and Second Municipal Development Projects (Loans 2435-PH and 3146-PH). When
offered the choice, local governments have opted to utilize their share of
loan proceeds for income-producing investments (such as public markets), as
these iLvestments are expected to result in clearly defined revenues to offset
the debt service requirements. Borrowing for social services, including
health and education, for slum communities has had little priority.
1.50      The Philippines Health Development Project (Ln. 3099, for
US$70.1m), became effective in 1990. It has four main components, each on a
national scale: a) expansion and improvement of the malaria, schistosomiasis,
TB and MCH programs; b) institutional strengthening of DOH through
improvements in information systems, planning and budgeting procedures,
communications, training and evaluation mechanisms; c) establishment of a
program of grants for organizing and implementing partnerships for community
health projects between DOH, local governments and NGOs; and d) establishment
of a national health policy committee and secretariat within DOH. This
project has introduced a number of new activities on which the proposed urban
project will build. These include the scaling up of DOH's acute respiratory
infection control program; the development of new case-finding techniques for
TB control; the pioneering of new area and risk based targeting methods for
health interventions, coupled with health information systems which help to
track high risk clients; new training and communications technologies for
health workers, such as the use of desk-top video; and the pioneering of
community/government/NGO health partnerships.
1.51      While the Health Development Project has suffered from some delays
in funds releases, these have been less than other projects in the Philippines
portfolio, and disbursements are slightly ahead of forecast. The last
supervision mission rated it as having moderate problems, and being likely to
achieve its development objectives. One reason for relatively smooth
implementation of this project so far is a high degree of understanding of and
commitment to project goals and implementation on the part of Goverrnent,
which stems from the participative process of workshops involving major stake-
holders which was used during project preparation.
1.52      The Bank's first sector work in health and family planning began in
1990, following a Government request for technical assistance for the family
planning program.  The mission's findings were expanded into a major sector
report, New Directions in the Philippines Family Planning Prog;am (October
1991), which was well received by DOH. The report reviewed the history of the
population program, analyzed its likely health impact, recommended ways to
strengthen it, and argued for additional funding. The report provided an
analytic base for the Government's adoption of a health rationale for family
planning, noting that, even if family planning were limited to women at
highest health risk (i.e. those under 20, over 35, with four or more children,
and those within 15 months of the last birth), this could lead to a 25X
decline in infant mortality. It also concluded that family planning efforts
focussed primarily on such clients could have a significant impact on
fertility. The Government proposes to base expansion of the family planning
program on the rationale and strategies set out in the report.



- 14 -
1.53      The Bank is currently completing a sector report on the management
of risk during the rapid adaptation to a heavily devolved system of public
health. This report will assist the DOH and local goverrments in management
of health programs so as to sustain health status and program performance
during the early years of the devolved system.
1.54      The Government has approached the Bank for support for a first
Women' s Health and Safe Motherhood Project beginning in 1995. This project
would support implementation of the Government's new policy of greater
priority for women's health and especially for family planning (para 1.10).
DOH has already established a National Task Force on Women's Health and a
strong Philippines Family Planning Program Steering Committee, which will help
to build national consensus in these areas and oversee project preparation.
It is anticipated that this project would focus on the creation of demand for
and delivery of services for family planning, pre- and post-natal care, safe
births, and control of sexually transmitted diseases, on a national basis.
The Government also plans a Child Development Project in about 1996, which,
among other things, would help to develop and implement the DOH's
Comprehensive Nutrition Program (para 1.12).
1.55      The proposed project would build upon the lessons learned to date.
First, the project is focused on health Improvements, one of the main benefits
of slum upgrading, with the Department of Health as the technical agency,
avoiding multiple objectives and project complexity. Second, the local
governments and NGOs are being brought into project preparation and
implementation so that there would be continued support to the slum
commuities after the project is completed. Third, the project will
strengthen the capacity of the city and municipal health departments to ensure
that momentum built up under the project will be sustained.
1.56      The Role of Other Donors. The main foreign-assisted urban health
and nutrition project is the UNICEF-financed Urban Basic Services Program
(UBSP). This began as a demonstration project in 1983, and from 1994-98 will
move into the cities and municipalities targeted by the proposed IDA project.
UBSP has a strong community empowerment focus. It has two main components:
direct services, including maternal and child health care, nutrition and
control of sexually transmitted diseases; and support services, including pre-
school care, adult literacy classes, parenting skills for adolescent girls,
and support services for street children. The first of these components is
similar to the service delivery component of the proposed IDA-assisted
project; however, the UNICEF funds available--US$4.65m for the period 1994-98
for more than 25 cities--are insufficient to meet the needs of the cities
targeted for UWNP.
1.57      A smaller health project funded by the Italian government is being
implemented in the UHNP cities of Manila, Quezon and Kalookan. US$320,000
budgeted for the two years of the project left to run will be spent on
institutional development of the city health offices; training of health
personnel and BHWs; and organization of primary health care committees.
Further details of both UBSP and the Italian Institutional Support Project are
given in Annex 4.



- 15 -
G.  Rationale for bank Graet  Involvement in the Prokosed Prolect
1.58      The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for the Philippines revolves
around five themes: (a) maintaining the stabilization program; (b) deepening
the structural adjustment program; (c) deepening the sectoral reform programs;
(d) alleviating poverty; and (e) obtaining greater effectiveness in utilizing
existing aid commitments. The proposed project, which is aimed at improving
the health and nutrition status of slum-dwellers, among the most disadvantaged
people in the Philippines, is a core element of sections (c) and (d) strategy.
1.59      Within that framework, there are four specific rationales for the
proposed project. The first is that the project would finance preventive
health and nutrition activities which the Government and foreign assistance
agencies (other than the Bank) are not financing in the current period of
extreme budgetary stringency. As noted above (para 1.15), the urban slums
have had an inequitable share of imvestment in health infrastructure. With
continuing growth of the slums, there is every prospect that poverty and ill-
health will increase in these areas unless this inequity can be corrected
through additional investment. Similarly, without the proposed project, the
Government will not bave the resources to finance the relatively expensive
interventions required to deal with malnutrition. The Bank ie the only source
of assistance with adequate resources for such a project.
1.60      Targeting resources as efficiently as possible becomes even more
important during periods of fiscal stringency. The second specific rationale
for the proposed project is tha: it will improve the resource targeting
systems in use in the health sector, including the introduction of a) new
technologies for area-based targeting, based on the use of Geographic
Information Systems; and b) the development and application of the concept of
reproductive cycle targeting, in which health and nutrition interventions, and
scarce worker time, are concentrated on women and children at the most
vulnerable points in the reproductive cycle.  Efforts under the project to
target nutrition interventions tightly on those most in need could also form
an important safety-net for the very poor if, as is currently under
discussion, the Government decides to scale back food subsidies financed by
the National Food Authority. Evidence from other countries suggests that
targeted nutrition programs of the type to be tested under the proposed
project can have a greater impact on nutrition outcomes than generalized
subsidies which cost many times as much.
1.61      The proposed project will also be the first to be implemented in
the social sectors after enactment of the Local Government Code. Bank Group
support at this time will assist both central and local government to address
the redesign of health service management systems required by devolution.
Also, foreign assistance resources will be among the limited financial
resources left under the control of the central DOH after devolution, and it
will be essential for such resources to be used to maximum effect to a)
redress inequities which will arise for those local governments whose own-
plus-devolved resources do not match the scale of their slum health and
nutrition problems; and b) to catalyze additional spending on slum health by
local governments, through the provision of matching grants. The third



- 16 -
specific rationale for the proposed project is that it provides a timely
vehicle for the Bank to assist the Government both financially and
intellectually in implementing devolution in ways which will have the most
positive impact on the poor.
1.62      Finally, preparation of the proposed project is 11elping to lay the
foundations for implementation of improved targeting methods and devolved
service delivery on a national scale in later projects. Most immediately,
this would be in the Government's proposed Women's Health and Safe Motherhood
Project in 1995; and then in the proposed Child Development Project,
tentatively planned for 1996. Preparatory studies for the Women's Health
Project have already been carried out (para 1.52). During negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that by December 31, 1994 a study on pre-school
child development in the Philippines would have been carried out under terms
of reference satisfactory to IDA.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Goals and Objectives
2.1       The project would have four broad, qualitative goals in the areas
of health and nutrition impact, institutional development, commnity self-
reliance, and policy and research, as follows:
(a) to improve the health and nutrition status of slum-
dwellers in the project cities;
(b) to build the capacity of city and municipal governments
to plan, finance and implement cost-effective slum health
and nutrition programs, in partnership with communities,
NGOs and the DOH;
(c) to help slum communities to identify their own health,
nutrition and environmental problems and participate in
planning, implementing and monitoring appropriate
interventions; and
(d) to help DOH develop policies and strategies which would
improve the outreach and cost-effectiveness of health and
nutrition delivery systems.
2.2       Annex 5 contains a detailed set of specific objectives agreed with
DOH during project preparation, related to each major project intervention.
The annex notes in each case whether the objective is a process, intermediate
outcome, or impact one, depending on what is mosr appropriate and feasible to
measure; and whether progress toward the objective would be measured through
the collection of service statistics and reports, or through intermittent
sample surveys. Of these objectives, progress towards six would be monitored
on a priority basis in the early years of the project, because they focus on



- 17 -
critical areas and because measurable change can be expected with4n 2-3 years
of implementation if the project strategy proceeds as planned. These would
be:
(a) registrntion of 90X of pregnant women for comselling and
services by the end of the first trimester of pregnancy;
(b) distribution of iron tablets against anaemia to 100l of
registered pregnant women throughout at least the last
four months of pregnancy;
(c) availability of a full range of family planning services
at project area health facilities;
(d) growth monitoring of 90X of children in at least nine out
of their twelve first months of life, with related
nutrition counselling for mothers,
(e) reduction by 251 in the incidence of pneumonias (acute
lower respiratory infections) in the 0-2 year old
population;
(f) a short course chemotherapy compliance/completion rate of
80% for sputum-positive TB cases.
B. Geographic Scope-
2.3       The scope of the project was defined in two stages.  First, the
project cities were chosen: Metro-Manila and Metro-Cebu as the Philippines'
two largest urban areas, containing the country's largest slum populations;
and Cagayan de Oro because of the rapid rate at which its urban problems are
compounding, and the local government's very limited resources for dealing
with them. The situation of Cagayan de Oro provides an opportunity to address
slum health problems before they reach the extreme levels found in the two
major metropolitan areas. Taken together, the project cities contain over 70X
of the slum population of the country.
2.4       In a second stage of geographic targeting, within the target cities
project-financed outreach services would focus on disadvantaged groups living
in slums, so as to make most equitable use of project resources. This target
population was identified by extensive ocular surveys during preparation,
covered 401 of the target cities, which made it possible in these areas to
identify the geographic locations of slums, their population size, and the
type of slum settlement. Identifying these groups on a geographic basis was
felt to be more appropriate than adopting an income criterion for targeting,
since incomes are difficult to establish, and income by itself does not
capture the full range of factors defining poverty, which relates also to
environmental conditions and access to services. Annex 6 details the field
survey methodology used, and the typology of slum communities which emerged.
2.5       The findings of these surveys were used to estimate the numbers of
slum-dwellers in the rest of the target cities. These estimates will be



- 18 -
refined through further surveys to be undertaken before project effectiveness.
Based on the estimates available at the time of appraisal, the target
population of the project would be just over four million in Metro-Manila,
just over 500,000 in Metro-Cebu, and just over 100,000 in Cagayan de Oro.  The
project would therefore benefit about 4.6 million slum-dwellers out of a total
urban population in the three cities of about 9.2 million. Annex 1 gives
breakdowns of the current target populations by city and municipality, and a
forecast of the projected populations over the life of the proposed project.
C. stata
2.6       The project would adopt four main strategies to achieve the above
goals:
a)   increase resource flows for primary health and nutrition
services in the slums and target these resources more
tightly on priority interventions and clients;
b)   use training, technical assistance and selective
financial support to strengthen the capacity of city and
municipal health offices in their new role after
devolution to plan, manage, finance and improve the
quality of slum health and nutrition services;
c)  build on the experience of existing projects and
programs, including the on-going Health Development
Project, with mobilizing communities through the
development of community health partnerships with local
governments and NGOs; and
d)   finance research to test alternative strategies for
service delivery in urban slum areas.
2.7       Incre&sing and targeting exRenditures.  Project funds would be used
to improve the ratio of health facilities and health staff to slum
populations, and to support incremental recurrent expenditures targeted (i) on
the highest priority interventions, (ii) on the areas and people at greatest
health risk, and (iii) on the points in the reproductive cycle when women and
children are most vulnerable to death, disease or malnutrition. This
prioritizing and targeting would be carried out as follows.
2.8       Scarce worker time and recurrent budgets would be concentrated on a
limited number of 2riority interventions aimed at the most important diseases
and hazards in the slums, and chosen on the basis of their cost-effectiveness.
They include anto-natal and post-natal care; safe birth practices; family
planning; immunization; control of diarrhea, acute respiratory infection, TB
and sexually transmitted disease; prophylaxis against micro-nutrient
deficiencies; growth monitoring, counselling and supplementation to prevent
and treat PEM among pregnant women and young children; and control of
onvironmental hazards such as refuse and excreta in streets and water sources.



- 19 -
2.9       Geographic Information System technology would be used to identify
the flum areas at b natest health risk, a task on which a start has already
been made under the Health Development Project. This technology allows
different data sets for demography, epidemiology and environmental health risk
to be transposed from table to geographic map form and overlaid on each other,
so as to identify high risk areas with population groups where several risk
factors combine. Project resources for health infrastructure strengthening
would be targeted on these areas as first priority, so as to maximize
efficiency and equity. In aduition, several of the priority health
interventions would be targeted on an area basis, especially those for TB
(particularly prevalent in high population density areas) and sexually
transmitted diseases (particularly prevalent in red light areas).
2.10      The majority of MCH interventions under the project would be
targeted on pregnant and lactating women and young children during their most
vulnerable periods in the reproductive cycle. Following this reproductive
cycle targeting, which is new to the Philippines, the project would aim to
focus outreach services on picking up mothers for registration within their
first trimester of pregnancy and following them and their children, with
appropriate counselling and Interventions, through the child's fifth year.
Annex 7 gives details of the specific interventions and the points at which
they would be made available during the reproductive cycle. This approach
would increase service efficiency and equity by concentrating scarce worker
time on high risk clients at the most vulnerable periods in their lives. It
would also help to build a continuing relationship between client and service
provider which would do more to build clients' capacity for self and family
care than is possible through the current approach of unsystematic service
encounters.
2.11     Health and clinical family planning services for non-pregnant
reproductive age women would be made available on a self-referral or self-
targgting basis at local health centers, whose capacity would be strengthened
under the project. These health centers would provide a small number of
project interventions, such as those for the clinical contraceptive methods
and sexually transmitted diseases, which cannot be delivered on an outreach
basis. Clients needing these interventions would be counselled by outreach
workers about the services available to them at the nearest health facility.
2.12      Strengthening management and financing capacity in the cities.
Success of the above efforts will depend on whether the city and municipal
governments which will control plans and budgets following devolution will
have a) the managerial capacity, b) the political commitment and c) the funds
to run effective slum health services. The strategy would be to use project
resources to build a new relationship between DOH and local governments in
which DOH would move from a controlling role to a support and assistance role.
Through DOH, the project would strengthen managerial capacity at the local
level. The proposed interventions are detailed in the description of the
Institutional Development component (paras 2.24-2.36).
2.13      But local governments must have the will as well as the ability to
allocate resources to deal with the health and nutrition problems of the poor.
one risk is that some local governments will give low priority in their



- 20 -
budgets to health, or will allocate health resources more to curative hospital
care than to public health interventions. The project strategy to build
political commitment in this area would be to increase demand from communities
for better services, and to offer matching grants from the central DOH as an
incentive for local governments to make appropriate allocations of their own
resources. Finally, as noted in para 1.16, some local government
jurisdictions with high population densities or rapid in-migration will not
benefit from the Local Government Code's devolution of funds formula in
proportion to their numbers of poor clients. The project strategy would
therefore be to allocate project centrgl funds, whose distribution would
remain at the discretion of DOH, not only to match local contributions, but so
as to redress such inequities.
2.14      Building community involvement and self-reliance would be an
important project objective for several reasons. Building community awareness
of health, nutrition and environmental problems would be the first step in
increasing demand for services; and building community organizations able to
act as effective advocacy groups would help ensure that local governments
allocate enough resources to the slums. Second, actively involved communities
can help identify and prioritize local problems; can ensure that the design of
services meets their needs; can take an active part in service delivery and
education, extending the effectiveness of health workers; and can help monitor
service quality. Third, building community capacity and self-reliance is a
development goal in itself, and would be essential for sustaining program
services and benefits after the end of the proposed project.
2.15      The project strategy  for building community involvement and self-
reliance would have three thrusts. First, the project would support the
Government's strategy of using community health volunteers as partners of paid
service providers in the provision of IEC and some basic services.  This would
involve increasing the number of active community workers to the Government's
target ratio of one for every 50 slum households, the provision of basic
equipment and supplies, and their training and support by local health center
staff or NGOs. In view of the uncertainties surrounding the workload which
volunteers can effectively undertake (para 1.19), a functional task analysis
of mid-wife and BHW tasks would be undertaken during the first half of the
project under the policy research component (para 2.44).
2.16      Second, the project would further develop and extend to the urban
slums the concept of community health partnerships between community groups,
local governments and NGOs which is being successfully pioneered in the Health
Development Project. In this concept, communities are shown how to assess
their own health, nutrition and environmental status. plan interventions
jointly with government and non-government sectors, take part in
implementation, and monitor progress. Geographic Information System
technology would be used in this process as a communication device to inform
communities about their health and environmental risks and mobilize their
involvement. Details of this approach are given in the description of the
Community Health Partnership component (paras 2.37-2.41).
2.17      Third, funds would also be available under the Community Health
Partnership component to extend and test on a larger scale in each city the



- 21 -
concept of 'community trust groups' developed under the UNICEF-assisted Urban
Basic Services Project (para 1.56). These volunteer groups of women, with
minimal financial support from government or an NGO, assist working mothers by
providing day care services and child development activities in the home of a
group member. A similar approach is being financed by the Bank in Colombia
under the Community Child Care and Nutrition Project (Report No. 8028-CO,
1990).
2.18      Operations research.  The most cost-effective strategies for
reaching slum communities are unclear in the case of several interventions.
particularly environmental health, nutrition, and some women's health
interventions. In these areas, detailed under the Policy Research component
(paras 2.42-2.49), the project strategy would be to support operations
research to test alternative service delivery strategies. By the time of the
proposed project midterm review, there should be sufficient experience for the
Government to determine whether they have implications for changes in health
policies or strategies, and which approaches would be worth financing on a
larger scale during the second half of the project.
2.19      Links with GOP/Bank human and urban development strategies.  The
proposed project strategy directly supports the aims of the GOP Medium Term
Plan to meet the population's basic needs and target the most disadvantaged.
The participative approach proposed under the Community Partnership component
would also support the Plan's community empowerment thrust.  The proposed
project would also directly support the Bank's country strategy objectives of
assisting in poverty alleviation, human resource development and family
planning; and the Bank's two related priorities of using processes which
foster community and NGO participation, and of promoting the role of women in
development. In the absence of clearly defined urban health development
strategies, the project would a) support the creation of a new Urban Health
Technical Service within DOH, responsible for defining urban health policies
and programs; and b) test out slum health improvement strategies which might
be replicable outside the project area.
D. Pro1ect Description
Comnonent One: Service Delivery (USS51.6 million)
2.20      The project would aim to increase the range and outreach of key
services, tighten their targeting on priority clients, and improve their
quality. Project strategies to improve targeting were described in the
previous section. Project interventions to improve service quality through
training, monitoring and managerial improvements are described under the
Institutional Development component. The service delivery component would
focus on increasing the range and outreach of service interventions as
follows.
2.21      The priority interventions to be delivered under this component
were summarized in para 2.8. Targets and indicators for each intervention are
given in Annex 5. For most of these interventions, the technical approaches
are already well established in the national health program, and existing
protocols would be followed. But in the case of protein energy malnutrition



- 22 -
interventions, alternative approaches to service delivery would be tested
under the Policy Research component (see para 2.46), and then implemented
project-wide under the Service Delivery component after the midterm review.
Certain women's health interventions, such as those for sexually transmitted
disease screening and treatment and selected cervical and breast cancer
screening, would also initially be implemented on an operations research
basis.
2.22      Service delivery would follow the existing structure of clinic
facilities and outreach arrangements; however, additional facilities and staff
would be provided to fill gaps in the network as described below. The service
delivery component would finance in each of the three cities:
(a) Salaries of additional doctors, dentists, public health nurses,
public health midwives, medical technicians, nutritionists and
sanitary inspectors. Annex 8 shows the estimated numbers and costs
of additional workers to be financed under the project;
(b) construction and equipping of about 55 new Health Centers,
Health Stations and Lying-in Maternity Clinics; replanning and
upgrading of about 57 existing clinical facilities of the above
types in under-serviced areas; the cost of building maintenance for
these facilities; and the cost of consultant services for
preparation of plans, specifications and estimates, contract
documents, and for construction supervision. Annex 9 gives details
on the guidelines for facility development. A more detailed
description of this component is available in the implementation
volume. This accompanying project implementation volume contains a
detailed list of the facilities included in the project by
location, type of equipment improvement, schematic drawings, and
costing criteria. The Memoranda of Agreement (para 4.12) to be
signed with Local Government Units would stipulate that facilities
to be constructed should be on land already owned by the
Government; that agreeJd criteria would be followed to ensure that
facilities to be built or upgraded would be accessible to project
beneficiaries; and that staff and budget should be earmarked by the
local government unit (LOU) for building maintenance;
(c) procurement and distrLbution of equipment and materials for
out-patient consultation, referral services and the management and
monitoring of service performance at the above types of facility in
the project area, together with equipment and materials for
outreach services. Equipment and materials lists and costs for a
typical newly established facility and outreach service of each
type are given in Annex 10. In existing facilities and community
health services, the project would finance replacement of missing
or unserviceable equipment and materials, as determined by the
baseline equipment survey;
(d) procurement and distribution of contraceptives, of drugs and
related supplies for the project health interventions, and of
vitamin and mineral supplements for the project micro-nutrient



- 23 -
interventions for target clients. Annex 10 gives the contraceptive
mix on which initial budgetw were based; this will be revised in
the light of implementation experience. Annex 10 details the main
types of drugs and food and micro-nutrient supplements to be
procured under the project; and
(e) procurement and distribution of a new, cereal-based calorie
supplement for (L) an estimated 30X of pregnant women at risk of
having a low birth weight baby, and (ii) an estimated 30X of 6-24
month old children whose growth is faltering or who are severely or
moderately malnourished, defined according to the NCHS reference
standard.
Component Two: Institutional Development (USS14.5 million}
2.23     This component would support improvements in the capacity of the 21
city and municipal health departments to plan, manage, finance, implement and
evaluate their public health programs. In indirect support of this objectlve,
the component would also strengthen the capaclty of the central, regional and
district levels of DOH to provide technical assistance, training,
communications and logistical support to these units. The main items to be
financed would include construction, restoration and equipping of
administrative and training facillties, communications and information
hardware and software, equipment, vehicles for field units, plannlng seminars,
staff training, technical assistance, project staff on contract, materials and
incremental operating costs. Activitles in six areas would be supported as
follows.
2.24     Management Systems Imorovement.  The project would strengthen
management of the three Regional and four District DOH Health Offices and the
21 clty and municipal health offices covered by the project by developing,
testing and implementing admInistrative systems for: (i) personnel, (ii)
budgeting and financial management, (iii) facilities and equipment inventory
and maintenance, (iv) logistics and procurement, (v) accounting and (vi)
health information systems. In each of these areas, new procedures, systems
and manuals will be required to implement the increased responsibilities given
to local government units after devolution. Technical assistance would be
provided for organizational and systems analysis, systems development,
training and implementation. Particular attention would be paid to modifying
the health information system consistent with the reproductive cycle and other
targeting strategies outlined in paras 2.7-2.11, and to institutionalizing the
CIS community health risk assessment and monitoring system (para 2.9) in each
health office.
2.25     Technlial assistance would also be provided to improve the overall
management information system, including LiformatLon for all six management
sub-systems referred to above. To improve the sharing of information within
and among the DOH, city and municipal health departments, NGOs and the
communities, the project would support the establisbment of a metropolitan
wide information network for communLeation and management linking all partles
involved ln the proposed project. The system would lnclude the use of word
processing, spreadsheet, data-based  gement, project management, CIS,



- 24 -
presentation and communication software. Where telephone modem links are
inadequate, packet radio-computer networking would be used; this technology
combines two-way radios and computers, allowing error-free exchange of printed
data. The system would be capable of communicating field heslth risk and
epidemiological surveillance data, health information system (HIS) and
management information system (MIS) data, and financial management
information, including budget, procurement and expenditure data. The network
would permit horizontal communication and rapid aggregation and analysis of
data. And it would help DOH to communicate policy, research, technical, and
educational information requiring frequent and timely dissemination.
2.26      The project would strengthen these information systems through the
acquisition and installation of about 70 microcomputers, communication and
networking equipment, software and supplies. These computers would be
installed in the various city and municipal units and linked with the DOH
HIS/MIS through the network system. Technical assistance would be provided in
the initial years of implementation including customizing local systems,
networking, production of manuals and HIS/MIS forms and staff training.
2.27      Plannin; and Evaluation.  Each city and municipality included in
the project would be required to develop an annual area-specific strategic
plan for targeting services to the poor communities, following the area-based
planning process developed prior to devolution and supported under the on-
going Health Development Project. The project would provide technical
assistance to the local governments in the development of the plans. To
implement the planning process, a series of area specific planning seminars
would be held using the GIS community risk assessment methodology.   The
project would provide microcomputers, software, technical assistance,
training, staff and operating costs to carry out these activities.
2.28      The project would also support improvements in the local
governments' and DOH's program evaluation capabilities. Technical assistance
would be provided for the design and implementation of the proposed baseline
surveys, mid-term review and end-of-project surveys (para 4.23).
2.29      Training. The training sub-component would finance both the re-
orientation and in-service training of health managers, staff and opinion
leaders in the project area, and the introduction of new training
technologies. With regard to the former, the following types of training
would be supported by the project: (a) technical and implementation skills
training for all levels of health workers and NGOs; (b) orientation training
for political and local community leaders on their health and nutrition
situation and the programs and approaches available under the project to
address them; and (c) management training in planning, budgeting, logistics,
personnel, financial and information management, and research, monitoring and
evaluation systems. Details of the number of staff to be trained and the
course types and numbers are given in Annex 11.
2.30      With regard to new training approaches, training would, over the
span of the project, shift from traditional classroom settings to individual
and local need-based training using modern information technologies. The
project would finance the introduction of desk-top publishing in each health



- 25 -
office to produce better print materials and presentation graphics.  The
project would finance the expansion and improvement of video-based training
through (a) expanding and standardizing video equipment and formats; (b)
converting existing video and film to a standard format with duplication
capability in different formats; and (c) acquiring off-the-shelf video
training materials relevant to the Philippine situation. In addition, the
project would support the organization and development of a DOH video
production unit utilizing new low cost desktop video production techniques.
2.31     Over the life of the project, interactive multi-media technology
would be introduced, and its cost-effectiveness for the training of health
workers evaluated. The telephone and computer network capability described in
para 2.25 would initially be used to allow trainers and trainees to interact
through telewriters and interactive computers. A second stage of
experimentation would involve upgrading the installed base of IBM compatible
PC computers to a multi-media PC and videodisc capability. This would allow
the purchase and use of the rapidly increasing number of off-the-shelf health
and medical training programs, scientific journals and bibliographic data
bases available on computer disk and video disk. A later stage would be the
experimental development and evaluation of an interactive compact or laser
disk by the DOE and the introduction of self-instructional interactive
training stations in the city and district health offices.
2.32     For the above purposes, the project would finance equipment and
software, including desktop publishing, video cameras, editing and portable
players, videodiscs, systems, desktop audiovisual production and editing
units, upgrades and supplies. Technical assistance would be provided to help
develop the prototype materials, and new staff would be added, including
instructional and production designers, a layout artist, a desktop publishing
technician, video specialists, feature writers, and a computer technician.
Both the above staff and equipment would be multi-purpose, in that they would
also be used for the design, production and dissemination of communications
materials under the information, education and communication sub-component
(see below).
2.33      Information. Education and Communications (IEC2. The aims of the
IEC sub-component would be to: a) strengthen the role of the Public
Information and Health Education Service (PIHES) of the DOH as manager of IEC
activities of the DOH; b) develop and implement a strategic IEC plan
supportive of project activities; and c) institutionalize regular qualitative
monitoring and evaluation of IEC activities, to ensure that the IEC strategy
is continuously updated to meet clients' needs. A social marketing approach
would be followed, with special emphasis on qualitative research, segmentation
of the client market, and coordination of IEC activities with those of service
delivery. Institutionally, the aim would be to make best use of the
comparative advantage of government, NGO and commercial private organizations
to implement different parts of the IEC strategy, with PIHES acting as
contractor as much as implementor of sub-component activities. Further
details of the strategy to be followed are given in Annex 12.
2.34     To strengthen PIHES' capacity, the project would finance foreign
and local technical assistance and training, equipment and software, including



v 26 -
equipment and software for the development of a multi-media IEC and training
materials design and production center (see paras 2.31-32). To develop and
implement a strategic IEC plan, the project would finance a review of existing
IEC plans, skills, materials and production resources; formative research
among project clients; workshops for strategy development; materials
development for inter-personal and mass media activities; and workshops and
training for health staff at central, regional and LGU levels and for opinion
leaders in client comunities.   To develop a "learning process" approach to
IEC strategy monitoring, evaluation and refinement, the project would finance
qualitative research among different client market segments, and annual,
midterm and final IEC strategy reviews as part of the planned overall project
implementation reviews.
2.35      Administrative and Training Infrastructr.  Based on the survey of
facilities coverage and suitability carried out during project preparation,
the project would finance construction, upgrading, renovation and maintenance
of the following administrative and training facilities: a) construction of
one Regional Health cum Training Office for the NCR, including residential
accommodation for about 100 persons; and b) upgrading of eleven city and
district health offices, which would include office space, training space, and
storage space for equipment, medical and nutrition supplies.
2.36      Prgoect ManagMnt and  oordination.  The project would flnance
project management and coordination activities. Office equipment and three
microcomputers would be provided, as would two passenger vans and one sedan.
anagement skills in project coordination would be upgraded through the
provision of technical assistance, and contract staff would be hired for the
life of the project, including a project coordinator, a project monitor
analyst, four project staff assistants, a project accountant and a project
secretary (this staffing plan is subject to possible revision at negotiations
(see para 4.7)). Details of project management arrangements are given in
paras 4.8-4.11 and Annex 13.
C_pnent Three: Commtnity Partnerships for Health (USS4.9m)
2.37      This component would support community mobilization and community-
based service delivery activities aimed at improving the health and nutrition
of the urban poor. The underlying objective would be to give urban slum
communities more control over their health and nutrition status. Following
the strategy described in paras 2.14-2.17, the component would finance five
categories of activity, details of which are given in Annex 14.
2.38      First, the component would finance development of city or municipal
institutional infrastructure for community mobilization, including a)
recruitment and training of community health volunteers who would work in
partnership with the publicly operated service delivery network; b) provision
of grants for the institutional development of qualifying NGOs, to strengthen
their capacity to mobilize communities and provide health and nutrition
services in the slums; and c) the establishment and maintenance of
consultative fora and information networks involving all groups, government
and non-government, with an interest and involvement in the health of the
urban poor. These fora would be used as vehicles for orientation, advocacy,



- 27 -
training and education of the groups collaborating in community development.
In areas where the UNICEF Urban Basic Services Program has been implemented,
the structures and processes necessary for coumunity mobilization already
exist, and the project will utilize these wherever possible.
2.39      Second, the component would finance small planning grants in
support of an organized process of coammunity assessment, sub-project
identification and sub-project development focusing on urban health issues.
The area-based health planning methodology currently used by the DOH would be
the basis of this assessment and planning process, and the approach would also
build on the experience with planning grants under the on-going Health
Development Project. Third, the component would finance the implementation of
community health care initiatives by making grants to non-government
organizations, people's organizations and private sector providers to
implement sub-projects generated by the planning process. These initiatives
would include expansion of the community trust group concept described in para
2.17.
2.40      Fourth, the component would finance implementation by interested
LGUs, NGOs and communities of specified high priority interventions in the
areas of environmental sanitation, growth promotion, food and nutrition
supplementation, maternal and child health care, and child day care through
local women's groups, in particularly disadvantaged slums. These technical
packages would be developed and promoted by DOH to organized groups in the
community.
2.41      Finally, the component would finance assistance from the Central
and Regional offices of DOH for the above processes, including a) additional
staff to coordinate the program; b) technical assistance in the development
of process guidelines and in project design and preparation; c) monitoring of
sub-project grant administration by the LOU; d) sub-project evaluation for
health impact, community acceptance, and sustainability, including feedback
into DOH's and LOUs' community mobilization policies and programs. Two
additional staff would also be financed in each participating city and
municipal health office to help coordinate all the above activities.
Comnonent Four: PolLcy Research and Evaluation (US84.Qm)
2.42      This component would support policy and operational research
studies related to the implementation of project objectives and the evaluation
of project progress. The main focus would be on testing alternative service
delivery models to find those which are most cost-effective in the urban slum
environment. The component would finance the following specific studies
identified at the time of appraisal; funds would also be left unallocated
under the component to address research needs identified during the course of
project implementation.
2.43      Baseline Survey and Annual and Kid-Term Evaluations. During the
first six months of implementation, an initial base-line study of health and
nutrition conditions in the targeted slum communities would be carried out.
This study would be preceded by completion in all the LGUs of the ocular
survey identifying the clusters of slum households to be targeted (paras 2.4-



- 28 -
2.5).  The base-line study would include a multi-variate health rlsk
assessment of the client population covering: (a) the epidemiologic,
environmental, nutrition, and fertility status and risks; (b) service
coverage, availability and accessibility; and (c) land tenure, demographic,
social and educational status, and community organization.  The study would
use both quantitative and qualitative methodologies.  Annual evaluations would
track progress in selected indicators surveyed in the baseline study. Midterm
and end-of-project evaluations would review progress toward achieving all
project targets. In all these reviews and evaluations a particular effort
would be miade to seek feedback from project beneficiaries.
2.44      Workload and Work Routines.  Staffing arrangements for service
delivery at the periphery were planned on the basis of one mid-wife per 5,000
slum population and one BHW per 50 households. It is unclear whether these
ratios are the most cost-effective for delivering the enhanced package of
services proposed under the project. Therefore a functional task analysis of
workers' jobs and work routines would be carried out during the second year of
the project to determine whether the division of tasks or the ratio of workers
to clients or workers to supervisors should be altered. Additional operations
research on this topic would be carried out for nutrition services (para
2.46).
2.45      Women's Health.  Operational research on women's health issues is
initially proposed in the following areas: a) how best to iJentify women who
are newly pregnant or who have unmet demand for family planning, and hence are
in need of services; b) how best to integrate the various women's health
Interventions in the field, especially integration of maternal care and family
planning, and the management of obstetric referrals from the outreach to the
fixed facility system; and c) determination of the prevalence of STDs
including AIDS in the non-high risk female population, and how best to manage
them. See Annex 15 for research issues.
2.46      Nutrition.  Four research activities are initially proposed in this
area. First, the most cost-effective operational procedures for preventing
and treating protein-energy malnutrition among pregnant women and children
(see also para 1.21) are uncertain. In particular, growth monitoring,
counselling and supplementary feeding are time-consuming and difficult, and it
is unclear whether volunteer workers will implement them effectively.
Therefore, operations research would be carried out on two different
approaches: a) through volunteer Barangay Health Workers, and b) through paid
community workers; both would work with organized 'trust groups' of women
providing day care for children in the program.
2.47      Second, operations research would also be carried out on amylaze
enrichment of food supplements to increase the volume consumable by very young
children, who otherwise may not be able to absorb enough nutrients to get out
of malnutrition. Third, universal supplementation of infants with iron is
extremely expensive. It may be more cost-effective to limit this to low birth
weight infants, protecting other infants instead by supplementing pregnant
women and getting them to feed their infants weaning foods rich in iron. The
relative cost-effectiveness of the two approaches would be compared through
operations research. Fourth, improving breast-feeding and weaning practices



- 29 -
through counselling will be a key project nutrition intervention.  Qualitative
research on slum women's beliefs and practices regarding infant feeding would
be undertaken, so as to provide a better basis for designing IEC messages.
2.48      Details of each of these proposals, together with a summary of on-
going nutrition operations research studies relevant to thA project, are given
in Annex 16.
2.49      Communtv Environment De1omnt. This study would examine
alternative approaches to implementing slum environmental heelth improvements.
During preparation, technical interventions to improve community water,
sewage, solid and toxic waste, drainage, food vending, and rodent control
systems were identified (see Annex 17). Slum communities were classified into
six types and, based on environmental surveys also conducted during
preparation, 87 communities representing a complete range of environmental
problems were selected to study alternative implementation approaches. The
study would attempt to match appropriate mixes of technical interventions to
particular community types and problems. The most promising approaches would
be identified for replication on a larger scale after the project mid term
review.
MII. PRGJECT COSTS. FINANCING. PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Cost Estimates
3.1       Summarv of Project Costs.  The total cost of the project is
estimated to be US$82.2 million equivalent, including contingencies and net of
dutles and taxes. Foreign exchange costs account for US$24.0 million, or 29X
of project costs. A summary of costs by project component is given in Table
3.1 and by category of expenditure in Table 3.2. Cost breakdowns by component
category of expenditure and project year are provided in Annex 18.
3.2       Contingev Allowancgs.  Project costs include a contingency
allowance for unforeseen physical additions (US$1.9 million equivalent and for
inflation US$5.4 million equivalent). Physical contingencies are estimated at
3X of base costs. Following IDA regional guidelines, price contingencies are
based on the following inflation factors: for foreign costs, 3.11 for the
project years 1994-1998, and for local costs, 71 for each of the five project
years. Price contingencies are equal to 71 of base costs plus physical
contingencies.
3.3       Foreign Exchange Costs.  Direct and indirect forelgn exchange costs
are estimated at US$24.0 million equivalent, or about 291 of total project
costs, including contingencies. The estimated foreign exchange component for
the various expenditure categories are as follows: 1001 for foreign technical
assistance, contraceptives and micronutrients; 951 for vehicles; 90X for drugs
and chemicals; 751 for equipment; 301 for civil works, materials and other
operating costs; and 201 for local technical assistance.



- 30 -
3.4       IncrXmental Recurent Costs.  Project cost estimates include a
significant level of incremental recurrent costs, representing the greater
numbers of technical staff and community volunteers, and medical and other
supplies needed to achieve project goals. Specific incremental recurrent
costs include: (a) contraceptives, drugs and chemicals needed for service
delivery expansion; (b) food supplements and micronutrients to treat
malnourished pregnant women and 6-24 month old children; (c) materials needed
for health services delivery and institutional development; (d) salaries for
regular and contract health staff; (e) travel costs for incremental staff,
maintenance and other operating costs for refurbished buildings, equipment and
vehicles; and (f) commurity volunteer contributions of time and labor.



Tab  1: arAmuy of Pdaje Cost by Componen
06W4T6                                  Lead      F_dgs         TOW         LoWd      Fdn          Told                    TlOW
A. m- do                                                                      .                                              .wy
W ome' eth                               120.3       168.7       290.0         4.5         6.4        109          50         1I
CNIdros Helth                            122.4       124.9       247.3         4.0         4.7         0.3         so          12
To Control                               125.8        20.0       145*          4.7        0           Bs          14           7
5owis Upped"                             285.0       139.0       424.8        tO.          L.         16.0         3           21
_lurental So  Ddvl staff                 269.1           -   ,2S .1             8            - ,.8 9t9
SUM" 9wls. DOIhr                           912.7       464.4      ',87.1         4A         17.1        51.6         88 
S. bmnsd _ehmt
Am 1_h P 0An.d                            11.0         0.3        11           04            -         0.4          2           1
hhnmad.n.Uiusaoiom6cmmimueoon             30A.4       17.0        57.4         1.5         0.7         2.2         31           a
Trning  Human RSmuSm Delspmnw             36.6         0.4        42.0         1.3         0.2         1.          1S           I
Mnemg n 9~Improwoentn                     16.0        14.0        S0.0         0.6         0.6         1.1         47           2
A*in. Faitv Uporadng                     W07          89.0       14*           4.1         t.5         Ls          27           7
Proso tmCo_mon&         tn                7.5         17.7        96.3         2.0         0.7         3.6         19           6
Ostsd hsdmat   Daweopment                  287.0        05.8       3838         10           3.6        14.6         25          19
c. C    _amunt Po _wtlp far Hsdi
Planin Onts                               25.8         2.1        271 t1O                  0.1        1.1           8           1
utonal Gn                                  2.1           -         21          0.1           -         0.1
ctG                                       S0.7             88.7                8.7           -         3.7          -          _
SaUd Com,mmItey Pffm    ra*f Hfldu          126.6        2.1       1288          4.8         0.1         4.9          2           0
D. bs-uh & Ebaan
eins & Evauation Swv                       0                       0             -           -                -       
Wrionmentl Helh Delopent                  64.1         6.2        70.3         2.4         0.2         27                       4
Wmnee  Hadit & FwUy Plain                   1.2       10.0        12.2           -         0.4         0.6         80           1
NutrlonDevelopment                         7.7           -         7*          0.3                    0.3           t
Opladonwesh                               13.8           -        13          0.5                     OA 0.5       - 
ein     Rebaeo*Ea avat                       87.7       17.2       104*          8.          0.0         4.0         10 1
Total SWNE COWSS                          1,415.0      51.1      1,884.0       58.4        21.5        74           289        100
Phyia Contngees                           22.1        27.4        49.6         0.8         1.0         1.9         55           2
PuoCon 1mt                               248.0        00S        383.7         4.0        14A          6.4         Az           7
TOWa PROJECT CommS                         1,6816.0     687.3     2,373.2       59.2        24.0        82.          29         110'



Tr   8   8     _nmw  Proistee Os by Camp,v of I Wms
Load      POrl         Tstd        Load       FolPu        Tol           %         Tol
Ps. P_MIoP)                        1$ mie)                     F_osp         S_*
CAThI0WS OF XPUD(Tfhf                                                                                               wed..    Cest
Lb ET-, m       o*C
A. CM Wouk                                181.0        7.         258.6         6.8         2    o     9            30          Is
SL I _sm                                   23.         70.6        94.1         0*          2.7        8.6          75           5
C. Fhntm                                    2.4                     2.4         0.1           -        0.1
D. Vdas                                     1.1        21*         23.1           -        0.8         0s           96           1
L. Tr*o                                    42.          2.2        44.8         IA         0.1         1.7           5           2
P. Todade AsdUAlsmo
Tedui.dAsdsaeooip                                    1lJ         11.3           -        0.4         0.4         100           1
T.odoa dAdstese. Lood                   101         2M.        127.4         3.8         1.0        4.6          20           6
0. 0,fts                                  172.1                   172.1         .5                     6.5 
Tol - -      Os*                            52.6        208.0       737          19.8         7*         27.7         2
L.buOs Cost
A. ComaospUws                                          "A          84.4          8- .6                 3.6         100 t
L F.od  S,Onwo                            182.1                   182.1         7.2                    7.2                      tO
C. Morom e_t                                           63          62.3                     23         2.3         100           a
D. Dw   & ChSwod                           14.0       126.1       140.1         0.5         4.6        5o                        7
L Matera                                  11.8        51.4       171.2         4.          1*         6.5          30           8
P. staff Sssy                             234.6                   234.6         8*.                   8L                        12
G.ceotm doy                               138.1                   138.1         5.2                    6.2                       7
H. Trl                                     29.8                    2.3          1.1                    1.1           -           1
1. Conund  V*obrs                          24.5                    24.5         0.9          -         0.8           - 
JO. dnteewnc                               76.7                    767          2.9           -        2             -           4
K1. Ote Opatino Cost                      60.3        25.9        86.2         2.3         1.0        3.3          30           4
Totd RouWnCoGts                             80.8        360.0      1,2S0.4       33.6        13.6       47.2          29          63
Totd ASUII  COST                               1,415.0       689.1     1984.0        53.4        21.5        74.8         28         100
Phyal Contngences                          22.1        27.4        49.5         0.8         1.0         1*          55           2
Prime S2ngm!Le                            248.9        90.8       338.7         4.0         1.4        6.4          27           7
Totl PRJW  COMSTS                              1,68.0       687.3      2,373.2       58.2        244         82.2         29         1tO-



- 33 -
B.  intanglza
3.5       The total projects costs of US$82.2 million equivalent would be
financed by: (a) an IDA credit of US$70.0 million equivalent, representing
85X of total project cost; (b) a cofinancing grant of US$3.1 million
equivalent from the Government of Australia, representing 42 of total project
cost; and (c) local financing of US$9.1 million, equivalent, representing 11l
of total project cost. The local financing includes community volunteer
contributions of US$0.4 million equivalent. Project financing would be in
accordance with Table 3.3 below.
Table 3.3!  FIANCING PLAN
(Amounts in US$ million, including contingencies)
Expenditure Category     Local a/ Australia    IDA    Total       Estimated
Share of
IDA financing
Civil Works                           -          9.5     9.5         100
Equipment                             1.0        3.0     4.0           75
Furniture                             -          0.1     0.1         100
Vehicles                                         0.8     0.8          100
Training                              0.3        2.0     2.3           87
Technical assistance       -          0.4        5.2     5.6           93
Grants b/                             -          7.2     7.2          100
Contraceptives                        -          3.8     3.8         100
Food supplements          -           -          8.3     8.3         %100
Micronutrients                        -          2.5     2.5          100
Drugs and chemicals       -           -          6.1     6.1          100
Materials                  -          1.0        6.0     7.0           86
Staff salaries            6.0         -          3.3     9.3          35
Contract salaries         2.7         -          3.2     5.9           54
Travel                                           1.1     1.1          100
Community volunteers      0.4         -          -       0.4           0
Maintenance                           -          3.8     3.8          100
Other operating cost                  0.4        4.1     4.5           91
Total Project Cost        9.1         3.1       70.0    82.2          85
a,' Government financing and local community contributions.
/ Community development grants to NGOs and environmental health grants to
LGUs under Components III and IV would be made by the concerned local
government.
C. ProMuement
3.6       The procurement responsibilities for the project would be carried
out by the -central DOH, and by the 21 local government units included in the
project 2' T,ih4 procurement a,rangements are outlined in Table 3.4.



- 34 -
Table 3.4: PROJECT COSTS BY PROCUEMENiT RRANQEMENTS
(US$ Million)
Total Cost
Procurement Method            OIthudftg
Expenditure Category               ICB       LCB     OtherW   N.I.F.  conttlng.nes)
1. Works                              -         9.5      -         -          9.5
(9.5)                         (9.5)
2. ggodg
2.1 Drugs, Chemicals,             9.9       6.0      4.8 h     -         20.7
Contraceptives, food         (9.9)     (6.0)    (4.8)               (20.7)
supplements and micronutrients
2.2 Equipment, furniture,         3.9       4.0      2.0       2.0       11.9
vehicles and materials       (3.9)     (4.0)    (2.0)                (9.9)
3. Grsn5a41                           -         -        7.2       -          7.2
(7.2)      -         (7.2)
4.   nau Lancies/Service
4.1 Tradning and technical        -         -        7.2d'     0.7        7.9
assistance                                      (7.2)                (7.2)
5. Miscellaneoua
5.1 Contract and staff salaries,  -         -       15.6       -         15.6
community volunteersW/                          (6.5)                (6.5)
5.2 Travel, maintenance and                          9.0                  9.4
other operating costs         -         -       (9.0)      0.4       (9.0)
Igstal                       1A3.     31 X-8
(13.8)    (19.5)   (36.7)               (70.0)
N.I.F.: Not IDA financed.
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit.
/ Shopping, unless otherwise noted.
h/ As estimated US*2.5 million would be procured through Limited International Bidding
or direct procurement.
g/ Community development grants to NGOs and environmental health grants to LOUs under
Components III and IV would be made by the concerned local government units.
/ Technical support for the implementation of management services, training and I.E.C.
/ Time and labor provided by community workers.
f/ Co-financed by Australian Government on a parallel basis.



- 35 -
3.7       Procurement methods for civil works, goods, grants, technical
assistance, and incremental salaries and operating costs are described below.
Annex 10 contains a more detailed list of items to be procured under each
category.
(a)  j$vil works totalling about US$9.5 million equivalent.  The new NCR.
Regional Training and Administrative building (estimated cost, $0.9
million) and the remaining civil works, consisting of about 112
primary-level health facilities and 12 combined
administrative/service delivery facilities with an average contract
value of about $50,000 each, would be grouped into about 50
contracts and procured through the use of local competitive bidding
(LCB) procedures acceptable to IDA. Overall responsibility for
procuring civil works would rest with the central DOH Health
Infrastructure Service. Standard bid documents would be used by
the Public Works staffs of the concerned cities and municipalitles,
according to specifications prepared by the Health Infrastructure
staff. Bid evaluation and award would be carried out by the Public
Works staffs of the concerned city or municipality, subject to the
approval of the central DOH Health Infrastructure Service. (See
para 4.6). About half of the civil works expenditure would be for
renovation and/or upgrading of existing buildings. For the limited
number of new buildings being constructed, the local government
units provided proof of land ownership to the central DOH prior to
appraisal.
(b) Goods (drugs and chemicals. contracentives. food supplements.
micronutrients, -euiment. furniture. materials and vehicles)
totalling about US$30.6 million equivalent will be procured with
IDA funds. An additional US$2.0 million equivalent would be
parallel cofinanced by the Government of Australia. Goods
totalling about US$13.8 million equivalent woule be procured by ICB
in accordance with the Bank Procurement Quidelf.es of May 1992.
The 15X preference for local manufactured products would apply to
ICB. Goods would be grouped to the extent practical to form bid
packages estimated to cost US$200,000 or more. Contract packages
financed by IDA and valued at less than US$200,000, up to a total
of about US$10.0 million, would be awarded through LCB procedures
acceptable to IDA. Limited international bidding or direct
procurement (of proprietary items) would be authorized for the
purchase of drugs, chemicals and contraceptives with single or
limited suppliers under the IDA credit, and would total no more
than about US$2.5 million. Contract packages valued at less than
US$40,000, up to an aggregate limit of US$4.3 million, may be
purchased through international or local shopping on the basis of a
minimum of three competitive price quotations. (See Annex 10).
(c)  Grnts totalling about US$7.2 aillion equivalent.  These will be
awarded through direct subgranting by local government units to
local NGOs, in accordance with central DOH guidelines agreed upon
with IDA. These guidelines reflect the lessons from a similar



- 36 -
activity under Component III of the existing Health Development
Project (Loan 3099-PH).
(d) Cosultant services for toehnical assistance, IEC, and training
activities totalling about US$7.2 million equivalent. Contracts
would be awarded in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Use of
Consultants. Under Component II (Institutional Development), there
would be two separate technical assistance packages for (a)
management services improvement and (b) IEC and a training
materials development center. The consultancy contracts would
include supply and installation of the necessary computer hardware
sad software for each of the 21 LGUs, and for DOH central and
regional offices. Consultant services of about US$0.7 million
equivalent would be parallel cofinanced by the Government of
Australia. (See Annex 10).
(e)  Contract an  reaular staff salaries of about US$6.5 million
equivalent of the total $16.2 million equivalent would be supported
according to government administrative procedures acceptable to IDA
on a declining basis.
(f) Travel, maintenance and other operting ,costs of about US$9.0
million equivalent. These incremetal activities and services
would be obtained according to government administrative procedures
acceptable to IDA. Other operating costs of about US$0.4 million
equivalent would be parallel cofinanced by the Government of
Australia.
3.8       Procurement reylew.  The followlng procurement review procedures
would apply:
(a) By credit effectiveness, IDA will complete a prior review of (i)
standard bid documents for civil works and goods contracts to be
awarded under ICB and LCB procedures; (it) letters of invitation
for consultant services, to determine their conformity with Bank
guidelines. These approved documents would be used as master
documents for all future bidding.
(b) Except for those in paragraph (c) below, all contracts valued at or
over US$200,000 would be subject to prior review by Ib", whereas
contracts under US$200,000 in value would be subject to random
post-review;
(c) All TOR and contracts for consultants and studies would be subject
to prior review by IDA; and
(d) Training and workshops would be subject to random post-review by
IDA. The authority to carry out local shopping would apply to the
DOH central procurement unit and to the recipients of community
health development grants as well. Procurement by the Government
of Australia would be on a tied basis.
''  8jKi



- 37 -
D.   ibusga=s
3.9       The IDA credit of VS$70.0 million equivalent would be disbursed
over a period of seven years with disbursoments to be completed by the closing
date of December 31, 2000 (see Annex 19). The disbursement schedule is based
on the implementation schedule and the disbursement profile for education
projects in the Philippines; there ts no separate PHU profile. The
disbursement profile is three semesters shorter than the education profile;
these estimates are considered feasible In view of the advanced state of
project preparation.
3.10      Disbursements would be made against:  (a) 1001 of total
expenditures for civil works; (b) for drugs and chemicals, contraceptives.
equipment, furniture, vehicles, materials, food supplements and
micronutrients, 1001 of foreign expenditures for directly imported goods, 10OX
of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for locally-manufactured goods, and
85X of local expenditures for other goods procured locally; (c) 100l of total
expenditures for grants under the Covmumity Partnership for Health component;
(d) 1001 of total expenditures for consultaneies and services, including
foreign and local technical assistance and training; (e) a declining
percentage for contract and regular staff salaries as follows - 80X of total
expenditures incurred prior to December 31, 1994; 401 for expenditures
incurred prior to December 31, 1996; and 201 for the years thereafter; and (f)
1001 of total expenditures for travel, maintenance and other operating costs.
Disbursements to be made against the IDA credit are summarized in Table 3.5.
IddCUX  blgercn3li
EEnditure CategrY *mt                                  Per ct
(1)   civil *WVo                         9.0                 1001 of totat expenditures;
(2)   Goods
(a) Onus and chamicals/                                100I of forefgn expnitures;
contraceptives                 9.0                  I 100 of loal expenditures
(b) Equipnt/fumitureY                         3        (ex-factory cost);
vehicles/materials              0.0       |         8S of local expenditures
(c) Food suLpIements and                     I         for other localLy-procured
*icronmtriants                  9.0      -tems
(3)   Consultant's services              6.5                 100X of total expenditures
(4)   Incremental Operatine              6.0                 S0X of total expenditures
Costs                           -ifncurred prior to Deceer 31, 1994;
40X of Oxpenditures ncurred prior to
hce.rbe 31, 1996; and 20X thereafter
(S)   Cor uuty Partnershfp               6.5       -         1OOX of total expenditures
Srvics Rendered as Grants
(6)   Traveltmintensnce end
other qpersafng costs              8.0      -
C?)   UlnsLocated                        7.0
3.11      Disbursements woulad be made against Statements of Expenditure for
the following: training; community partnership for health planning,



- 38 -
institutional and project grants; and contracts costing US$200,000 equivalent
or less each for equipment, materials, vehicles, drugs, chemicals and
contraceptivs, furniture, food supplements, staff salaries and contract
salaries, travel, maintenance and other operating costs.
3.12      The Government of Australia grant would be made on a parallel basis
and would be administered by the Government of Australia.
IV. ==   nu
A. Status of Prolget rWeurat"
4.1       The process of project preparation was overseen by a Te hnical
Committee formed for this purpose by the Secretary, DOH, and including
representatives of the DOH technical services concerned with the project,
participating LGUs, and other central government agencies with a stake in the
project. The Technical Committee was assisted by local consultants, financed
under Japanese Grant No. 2270-0, who coordinated the details of project
preparation. Since implementation would be the responsibility of the LGUs and
not the DOH, an important part of project preparation was a series of
workshops which involved lOUs over an eighteen month period in detailed
discussions on project content. The final content of the project is the
product of negotiation between LOUs and the regional central offices of DOH,
and to which all parties appear committed.
4.2       For the first time in a Bank-financed health sector proje-t,
Critical Path Management computer software was used durlng appraisal to
Identify and plan the timing of key start-up activities in each component and
sub-component (see detailed implementation schedules in Annex 20). This joint
activity between project managers and the appraisal team Lncreased all
parteas' understanding of the project; helped to create a shared vision of the
project between Bank and Borrower; and ensured that realistic lead-times were
planned for start-up activities. Prior to effectiveness, a series of project
launch workshops will be held with participating LGUs in which the product of
this critical path planning will be used to build local understanding of and
commitment to the steps required for project start-up.
4.3       Project objectives, strategies and costs bhve been clearly defined.
Sketch plans for civil works have been prepared. An outline procurement plan
has been prepared, and a detailed procurement plan would be completed by
negotiations, with bid documents for the initial rounds of procurement ready
by the time of Board presentation. Draft Memoranda of Agreement (NOAs)
between participating government agencies have been prepared; these will be a
key project management tool (paras 4.12-4.13 and 4.21). (See Annex 21). A
staffing plan has been prepared for the project coordination unit (para 4.9),
and it is anticipated that additional staff for this unit will be in place by
project effectiveness.



- 39 -
B. Organization. K4nagement. Financing and Sustainability
4.4       Following devolution of health program implementation
responsibilities to local governments, the proposed project would be
implemented in a new administrative environment in which LGUs would play the
lead project implementation role. Central government, as Borrower of the IDA
credit, would exercise its overall responsibility for project management
through its financial control of project grants to LGUs and through MOAs to be
entered into by central and local governments and binding the signatories to
implement the project as agreed. This section describes in turn the
organization and management arrangements at the LGu level, and the
organization, management and technical support arrangements for the central
and regional levels of DOH; the proposed system of HOAs with LGUs; the
proposed equity-related criteria for determining financial allocations to the
LGUss; plans for ensuring project sustainability; and the arrangements for
managing the flow of project funds.
4.5       Local government level.  While implementation strategies would vary
in different LGUs, project implementation responsibility at the local level
would be centered on the City or Municipal Health Officer, working under the
authority of the mayor and local council. He or she would be responsible for
coordinating the inputs of central and local government departments and NMOs
involved in implementation, such as local ublic works units for the
implementation of construction (component one), training support from the DOH
(component two), or NGOs implementing sub-projects under the proposed
community health partnership arrangements (component three).
4.6       LGUs would be supported by the DOH Infrastructure Service, who in
turn would contract private consultants in accordance with World Bank
guidelines to assist in the implementation of civil works activities. The
consultants would be responsible for the preparation of contract documents,
detailed architectural and engineering plans, technical specifications,
estimates and bidding documents based on model plans, schematic plans and
outline specifications prepared by the Department of Health. They would
appraise the sites or existing facilities and assist the local authority in
the bidding process. In addition, they would provide construction supervision
including time and cost control.
4.7       Department of Health.  Following the change in government in mid-
1992, the DOH underwent a reoganization whose results are shown in Annex 1.
Responsibility for this project would be placed in the Office of Special
Programs; this office reports to the Undersecretary and Chief of Staff.
4.8       Project management in the DOH would be vested in the Undersecretary
of Health and Chief of Staff, who would also serve as Project Director. He
would delegate the coordination of project activities to a Project
Coordinator, who has already been informally designated, and who is also the
chief of a newly created permanent DOH unit responsible for advising the Chief
of Staff on urban health poliey and for implementing urban health programs and
projects. This dual responsibility would help to ensure that the lessons from
project experience were fed into national policy.



- 40 -
4.9       Day-to-day coordination of project activities would be the
responsibility of a UHNP project coordination unit, which would be an
expansion of the existing unit managing the on-going Health Development
Project. Its staff would be contracted for the life of the project. During
negotiations, the Government agreed: (a) to establish a Project Coordinating
Unit (PCU-UHNP) within DOH on terms of reference satisfactory to IDA to be
responsible for overall supervision and coordination of project
implementation. Establishment of the PCU-UHNP and appointment of the Project
Coordinator and qualified staff ls a condition of effectiveness; and (b) to
maintain the PCU-UHNP throughout project implementation. The project
coordination unit would be responsible for consolidating project plans and
budgets, monitoring project activities, handling project procurement and
disbursements, and preparing project reports and documentation.
4.10      In addition, the chiefs of central DOH units responsible for
various technical and functional disciplines would be asked to provide
guidelines, training and technical assistance to LGUs, and to implement
specific project activities related to their discipline. Annex 13 sets out
the central units responsible for technical support to or for managing
different components/activities.   This technical support role would include
assistance to the three regional field offices of DOH involved in project
implementation (see below). In addition, staff from the relevant central
technical units would form a task force to initiate, oversee and sustain the
changes required by the reproductive cycle targeting approach, since this
method of planning and integrating maternal and child health and nutrition
services would substantially alter the service delivery approaches of city and
municipal health offices, and would have broader national implications.
4.11      The three regional offices of DOH in NCR, Region VII and Region X,
together with the four District Health Offices in Metro-Manila, would be
responsible for providing training and technical assistance to the LGUs in
their regions under component two; and for interpreting project guidelines at
LOU request and for interpreting LGU concerns to the Project
Coordinator/Project Director.
4.12      Memoranda of Agreement with LGUs. The key legal agreements
governing project implementation would be a series of lOAs signed by DOH, the
Department of Interior and Local Government (DILG) and the project LaUs,
setting out the rights and duties of each signatory; a separate NQA would be
drawn up for each participating LOU, based on a common format, a draft of
which is attached as Annex 21. Key features of the NO0 include a main text
setting out the roles and undertakings of the signatories and indicating the
financing shares to be contributed by GOP and LGU; and two attachments setting
out a) the program interventions and strategies supported by the project which
the LGU commits to undertaking over the whole project period; and b) a
detailed operational plan and budget for implementing these interventions and
strategies for the next financial year. GOP brought to negotiations a
standard version MQA, based on the draft agreed at appraisal. It was agreed at
negotiations that, following inter-agency consultations within the GOP, the
draft MOAs, IAAs and Annexes would be finalized for review by IDA during its
next scheduled mission.



- 41 -
4.13      Prior to effectiveness, the DOH and the mayor of each participating
LWU, with the concurrance of the local council, would negotiate the main text
and annexes of their respective NOAs. A condition of credit effectiveness
would be that at least 9 of the 21 DOH/LGU/DILG MOAs required under the
project would have been entered into with the DOH and become effective. Prior
to the DOH budget cycle each financial year, DOH and each participating LOU
would negotiate an operational plan and budget specific to that LGU and year,
in time for incorporation of the plan's resource requirements into both LGU
and central budgets. This operational plan, as part of the MOA, would become
a binding commitment on the LGU. At negotiations, assurances were given that
the Government would provide project funds to participating LWUs on a grant
equivalent basis once each LOU had signed its respective MOA. It was also
agreed that each MOA would be signed by the DOH, DILG and corresponding LGU
and that each bOA would include a cost-sharing arrangement acceptable to IDA.
4.14      ERuLiy-related financial allocationM to GUs.  The amount of
assistance from the credit flowing to a given LGU would initially be
determined based on an assessment of two considerations: the size and health
status of its client population; and the resource base of the LWU in relation
to the needs of its population. The groject budget for a given LOU would be
based on the standard package of project inputs and the size and needs of the
client population.  The 1W  share of that local project budget would depend on
its ability to pay. Since the devolution of central health budget resources
under the Local Government Code was not in proportion to client population>,
GOP would use credit funds to redress resulting inequities. Thus, for
example, GOP would offer to finance a larger share of the local project budget
in the case of poor municipalities with very fast growing slum populations
than in the case of better off municipalities with slower rates of growth.
4.15      The cost-sharing criteria to be used under the project would be
based on the following principles. The cities and municipalities included in
the project would be divided into three or four categories depending on the
percentage of their likely health budgets in the last year of the project
which the incremental operating costs of the project would represent.
Estimation of the likely LGU health budget at the end of the project would be
based on a) the potential for growth in local revenues over the period; b) the
potential for an increase in health's share of local revenues over the period;
and c) the increase in non-project central contributions which the LGU can
expect during the period under the Local Government Code. Depending on
estimated ability to pay, DOH would then propose a different cost-share, to be
decided at negotiations, for each category of LOU over the life of the
project. DOH would seek LGU agreement to this cost-sharing arrangement as
part of the MOA negotiations which would take place between credit
negotiations and credit effectiveness. However, flexibility would be retained
during project Implementation to renegotiate this cost-sharing arrangement in
the case of LGUs whose client population increased faster than expected, or
where LU revenues unavoidably grew slower than expected.
4.16      Sustainabilit.  Three approaches would be followed to ensure
project sustainability. First, the participative approach taken to project
preparation (para 4.1) and the resulting commitment to project objectives and



- 42 -
interventions on the part of LGUs would help to ensure that LGUs are
interested to continue project services after the credit is disbursed.
Second, beneficiary communities would be asked to contribute to project
implementation in two ways. Volunteer BHW8 from slum communities would
contribute labor estimated approximately in the project costs at US$0.4
million equivalent. And under the community health partnership component,
communities would be involved In defining their health problems and risks and
monitoring the success of efforts to respond to them. This increased
community involvement and awareness would help to ensure popular demand for
sustained budgetary commitments to slum health care on the part of LGUs after
the end of the project.
4.17      Third, participating LGUs would be asked to absorb an increasing
share of project costs during the life of the project. So as to minimize the
difficulty of absorbing the full recurrent costs at the end of the project,
each participating LGU would be expected to contribute toward the cost of the
project for recurrent rather than capital costs; contributions would begin at
a level below the agreed average contribution over the project life (para
4.15) and increase to a level above this average over the life of the project.
In addition, some LGUs whose local revenue collections are below potential, or
whose health budget share in local revenues is below average, would be
expected to increase their local health budgets during the project at a rate
faster than their revenues have historically grown. For each category of LGU
(para. 4.15), the proposed percentage increase in cost share in each year of
the project would be based on 'ability to pay' data; proposed increases in the
growth of health budgets would also be decided on an annual basis. As with
the total LoU cost share, these licreases would be agreed between DOH and
participating LGUs as part of their MOA negotiations. It should be noted,
however, that continuing central subventions for some smaller, poorer LGUs
with large slum populations are likely to be needed after the project.
4.18      Funds Flow.  Because the project's health and nutrition
interventions are in the areas of a) preventive primary care, b) curative
primary care with high external benefits, and c) operations research, neither
Bank nor GOP policy expects their costs to be recovered from project
beneficiaries or local governments. Project funds would therefore be provided
to the LOUs in the form of central government grants, rather than loans. In
the case of the environmental sanitation activities financed under the
operations research component, a review would be made at midterm of which
technologies to replicate on a large scale basis (para 2.49); a decision would
be taken at that time, depending on the technologies chosen, whether it would
be appropriate to seek cost recovery for these interventions. In the case of
the water supply interventions under this component, cost recovery from
project clients would be instituted at the outset following current GOP
policies.
4.19      Project funds would flow through two administrative channels to
CHOs/XHOs or NGOs, and thence to project communities. These channels would
be: a) the central or regional offices of DOH procuring or providing goods or
services (for example, items procured centrally and distributed to individual
health units, or services procured and provided by the regions such as
training; b) local government procuring or providing goods or services (for



- 43 -
example, hiring midwives, making grants to NGOs, renovating facilities). For
each project component and activity, DOH project management would determine
the most efficient channel for disbursing project resources, and DOH
guidelines in this respect would be the basis for preparation by LGUs of
annual project operational plans and budgets for negotiation and incorporation
into the LWU KOA.
4.20      The DOH Project Coordination Unit would consolidate the project
plans and budgets of the individual LOUs, the regional DOH offices, and the
central DOH offices assigned to implement various aspects of the project.
This consolidated project budget would become a line item in the DOF's
Municipal Development Fund budget. Once appropriated, funds would be released
by the Department of Budget and Management (DBM) following two tracks.
Project funds disbursed by DOH would be released via the established Advice of
Allotment/Notice of Cash Allocation procedures. Project funds to be disbursed
by local governments would be released without passing through DOH, via the
Municipal Development Fund (MDF) administered by the Department of Finance
through the Bureau of Treasury. The NDF has proved an effective mschanism for
channeling project funds to W s under the three on-going Bank-assisted
Municipal Development Projects. (See Annex 22).
4.21      An IAA would set out the relationship between the DOH, DOF, DBM,
DILG and LGUs with regard to the project's financial management in general and
the management of funds releases through the NDF in particular. A draft of
this NOA agreed between the appraisal mission and representatives of the
concerned agencies is at Annex 21. GOP brought to negotiations a final
version of this MOA now being reviewed by all concerned government
departments. Signature by the DOB, DOF, DBM, NEDA and DILG of the Inter
Agency Agreement governing the release of Credit proceeds directly to each
LOU, in accordance with the corresponding HQA, would be a condition of project
effectiveness.
C. Accounts. Auditing. Reporting and Suoervision
4.22      The DOH and LGU accounting systems are adequate to provide
information on project finances and expenditures. The Government would cause
DOH and participating LGUs to maintain separate accounts of project
expenditures in accordance with sound accounting practices. Proposals from
NGOs under the Community Health Partnership Component would include related
audit and record-keeping requirements. Each LGU would have its project
records and accounts audited no later than four months after the end of the
government fiscal year. During negotiations, the Government agreed to provide
assurances that audits of LGU and DOH project-related records and accounts
would be undertaken in accordance with agreed accounting principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and that
audited accounts and financial statements, in a format agreed with the Bank,
and including a separate audit of statements of expenditure, would be senc. to
the Bank within nine months of the end of each Government fiscal year. The
Government also agreed to provide assurances that it would submit semi-annual
progress reports to the Bank and prepare, within six months of the Closing
Date, a project completion report. Annex 23 provides a detailed description
of the IDA Supervision Plan.



- 44-
D. Monitoring and Evaluatiop
4.23      The Project Coordination Unit would be responsible for monitoring
project implementation and producing quarterly progress reports based on
service statistics and other data. The Project Coordinator would be
responsible for carrying out an annual review of project implementation
progress, and to facilitate an annual progress review workshop. The results
of the annual program reviews would form the basis for the annual operational
plan and budget prepared by each LGU. During negotiations, the Government
agreed to provide assurances that, beginning in fiscal year 1994, the DOH
would review the individual LGU yearly MOA implementation programs, and
progress achieved in executing project activities by July of each such year.
These MOA programs, including a draft aggregated operational plan and related
financial budgets, would be reviewed and finalized by October 30 of each of
such year. The Government also agreed that not later than the end of each
fiscal year, beginning in 1994, IDA and the DOH would review jointly the
individual LOU yearly MOA implementation programs (including their respective
operational plans and financial budgets), and these programs would take into
account IDA comments; and thL. a baseline study of health and nutrition
conditions in the targeted slum communities prepared under terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA, would be carried out by December 31, 1994. In addition,
two separate follow-up studies would be carried out also under terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA, not later than December 31, 1996 and December
31, 1999, respectively.
4.24      Different objectives and methodologies would be adopted for
performance, process and impact evaluation respectively. Persormanc
evaluation would focus on the annual measurement of the DOH's program outputs
with respect to physical accomplishments, financial performance and client
satisfaction. It would include a longitudinal client-based analysis of the
DOH's performance as well as a quantitative analysis of program indicators.
Data for evaluation would be generated from the program HIS and MIS monitoring
systems, from surveys, and from ongoing beneficiary analysis. This assessment
would be undertaken to assess the overall accomplishments of the project,
identify problems and issues, and recommend measures to accelerate activities
or redirect efforts to facilitate goal achievement. Management and direction
of the performance evaluation would be undertaken through a technical
assistance contract with a local university-based or otherwise qualified
research group.
4.25      arocess evaluation would examine the approacbes used in service
delivery and for community participation, attempt to explain variations in
levels of performance despite comparable project inputs, and derive
suggestions for improved approaches. Structured interviewing, participant
observation and focus group methodologies would be used, with technical
assistance to carry them out. This type of evaluation would focus
particularly on the reproductive cycle approach to service delivery and on
project operations research activities, because of their innovative nature;
and on the Community Health Partnership component, because of its
participatory nature. Imact evaluation would focus on project impact in
terms of morbidity and mortality reductions, improved efficiency of DOH
systems, and improvements in equity of access to DOH services.



- 45 -
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefita
5.1       The institutional benefits of the proposed project would include a)
development of operational models for health and nutrition service delivery
and community empowerment in urban slum areas which are potentially replicable
in urban areas outside the project; b) testing of innovative approaches to
client targeting (especially the reproductive cycle targeting approach and the
GIS-linked area targeting approach), to training and communication
methodologies and to nutrition service delivery which have potential
applications on a national scale; c) building DOB's capacity to fulfil its new
role after devolution of providing support to rather than management of the
health departments of local governments; d) testing approaches for managing
the relationship between DOH and local governments which have potential
applications on a national scale (especially the proposed system of MOAs,
equity-oriented differential financing of LOts, and center/local cost-sharing
arrangements); and e) increasing the capacity of the 21 local governments in
the project area to plan, manAge, monitor and evaluate their health and
nutrition programs. It would build local communities' awareness of their
health, nutrition and environmental problems, and involve them in a pro-active
way in seeking solutions to them.
5.2       The direct benefits to about 0.9 million households in the three
target cities would include better access to health and nutrition services;
reductions in infant and maternal mortality; an increase in the contraceptive
prevalence rate and in the spacing of births; reductions in protein-energy
malnutrition, anemia and goiter, and elimination of vitamin A deficiency;
reductions in the incidence of pneumonias; and reductions in the prevalence of
tuberculosis.
B. Rliks
5.3       The main risks foreseen are (i) whether LGUs would be able to
provide and sustain the financing required for the project; (ii) whether LIUs
with newly devolved responsibilities would have the capacity to manage the
proposed project; (iII) whether implementation would be delayed through
shortfalls in and slow release of project funds by the central government; and
(iv) whether all 21 LGUs would agree to participate in the project, as well as
the likelihood that project outcomes would not be uniform in all LGUs. With
regard to the first risk, strong commitment to project goals was generated by
the participative approach to project preparation (para 4.1).  The commitment
to implementation and counterpart financing would be formalized through the
proposed central/local government MOAs (para 4.12), which include provision
for a rising LGU counterpart contribution during the project life aimed at
ensuring project sustainability. Community awareness and involvement in the
project would also help to ensure sustained commitment to service provision on
the part of LUs.



- 46 -
5.4       With regard to the second risk, LWU managerial capacity would be
considerably strengthened by project institution-building activities, with
technical assistance and training being provided by central and local offices
of DOH and by private consultants.  In addition, the flexible approach to
implementation which is proposed, based on annual performance reviews followed
by adjustments to strategies, plans and budgets, would allow scope to deal
with managerial problems as they arise.
5.5       Budget shortfalls and slow funds release from central government
are a significant cause of delay in Bank-financed projects already under
implementation in the Philippines. Three approaches would be taken to
minimize this third risk. First, GOP and the Bank are undertaking a project
and program prioritizing and restructuring exercise which would help to ensure
that central government funds are concentrated on fully funding a limited
number of priority projects, including the proposed project. Second, the
proposed system of releasing the majority of project funds through the MDF is
likely to be faster than the normal system through DOH, based on experience
with the Bank-assisted Municipal Development Projects. An understanding would
also be sought from GOP at negotiations to release project funds in six-
monthly tranches into the MDF, thus helping to ensure an adequate cash flow.
Finally, all 21 LGUs participated in project preparation and project design
includes financial incentives in grant form for communities to participate in
the project.
C. ImDact on Women
5.6       The project would have a special focus on women clients of
reproductive age, since these clients are at relatively high health risk. The
project's specific benefits to women clients would include the provision of
better access to women's health and family planning services for 1.2 million
reproductive age women, and the provision of regular outreach services and a
package of integrated care to more than 700,000 women within that reproductive
age group who would be pregnant or have children under five during the project
perlod.   Also, the project would provide training in health service delivery
and health education to about 3,700 volunteer women Barangay Health Workers,
thus increasing both their skill levels and their status in their communities.
D. Rnvironmental Aspects
5.7       No project-related risks to the environment are foreseen.  The
environmental health activities proposed under component four would improve
the urban environment by providing safe water, sewage, solid and toxic waste
disposal and insect and rodent control.



- 47 -
VI. AGREFHEST8 REACHED AD Ru CMDEIDN1.
6.1      As project covenants, agreement was reached at negotiations with
GOP that:
(a)  by December 31, 1994 a study on pro-school ehild development in the
Philippines would have been carried out under terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA (para 1.62);
(b) a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU-UHEP) would be established within
DOH on terms of reference satisfactory to IDA to be responsible for
overall supervision and coordination of project implementation. The
Government agreed to maintain the PCU-UHWP throughout projoct
implementation, and to ensure that the PCU-UHNP is headed by a
Project Coordinator and qualified personnel (para 4.9);
(e) the GOP would provide project funds to participating LGU8 on a
grant equivalent basis once each LGU had signed its respective MOA.
It was also agreed that each MOA would be signed by the DOH, DILO
and corresponding LOU. Each NOA would include a cost sharing
arrangement acceptable to IDA (para. 4.13);
(d) audits of LGU and DOH project-related records and accounts would be
undertaken in accordance with agreed accounting principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA,
and audited accounts and financial statements, in a format
acceptable to IDA, and including a separate audit of statements of
expenditure, would be sent to IDA within 9 months of the end of
each GOP fiscal year (para 4.22);
(e) the Government would submit semi-annual progress reports to IDA and
prepare, within 6 months of the Closing Date, a Project Completion
Report (para. 4.22);
(f) beginning in fiscal year 1994, the DOH would review the individual
LOU yearly MOA implementation programs, and progress achieved in
executing project activities by July of each such year. These MOA
programs, including a draft aggregated operational plan and related
financial budgets, would be reviewed and finalized by October 30 of
each of such year (para. 4.23);
(g) not later than the end of each fiscal year, beginning in 1994, IDA
and tne DOH would review jointly the individual LGU yearly KOA
implementation programs (including their respective operational
plans and finanrial budgets), and these programs would take into
account IDA comments (para. 4.23); and
(h) a baseline evaluation study of health and nutrition conditions in
the targeted slum communities prepared, under TORs satisfactory to
IDA, would be carried out by December 31, 1994. In addition, two



- 48 -
separate follow-up studies would be carried out, also under terms
of reference satisfactory to IDA, not later than December 31, 1996
and December 31, 1999, respectively (par&. 4.23).
6.2      As conditions of effectiveness. the GOP provided assurances that:
(a)  the DOH would have established the PCU-UHNP and appointed its
Project Coordinator and personnel (par&. 4.9);
(b) at least 9 of the 21 DOH/LGU/DILG MOAB required under the project
would have been entered into with the DOH and become effective
(para 4.13); and
(c) the DOH, DOF, DSM, DILS and NEDA would have signed the Inter Agency
Agreement governing the rolease of Credit proceeds through the
Municipal Development Fund directly to each project LGU, in
accordance with the corresponding MMA and that the Agreement will
have become effective (4.21).
6.3      With the above conditions, the proposed project would constitute a
suitable bs4is for an IDA credit of SDR 50.5 million (US$70.0 million
equivalent) to the Republic of the Phllippines, at standard IDA terms with 35
years maturity.



- 49 -                                      Annex 1
Page 1 of 7
URBAN HBALnND lrwN RnC
IUlPapuIatd.HohodPopul,No. OHoWso1IdO&
Popuid=stls  eitbyRc&.g fa,rv1nos,Cty&
Muidp.Ugty Asto My 1,1990
(row populationInoude htltuloalpopulaio)
Rqosft?.vao                     TOWd           Hovasmlold           abrPpio
hPulto           Populatio      orf     olda           D=lt
PiliMppine                                   6084W            60,460           11,40667
Homle  Population                                2,876            2,876
NCR                                           7,928,867        7687,661         1467A5
K* ooaan                                     761J,11          559,420           5,72                1392
ma!ils                                     1,59818           1887              30674                4136
pI ay                                       366623           364,9S9            73,42              25467A
Oucet  CIy                                 16766             1,659940          331,760              9,619.0
LAs Psm                                      296              26,645            57.774              60916
uwMaa                                        4542,734         450,163           89,310              15,1171
lialabos                                     17830            278,161           5801                11,637A
mandayong                                    2443             242,6             4905                9,00
M,,tI.                                       310,010          309,103           6O0,0                7,917.7
Muainlupa                                     7972            26890             53,449               5,952.9
Na                                           186,799          186642            J64                71,8
Paaaquo                                      307,717          306,865           612                  7,32.9
Pafg                                         397,30           396,764           77,21               0346
Pat                                           51,01            51Si59            9,608              4,938
San Juan                                     126,708          125,615           24,336              1213
lTV                                          266a80           265,043           53,53               728
Valoeumuh                                    340,050          339,609           69,642               7,234.0
Meto Cebu                                      936,96           930,010           175,673
Cebu ay                                      610,417          604,630          114,708               271.6
lApuapo Ciy                                  146,194          145,627           26,762               2,512U 9
madaud  city                                 180,285          179,753           34,403              15384.6
Cagn" Do Oro City                              339,598          337,957            62,511               623a6
Total PojCit acsu Distas                      9,205,361        8,55,628
Total Al CkIes                               12,917,000
% Proj. Pop.to TOWI City Populatio               71.3
Soure: NSO                                                                                      s



- 50 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 7
PHIUPPJNBS
NEl Hg6MT AND NUTRlTON PROJBCT
DmographyoftbeCides
Total Population, Urban Rural Distribution. and Intercensa Growth Rate
by Cenws Year
Coaus Yer          Totd              Urban           ltor Coul           Rural        Imter Censal
Population        Population       Growt Rate        Population      Growth Rate
(Per cet)                         (Per cet)
1960 (Feb. 1S)     2708768S
1970 (may 6)       366b4486          11677820                            25006666
1975 (May 1)       42070665          14046527            203             28024138           12.1
1980 (May 1)       48098460          17943897            27.7            30154563           7.6
1990 (eat)         6148018           26245S68            46.3            35234612           168
Sourc: Pbilippine Statistical Yeabook, 1990
-HItJ.PPINES
UtBAN HEALTHANDN RtONJEC
Demograby of the Cities
Population of All Cities. Density, and Growth Rate
by Conss Year
Cnws Year         Populaion           Denty          Gowth Rate
(000)        (Perso/Sq. Km-)     (Percet)
1990             12917              687              26.9
1980             10182             5414              14.8
1975             8868               464              16.S
1970             7610              404.6             417
1960             5370              285.6             47.4
1948             3644              193.8         .
Source Phbippine Statstid  Yearbook. 1990
eVA3*Lwk1



- 51 -                              Annex 1
Fage 3 of 7
PHILIPPINE
URBAN HE4ALTH AND NUTlRTON PROlECI
Demo°8aphy of the Cite 
Estieated Urban Poor Population by City
1990
Reglo/Province            Totl Populatio          Urban Poor Population
NCR                                   7928,867                  3
Kalookan                            761,011                    266354
Manila                             1,598,918                   559,621
Pasay                               366,623                    183,312
QueaCiy                            1^766                      1,083,396
District 1                          805,229                    402,61S
District 2                          758,720                    S31,104
District3                           823,980                    288,393
Ditrict 4                          1,147,620                   S73,810
Metro Cebu                            936,896                    s,772
Cebu City                           610,417                    335,729
LapulaPu City                       146,194                    73,097
Mandaue City                        180,285                    91,945
Cagasya De Oro City                   339,598                    101,879
Total Project CiDitIcts               9,205,361                 4,491,2S7
Percentage of Urban Poor Population to Total Population based on UHNP
A_esetStudies
City of Manila   35%                                 Ditrict 2      70%
QuasnCity        55%                                 Dtct 3         35%
Pasay City      50%                                  Distict 4      50%
Kalokan City    65%                                   Cebu City     5S%
Distict 1       70%                                   Cag de Oro   30%
Percentage of Urban Poor Population to Total Population as provided by Health
Office
Mnus1 City    S1%                                    Lapulapu City  50%
me dn in totals andue to roundnug.



- 52 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 7
RIIIIEEE~~~
ipml linB§FFRE X6
S                X~~~~~~~~~~~~~
}E   }|§X}§ 01                  04l 



- 53 -
Anex 1
Page 5 of 7
URBAN HEALTH ANDNUTRON PROECT
Table 1
ipideombkW of Urban Arss
Ldin Caws of Death among tdo Urban Por. QueZOn City. 199
Cse otDoetb                                       per Cent
A. Per Household Survey
L Lung nfecido                                                              22.1
,2. Mioasles                                                                 17.6
3. Diaraheas                                                                 14.7
4. 1-defned symptm                                                            .
S. Hart de                                                                   5.9
6. Accident                                                                  5.9
B. PerDeathRegitry
L C do--vasculardiseases                                                    2L7
2. Repostydosy ass                                                           20.7
3. Diseasesofthecentranoussystm                                              9.2
4. Tuberulosis 
S. Trautstic injuries                                                        7.5
6. alIgnacies                                                               7?4
7.  uatIntestinsl disea                                                      6.9
& See virObacteuial                                                          4.9
9 Birhcomplicatioms                                                          2.4
1a Degenerative dbases                                                       2.4
Tabs 2
LeadI    Cuse of Mordity am# th Urban Poor, QU D CY. 1990
causes of JUeau (Per survy)                             Per eant
1. Lungg tt37.9
2. Non-spifictincions                                                         29
3. Diarrha                                                                    136
4. r-defined syvmptmsc & ditn
5. Asdun                                                                       3.1



- 54 -
Annex 1
Page 6 of 7
PHlPPNS
URBAN HEALTH AND NUTRMON PROJ3CI
Tab 3
LadegaCaus of CbatyWatd Adlsslm, Queaa  aity, 19M0
Cause of Amuisalo                                  pot cest
A. All.Cum
L CaOdbkib                                                                  529
2. DoIeas of do 419u*em                                                     8.1
3 DlMeaaesoftIeesplryqsytem                                                 7.3
4. Rad d1as                                                                 5.5
S. Traumatlojurks                                                           4.8
7. D     oeassof    aevomsyem                                               2.2
L Cdo-vascurdbieases                                                         .9
Gaieoc condtin                                                            1.9
9. Sevee vilnedions                                                         L6
10. blalpanale                                                               1.4
OphthaMicond ons                                                          .L4
IL lUnder
L Upperresp     yasoq IvotIous                                              29.2
2. DInohas                                                                   23
3. Sepas                                                                    124
Measle                                                                    12.4
4. Apenp cits                                                               i5
Nuuioa deficnd                                                            3
S Aacdnt                                                                    2.7
T"o4
Le ading Cau   of Death Among the Uan Poor, Cb    1990
Cans" of Death (Per Death Reglat)                           Per coet
1.     awym im   qdIeases                                                   21.3
2. Hsardisas                                                                 14
3. asoniaator)escular disases                                               12.2
4. Canes                                                                     7.8
S.                                                                           7.5
6 C o-blntiadlseams                                                          6.4
7. Du      desystemdlsses                                                    4.5
8 OenIo-ureasy t a Ieos                                                      4.1
9. Skin diseases                                                             2.7
10. m   .povoml                                                              27



- 55 -
Annex 1
Page 7 of 7
URDN HEAL7I ND NUTItMON PROZEC
Tab les
L.adhag Caue dMaUdt In th   UaOt, CaCty. 190
Cause of Morbdity (VWt Da. 111t Buta" rePor)                    PaM oals
2. Acut esla    'ele                                                       10.9
3. 31"prbems                                                                93
4. Diareas                                                                  84
S. B&nebdth                                                                 4.1
6. Puaaitm                                                                  Si
7. Indeedwound                                                              2
. Ase"                                                                      t.
Gaso-natla dlsrdt                                                         1.9
9. T     _beradles                                                          1o
10. Hypensio                                                                1.
Tabb 6
m )o Ca eus  tof   ia     1, Kaoo T&b..    a Pas& 1991
Cause" o Mat b    (pet surny)                          Per as
1. Peewsand flu
2. EENTbfete
I. AnemIa
4. LUvrineottas
5. KldneSvpublddsetlaifeeia
5. sknl maeualba    t
Note: Peceet n dwidy"aud
H gest rewalenef dSmi durn cm ties (Sep - San)
2. Cauldhitik                                                              14.5
.. .uu*-hws"  4b"M                                            12.1
4. Typholf C-hew                                                            ?A
5. Hea, Prob.m                                                              GA
L   ea,ss                                                                   S.?
7. Pan In rejuodi stm                                                       5.1
L. Asthma                                                                   5.
DIarhea                                                                    5.8
7.Dldw ubuaa                                                               S5
9. HypotA                                                                   3



- 56 -
DPathWt ofHaibth                        Page I of 6
Raor8muisd stnzcutur
2 Am_ SI-                    :-                                  2 A-. Si.agy
~~~~~~_W_                                  Ioa O
DadTaI_ y                ___ __
Aad.
DbsuI                            I ai1                                        1
Diumeo                  Food* .
sevift         p.amt                                       A&sbldEiiIm
Rassatdi                                      kyle.
HumuRnaw
kl..
B                              Dw~~~~~~~dmopm
Rowb%~~~~~~~~~~ye
R%vIW 
E  _ D_
u   &~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sri
saw"            
Rooke                      _* 



-57-                     Annex 2
Page 2 of6
lEGIONAL FED HEALTH OFFICE
8~~~~~~                           1
pim
Imon A
rsIa,dml    - vIc.  ,omu~ng&      A Mr     I L    a NGO
TSo       [_&  ~~~~DWMBe&    Am$=N
Smniftisla a 



QUEZON CrrY HEALTH DEPARTMENT
Present Origa - - I Chat
(Per Plantila ofPersonne)
CkyH.hh
_~~~~~~~~~e _vn                                Nw S    & -i
Disim         & ChHai Si.ItiD S     MvicesD DWAM510                  &               DivIk
Disi Helt 
Offlc     . _
46HeW _
Cers



r - -- - -- - - i   I8r
II; L~LJ           2    lXi
AXAAXII             0,$           9 '



- 60 -
_U 2
ORGANEZAIIONAIAJPSONNBL CRART
T40SoalthDV&Uw_
DO}I
(psecxey of
| NCRDhecWr 
DEODiUtU                              -    OA
DiusdctBel&                           Osffic f i
O_ficer                              Mayor    j
_tW"D                                      f
Office
3                  3
mwZOICA             LyW#4&
Officer
Offiffc
N_ d       ..



- 61 -
Annex 2
Page 6 of 6
ORGANEZATIONAIJPERSONEL CHART
Peas Municipal Heafth Department
DPadtmet of
Health
(S)
NCRD
(NCRDirector)
. . ~~~~Govermn
(Office of the Mayor)
Health
Office
SasStafft
OpUBdond                             Teahnidcl
Services                   A~~~~~Srvce
.                    TetibniTe cal
Heaft        Pei        Spocdd
culture                             Traimng
. en¢ces   . au         S-vmP     ad
ncatio
SUC-
Services



- 62 -
mx 3
NHILIPP1n8
LOCAL HEALH AN   R,t|i      S PROJECT
lTe I: fevu  of La
1992           ILR             Local          Total           Local ReVMA
Peputletfn       (1995)         RovaM           Roveiw           Total Revee
(199)           (1993)          (1993)
Caloocan                             3477         289IS391        227846739        5100         ---0   0.441
Manila                             1751172        55915079        1266174751      1825325470           0.694
Pusey                               401534        155936          416564734       57526432             0.728
nue                                1825U0         596969         1120924316       1717912009           0.652
Cebu                                668543        2681252         331S9241         599717473           0.553
Lopu Lepu                           160115         896436          37493469        127337332           0.294
Nandaus                             197452         95180974        52391057        147576031           0.355
Cagayan de Oro                      371936        196478511       1130o807        3M09507318           0.365
Metro Manila Mmlclpalitfes         3785156        321303664       655445240       976748904            0.671
NOTE: rhe revnue estliates for th Metro Panit minfepatlttes are undertated.  The tRA share presented fs only
for the mtropulttan ar  as a prviWnce, wnd does not include the individhal awnfcptl allocations.
lable 2: Current Nealth Exaenditurms of LjWa
1992                   1991               Total health        Per capita
exienditure            expenditure            expendfture           health
by LGUs                by DOO                                  expenditure
Celoocan                                      MA              15373524                15373524              18.45
ont 1t                                 121280324              30131166               151411490              86.46
Pasew                                   12212992               6332322                18545314              46.19
Quezon                                  80858028              30080925               110938953              60.77
Cebu                                    27657384               4093908               31751292               47.49
Lapu LOpu                                3186890                851564                4038454               25.22
andau.                                    881219               1043048                 1924267               9.75
Caganm de Oro                            8680632                367M72                9048384               24.33
Metre NXnfla tonfeipallties                   MA             142052426               142852426              37.74
NOTE: Local health expnditures of Caloocan and the Metro Mnila nmfcfpalltlaes were unavtilable. The 1991
expenditures of COO are also the e stfStes of the cost of devolved ftuctlons to be absorbed by LWs.
Table 3: Health gIMendltures end Locat Revaneis
Health Expenditure                Local share of
as X of total revenues         total health expenditure
Caloocan                    ~3.0                                                MA
ManIla                                         8.3S                            80.1X
Pesay                                          3.22                            65.9°
uaon                                           6.5                            72.9x
Cebu                                           5.32                            87.1X
Lapu Lapu                                      3.2X                            78.92
andAu.                                         1.32                            45.62
Casan de Oro                                   2.92                            95.9°
Metro Mltnia Nuncfpellttes                     14.6                             MA



- 63 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 3
URBAN HIMALT  AND NUTITION PROJECT
Current Donor ActivitL in Ura dlealth and Nutrition
Urban Basic Services Progam  (UBS)
This project, funded by UNICEF, Is the most significant donor activity
currently responding to the health and nutrition concerns of the urban poor in
the Philippines. UBSP started as a demonstration project involving four
cities in 1983 and expanded to 13 cities during the 1988-1993 program period.
For 1994-1998, UBSP will further expand its coverage to include the 8 cities
and the 13 municipalities targeted by the Urban Health and Nutrition Project,
plus the cities of Bacolod, Iloilo, Davao, Gceneral Santos, Olongapo and
Angeles. These cities and uumicipalities have a combined population of
approximately 11.4 million, of which five million are children aged 0 to 17,
representing 39 per cent of all urban children.
Over the ten years of its implementation, UBSP has demonstrated that a
basic services strategy, coupled with strong community participation, is an
effective way of providing needed health and nutrition services to urban poor
communities. The project focuses on empowering the poor to participate in
their own development through support activities such as community organizing,
training and capacity building, advocacy, social and resource mobilization and
networking, research, monitoring and evaluation. For the 1994-1998 program
period, UBSP will intensify efforts to address the needs and problems of
children in expecially difficult circumstances, particularly street children,
who are considered the most at-risk children of the urban poor. Preventive
community-based initiatives to help street children such as organizing
children and their families, provision of appropriate and viable work and
income opportunities, alternative learning schemes, and the provision of
appropriate health and nutrition services will be strengthened and
accelerated.
The major output objectives of UBSP are classified into direct services
and support services objectives. The direct services objectives are further
classified into child survival, child development and child protection
objectives. Under the child survival service component, the project will
support the following activities: a) expanded program for immunization; b)
control of acute respiratory infections; c) control of diarrheal diseases; d)
women's health and safe motherhood; e) promotion of breast feeding, weaning
and growth monitoring; f) maternal nutrition and micronutrient
supplementation; g) prevention and control of dengue fever; and h) community-
based prevention and control of sexually transmitted diseases and HIV/AIDS.
Water and sanitation activities, such as the promotion of appropriate
technology for waste managoment and the introduction of home-based double-fit
latrine, will also be supported under this component.



- 64 -
Page 2 of 3
The child development component vill provide early child care and
development services to preschool children, improve the elementary cohort
survival rate, promote literacy among parents, and provide functional
education on effective parenting and family life skills to adolescent girls.
UBSP's child protection initiative will focus on the problems of street
children. Activities to be supported under this component include efforts to
remove children from exploitative and hazardous occupations, provide physical
rehabilitation, protection and counseling services to children in conflict
with the law, and reuniting street children with their families or providing
them with alternative family care.
To meet its support services objectives, the following project
activities will be undertaken: a) strengthen the capacity of city/municipal
governments to plan, implement, monitor and evaluate programs for child
survival, development and protection; b) strengthen and sustain community
participation through the formulation and subsequent implementation and
monitoring of community action plans; c) sustain the basic services delivery
mechanism at the city/municipality and barangay levels; and d) establish
linkages with the private sector and other UN and international agencies for
resource mobilization in support of the project's goals.
To implement the 1994-1998 UBSP plan of operations, UNICEP will make
available US$4,650,000. The Government wi.'1 contribute adequate counterpart
funds. The project will provide block funds for community-initiated projects
such as protection schemes and non-formal education programs for street
children and out-of-school youth, improvement of water and sanitation
facilities and credit schemes, and income and employment generation
activities. Block funds for organizing and training related to self-help
slums upgrading and land tenure will also be available under this project.
The Urban Health and Nutrition Project (UHNP) has drawn largely from the
lessons that have been learned and experienced in the course of implementing
UBSP, and will be employing some of the strategies and approaches that have
been proven to be effective. Having identical goals and objectives, UHNP will
be an important complement to UBSP. UNICEF recognizes that UBSP's strengths
in community organization, mobilization and participation, as well as its
multi-agency and multi-sectoral approach to planning and programming services
for the urban poor should be complemented by bigger and more systematic
efforts to shape policies at city and national levels that will be effectively
responsive to the needs and problems of the urban poor.
Institutional Support to the Health Care.Program in the NCR
This project, funded with a grant from the Italian Government, is a
continuation of an activity that was initiated in 1989. Its objeccive is to
strengthen the deliv*ry of basic maternal and child health services in the
National Capital region using the primary health care approach. For the 1993-
1994 implementation period, the project plans to cover the cities of Manila,
Quezon and Kalookan. Two strategies will be pursued: increasing the
capabilities of government institutions to expand and improving the delivery



- 65 -
Axhe 4
Page 3 of 3
of maternal and child health services; and developing or improving community
initiatives in the provision of maternal and child care.
Under the institution capability building strategy, the project will
provide logistic and technical assistance to regional and city health offices
to improve managerial and supervision capacities. It will also train health
personnel to improve the quality of maternal and child care, and foster
collaboration between government and non-government organiuations in the
planning and delivery of health services. The strategies to promote community
participation will include organization of primary health care committees,
training of barangay health workers to sensitize them to health needs and
effectively manage coamunity development activities, and the adoption of
primary health care approaches.
The Italian Government will provide US$320,000 to fund the two-year
iplemontation of the project. The funds wlll be used to support tralaing and
ISC activitles, procurement of vehicles, drugs and other medical comodities,
office equipment and supplies, hiring of support staff, aupervision,
monitoring, and evaluation.



- 66 -
Page 1 of 4
PHILEPSU
URBAN HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
m_auum_inLuTmm
Intervention         Objective                      Whether      Whether
Process    Measured by
(P) or      Service
Impact      Statistic (SS)
(I)         or Survey (SU)
General              Register 902 of pregnant *         P              SS
women by the end of the
first trimester
Pre-natal car.       100l   of registered pregnant      P              SS
women receive three pre-
natal exams/counselling
sesslons
AnasemLa              1002 of registered pregnant       P              SS
women receive iron tablets
for at least four months
Reduction of anaemia by 25X       I              SU
Tetanus              1002 of registered pregnant        P              SS/SU
women receive 2 tetanus
shots
Goitre               1OOZ of pregnant women with        P              SS
visible goitre get iodine
capsule by end of fourth
month
pEIK                 100  of registered pregnant        P              SS
women at high nutritional
risk receive 6 months of
calorie supplementation
Reduction ln low                  I              SU
birthweight by 252
STDs                 1001 of health center             P               SU



- 67 -
Amun 5 
Page 2 of 4
PH PPINES
URBAN HEALTH AND kPjjjdTION PROJECT
InTuvR1IONS NDO4JjZGM=
Intervention         Objective                     Whether    Vbether
Process     Neasured by
(P) or      Service
Impact      Statistic (SS)
(I)         or Survey (SU)
facilities and staff in the
project area equipped to
diagnose and treat
gonorrhea and chlamydia,
and diagnose and counsel
HIV cases
Safe birth           Timely referral of 100l   of     P              SU
pregnancies/deliveries with
obstetrical complications
Post partum          100  of registered post-         P             SS
care                 delivery women receive five
counselling sessions for
theuselves and their
infants in the first 6
months
Vitamin A            1001 of registered women          P             SS
deficiency           receive vitamin A mega-dose
within 4 weeks of delivery
1001 elimination of              I              SU
deficient and low serum
retinol values
Family Planning      Each project area health          P             SS/SU
facility has a three-month
supply of contraceptives
available
Reduce by half the number        0              SU
of deliveries within 2
years of the preceding one



- 68 -
Anmnx m
Page 3 of 4
ZHILUUPNES
URBAN HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
INTFPVNSIOM  AIM OBJRCTIVE
Intervention         Objective                     Whether    Whether
Process     Measured by
(P) or      Servlce
Impact      Statistic (SS)
(I)         or Survey (SU)
SU
Increase the contraceptive       0
prevalence rate among
project target women
between 15 & 45 from 201 to
452
Ceneral              Register 901 of 0-24 month        P             SS
children through quarterly
surveys
mU                   10OX of registered 0-24          P             SS
month children receive at
least 18 out of 24 monthly
weighings
100l   of qualifying children    P              SS
are fed supplement
Reduce the prevalence of         I              SS/SU
underweight and stunting at
age 24 months by 251
Vitamln A            100% of registered 0-24           P              SS
deficiency           month children should have
received 4 vitamin A mega-
doses
100l   elimination of            I              SU
deficient and low serum
retinol values



- 69 -
Page 4 of 4
PHILIPPINES
URBAN HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
XETRVENTI0IN8 ANDQ BJCTIVE
Intervention        Objective                     Whether    Whether
Process    Measured by
(P) or     Service
Impact     Statistic (SS)
(I)        or Survey (SU)
Acute                252 reduction in the            P              SU
respiratory          incidence of pneumonia
infeetions           (lower respiratory
infection) in 0-2 year old
population
Anaemia              100X of LBW are treated          P             SS
with iron by six months of
as.
Reduce anaemia in 0-24          I              SU
month children by 251
TB                  Availability at health           P              SS
centers of 6 months of SCC
drugs for predicted sputum-
positive cases over next 3
months
801 of sputum-poditive
cases should have completed     P              SU
SCC course
5je



- 70 -
Page 1 of 3
URBAN HUMLT AND NUTITION PROJECT
A STUDY OF THE MRMAN POOR IN OIEZON CITY:
A Brief Summary of Methodology and Findlngs
The Assessment Study of the Urban Poor In Queson City was commissioned by
the Department of Health as part of the planning of the Urban Health and
Nutrition Project (MMHP). It is an integral part of a wider 8 idy of selected
urban poor areas, namely Kalookan City, Cagayan de Oro City, GaDu City, Pasig,
and Taguig. The general objectives of the study were:
(i)   to develop and test a methodology for identifying, classifying and
locating the urban poor;
(Li) to identify and classify urban poor areas and high risk population
groups;
(iLL) to determine the most widespread and serious health risks affecting
the urban poor population;
(iv)  to assess the service capability of existing institutions providing
health services for the urban poor; and
(v) to recommend specific interventions to modify health risks and
improve health and nutrition status of the urban poor.
Quezon City was chosen as the preo-test study area because it is the largest
and most populous city in the country, with a rapidly growing urban poor
population. It had a population count of 1,666,766 in the 1990 census, with a
population density of 10,030.1 persons per sq. kilometer. The average density,
however, is misleading since it does not reflect the crowding usually observed
in such areas with high concentration of urban poor dwellers as Barangay Capri,
which had a population density of 117,164 persons per sq. kilometer in 1990. The
city was divided into 4 administrative districts, each of which was administered
by a district health office.
The study was divided into 3 parts: part 1 focused on the beneficiary
assessment, part 2 on epidemiologic analysis, and part 3 on institutional
analysis. The beneficiary assessment study consisted of an ocular survey and
mapping of urban poor communities, focus group discussion with purposively
selected urban poor residents, and ln-depth survey of randomly selected urban
poor households. The epidemiologic analysis involved a detailed investigation
of the major causes of death (per death certificate records) and hospital
admissions in charity wards of government hospitals located in Q.C. in 1990. The
institutional analysis focused on the service capacities of existing health
centers, clinics, and hospitals in Quezon City, giving particular attention to



- 71 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 3
the Q.C. Health Department as the major health service institution serving the
urban poor in the city.
K2thodologv and AFproahWs
The met-hodology and Instruments for the rapid appraisal of urban poor
commnities in Q.C. was developed specifically for this study and used in
identifying and classifying urban poor communities. Briefly, the methodology for
the beneficiary assessment portion of the study called for: (i) the conceptual
definition of the urban poor community, (ii) the conduct of an ocular survey
around the city to identify and locate those communities considered as urban
poor, (iii) the compilation of pertinent information about the communities
identified as urban poor using both secondary data and key informant interviews,
(iv) the classification of urban poor communities into typologies based on
physical and socio-economic characteristics, (v) the mapping of identified urban
poor communities indicating broadly their physical location, their typology, and
socio-economic deprivation scores, (vi) the selection of sample communities in
each typology for in-depth household interviews and focus group discussion, (vii)
the conduct of focus group discussions among urban poor mothers with children
under 5 years old, and (viii) the conduct of household interviews with randomly
selected housebolds in the sample urban poor communities.
For purposes of the study, urban poor counities were identified as those
with limited or no access to basic anities such as water and power supply,
sewerage, garbage and excreta disposal, and adequate housing. The basic unit of
analysis was the colony or cluster of 20 or more households exhibiting the
physical characteristics of an urban poor or s'um commnmity.
Colonies vere classified according to location and ranked according to
degree of deprivation, using 13 basic indicators, namely: (i) distance of
comnity to nearest health facility or practitioner; (ii) cost of transportation
to above; (iii) population density; (iv) condition of children; (v) general
environmental condition in the community; (vi) density of houses; (vii)
predominant construction materials of walls of houses; (viii) predominant
construction materials of roofs of houses; (ix) main source of income of labor
force; (x) type of toilet facility; (xi) source of drinking water; (xii) means
of garbage disposal; and (xiii) type of lighting.
The methodology for the epidemiological analysis seSment of the study-
consisted mainly of a records review of the death certificates and charity ward
admissions in 4 hospitals In Q.C.
The review of the death certificate records was aied at determining the death
profile and the major causes of death in Q.C. in 1990. Basic information such
as name, age, residene, occupation, attendant at death, underlying, antecedent
and immediate causes of death, and place of death were collected from 100 I of
all deaths of Q.C. residents registered in Q.C. in 1990. The review of hospital
admission records, on the other hand, was aimed at determining the hospital
admission profile and the major causes of hospitalization of Quezon City urban
poor residents In 1990. A 4 month (Jan, Apr, Jul and Oct) sample of charity ward
admissions in 4 hospitals was selected. All charity admissions in the sample
month were included in the study. Pertinent data such as name, age, residence,



- 72-
Amex 6
Page 3 of 3
occupation, discharge diagnosis, hospital charges, and amount paid by patient,
were collected.
The methodology for the institutional assessment segment of the study
consisted of a rapid appraisal of the facilities and manpower complement of the
existing office and clinics of the Q.C. Health Department as well as of private
clinics and medical facilities, including hospitals, of other government and non-
government organizations operating in Q.C.   Pertinent information such as
location of clinics/hospitals, catchment area and population served, available
health manpower, equipment and instruments used, services provided, performance
targets and achievements, status of physical facilities, clinic schedules, and
usual clinic loads were collected, processed, and analyzed. In-depth interviews
with a sample of 8 clinics, all district health offices, and the Q.C. central
office, was conducted to obtain information on the organizational and management
dynamics of the City Health Department operations.
All data and information gathered were processed and analyzed to draw up
the general characteristics of the urban poor and to describe the major health
and nutrition problems affecting them. From these, recommendations were made on
t-he broad means of improving the health and nutrition status of the urban poor
and how the UHNP could best respond to their most important public health
problems.



- 73 -
Ar" 7
Page I of 5
PHILIPUPNES
MIuN HEAT  An -NMTRTION PROJEC
IALT   l;=C TAR91=w
The project would employ two distinct active outreach targeting
strategies as well as strengthening facility based services provided on
demand. Women of reproductive age and children under 5 years (the group most
at risk) would be targeted for client-oriented services during critical high
risk periods in their life or renroductive cycle. Specific geographical urban
areas or communities which are known to harbor the highest incidence and
prevalence of a number of health problems, including tuberculosis, would be
targeted for ana-based preventive and disease control interventions.   The
health services supported by the project requiring health facilities for
delivery, and that are in addition to those already available at health
centers, would be referred to in this project as facility-based services.
This approach departs from one dimensional area based targets and in so doing
will achieve the main objective of public health services: reach those most in
need of services; accurately measure the extent of need; avoid the provision
of services to those not as needy and not at as great a risk.
Llfe or Reproductive Cycle Based
The birth-based services are designed to .respond to the needs of women
of reproductive age and children as they go through the critical reproductive
life cycle stages covering the period from before pregnancy, pregnancy,
childbirth, the immediate post-natal period, and the first five formative
years of child growth and development. This approach begins with a household
level targeting strategy aimed at meeting the large unmet need for family
planning among the estimated 1.5 million women of reproductive age living in
the project's target slum communities. Through the outreach educational and
promotional activities of midwives and barangay health workers (BHW),
attempts are made to identify all poor women of reproductive age who are at
abnormal risk to pregnancy or desire family planning services. The identified
women are registered and enrolled in a family planning service or method if
they so choose. If the individual choice involves a method only provided at a
health center, hospital or other health facility (IUD, sterilization ete.),
the outreach workers facilitate the referral. Once the service is provided,
they follow up the women in the home and provide advice and assure a
successful patient outcome. (see facility base family planning services
below)
Through the same outreach approach, there would be an attempt to
identify, register and track 1001 of all women who become pregnant and to
enroll them in a preventive pro-natal care service. The objective is to
enroll the mother as early as possible in the pregnancy and provide her a
minimum of three pre-natal visits during each normal pregnancy. Women
identified, as a result of the outreach activities and pre-natal visits to be
at high risk to delivery, (approximately 5X) are mcnitored separately to



- 74 -
Anne 7-
Page 2 of 5
minimize risk and assure optimum attention at delivery. The project would
support critical inputs during pregnancy such as tetanus immunizations, food,
iron and other micro nutrient supplementation in order to reduce risk to both
the mother and the new born. For another 10 of women who incur complications
at birth, for which such complications cannot be detected ahead of delivery,
the project would support referral and transport to an appropriate hospital as
well as provide support for the manageuent of obstetrical complications in the
facility. (see a&cj1J oMbge below)
All newborns will be registered and tracked monthly for the first two
years of the child's life and quarterly until five years of age. The monthly
visits to the health facilities will provide the opportunity to integrate a
range of services for both the mother and the child. Through the combination
of household outreach and the health facilities, services for children would
include promotion of breast feeding, growth monitoring, proper weaning,
immunization, food and mLcronutrient supplementation, prevention of pneumonia
and dehydration, deworming and disease surveillance/consultation. For the
mother, the immediate post delivery period would focus on the priorities of
monitoring potential complications of delivery and counseling on the value and
provision of family planning services.
For the child, the goal would be to assure normal child growth and
development during the first five years of life. The reproductive cycle
approach puts special emphasis on monitoring the first two years of life when
the child is most vulnerable. This approach enable early intervention as soon
as  the child's development deviates from a normal Aevelopfent pattern. The
cycle then repeats itself with the next birth to the mother.
The first schematic diagram, which follows, illustrates the reproductive
or life cycle approach as it applies to the project beneficiaries under the
UHNP. Beginning on the left, there is an estimated urban population of 9.2
million people in the three urban areas covered by the project. Roughly one
half or 4.6 million are living in slums; within this group, an estimated 1.5
million women are in the reproductive age group. Based on current fertility
patterns, approximately 160,000 pregnancies would occur among these women in
the first year of the project, increasing to 180,000 per year by the project's
end. This strategy should be the most manageable and cost effective approach
as it significantly reduces the scope and work load of the public health
system as compared to more traditional total population based approaches.
The second diagram illustrates the integrated services that would be
provided during one of the reproductive cycle vLsits. The example chosen
represents the protocol for the post-partum visit that occurs 24 hours after
delivery. Under the reproductive cycle approach, integrated pro_..ocols are
defined for each type of visit.
Agea Based
The area-based services are designed specifically to target geographic
areas and total populations identified as high risk for specific health
problems. For example, due to the close corre,ation of tuberculosis



- 75- .
Page 3 of 5
prevalence to population density, the targeting of tuberculosis control
efforts would be done on the basis of stratifying urban poor areas by
population donsity. Under the project, initial active case-finding for
tuberculosis would be launched, on a priority basis in the most dense slum
areas. Geographic Information Systems (GIS) would be used to map the risk to
various health problems by small areas or barangay (village) and assist in the
management of this area based targeting approach.
IMMIX Based augot
The facility-based services to be promoted and strengthened under this
project include the following: (i) famlTy planning, requiring a health
facility, (including voluntary surgical ±-terilization) either referred from
the household outreach activities described above or on patient demand basis;
(ii) control of sexually transmitted diseases and AIDS for women; and (iii)
treatment of child pneumonia referred from the household outreach early ARI
detection program or from direct patient demand.
The facility-based services are designed to respond to the service
demand of a variety of clients. For instance, the facility based family
planning services are offered to all women on demand regardless of economic
status, whereas, the focus of the family planning outreach educational and
promotive activities would be to reach women living in the slum communities.
Adolescent women are included because of their physiologic and economic
vulnerability and would be a special target for the outreach and facility
based family planning services.
The proposed facility based services for the control of sexually
transmitted diseases and AIDS are designed to respond to the needs of
reproductive age women who may be exposed to STD risks as a result of their
own, or their partner's, behavior. Currently STD services are not available
to women at public health facilities except special clinics for commercial sex
workers. The project would support the introduction of this new service.
The facility based services for pneumonia treatment are targeted to
children under 5 years old who are self referred or have been detected and
referred to the facility by the outreach workers. The outreach workers would
be trained using standard DOH policies and guidelines for the early household
detection and treatment of acute respiratory infections including pneumonia
(ARI) in infants and children. Particular attention is focused on this
problem because, despite its relative ease of detection and treatment,
pneumonia remains the most single most common cause of infant and child deaths
in the Philippines. Slum children are particularly vulnerable.



Reproductive Cycle (Life Cycle)
1.5 It                             Family Planning
______IY2nd Year
ist      stPatumINorII
T/M  I~~~~I
*      1III   211d    3rdw1  | N            I I                | 'II
l  Birth                                  i:
4.61 F            41                      Post Part=m   
_-     ~~2.3 X Maks
9.2MTa.                                                         ||||
4.6 JLNbl-Poor                                                            o 



_77 -                        Annex 7
Paee 5 of 5
URBAN HEALTH & NUTRlON PROJECT
Example of Immediate Post Partm Visit Protocol
(24 Hours After Delivery)
Routine Post ParWm Cae           Asse Heath Status
1) Within 24 Hour After Delivery
- Check for atony/bloeding   Umbilical Cord Cae
- General perineal care
- BP initiation              Titiate Growth Monitoring
2) After 24 Hours to 1-2 Weeks
- Check for signs of infection    Endons Breast Feeding Protocol
Breast Feeding                   Set Visit Schedule
- Exclusive if possible
Health Education on
- Family planning/birth spacing/
others
-Care of the breast
- Nutrition of mother & child
- Child visit schedule
- Child immuniation schedule
-IT Immuniion (if required)
Nutrition Supplementation
- Iron Supplements (continuing)
- Vitamine A Supplements (one
mega dose)
- Iodine Supplemnents (1 capsul if
not already taken)
Food Supplementation (per critria)



78 -
Annex 8
PHILPPINES
MMBAN HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
INCRENMAL STAFF
Staff                                    Number of Staff
Medical Doctors                                        98
Public Health Nurse                                   138
Kid-wives                                             467
Dentists                                                4
Nutritionists                                          58
Ned Techs                                              28
Sanitary Inspectors                                    39
COST OF STAF
(Million)
Staff                               Peso               (5 year) (US$)
Medical Doctors                     42.7                     (1.7)
Public Health Nurse                 49.3                    (1.97)
Mid-wives                          100.2                     (4.0)
Dentists                             1.4                     (0.6)
Nutritionists                       12.1                    (0.48)
Ned Techs                            9.8                    (0.39)
Sanitary Inspectors                  6.4                    (0.26)
Total                         Peso 221.9                     $8.88



- 79 -
Annex g
Page 1 of 2
URBAN HEA&TH AND NUTRITION PIDIOT
GUIDEIINX  FOR FACILITIES 2GEMLOPUEN
1)          lQgon
There are four major phases in the development and implementation
of facilities for repair/rehabilitation or for new construction . They are a
follows:
(a)   Site Appraisal and Schematic/Design Development Phase
(b)   Contract Documents Phase
(c)   Bidding and Awards Phase
(d) Construction Phase
2)          SchematicgDesign Development Phase
All schematic/design development plans, outline specifications,
and preliminary estimates to be used for the preparation of Contract
Documents, shall be prepared by the DOH-Health Infrastructure Scrvice (INFRA),
based on their earlier appraisal of existing conditions of sites, services and
physical plants.
3)          Contract Documents Phase
(a)  Each project/facility, whether for repair/rehabilitation or for new
construction, shall have a corresponding set of Contract Documents
to be used for construction purposes. These include Detailed
Architecture and Engineering Plans, Technical Specifications, and
Detailed Estimates.
(b) Consultants will be hired for the preparation of these Contract
Documents. The procedures to be followed for the procurement of
consultants will be in accordance with the NEDA Guidelines for
Hiring of Consultants for Government Infrastructure Projects
(Attachment 1).
(c) Based on the NEDA Guidelines, the Offices of the Provincial
Governor for Cebu and Kisamis Oriental (for Cebu City and Cagayan
de Oro City projects) and the Office of the Governor for Metro
Manila (for Metro Manila projects which will not be implemented by
the DOH) shall each organize a Prequalification, Evaluation and
Awards Committee for Consultancy (PEVAC) which will be responsible
for the conduct of prequalification of consultants, evaluation of
proposals, selection, and recommending award of contracts for
consultancy services.



- 80 -
..             A~~~~~~9
Page 2 of 2
(d) The PEVAC of the DOH shall handle the hiring of consultants for
projects to be implemented by the DOH (see Annex 1).
(e) Projects shall be clustered or packaged on the basis of geographic
accessibility and establishment of a cost limit of approximately
P _ per package.
(f) The attached Terms of Reference (see Annex 2) will be used for the
hiring of consultants. They indicate, among others, detailed scope
of services, qualification standards, and fees. All consultancy
contracts shall be subject to DOH and World Bank reviw before
award.
4)        Bidding and Awards Phase
(a) The projects by package shall be implemented by the Offices of the
Concerned Governors and by the DOH (see Annex 1), using PD 1594
Guidelines (Attachment 2).
(b) The Offices of the Concerned Governors, in compliance with PD 1594,
shall organize a Prequalification, Bids and Awards Committee (PBAC)
which will be responsible for the conduct of prequalification,
bidding, evaluation of bids and recommending award of contracts for
construction. This PBAC is separate from the PEVAC (for hiring of
consultants).
5)        Construction Phage
(a) Based on the TOR, the construction supervision of the project
packages will also be provided by the consultants.
(b) As a special provision, all requests for variation orders, extra
costings, advance and progress payments, work suspension, contract
time extension, and contract price escalation shall be submitted
first to the DOH for review and certification/approval.
(c) The final acceptance of the project shall also be subject to review
and certification/approval by the DOH.



- 81 -
AriexILO
Page 1 of 14
URBAN HEALTH ANDNTRITION PROJET
LIST OFITII TO BR PROCURED
LISTl OF z4BPPq/fiTVIFt
I.    CLINIC  AOVIPME1zNT4S=Z NE
Cormnoent 1:     SerFY&So DelivA33
Women's and Child Health
1)    FP Service Clinic Equipment Set
Examining  table w/stirrups                              1
Sphygmomanometer                                         1
Stethoscope                                              1
Goose neck lamp                                          1
Sterilizer                                               1
Revolving stools                                         1
Kelly pads                                               2
Instrument  tray v/cover (stainless)                     1
Instrument tray w/o cover                                1
Vaginal speculum (6 medium, 2 small)                     8
Uterine sound                                            2
Tenaculum forceps                                        2
Uterine forceps                                          2
Mayo scissors                                            2
MDT hock                                                 2
Sponge forceps                                           2
Urethral catheters (3 sizes)                             2
2)    Voluntary Sterilization Clinic Equipment Set
Examining table                                          1
Sphygmomanometer w/stand                                 I
Ambo bag                                                 1
Suction apparatus                                        1
Oxygen tank w/gauge                                      1
Halogen lap                                              1
Surgical instrument table                                1
Surgical instrument tray                                 1
3)    Nutrition Equipment
Scale, bar type
Scale. platform type
Cal.ibrating veights (set)
Calculator
Weaning food equipment (set)
Tuberculosis Control
1)   Microcoscope, Binocular
2)   Microscope, Spare Parts



- 82 -
A£ texL10
Page 2 of 14
Servies Uiadn
1)    STD Clinic Equipment Set
Sterilizer                                               1
Kelly Pads                                               2
Instrument tray w/cover (stainless)                      1
Instrument w/o cover                                     1
Mayo table                                               1
Vaglnal speculum                                         6
Tenaculum forceps                                        2
Uterine forceps                                          2
Flushing tray (medium) & pitcher set                     1
2)    CARI Equipment Set for Health Centers
Oxygen tank w/gauge and flow meter                       1
Oxygen refill                                            4
Nebulizer                                                1
One-minute timer                                         1
Otoscope                                                 1
3)   CARI Equipment Set for Referral Hospitals
OIX.Set
Nebulizer                                                1
One-minute timer                                         1
Otoscope                                                 1
Pulse oximeter                                           1
4)    Clinic Equipment Set for Existing Health Center
Stethoscope
Sphygmomanometer
Nursing bag
Delivery Kit
5)    Clinic Equlpment Set for New Main Health Centers and
new Health Centers
QMEy /Set
Weighing scale, clinlcal-adult                           1
Weighing scale, infant                                   1
Vaccine carrier, 1.5L                                    1
Refrigerator                                             1
Portable dental equipment (dental chair,
accessories & instrument)                              1
Examining table v/pad                                    2
Stove, lp gas, one-burner                                1
Microscope, binocular                                    1
Gooseneck lamp                                           1
Sterilizer                                               1
Light gas lantern                                        1
Hospital bed                                             1
Gentrifuge, clinical, electric, 4 tube                   1
Test tube holder, 1  test tube capacity                  2
Lamp, alcohol, stainless                                 I
Test tube rack, 12 test tube capacity.                   1



- 83 -
Am 10
Page 3 of 14
HemoSlobinometer                                           1
Forceps, ovum, 9-1/2', stalnless                           1
Forceps, kelly, straight, stainless                        2
Forceps, sponge, straight, stainless                       1
Forceps, tenaculum, single prong, stainless                1
Forceps, mosquito, straight, stainless                     4
Forceps, mosquito, curved, stainless                       4
Forceps, thumb, stainless                                  2
Forceps, tissue, stainless                                 2
Noedle holder, Mayo, 7-1/2, stainless                      2
Scissors, bandage, stainless                               2
Scissors, iris, stainless                                  1
Scissors, Mayo, stainless, curved 170 mm                   1
Surgical set, minor, with case                             1
Speculum, vaginal, graves, 4-1/2', stainless               2
Speculum, vaginal, virginal, stainless                     1
Uterine sound, 12' bulb  end, stainless                    1
Cervical dilator                                           3
Instrument tray, stainless, 8'x3'xl-l/2* w/cover           1
Catheter tray, 17"V4O, stainless, cover                    1
Tnvstrument tray, enamel, 8"x10, cover                    1
Kidney basin, 10", stainless                               1
Kidney basin, 10', enamel, cover                           1
Wash basin w/stand, stainless                              1
Enema can, 2 qt capacity, w/tubing & tip                   1
Nursing instrument set, w/bag                              1
Auxilliary Midwife kit w/vinyl bag                         1
SanLtary lnspector's kit, v/accessories                    1
Medicine glass, graduated 30cc                             4
Stethoscope, bell type                                     3
Head mirror, 3-1/2" diameter                               1
Percussion hammer                                          1
Kelly pad                                                  1
Eye test chart                                             1
Optoaloscope                                               1
Otoscope set                                               1
Magnifying lens, 4' diameter                               I
Sphygmomanometer, morcurial, desk type                     2
Graduated cylinder, 250 ml                                 1
6)    Clinic Equipment Set for New Bgy. Health Stations (BHS)
Oty./Set
WeLghing scale, clinical-adult                             1
Weighing scale, infant                                     1
Examlning table w/pad                                      1
Stove, lp gas, one-burner                                  1
Sterilizer                                                 1
Forceps, uterine, dressing, stainless                      1
Scissors, bandage, stainless                               1
Sphygmomanometer, mercurial, desk type                     1
Stethoscope, bell type                                     1
Thermometer, oral                                          1
Thermometer, rectal                                        I



- 84 -
Alnex 10
Page 4 of 14
7)    Clinic Equipment set for New Lying-in-Clinics
Halogen lamp                                             2
Delivery table                                           2
Resuscitator/suction apparatus                           1
Weighing scale - infant                                  2
Bassinet                                                 3
Beds                                                    10
Oxygen tank w/gauge                                      1
Sphygmomanometer/Stethoscope                             3
Incubator/Oven                                           1
Weighing scale - adult                                   1
Foot stool                                               I
AlumLnum pail                                            2
Mayo table                                               2
Stretcher                                                1
Wheel chair                                              1
Kelly pads                                               4
Delivery set                                            10
Kidney basin                              1
Long straight forcep                      3
Carvical Mayo scissors                    1
Syringe & needle                         2
Suturing needles
Round                                   2
Cutting                                 2
Umbilical cord clamp                      1
Needle holder (forcep)                    2
Gloves                                    2
Urinalysis set                                           1
Test tube                                 1
Burner                                    1
Test tube holder                          1
Cogmgnean   2T I*sttuti4a4 l DevelgOpMen
FacilLties U;gradin;
1)    Clinic Equipent Set for CHOs/DHOs
Autoclave
Refrigerator, electric 6 cu. ft.
Refrigerator, kerosene, 6 cu. ft.
Diagnostlc set
,Comnent 4:       PResearch and Evaluation
EnvirnmentalHalh
1)    Equipment Set for CHOs/DHOs
Comparator Kit (Residual Chlorine)
Fogging machine
Lightmeter
Sprayer (stainless steel)
Water contaLner, pvc w/cover (20 liters)



- 85 -
Anx10
Page 5 of 14
II.   UI2A Q 2 EOUIPMENT
1)    Equipment for City Laboratories
Mandaue Cit, Laboratory               Lapu-LaMu City Laborato=y
Bunsen burner                         Bunsen burner
Centrifuge                            Centrifuge
Hemacytometer set                     Hemacytometer set
Hemoglobinometer set (sahli type)     Hemoglobinometer set (sahli type)
Hematocrit centrifuge                 Hematocrit centrifuge
Microscope                            Microscope
Urinometer                            Urinometer
Refrigerator                          Refrigerator
Serofuge                              Serofuge
Spectrophotometer                     Spectrophotometer
Water bath                            Water bath
Oven/dryer
Differential counter
Caavan de Oro Citv La'*orator         Cebu Citv Laboratorv
Bunsen burner                         Immunoassay analyzer w/
Centrifuge                            centrifuge & accessories
Hemacytometer set
Henoglobinometer set (sahli type)
Hex-atocrit centrifuge
Microscope
Urinometer
Refrigerator
Serofuge
Spectrophotometer
Water bath
2)    Laboratory Equipment for Referral Hospitals
Osnital ng Makati                     pasay City Gon, Hospital
Spectrophotometer                     Eliza equipment
Microscope                            Spectrophotometer
Eliza equipment                       Water bath
Aerobic incubator                     Clinical centrifuge
Flame photometer                      Refrigerator
Automated tissue processor            Aerobic incubator
Coplin jar                            Coplin Jar
Staining dish                         Staining dish
Automatic Voltage Regulator
Refrigerator
LOa  PiLna  Di 1t. Hoital              OSPital ng Kalookan
Eliza equipment                       Eliza equipment
Automatic Voltage Regulator           Automatic Voltage Regulator
Refrigerator                          Refrigerator
Staining dish                         Staining dish
Coplin jar                            Coplin jar
Incubator/oven                        Ineubator/oven
Spectrophotometer                     Spectrophotometer



- 86 -
pn   10
Page 6 of 14
Manila ublic Health lAuratgrX         E. Rodriauez D.st. Hospital
Refrigerator                          Eliza equipment
Airconditioner                        Chemistry analyzer
Automatic voltage regulator           Refrigerator
Eliza equipment                       Automatic voltage regulator
Bilogical safety cabinet
East Avenue M2d1cal Center            Equipment set for water analysis
Eliza equipment                         Bacteriological Testing Set
Flame photometer                          Incubator-Aerobic
microscope                                Binocular microscope
Blood gas analyzer                        Bunsen burner w/tank
Aerobic incubator                         Refrigerator (10 cu. ft.)
Biological safety cabinet               Chemical/Physical Testing Set
Automatic Voltage regulator               PH meter
Uninterrupted Power Supply                Oven, sterilizing
Refrigerator                              Candle turbidimeter
Pipette washer
Ouezon Ciet Gen. Hosoital             Spectrophotometer
Chemistry analyzer                        Magnetic stirrer
Eliza equipment                           Waterbath
Aerobic incubator                         Refrigerator (10 cu. ft.)
Refrigerator                              Gas chromatography
Vacuum pump w/filter
Valenzuela Dint. Hosnital               Biological Testing Set
Refrigerator                              Water sampler
Coplin jar                                Inverted microscope
Staining dish                             Compound microscope
Spectrophotometer
Rizal Medical Center
Eliza equipment
Refrigerator
III.  OpI   E   P
Services 92guradng
Filing cabinet
Stand fan
Information. Education and Lo mmicatign
Desktop Video Production:
High-powered PC SVGA monitor
Editing box (video mixer-3-input-l-output mixer)
Video monitor
VCR
Desktop publishing:
Personal computer w/ battery, 4 megabyte memory, 386 DK 120
megabyte storage in a fixed or Ohard drive, one other drive for
reading diskette, one monitor (screen), one pointing device
(mouse)
Printer for manuscript drafts
Laser typesetter for final pages (600 DPI, 4 megabyte memory)



- 87 -
Page 7 of 14
Electronic scanner for copying illustrations and integrating with
typeset pages
AVR with surge protector
Word processlig software for windows, desktop publishing aoftware
and various materials (diskettes, tone, paper, etc.)
Colored photocopylng machine
Computer. lap-top
VCR and TV set
Megaphone
CMl software
Vindows software
Training and Human  Mo-urce Develogena
CHO/DHO Training set
Electronic whiteboard
Ordinary whiteboard
Carousel set
Copier w/ sorter and transparency
Mimeographing machine, convertible
Karaoke system
Leroy set
Slide projector screen
Handy camera
monitor
RHO Training set
Video camta
VHS player-recorder, 4 heast
TV set, 200 color
Electric generator
Central Office Training Set
Still camera, 35 m, autofocus
Video editing machine
g2=nase_nt Systems tImrovement
486 PC (IAN server)
386 PC w/ printer
Modem
Network card peripherals
VHF base and antenna
VHF handset
Fax machine
Calculator
LCD panel
cIS
Faeilities Upgrading
Equipment for RHO/RTC:
Generator, portable
PABX system (10 station)
Copier
Overhead projector



- 88 -
10
Page 8 of 14
Whiteboard
Projector screen
Vacuum cleaner (heavy duty)
Floor polisher (heavy duty)
Karaoke system
Refrigerator, electric
Filing cabinet
Equipment for CHO/DHO:
Generator, portable
Pump, pressure
Pump, deep well
Aircon, 2HP
Video projector
Project Management and Coordination
Computer system, AT 486 (Server)
Computer system, AT 386
Fax machine
RefrigeratJr, electric, 10 cu. ft.
Filing cabwinet w/safe
Generator
VHS player-recorder
TV set, 20" colored
Stand fan
VHF, base unit and antennae
VHF, handheld unit
Modem
Network and peripherals
Airconditioner
LCD panel



- 89 -
Annex 10
Page 9 of 14
PHLPPINES
URMAN HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
SUPPLIES AND EOUIPNEWT FOR FIRRY ROUND OF 1HE HIV S1EIIyJLAMCE YSTE
(fEstMated reauirement for 1.400 individuals. Goge0 for 6 months)
ITzM
Serodia PA 100 t/k                                                 25 kits
LIATEK HIV 1+2, Organon Teknika                                     2 kits
Western Blot HIV-1 1ST                                               1 kit
Microtiter plates, U-bottom, rigid type, FASTEC                     67 pCs
Gloves, medium (100 pcs/bx)                                       34 boxes
Micropipettor, with tip ejector 0-200 ul variable/
continuously adjustable                                           7 pcs.
Disposable tips in racks, 0-200ul, 6 pcs/rack                     20 racks
Disposable tips,  100-lOOOul, 100 pcs./rack                       10 racks
Wicrodroppers, 25ul Fujirebio                                         1 box
Vacutainer tubers with hemoguard, 5.0 m. plain (red top)          30 boxes
Multisample needle, 021 x 1                                       30 boxes
Syringe with needle, 5.0 ml G21 x 1                                  1 box
Torniquet, 11 x 241 Becton Dickinson                                18 pCs
Test tube rack, 60 tube cap                                         15 pCs
Biohazard pouch (200 pcs./pk)                                        2 pks
Collection bag                                                       9 Pcs
Cryogenic vials 1.8 ml, self-standing, Sarstedt or Corning       3,300 pcs
Cryogenic boxes, 9x9 array, cardboard                               89 pcs
Disposable tips in packs, 0-200ul 1,000 pcs/cs                        8 cs
Pasteur pipet, 5 3/4* 250 pcs/bx                                   8 boxes
Diluters 0.025 ml. 6 pea/box                                       3 boxes
Western blot tray                                                      1 pc
Cryobox, 9x9 array, cardboard                                      5 boxes
Coverslip No. 1, 24 x 60 mm                                          10 oz
Hg Lamp OSRAN lOOw/2                                                   1 PC



- 90                           Amex 10
Page 10 of 14
LIST 01 u&inuX
Wommn!a Health and Family Plamnm
1)    Cotton rolls
2)    Gauze pads
3)    Lubricants
4)    Pregnancy test kit
5)    Vaginal antiseptics
6)    Linens
7)    Phantom dolls
8)    RBUR
9)    Fa4mly folder
10)   Referral forms
11)   VHW record book
1)    Kltchen utensils
2)   Recipe book
3)    Nutrition forms
4)    Growth chart
5)    Dietary slips
TubeXculgsis Control
1)    Syringe, disposable (Scc)
2)    Treatment cards
3)    Sputum microscopy supplies
a)    Sputum cup
b)   Glass sllde
a)    Reagents
Basio fuchain
Ethyl alcobol
Phenol crystal
NEthylenw blue
Sulfurie acid
Cedar wood oil
Xyleno
Area-Based Plannfn1
1)    ABP training materials
Trainin. nd Human Resouree Daelogment
1)    Training manuals
2)    IM0 materials
3)    Newsletter
4)    CD-ROK database
1)    FHSIS maSnual
2)    Pis manual
3)    FIS manual
4)    Payroll manual
S)    LIS mAnUAl
6)    Document management manual
7)    GIS manual
8)    Service networking manual



- 91 -
Page 11 of 14
URBAN HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
II$T OF DRUS
Vomen's Health and Pamilv Plaunia
1)    ContraMeDtives
Pills
iD
Condom
Injectables*
Norplant*
Other contraceptives*
2)   Lying-in-Clinic Drugs
Oxytoxin (injectable)
Oxytoxin (tablet)
Analgesic/antipyretics (tablet)
Antibiotics (Aioxycillin)
Anaesthesia (local)
Adrenalin/Ephenephrine (ampule)
Magnesium sulfate (ampule)
Tranquilizer (ampule)
3)    MiaronutriensD
Vitamin A
Ferrous sulfate
Iodine capsule
Ch;ild Health
1)  AnheulntLe
2)    Control of Acute Respiratorv Infection Dj&fu
Cotrimoxazole
Salbutamol
Benzyl penicillin
Gentamycin
Chloramphenicol
3)    ic,ronutrients
Vitamin A
Ferrous Sulfate
Tuberculosis Controxl
1)    Type I Blister Pack
2)    Type II Blister Pack
3)    INH 300 MG
4)    Streptomycin
5)    Ethambutol 400 mg
*     Inclusion to National FP Program still to be decided on.



- 92 -
Am=e 10
Pagp 12 of 14
1)    Chlorine (60*75X)
2)    Orthotolidine Solution
3)    Insecticide (wettable powder), 100 ml
4)    Fogging solution (emulsified concentrate)
NW
1)    Norfloxacin
2)    Benzathin Penicillin
3)   Minoxycillin
4)    Hetronidazole
5)    Aoyolovir
6)    Lindane (11 solution)
7)    Niconazole Nitrate
-     Suggested STD drugs to be used in Operations Research



- 93 -
Page 13 of 14
PHiILIPPNES
URBAN HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJET
ST OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
C_t ngD.L21:      Service Delivery
Service gWrading
1)   Civil Works Manageaent
I2stSiLtoinal Develonment
Area-Based Planning
1)    Consultancy Services on:
a) Revision of ABP Guidelines
b) Development of ABP cum Training Curriculum
c) Development of Training Materials
2)    Plan Formulation
3)   Plan Presentation to LGUs
4)   Annual Plan Review
Information. Education and CommunicatiL
1)    Evaluative Research
2)   Foreign (to be provided in kind by AIDAB Canberra)
Trainin  and Human Resource Deelonment
1)    Consultancy Services on:
a) Job and Needs Assessment
b) Development of Data Bank and Career Plan
c) Development of Training Program
d) Development of Recruitment, Selection, promotion &
Deployment System
2)    Course Development
3)   Training Evaluation & Planning
4)    Impact Evaluation of Training Plan
5)    Foreign
a) Consultancy services on Interactive Multi-Media
Technology
Mnnag2eman Snytems Improvement
1)   Consultancy Services on Organizational Systems Review
2)    Information System Planning
3)   Systems Development & Implementation
a) Geographic Information System
b) Personnel Information System
c) Services Networking Information System
d) Logistics Information System
4)    Systems Installation
Facilities Upgrading
1)    Civil Works Management
Proiect Management and Coordination
1)   National Annual Program Review
2)   National Work & Financial Programming
3)   Management Consultant Services



- 94 -
Anex a1
Page 14 of 14
2go=;one    3:    GgOnLunt  Partnershkp
Planning Grants
1)    Program/Project Planning and Management
2)    Project Evaluation
Institutional Grants
1)    Consultancy services on:
a) Project Development
b) Project Evaluation
c)  Project Monitoring
d) Commuity Organizing for Health
Proiect Grants
1)    Consultancy services on:
a) Project Management
b) Project Evaluation
Cmnn4:  Research and Evaluation
BaslLr2 and Evaluation Surveys
1)    Baseline and Evaluation Survey
2)   Mid-term Evalutation
3)    Impact Evaluation
4)    Rapid Appraisal
5)    Evaluation of Birth-Based Approach
6)    Overall Process Evaluation
7)    Overall Impact Evaluation
EvLronmental Health Revelgmen
1)    Consultancy services on:
a) Survey of Project Areas
b) Project Evaluation
c) Program Preparation
Vomanes Health/Family Plannig
1)    Consultancy Services on:
a) Conduct of Research
b)  Community Organizing for Women
c) Research Documentation
d) Research Utilization
Nutrition DevelgppiU
1)    Consultancy Services on:
a) Development of Marketing & Distribution Scheme of Food
Packs
b) Conduct of Research
c) Process Evaluation Schemes
Operations Research
1)    Consultancy Services on:
a) Conduct of Researchl
b) Research Utilization



9  5 -
Page 1 of 2
!liILIURIlM
URBAM HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
1.    Strategy for Training in UHNP
1.1 Support operation of a center for developing training courses
-    capacity to design and specify training course
-    ability to contract course development and course material
production
-    ability to evaluate courses delivered
1.2   Buy services from available sources of training course delivery
-    regional offices of DOH
-    selected academic institutions
-    NGOs with training capacity
1.3   Develop training course coordinators in LOUs with capacity to
organize, schedule, procure and evaluate training courses
1.4   Flexible scheduling and selection of batches of trainees from
LGUs.
2.   UHNP will develop a new midwife course using the birth-based approach, a
new set of program managers and supervisors courses based on devolution
and a new set of planning/budgeting/monitoring courses based on urban
poor focus and devolution.
3.   UHNP will upgrade existing training course the content of which need not
be radically altered. Upgrading will be towards multi-media or
interactive video disk.
4.   UHNP will support delivery of upgraded and new courses.
5.   Major concern is to speed up course development, course updating and
course upgrading from about 2 years to 6 months.
6.   One concept is to design a turn-key contract for a pilot course
development center. The contract will include:
-    hardware and software needed;
-    roster of materials design/graphic design specialist;
-    pool of funds for training materia'.s development activities (pre-
testing/prototype production, etc.).



Annex 11
- 96 -                                   Page 2 of 2
T_*m
. f L ~~T_m   133                            113      166    133      166      T
A.    BWeldAppriiOdwd.                 T_e         60           -       -                    6 00
C. PMue mSis Truin
1.TmblnOrCsuue                  Trskm      so                                         so6
1a*                T_ne       I0      160     180     160    6iO        O00
R.seMvee
2.     1 MoanC                  Trk        II-               -       *               171
Eboo               T        n-   -            11     1V1               342
Adnrd
SUPeuvbleCmum                  Tl_e       121                               -       120
Basi               Trab"                      129                      1IN
4. CD Ooes                      Trab       202                                       202
behuMeme    T_am                        -     202               -       202
G. pH" commae
.MWcuuOo                        Tr_          -    707        -    70         *      1,414
T. sey I           Coe          T_k          -    7          -    7                 1.532
RmhslmUM/a d   Ttira            -   1,2S?7      -   1.257       -      2.474
& NWoMl  OC _e                  Tr_ke      431               -       -               431
R _emohdAdvaod   Tedue                        431     431       -       862
10 Ho.Hd DerislTiMe             T s    0-                    1       -       -      91.91
II. 0edk
12.      aSl     CO e           Tarw"              206       -               -       209
is cm           mO              T_ae        Is                       -                is
14. P   rsau_                    Tt_      460        -                               480
iC Ml UnhlMgL ( He p.Pe.)       T-  -es    136                                       135
i.. T cola% a _mew. TO.         T_ae       m         -                               n o20
17. !Mn_ e                    - itHI Caus  Trab  WI                          -       871
lTSC CmSsdlmOIusg               Trsm  1,.170                                        1.170
10. La a t_yC*                  T*e    10-                                   -      1,600
ReAnio             Tra        63m               -               -       303
CHMMHO             Teae       2         .                               262
20. Lob Noabd                   T_ae         s       .       -       -                 5
Relomnd            T.ines      24                                        24
CHODN0
21. PW                          T_ane        5           -       -           -         5
Bedi               T_OMs      24            -       -           -        24
Advm
22. INS                         T_ e    3.72                         -       .      3.
Basi               T_k.                     3.72       -.                3,2
23.lbl                          Teses    073                                        1.073
Baiano             T_ e                 -   t3          -       -      1.073
24.NewSHWa
BaWAdvan_ed
2LNmHIIo                        T_k        m         *      M        *       *       ag
28. Maft ams                    Trae    2,20   210   2,20   2.010             -     6.460
D. Oek Top Vie Prod                    T e        6OD 0     o     Go s090            -     250
ROOM                            Tre    T"73  1               -       -       -    23.571
E. ull-Media (Rp5ICI4~DH0)             T_ae                33                -       -33



- 97 -
4nx12
Page 1 of 9
URBAN HEALTH   XN ITION PRWE
Comnent 2:  Institutional Developmnt
Suboon2onent 2: Strengthening Information. Edueation
and Communications (IEC)
1.        Qbiectives and Targets
The primary objective is to promote health consciousness and
stimulate positive health seeking behavior amongst the urban slum populations,
particularly those identified as priority beneficiaries of the services
provided under Component One. Specifically the project shall seek to achieve
thv rollowing:
(a) to develop and implement a strategic IEC plan for the project;
(b) to improve the effectiveness of the face-to-face communications at
the point of service at the outreach, BHS, health center and lying-
in clinic level;
(c) to develop multimedia center within the DOB to support IEC and
training activities of the DOH especially in the context of the
UI~P;
(d) to develop and implement IEC activities in the following areas,
segmented appropriately for the audiences noted below:
udienegs
urban slum populations and individuals, especially women
health personnel at barangay, health center and lying-in clinic
levels
local health authorities and LOU officials
family planning
antenatal care
delivery
postnatal care
breastfeediag
reproductive tract infections
maternal nutrition
childhood nutrition
weaning
childhood development including growth
monitoring



- 98 -
AwLmX 12
Page 2 of 9
immunization
acute respiratory tract infections
childhood d'.arrheal diseases
tuberculosis
sanitation
water usage
use of various levels of health facilities
health worker support materials for client-based materials
health worker updates and newsletters
the concept of UHNP
support for health, nutrition, safe motherhood and family planning
activities
(e)  to strangthen the capacity of the DOH to manage IEC a3tivities -
development and implementation; and
(f) to strengthen linkages and working relationships between services
and IEC, and LGU staff and IEC.
2.        Basic strategv and ap=oach
The current system of IEC activities within the DOH has been beset
by problems of inconsistency, mis-timing and delays and poor dissemination.
Messages ranging from information to motivation are usually delivered using
print media. The volume of information which needs to be communicated is
enormous and messages are sometimes inconsistent and conflicting. Despite
high levels of awareness, often retention of information by the ciients is
poor and patchy. Moreover, resources for social marketing are not sufficient
to communicate corporate policies and enables the campaigns to be effective.
Strengthening the communications efforts in the light of the
implementation of the local government code is deemed necessary. The vision
is to enhance the capability of the national, regional and city/municipal
levels in undertaking face-to-face communicatidn supported by appropriate
teaching and learning aids and broader awareness raising messages. All health
personnel particularly those at the primary health care and first referral
levels have and require interpersonal communication skills, and to be familiar
with the key messages. At the same tfr'e, some of these staff are identified
and trained as dedicated health educators and are mandated to provide specific
TEC activities within the catchment p-Pulations.
IEC support for the UHNP shall initially focus upon developing a
project specific IEC strategic plan. This plan shall include identification
of key messages, audience segmentation, message and materials development
strategies, dissemination strategies and monitoring and evaluative activities.
It would be based upon reviews of existing materials, skills levels,
production resources in the public and private sector as well as in-house. It
would be developed through a networking process with these agencies and the
various services and UHNP management.



- 99 -
Annex 12
Page 3 of 9
In order to improve comumnications and social marketing
capabilities at the central, regional and city/municipality levels, support
shall be provided for the acquisition of skills and equipment for developing
and reproducing IEC materials through the development of a supporting
multimedia center. In addition, after a careful initial phasing of the
introduction of TV/video capacities at the lying-in clinics, an expansion of
this will occur, if favorable reviews, to all the 43 existlng and 6 new LICs
in the project areas.
The DOH will receive support through tralning, foreign assistance
and equipment and software to be managers of IEC activities. This will
include critical path mapping of individual as well as project wide activities
within the strategic plan, interfacing with the critical paths of the various
services and LGU activities of the UHNP, and integration with the DOH Global
and IEC Plan for the five years.
Support shall be provided for regular IEC activity specific and
annual/mid-term reviews of the IEC sub-component, and to review the following
years strategic and annual implementation plans. Ongoing monitoring of the
IEC activities will be undertaken. In addition, the sub-component will be
involved in the design of and the pre- and post-project evaluation activities.
The key messages developed shall focus upon the following:
(a) promoting comprehensive approach to maternal and child health
through the reproductive cycle/birth based approach;
(b) generating awareness of and increasing appropriate bebaviors
regarding the prevention, recognition and management of
tuberculosis, acute respiratory infections, and other infectious
diseases during childhood and of the reproductive tract;
(c) increasing the appropriate use of public health facilities and
services within the UHNP;
(d) promoting awareness of and increasing the appropriate behaviors
regarding environmental health;
(a) promoting and supporting the use of family planning methods; and
(f) promoting and supporting the use of uiaternal health services.
3.        kM      &a&i*n strategy
The Public Information and Health Education Services (PIHES) of the
Department of Health (DOH) shall be responsible for the operational management
of the IEC activities of the UINP, including the overseeing of contractual
arrangements for the plan. It shall coordinate the development, revision and
production of IEC materials, social marketing and other IEC activities for the
project at all levels.



- 100 -
Page 4 of 9
The PIHES. in coordination with the Health Manpower Development and
Training Service (HMDTS) shall facilitate the development and Implementation
of consistent messages for IEC and training an4 similas arrangements shall be
developed for the PIHES and other DOH services, PIHES and LGUs and PIHES and
the UHNP management team.
4.        Resources to be LroL aded
Need to note here somehow that although not included in the UHNP
documentation and cost schedules, through the parallel co-financing mechanism
being used to disburse the Australian grant support to the UHNP, PIHES will
receive two years of resident foreign technical assistance in operations
management specific for IEC programs, as well as a vehicle after the
completion of the Resident Advisor's term.



- 101 -
Page 5 of 9
URBAN HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Information. Education ad Communigation
Item                                      Number       Unit Cost        Cost
Investment Costs
A. Equipment
Color photocopying machine-                       150,000      150,000*
Desk top publishing-                              530,000      530,000*
Desktop video-                                    360,000      360,000*
Computers (laptop)-                    4           60,000      240,000*
TV/VCR-                               48           15,000      720,000*
Megaphone"                            259           2,500       647,500
Cpm software-                           1          27,000        27,000
Windows software-                       1          27,000        27,000
Subtotal                                                      2,701,500
B. Training
Desktop publishing"                     6          28,034      168,2001/
Feature writing'                       6          142,034       852,200
Evaluative research"                  30            1,303        39,100
Workshop on social marketing'           2          39,100        78,200
Subtotal                                                      1,137,700
C. Technical Assistance
Foreign2t
Local
evaluative research"              2 pm           30,000        60,000
Subtotal                                                         60,000
Total Investment Costs                                              3,899,200



- l W2   
Aumex 12
Page 6 of 9
Recurr=  Cost8
A. Materials4/
Reproduction of existing
IEC materials                                               15,000,000
Development of new activities/
materials'                                                   30,000,000
Subtotal                                                    45,000,000
B. Travel
Monitoring                                                      400,000
C.  Distribution costs"                                               400,000
D. Maintenance
10  equipment total*                                         200,0003/
E. Other operating costs
Supplies etc."                                              7,500,0003/
Total Recurrent Costs                                              53,500,000
Total Baseline Costs                                               571399,200
Physical Contingencies (51 as *)                                100,000
Price Contingencies - foreign (2X p.a.) (as -)                  41,080
- local (7X p.a.) (as t)                 7,674,590
Total Project Costs                                                65,214,870
Taxes                                                              ,
Foreign Exchange                                            20,540,000
I/   Contract for procurement of desk top publisting equipment should try to obtain
a maintenance and training component to the actual hardware and software
procurement.
2/    Foreign TA covered through the Managing Agent contract that will be obtained
by AIDAB Canberra.
3/    On a declining basls over the five years, reduced to 50X by the fifth year.
4/    Includes all cost of the development of these materials - formative research,
field testing, message and materials development, dissemination by whatever
means of production - e.g., contract, in-house.



- 103 -
Page 7 of 9
(A)   Dosktop Publishing Training
For 6 persons, 2 weeks of training, conducted by a contracted trainer held in
Manila:
Dailx allowances
250P/day for 14 days for 6 persons                21,000
50P lumpsum incidental allowance for 6 persons       300
Travel
4 persons from Nan @ P100 each                       400
1 person from RHO, Cebu @ P2,800                   2,800
1 person from RHO, Cagayan de Oro @ P3700          3,700
kalner
1 trainer s P70,000/week for 2 weeks             140,000
Total                                            168,200
(B)   Feature Writing
For three regional and three headquarters staff, residential in Manila, for
one month's apprenticeship conducted under contract with a company to produce
modules and curriculum, place temporarily in local company, and train.
Outputs during this apprenticeship will be useful for the PIHES e.g., in-
house newsletter, feature for radio/newspaper/TV feeds. Held in two batches.
Daily allowances
6 persons @. P250/day for 30 days                 45,000
6 persons @ P50 incidental allowance                 300
4 persons from Man @ P100 each                       400
1 person from RHO, Cebu @ P2,800                   2,800
1 person from RHO, Cagayan de Oro @ P3700          3,700
Contract for 4 weeks @ P100,000/week
for 2 sessions                           -       800,000
total                                            852,200



- 104 -
Page 8 of 9
(C)   WoAsabo  - Social Marketing
For 2 days in Manila, attended by up to 30 participants - from HQ services
(including UHNP (10), PIHES (5), Regional (3), and CHO HEPO (12)). To be
facilitated by staff of PIHES, RA PIHES and Services Experts for technical
assistance.
Daily allowance
30 persons @ P250/day for 2 days                   15,000
Incidentals allowances P50/person                   1,500
Venue Fees
P1,000/day for 2 days                               2,000
Travel allowance
P100 for Manila/NCR for 20 persons                  2,000
P2,800 for 4 persons Cebu                          11,200
P3,700 for 2 persons Cagayan de Oro                 7,400
Total                                              39,100



- 105 -
Annex 12
Page 9 of 9
LIST OF BOIP1BN FOR DESKOPPUBLISHIN
Item                                     Number      Unit Cost        Cost
Personal computer, with battery,         1           100,000          100,000
4 megabyte memory 386D%, 120 megabyte
storage on fixed *hard drive, one
other drive for reading 1 monitor
and 1 mouse
Printer for manuscript drafts            1           100,000          100,000
Laser typesetter for final pages
600 DPI 4 megabyte memory                1           200,000          200,000
Electronic scanner for copy
illustrations and Integrating with
typesetting                              1           70,000           70,000
AVR with surge protector                  1           20,000          20,000
Word processing software for
windows, desk top publishing software,
diskettes, toner, paper, etc.            1           40,000           40,000
Total                                                                 530,000
List of BauL2ment for Desktop Video Production
High powered PC SVGA color monitor        1           100,000         100,000
Editing box (video mixer, 3 input-
output mixer)                            I           150,000          150,000
Video monitor                             2           35,000           70,000
VCR                                       2           20,000          40,000
Total                                                                 360,000



- 106 -
Annex 13
Page 1 of 13
PHILIPPINES
U1REA aHELTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION AMD NANAGEMENT OF VWUP PROJECT
Organizational Stncure of the UHNP
1.   The DOH Organization for MMNP
The DOH provides overall direction of project implementation as well as
undertakes direct implementation of nation-wide or region-wide
activities. The UHNP is headed by the Project Director, a DOH
Undersecretary and Chief of Staff reporting to the Secretary of Health,
supported by a Project Coordinating Unit for UHNP, and supervising four
groups of DOH managers.
Group one consists of the units of the Office for Management Services,
headxd by an Undersecretary. These units prepare all finance, budget
and accounting documentation for action by the Project Director. This
group prepares the communications sent by the Project Director to the
Municipal Development Fund, Bureau of Local Government Finance,
Department of Finance regarding releases of funds to DOH implementing
units as well as local government units implementing the project.
Group two consists of program managers for TB, ARI, Family Planning,
Women's Health, Nutrition and Environmental Health which generate
imrlementation guidelines to be followed by LU'as implementing the
project and undertake technical supervision through the regional field
health offices.
Group three consists of the managers for the functions of
infrastructure, procurement and logistics, IEC, training and management
systems and evaluation studies which generate implementation guidelines
to be followed by participating LOU's as well as undertake actual
implementation activities.
Group four consists of regional directors for NCR, VII and X, who
provide field assistance to participating LGUs, adapt the project
guidelines to the regional conditions, and undertake implementation of
region-wide activities like training, IEC campaigns, supplies
distribution, etc.
These managers perform their functions for UHNP using their respective
staff units within the regular stricture of the DOH. For purposes of
UHNP activities, however, they relate to the UHNP Director.



- 107 -
Annex 13
Page 2 of 13
The PCU-UHNP is a staff unit providing the functions described in Annex
1. It is headed by a Project Coordinator who is a regular official of
the DOB (Assistant Secretary or Director level). The staff consists of
23 positions: 3 of whom shall be assigned to the ONS to assist In budget
and accounting transactions; 2 of whom shall be assigned to the MDF,
BLGF, Department of Finance to assist in the funds flow transactions; 18
of whom shall be directly supervised by the Project Coordinator. Based
on the breakdown in Annex 2, seven positions of the PCU-UHNP would be
regular DOH positions, and the rest of the 16 positions would be
contracted positions funded from the project.
The DOH authorizes the release of funds for project activities by DOH
units (central and regional offices) and by LWU's via the action of the
Project Director issuing the appropriate instructions to the Municipal
Development Fund, Bureau of Local Government Finance, Department of
Health.
Contents of draft order on project management attached as Annex 3.
2.    The MDF of B     anF. and at the Department of Finance
A unit handling the UHNP account in the MDF shall be set up by BLGF. It
shall be responsible for releasing funds to DOH and LGU on the basis of
the request and authorization of the UHNP Project Director.  The
documentary requirements for authorizing these. releases shall be
prepared by DOH, specifically the PCU-UHNP and the OHS.
3.   The LGU Organization
Each of the 21 LGU shall establish their respective UHNP implementation
organization. It will typically feature the city or municipal health
officer serving as the UHNP implementation officer, reporting to the
mayor, and supported by other city or municipal officer as necessary.
Note:
In actual staffing of the contractual positions of PCU-UHNP, persons
coming from the PCU-PHDP would be utilized in order to maximize the use
of experienced and trained personnel. A plan for shifting the PCU-PHDP
personnel into the PCU-UHNP positions would be made to respond to the
growing activities of UHNP and the corresponding decline in activities
of PHDP.



- 108 -            Annex 13
-Pate 3 of 13
UHP Orgaizatona Strucure
.  _ _        ~I  Po -
I~~~~~~s SARrh I, V
UI  -'j  Dkof .  1    '''    Urt -  I  --
MOo
Lfi_iJ                         _
F_dMF        ~~~~P_uwm
T~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ m  - ih)' 
_ )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tf
I(VDtXNCR)1
.~~~~~~~GM
+~~~~~~~~~~ct mawI



_~________ .____                                                            DNl!AITMUt OF HULTII
._ . _ ! _ . _ _ _ 1 _ _ _ _ _ . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   e I a * e                                   _ _    _  _ _  _  _
__'_   .    _    . _   ..   _    _                     _____________._____                __     __________
_ _ , ~~~ffdPon    ---_a                                            C>, 0tM              Cy . U"
1 PAWe -V --lIlll=_:161
_ It       Rom                             .,04 ___  ___. --
t             l" §o g  It   400  
z~~~T             u            B_          _ _   _ _ _ _ -   _ _ _ _ - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
o    Of 60a E_  0 4mw   .  
I3 o      ^S     fio0                                    '              33692503 w.
FhF, 9wua &  e  ki.  2                    .   MDdet Ojf  (3)                                                                           I.__ 3
141                   _              _               , ] -          , t26              -                       11
11           AWO       E                                                                                           316 
AJs                                                        I -i X30s
_~~~~~~~~~2                                                 112 _1  3s            31    .
.                                ~~~~~~W1
Aor MM AmoW&AoMp  2    For O&-Ba*  Ojc (lJ                                                           °                                  w



- 110 _
Annex_13
Page 5 of 13
Task to be Undertaken by PCU-URN?
1.    Preparing the Annual Project Budget Proposal
1.1  Formulate guidelines to estimate annual project ceiling:
a.   Determine projected annual expenditure based on SAR;
b.    Provide initial indications of amounts to managers of
project components; and
c.    Assemble an initial indicative annual project budget.
1.2   Propose annual project budget.
1.3  Assist Project Director in negotiating final annual project
appropriation during the budget preparation and authorlzation
phases.
1.4  Upon approval of project budget ceiling, proceed to prepare annual
work and financial plan.
2.    Preparing the Annual Work and Financial Plan
2.1  Assemble the inputs necessary for managers of project components
to draft a plan and budget for their respective components:
a.    set initial ceilings per component and per expense category
based on supporting papers of proposed budget;
b.    determine status of obligations per component, based on
inputs of OMS; and
C.    identify actlvities/items/components that are likely to be
re-planned based on implementation experience.
2.2  Design procedures and forms to be used in the preparation of
component plans and budgets.
2.3   Draft, obtain Project Director approval and disseminate guidelines
on the preparation of component plans and budgets.
2.4  Assist managers of project components in preparing their
respective plans and budgets.
2.5 Design procedures, mechanisms and guidelines for the review and
integration of component plans and budgets:
a.    propose a commlttee to conduct review (for approval of
Project Director);
b.    propose criteria and guidelines for conduct of review (for
the approval of the Project Director);
c.    assist ln conduct of review proceedings;
d.    document comments, recommendations and results of review
proceedings;
e.    summarize the results of review for approval by Project
Director; and



- 111 -
Page 6 of 13
f.   prepare and facilitate issuance of final decisions on the
outcome of the review for the information of all concerned.
2.6  Assist managers of project componelts In revising their respective
plans and budgets in accordance with the outcome of the review.
2.7  Coordinate with OHS in transcription of the component plans and
budgets into the required forms prescribed by DBM for work and
financial plan.
2.8  Assist OMS in the preparation, submission and follow-up of the
Work and Financial Plans with DBN.
2.9  Assist OMS in the revision or provision of additional
documentation as required by DBN for approval of the Work and
Financial Plans and subsequent release of budget.
2.10 Work with OHS and NDF in the budgetary release and dissemination
of copies of release documents to the managers of project
components.
3.   Providing the Funds to Defray Project Activities
3.1  In coordination with OMS and HDF, prepare guidelines for initial
funds release via one or all of the following:
a.   use of available LOU funds to be reimbursed by UHNP funds
through the MDF;
b.   use of available DOH funds to be reimbursed by UHNP funds
through the NDF; and
C.   use of other available GOP funds by DOH or LGUs to be
reimbursed by UHNP funds through the NDF.
3.2  In coordination with OHS and NDF, process disbursement
transactions:
a.    assist LOU's and DOH units in generating proper statements
of expenditures for project activities;
b.   collect and consolidate these SOE's;
c.   prepare summary of SOE's for submission to Bureau of
Treasury;
d.   prepare application forms for withdrawal of IDA credits;
e.   document applications versus replenishment; and
f.    liaise with CB, PNB, BT, and WB on the replenishment
3.3  In coordination with OS and NDF, process reimbursements of
disbursements:
4.   prepare instructions for MDF.-to pay project expenditures of
DOH and LWU's;
b.   monitor releases of MDF to project components; and



- 112 -
Arnex 1-
Page 7 of 13
c.    assist LOUs and DOH units in sustaining the flow of
actlvities, funds and documentation.
4.    Implementing the Technical Assistance Activities
4.1  Prepare a consolidated technical assistance plan for the year:
a.    collect all technical assistance requirements in the
component plan;
b.    consolidate/package technical assistance requirements Lato
possible contracting modules;, and
c.    prepare a schedule of technical assistance contracting and
implementation.
4.2 Assist managers of project components in the development of Terms
of Reference and Scope of Work for required technical assistance.
4.3   Propose contracting approach based on VB-IDA guidelines as applied
to specific requirements/circumstances (for approval by Project
Director).
4.4  Assist nanagers of project components in undertaking the
contracting for technical assistance (request for proposal, review
of proposal, preparing contract documents).
4.5   Coordinate with all DOH units involved in contracting (Legal, OHS,
COA, others as needed).
4.6 Assist managers of project components in monitoring contractor
performa-ce, submission of outputs and documentation of
satisfactory performance.
4.7   Coordinate with O0S and NDF in facilitating the release of
payments to contractors based on arithorization of component
managers and Project Director.
4.8   Monitor all technical assistance contracts and facilitate
termination, amendment, extension or addition according to
recommendations of the managers of project components with
approval of Project Director.
5.    Preparing Guidelines for LGU Implementation
5.1   Prepare draft NOA and specific negotiation issues for each LGU
involved in UHNP.
5.2   Plan procedure and schedule of negotiations for Project Director
approval.



- 113 -
Annex 13
Page 8 of 13
5.3   Assist Project Director, program managers, functional managers and
regional directors in identifying and preparing essential
guidelines for LGU implementation of UHNP.
5.4  Assist Project Director and Regional Directors in undertaking
negotiations for MOA signing by LGUs.
5.5   Document all negotiations between DOH and LGU.
5.6  Assist LGU in preparing initial project plan and budget proposal.
5.7 Through the regional field health offices, maintain communication
with LGU regarding status of project implementation.
6.    Coordinating Central Procurement
6.1  Request managers of project components to prepare initiating
documents for procurement (e.g., RIVs).
6.2   Review request against budgetary authorities and restrictions.
6.3  Assist PLS in managing the procurement:
a.    assist in organizing technical committee to write
specifications and undertake review of offers;
b.    participate in bid administration (issuing bid documents,
conduct of bidding, awards);
c.    monitor the review, evaluation and award; and
d.    keep managers of project components informed on status of
procurement.
6.4  Assist managers of project components in preparing plan for
utilizing procured items:
a.    preparing the distribution list for approval by Project
Director;
b.    arranging the distribution; and
c.    documenting the receipt and use of items.
6.5   Ensure that procurement documents are reviewed and approved by
concerned agencies (managers of prdjact components, PLS, World
Bank, all other authorized units or offices).
6.6   Facilitate resolution of procurement issues (complaints of losing
bidders, extension of delivery dates, non-acceptance of
deliveries, non-release of contract documents from Legal or COA,
obtaining approval of various units) by monitoring, coordination,
reporting to Project Director, and recommending action by
concerned officials.



- 114 -
Annex 13
Page 9 of 13
7.   Monitoring and Troubleshooti.ng of Project Implementation
7.1   Prepare quarterly physical accomplishment reports:
a.    collect information on day-to-day implementation from all
implementiug units;
b.    conduct quarterly consultative meetings or implementation;
and
c.    summarize reports and recommendations for Project Director's
information and action.
7.2   Prepare inputs for preparation of monthly and quarterly financial
reports of OQS and MDF:
a.    collect monthly obligations and disbursement by all project
implementing units; and
b.    consolidate reports according to project formats.
7.3   Prepare reports required by WB-IDA and other GOP oversight
agencies:
a.   submit quarterly reports to NEDA, CCPAP and WB; and
b.    submit annual reports to NEDA, CCPAP and WB.
7.4   Serve as secretariat of WB monitoring/supervision missions.
7.5  Respond to all queries and complaints relative to UHNP
implementation (delayed releases, disputes in implementation,
confusion about guidelines, etc.).
7.6   Follow-up action by concerned officials necessary for project
implemntation.
7.7   Report to Project Director all issues, developments and concerns
regarding project implementation requiring decision and action.
7.8  Undertake the implementation of any project component or activity
which the Project Director decides should be managed directly by
the PCU-UHNP.



- 115 -
Page 10 of 13
Contents of the Department Order on UHNP Implementatiog
1.   Project Director: Undersec. and Chief of Staff, Jaime Galvez-Tan.
2.   Project Coordinator and Head of PCU-UHNP: Director Felicitas Ureta.
3.   PCU-UHNP organized with -  regular DOH Staff assigned to it, and _
contractual staff funded from project funds (functions).
4.   Central office managers responsible for overseeing the guidance of
implementation of the following project components:
4.1  Women's Health (Family Planning, Maternal Care, Women's Career
Screening);
4.2  Child's Health (ARI, Nutrition, Nutrition OR);
4.3  Facility Upgrading (service delivery facilities, administrative
facilities);
4.4  Service Delivery Organization of LGU's (Project Coordinator
Ureta);
4.5  Area-based Planning;
4.6  IEC (PIHES Director);
4.7 Training and Human Resource Development (HEMTS Director);
4.8  Nanagement Systems (personnel, budget and finance, facilities and
equipment, logistics and procurement, HIS/HIS);
4.9 Community Partnerships (Director Bonoan);
4.10 Baseline and Evaluation Studies (ASEC Dayrit);
4.11  Envirormental Health Development (Director Environmental Health
Service); and
4.12 Operations Research.
5.   Central office managers responsible for tie general support of project
implementation (OMS/Legal).
6.   Regional Directors in NCR, VII and X (field support to LGU).
7.   Funds release via HDF of DOF according to MOA.
8.    Field implementation by 21 cities and municipalities according to HOA.
9.    Set project cycle with schedule for first year implementation.
..



- 116-
Page 11 of 13
General Roles In Implementation
1.    U
1.1   Project Director
-    decides on project implementation strategies, plans, budgets
and activities.
1.2   Project Coordinator
-    supervises PCU-UHNP.
1.3   PCU-UHNP
-    performs all the staff functions necessary to support
project implementation.
1.4  OHS
performs all budget, accounting and financial management
functions necessary for project implementation, in
accordance with MDF and DOF.
1.5  Designated Managers of Project Components
-    prepare all technical guidelines on the implementation of
the component by LGU's; and
-    implements project activities assigned (see typical tasks of
Program Managers).
1.6  Regional Directors (NCR, VII and X)
-    assist LGUs in organizing project implementation in the
locality;
-     interprets project guidelines at LGU request;
-    provides technical and administrative assistance to LOU in
project implementation; and
-     interprets LGU concerns on project implementation to Project
Director/Project Coordinator.                     -
2.   MRE
-    provides ceiling for UHNP in its annual appropriation;
-    requests release of UHNP funds based on DOH work and financial
plans;
-    provides UHNP funds to all implementing units based on work plans;
-    disburses UHNP funds based on DOH authorization;
-    prepares financial reports for DOH transmittal to WB-IDA; and
-    recelves releases of project proceeds.
3.   1IC
3.1   Mayor
-    signs MOA on UHNP participation;
-    establishes UHNP implementing organization;



- 117 -
Arme 13.
Page 12 of 13
a     designates UHNP implementing offle¢r;
-     approves annual work and financial plan on UHNP
implementatLon;
-     approves all dlsbursements of UHNP funds; and
-     delegates project implementation authorities to appropriate
officials.
3.2   City/Munlicpal Health Officer
-     serves as UHNP implementing officer;
-     directs implementation of UHNP activitles in the LOU;
-    prepares plans and budgets; and
-     approves implementation actions.
*1



- 118 -
Page 13 of 13
TyMical Program Manager Tasks
1.   Technical design of prototype service delivery packages (environmental
health package, birth-based mother package, birth-based child package,
etc.).
2.    Design of training for implementation of.service delivery packages.
3.    Conduct of trainers training
4.    Design and execution of monitoring and evaluation of service delivery
package.
5.   Technical review of LGU policies and provisions for impl_emnting service
delivery packages.
6.    Preparation of findings about service performance, service utilization
and management and operations.
7.    Sharing findings with LGU's and other groups with interest on issues.
8.    Staff support in facilitating provision of inputs for LGU implementation
(training, IEC, logistic, information).



- 119 -
Page 1 of 6
IMILIUNEM
URBAN HENL=H 4ND NUTRITION pROJECT
Community Partnershiu for Health and Nutrition in Urban Areas
This component operationalizes the mobilization of community
participation by adapting the partnership approach utilized by the on-going
Philippine Health Development Project (PHDP), and building on the
institutional infrastructure and operating experience created by the UNICEF
Urban Basic Services Program (UBSP). Described below Are the critical details
of this component.
1.        E:Basic AIroach
The component provides grants that create and sustain community-
level organized actions of a partnership among the local government health
authorities, the non-government organizations operatlng in the localities, and
the people themselves in the urban poor areas. The grants cover planning
(local level consultations, area-based planning with NGO's, creation of area-
wide committees, identification of sub-projects, preparation of sub-project
proposals, and partnership organization); implementation of approved sub-
projects; and strengthening of operating capacities of existing non-government
organizations. These three groups of activities correspond to the three types
of grants, namely: planning, project and institutional grants.
These activities would be undertaken in each of the 21 cities and
municipalities of the UHNP. The DOH, through the central Community Health
Services and the regional field health offices, would provide the technical
guidelines and the administrative support for LGU-level implementation. The
funds for the grant would flow through the Nunicipal Development fund route
provided for the whole UHNP.
Planning Grants
The planning grants would support the following activities and outputs:
(a)  preparation and adoptton of localized and specific city/municipal
policies on recruitment, training and utilization of community
health volunteers linked to the public health service delivery
network;
(b) organization and institutionalization of a consultative decision-
making structure involving all groups and organizations active in
local health and nutrition action for the urban poor;
(c) development of procedures and methods for adapting the area-based
health planning process to community partnership approach;



- 120 -
Atmex_14
Page 2 of 6
preparing sub-project proposals, reviewing them, and generating
local consensus on supporting them;
(d) providing dedicated administrative support to sub-project
development and implementation in the context of partnership
approach. (Specifically, supporting component coordlnators at
central, regional and local levels.)
In localities where these preparatory activities have been undertaken by
the UNICEF UBSP, and where the structures and processes for a local
partnership are already in place and operating, the component would use these
structures and processes to generate sub-project proposals. The UBSP-created
inter-agency committees and project preparation and review procedures could be
authorized by the local chief executive as the same mechanisms for
implementing the component's project grants.
The planning grants will create, or whenever appropriate expand, the
existing mechanism for participatory and collaborative planning, community
targeting, project identification, project preparation, project review and
approval, and monitoring and evaluation of projects. The NCO's in the
partnership would be required to be legally registered; with a track record of
project implementation, financial accountability and administrative
responsiveness; with experlence in community-level operations; accredited by
the local government; with existing operations able to provide some
counterpart resources.
The steps in the planning process after the initiation by the LGU are as
follows:
Activities                              Outputs
Negotiations for participation                  Agreements to participate
of identified groups                            signed between LOU and NGOs
Collaborative planning,                         Comrmnity inputs to area
prioritizing of areas and interventions         based health plan
Identification and preparation of project       Proposed project for review
proposal
(a)  Local review and                           Endorsement of inter-agency
recommendation                             committee to health officer
(b) Regional/Central DOH review                 Recommendation by DOH
of technical aspects of                    regional director to health
proposal                                   officer
(c)  City/Municipal health                      Endorsement to mayor by
office revlew                              health officer based on
(a), (b), and (c)
Final review and action                         Approval of project by the
mayor
Contracting formalities                         Contract for grant
At the end of this process, a project proposal is ready for implementation.



- 121 -
Ahmax
Page 3 of 6
Protecit Grants
The implementation of project grants would be at the LGU-level. The
decision-making infrastructure of the partnership established by the planning
grants would identify the projects and the project sites, prepare the project
proposals and review their project proposals. Based on the consensus of the
participating groups, and the independent technical review by the central and
regional DOH, the health officer as a key officer of this partnership would
recommend projects for approval by the local chief executive.
The component plans to support at least 480 project grants on general
community health priorities, 216 water/sanitation grants, 108 food and
nutrition grants.
Based on the assessment of the urban area, the following guidelines
would be used to review and approve of project grants:
(a)   Projects should involve community participation processes in
preparing and planning the project proposal specifications.
(b) Project should assist communities to obtain some security in
access to basic necessities that are essential to long term health
and nutrition improvements such as:
-    development, supply, promotion and distribution of adequate
weaning foods through women's groups
=    setting up schemes for assuring supply of affordable essential
drugs
-    implementing sound environmental health technology packages
-    utilizing day care and child minding centers for child survival
and development activities in health and nutrition
-    utilizing women's trust groups for health promotion and generating
demand for primary health care.
(c)   Projects should address priority problems of the urban poor with
direct or indirect impact on health and nutrition, such as:
-    provision and maintenance of safe water supply
-    provision and maintenance of sanitary exereta disposal facilities
-    organization of cooperative health financing schemes, revolving
drugs funds and similar mechanisms for making health care
affordable to the urban poor
-    testing of community mobilization measures in support of TB
control, family planning, women's health and child health
-    use of community cultural events and mass media for targeting
health and nutrition IEC to urban poor
-    organization and training of street food vendors for healthier and
more nutritious food.



- 122 -
Annex 14
Page 4 of 6
(d)  projects would have an individual P100,00 per year ceiling;
eligibility for 3 years of support upon satisfactory evaluation;
with no mere than 20X of costs allocated and spent for overhead.
(e) Projects may support an existing activity evaluated and considered
to merit continuation, expansion or enhancement.
(f)  While most projects would be generated from proponents, a group of
projects would be focused on promotion of onvironmental sanitation
technical packages and food and nutrltion technical packages would
be promoted. These technical packages are designed and developed
by the central DOB for propagation and implementation by RGO's or
communities themselves.
(g)  Project would support technical training of implementors on the
specially designed packages and the more popular types of projects
being proposed. In addition, general training on project
management, proposal preparation, monitoring and evaluation would
be provided.
Institutional Grants
Institutional grants would support the operations improvement of
accredited NGO's with a track record of project implementation. Activities
included in the grants based on NGO proposals may be as follows:
-   training on project development, proposal writing and project
documentation
=   technical assistance on health and nutrition operations and service
delivery
-   manuaiLzation of community organizing experience
-   developing project monitoring methods
-   visltation and information sharing with model NGO's
-   specific training needs of key KGO officers (accountant, operations
officer, manager, etc.).
A total of 24 grants not exceeding P50,000 per grant is planned. The
proposals for institutional grants would be generated as part of the planning
and organizing process, when NGO capabilities may need to be developed ahead
of any project grant proposal.
Training and technical inputs to be supported by institutional grants
would be obtained from DOH, other government agencies, other NGO's and
academie institutions.
2.        Fund  Flow
The component would be executed in discrete pieces called grants.
Once a grant is made and the proceeds released, it will be considered a
project expenditure.



- 123 -
Anne 14
Page S of 6
The funds flow mechanism would consist of the following elements:
(a) A proposed annual plan for planning, project and institutional
grants would be prepared by each LOU. This will be included as a
part of the WU,s proposed UHNP annual plan.
(b) The central DOH (specifically the CHS with the PCU) will
consolidate and review the proposed plans. A reco_mended
allocation of component resources by city/municipality would be
prepared for the approval of the project director.
(c) Upon approval and release of the UHNP budget, the final allocation
of each city and municipality would be provided by the DOH.
(d) The LGUs would proceed to process and approve grants based on DOH
guidelines and review proposals. The LWUs use their own funds to
support the initial funding requirements of duly approved
proposals.
(e) JGUs present expenditures on grants, together with all required
documentation, to the DOH via the regional offices.
(f) Upon satisfactory review of expenditures, the DOH, through the
Project Director, informs the Municipal Development Fund at the DOF
that the presented LGU expenditures are proper and may therefore be
reimbursed by UHNP funds.
(g) LWU withdraws UHNP funds for grant expenditures and continues the
cycle of disbursement and reimbursement.
3.       DON Support to Component Implementation
The DOH will support LOU implementation of this component via the
central Community Health Services (CHS) and the regional field health offices.
The CHS performs the following support functions:
(a) initiates the activation of the component in each LOU by preparing
and processing the initial planning grants until the city/municipal
decision-making structures are in place and operating.
(b) consolidates annual implementation plans and recommends fund
allocation for the component activities in each LGU. (use GIS
inputs may be important here)
(c) prepares the technical and administrative guidelines to be followed
by each LGU when implementing the component in the locality.



- 124 -
gaeg 14
Page 6 of 6
(d)  receives, reviews and recommends to PCU for Project Director action
on expenditure claims of LGUs for the component.
(e)  coordinates the development of model or prototype tecdbical
packages for project grants using outside consultants or in house
DOH specialists as appropriate.
(f) establishes mechanisms for inter-city/inter-municipality/inter-
regional exchanges, networking and information sharing among
participants in the local partnerships (visitations, dissemination
of reports, sharing of manuals, etc.)
(g)  creates opportunities for technical documentation and promotion of
component implementation approaches and experiences (such as issue-
focused conferences, policy seminars, case study presentations)
(h)  undertakes evaluation of project grants from a process as well as
an impact standpoint, and disseminate results of evaluation for the
benefit of learning by local partnerships.
The regional DOH units support the LGU implementation by serving as a
host and a conduit of CHS activities in the region and by generating reviews
of LEU implementation for the benefit of central DOH as well as the other
regions.
The above functions would allow CHS and tlhe regional DOH to facilitate
sharing of information and experience from PHDP and UHNP.



- 125 -
Armex 15
Page 1 of 6
YH:ITBES
URBAN HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
VONKUB ]WHA=T  AND FAIN=  ELM=IN
Intervention          Present Strategy                      Issues to Consider
Family Planning       Household Level -- currently no       Out-patient services and
Service Delivery      family planning delivered at          proactive facility-based
household level                       counselling (high-risk
GYN patients, STD
Area Based Level - presently          clients)
missed opportunity to reach
groups on dialect, religious
etc. grounds
Facility Based - services
available only on demand, and
not in all DOH facilities
limited access for men to family     How to include men in
planning services and                client groups
information
Protocols             Limited availability of family        Increasing knowledge by
planning manual                      service providers of
updated protocols
System for updating
protocols
Contraceptive Nix     Choice limited to:  1 generic         Introduction strategy for
oral pill, 1 IUD, condoms,           new methods, including
surgical sterilization, natural      injectables, progestin-
family planning                      only pill, Norplant,
trials for new
contraceptive
technologies
Logistics             Lack of contraceptive supplies        Long-term strategy for
in urban slum outlets (and in        institutio-
household distribution).  UHNP       nalizing logistics
rough estimate of 2.2 million        management in DOH
years of contraceptive
protection needed over project
period



- 126 -
Annex 15
Page 2 of 6
PH;IPPINES
URBAN  I=L AND NUTRITION PROJECT
VoxGNN'8 UUL  AND FA=ILY PLfN@MG
Intervention          Present Strategy                     Issues to Consider
Medium strategy of utilising         Integrating family
CARE for accelerated delivery of    planning supplies with
contraceptives nationwide            other birth-based
supplies
Uncertain supply needs for
supporting natural family
planning
IEC                   IEC Master Plan regarding IEC        Has plan been
development incorporating            implemented?  Does it
audience segmentation, message       address roles and
content etc. exists                  responsibilities of
various agencies?
How will birth-based
approach be incorporated
into Master Plan?
How will rumors and
misinformation regarding
family planning be
handled?
Need for materials to
inform clients and
potential clients about
type, location etc. of
specific services
How will information be
provided to males?
Training              Method-based training expanded       Training needs in project
areas - levels of
personnel, skills and
functions



- 127 -
AUSe 15
Page 3 of 6
URBAN HEALT  AND NURIION PMO.RCT
VONMK'S HEAUNH AND I)F LY PLANING
Intervention          Present Strategy                      Issues to Consider
How will training
activities incorporate
birth-based approach?
How will program training
activities enhance NGO
and private practitioner
service delivery?
Monitoring and        Breakdown of previous family         How to identify women
Evaluation            planning monitoring system           with unmet need?
Need to agree on
performance indicators to
reflect birth-based
approach
How to monitor program
quality?
How to monitor and
evaluate IEC
effectiveness?
Quality assessment systems have      How to develop a
focused on certification carried    provided-based approach
out on facilities rather than        to assessment?
individuals
Organization and      Incomplete integration of family    Can birth-based approach
Management            planning and maternal and child      facilitate this
Structure             health                               integration?
Unclear support functions for        Better definition of
other DOH units (e.g., PIHES,        support functions
HMDT)



- 128 -
Page 4 of 6
URNHKALTR ANID NT=RON PR_ECT
voMv's nfUxM AMn ZM=h PLANNIN
Intetwention          Present Strategy                     Issues to Consider
Ileffective interagency policy       How should the functions
committees                           of these best be carried
out?
Uneertainty regarding health         How to facilitate
sector management structure in       adoption of birth-based
light of devolution                  approach (including
family planning) by LGUs?
operations                                                 Establishing women's
Research                                                   knowledge and preferences
regarding reproductive
health
Design OR to determine
needs for STD services to
break the cycle of STD
infections for women
Client satisfaction with
birth-based approach



- 129 -
Annx 15
Page 5 of 6
PHIIPPINES
URIAN HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
MMOAR F OF ISSUES AND RECOMMENDATIONS RE FP COMPONENT OF 0 HEp
9MP ApDralsal Session No. 2. 12 January 1993. DOR-qCS Conference Room
Issues                               Recommendations
Target group to include all          For birth-based approach, target group is
WRA or all married WRA or            the cohort pregnant women
cohort pregnant women
For facility-based, target groups are:
a)    15-45 years old WRA for FP services
b)    10-45 years old WRA for FP-IEC
Pill dispensation                    Ideally, physical/pelvic exam recommended
prior to initial pill dispensation.
However, checklist may be used in lieu of
physical exam.
One month initial supply of pills,
however, more than one month supply may be
allowed depending on certain conditions,
e.g., distance of residence of acceptor
from service facility. Six months supply
thereafter.
Clients should be advised to come back for
check-up after one month of initial pill
use then clinic check-up and re-supply
every 6 months thereafter.
Protocol for physical and            Recommend that any new FP acceptor have a
pelvic exam                          physical and pelvic exam within a year
after acceptance of a method. Annual
check-up of acceptor thereafter.
For IUD acceptor, physical and pelvic exam
should be an integral part of the IUD
insertion procedure.
Contraceptive method mix             FP National Program provides for wider
choice of contraceptives. Policy on
method Lix to be prepared by Clinical
Standards of OCS. This mix should include
the introduction of injectable and
Norplant.



- 130 -
Page 6 of 6
PILIPPINES
URBAN HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
SUMARY OF IUES AND RECoN_ATIONS RE FP COMPONENT OF UHNP
UHUP Quraisal 8esslon No. 2. 12 Januarv 1993. pOH-OC$ Conference Room
Issues                              RecoCm_ndations
UHNP to provide supplemental funds for
contraceptives and training on new methods
if these are met by other finding, the
MHNP budgeted amount may be reprogrammed
for other activities.
UHNP to include OR and other research on:
1) FP method choice or preferences of
urban poor women and 2) on the
introduction of Norplant.
Contraceptive Prevalence Rates      Dr. Corazon Raymundo of UPPI agreed to
provide a provisional CPR for the low
socio-econo,mic groups of Metro Manila.
Monitoring and Evaluation           Performance indicators should complement
Indicators                          with existing indicators of the National
Program. These performance indicators
should include:
-    availability
-    quality
-    utilization
-    client satisfaction
These indicators should be based on
qualitative as well as quantitative
measures. Further support may be required
to develop specific indicators.
The standard National Program indicators
and standards for facilities and services
shall be prepared by the Committee on
Clinic Services.



- 131 -
Page 1 of 3
P?HILIPPINES
URBAN HEALTH AND NUTRITIQON PROJCT
OPIRATIONS RESE1RC0 ON NUTRITIO3
Three pieces of operations research are proposed under the
project, and two are on-going, as follows.
Overation Research Proposed Under The Project
Or_ nzation of Ltqowt nromoto. All three of the main elements
of growth promotion--growth monitoring, counselling and food supplementation--
are time-consuming and difficult. In other projects, experience has shown
that it takes two days a month for a worker to growth uonitor the under two
children of a client population of 1,000; and at least an hour and a half a
day six days a week to organize food supplementation. This is on the
assumption of on-site rather than take-home feeding; to avoid food supplements
being shared with other family members, the former is more cost-effective.
It is unclear what in the Philippines context are the best methods
for organizing growth promotion. The current government policy of relying on
volunteer workers has potential advantages. It would maximize community
participation, hence increasing potential sustainability; and it would
minimize the burden on volunteer workers, since each BHW would be responsible
for only 50 families (or about nine pregnant women and about 18 under twos),
and the workers would be assisted by mothers' groups. On the other hand, good
growth monitoring and counselling require considerable skill, and hence
regular in-service training and supervision; preventing leakages of food also
requires close supervision. With an average of 17 MVs per mid-wife, and the
many other tasks for which mid-wives are responsible, will mid-wives be able
to provide this? And will unpaid BHWs be prepared to give up the equivalent
of several days a month to help run a nutrition program in addition to their
other duties?
OR would therefore be carried out during the first two project
years on alternative methods of organizing growth promotion, with the idea
that the most promising approach would be expanded project-wide during the
last four years of the project.  First, a desk review would be carried out on
alternative approaches. Then two alternatives would be explored in the
project area: (i) BHWs (and BNS where available) would carry out growth
'xnitoring and counselling; local mothers' 'trust groups' would be responsible
for preparing supplements and organizing feeditg on an on-site, group basis at
one of the group's homes; (Li) feeding would be organized in the same manner,
but the quality of grc.th monitoring, counselling and feeding supervision
would be strengthened by creating one part time paid commnity worker,
receiving ? P400 a month, per 1,500 client population and responsible only for
these activities.



- 132 -
QELex 16
Page 2 of 3
In view of the importance of this research for the design of
nutrition programs in the Philippines, it would be carried out at several
sites to ensure validity of the findings: the two alternatives would be
compared in two areas of Manila (a very poor and a less poor slum); one site
in Cebu; and one site in each of two municipalities--a total of 10 test sites.
Sites would be chosen where the ratio of mid-wives to clients would be about
1:5,000. The scale of experimentation in each case would be one Health Center
area, or about 30,000 client population, since it is important to try out
organizational changes over at least one organizational unit. The outcome
measures to be tracked would include: percentage of children regularly
monitored/counselled; participation rates in feeding; quality of monitoring,
counselling and feeding; and anthropometric measures of impact. The
implementing agency for this research would be the DOH Nutrition Service.
Food suDDlement content. The food supplements proposed for
initial use under the project have been carefully designed with reference to
palatability, cultural acceptability, variety and shelf life; and designed
around a base of bulgur wheat and peas, since these are the supplementary
foods which are most readily available in the Philippines through the PL480
program. It is not clear, however, if this supplement is the most cost-
effective approach if there were no need to accept bulgur wheat and peas as
the base. Therefore, during the first year of project implementation,
research would be carried out to develop alternative recipes which appear
likely to be cost-effective, and in the second year of the project the most
promising ones would tested in the field to determine their acceptability, and
their effects on malnutrition.
Both Asian and African countries have had some success with the
auylaze enrichment of food supplements; this reduces the viscosity of the
supplement, enabling children being supplemented to consume more at a sitting.
This is of particular benefit for very young children, whose appetite is
limited, and who may have difficulty consuming much solid food; and for
severely malnourished children, who are often anorexic. Simultaneously with
the above research, operations research would be carried out on the cost-
effectiveness of amylaze enrichment of chosen supplements. The implementing
agency for this research would be the DOH Nutrition Service in partnership
with the Food and Nutrition Research Institute.
Iron supplementation for infants. The 50 days of iron
supplementation proposed for infants will be very costly. At the same time,
it may be that other interventions proposed under the project will have a
substantial effect on infant and child anaemia--notably iron supplementation
of pregnant women, and IEC encouraging women to eat and to feed children more
iron-rich foods; in this event, direct iron supplementation of infants may be
unnecessary, or not cost-effective. OR would therefore be carried out to test
the effect of direct supplementation versus other approaches to reducing
infant and child anaemia. This research would be carried out during the
second year of the project. The implementing agency would be the Food and
Nutrition Research Institute.



- 133 -
Anx16
Page 3 of 3
On-Going Ogeratigns Research
Arm circumferene  as a screening tool  A study is being carried
out in Jose Favella maternity hospital to assess the relationship between arm
circumference and birth weight for a population of a thousand women. This
would enable DOH to decide whether arm circumference is a satisfactory
screening criterion for selecting pregnant women for supplementation under the
project. A prospective study, which would be time-consuming and costly, is
not required, because arm circumference changes very little during pregnancy.
Goiter. The project currently proposes to.supplement with iodine
only women with visible goiter. It Is unclear at present whether iodine
deficiency in women with non-visible golter ln the urban areas is sufficient
to warrant broader supplementation. A survey of T4 and TSH in blood in a
thousand women is on-going also in Jose Favella hospital, and the results will
be analyzed to address this question.



- 134 -
Page 1 of 8
PHILIPPINES
URhAN HEALTH AND NUTRITIQO PROJECT
BASIC 5R0IQ T & PROVIDED AND TECHNOLOGY OPTIONS
POR ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH IN URBAN POR COApMUNITIES
Pilot project sites in the cities and districts of Metro Manila, Metro
Cebu and Cagayan de Oro have been identified, taking into account the
diversity of the physical and environmental characteristics of urban poor
settlements. A variety of technology packages for water supply, exereta
disposal, solid waste management, drainage, vermin control, and food
sanitation shall be introduced based on available technical options with
appropriate modifications to suit land space conditions, water resources
available, drainage conditions and access to services from utility companies
in the selected urban poor areas.
There will be 12 pilot project areas in the initial year of the project
with 8 in Metro Manila, 3 in Metro Cebu and one in Cagayan de Oro City. From
the second to the fourth year of the project, demonstration projects will be
implemented in 36 urban poor areas, i.e., 24 in Metro Manila, 9 in Metro Cebu
and 3 in Cagayan de Oro City.
The environmental health service package will consist of the following:
=    construction of water supply, toilets and drainage facilities, and
food stalls;
-    provision of materials and equipment for the pilot projects
including collection carts for the solid waste management project,
and for insect and rodent control;
-     institutional development in the form of technical assistance and
support for community organization to be prov..ded by NGOs;
-     technical assistance to LGUs and participating government agencies
in project planning and management;
-     training of project implementors and beneficiaries; and
-    project support in terms of logistic support for travel, meetings,
seminar-workshops, report preparation, documentation and
communication.
The technical and technology options to be pilot tested, initially in 12
urban poor settlement areas (1 per city/district), are briefly described
below:



- 135 -
&M-ex 17
Page 2 of 8
1)    Water supply technology options
For water supply, those urban poor areas which are within the service
coverage of the MWSS in Metro Manila and the Cebu Water District for Metro
Cebu and the Cagayan de Oro Water District for Cagayan de Oro City may be
connected to the water utilities as a single consumer, with water distributed
and sold through public standposts as Level II service. In areas where the
water mains of the water utilities are far and the supply not adequate to
serve the community, several deepwells may be drilled to serve each community.
Alternatively, rainwater catchment tanks may be set up. It is unlikely that
spring sources will be available in the middle of cities where most slums are
located for development as water supply sources. Technology options for water
supply are discussed in more detail in the implementation volume.
2)    Exereta disposal technology options
The overcrowding and lack of space in many urban poor communities poses
a severe constraint in improving toilet facilities, whether individual or
public. Land space availability will determine whether individual or public
toilets will be used and whether on-site or off-site treatment will be
prescribed. Furthermore, availability of adequate water supply will also
determine the type of toilet with regards to flushed or sanitary latrine type.
These options are discussed in the implementation volume.
3)    Solid waste management options
Options for solid waste disposal is also limited in terms of known and
used practices. It is common to see piles of garbage around the cities when
garbage collection by city authorities are not efficient. This results in
uncollected garbage, not only near slums and squatter areas, but also near
markets and even the affluent sections of the city. This explains why those
near rivers and creeks commonly throw their garbage into these bodies of water
and other drainage canals. Clogging of drainage pipes and canals often
results in local flooding which also affect these communities. The strategy
adopted is to reduce the volume of garbage to be disposed through recycling of
materials like bottles, plastics, metal, and paper. Sorting and community
collection will also be adopted in pilot communities. Technology options for
solid waste management are discussed further in the implementation volume.
4)    Drainage
Drainage is the responsibility of the Department of Public Works and
Highways. However, in the slum areas, internal drainage within household lots
is the responsibility of the residents. The unplanned nature of most slum and
squatter settlements prevent the digging of drainage canals leading to the
drainage mains along most streets in the cities. The construction of internal
drainage to take away sullage and effluent from septic tanks will require
community action and cooperation. Simple concrete canals with adequate covers
that can be removed for regular cleaning, de-clogging and maintenance can be



- 136 -
Annex 17
Page 3 of 8
designed and constructed. Drainage options are discussed further in the
implementation volume.
5)    Food sanitation and street food trade
For food sanitation, training of food operators, food handlers and
mothers is the basic intervention. However, minimum standards of food
sanitation will be developed to apply primarily to the ambulant street food
trade. This will legitimize their existence and at the same time enable the
City Health Offices and District Health Offices to monitor their activities.
Moreover, technical and material assistance shall be extended to these vendors
to enable them to comply with basic sanitation requirements.
The project also envisions the setting up of pilot street food and trade
areas in Quezon City for Metro Manila, District II in Cebu City and in Cagayan
de Oro City. This will require the cooperation and support of the concerned
city governments in terms of site selection and provision of land. Facilities
to be set up in the area such as stalls and public toilets will be provided by
the project. To make this component viable, fees for the use of the
facilities will be collected. For the management of the pilot street food and
trade area, a vendor's cooperative is envisioned. Please refer to the
implementation volume for information on the pilot street food trade area
concept.
6)    Insect and rodent control
Strategies for dealing with the problems brought about by insects and
rodents are mainly health education and control measures. The health
education aspect of the project will deal with the promotion of good
sanitation practices in the household and in the community. Control measures
include: a) environmental and physical control; b) biological control; and c)
chemical control. The first is covered by the improvements to be brought
about by the preceding package of environmental improvement. Fogging and
spraying will be the main technology options to deal with mosquitoes,
houseflies, cockroaches and rats while environmental and physical improvements
are being implemented in the communities. Insect and rodent control are
discussed in Annex 7.
The pilot projects will be monitored and evaluated throughout the entire
project cycle to determine feasibility and acceptability of the technology
options to both implementors and beneficiaries.
Successful pilot project technologies and approaches will be replicated
in 36 other areas through demonstration projects towards the latter years of
the project. It is expected that the pilot project phase will take about 1-2
years allowing the remaining years of the project for the demonstration
project phase.
While the feasibility and acceptability of the projects are determined
during the planning, construction, operation and maintenance of the sub-



- 137 -
Annex 17
Page 4 of 8
projects, the projects will also be evaluated for their institutional,
financial, sociological and technical implications.
STJTEQIES TO VEBAH THE URMAN POOR
Because of the relative uncertainty of effectiveness of the approaches
used, and the large magnitude of need for environmental health intervention in
the urban poor areas, it is deemed more practical for the project to focus on
the development and testing of alternative technology packages that may be
applicable in various types of urban poor communities. The sites for the
pilot-test and demonstration projects were selected based on their being
representative of the various types of urban poor community. The types of
urban poor settlement are described more fully in Annex 6.
once appropriate technologies have been successfully field tested and
demonstrated, other urban poor areas may benefit through expansion programs
that may be adopted by various local -nd national institutions concerned about
the welfare of the urban poor. The dccessful technologies shall be
disseminated and shared with other organizations and communities for possible
replication. Under Component 3 of this project, other communities will use
these technologies for specific priority environmental sanitation problems to
be funded through project grants to NGOs.
ImPIZ1EATION mS
The Environmental Health component requires the introduction of
technology, institutional setup, financial arrangements and procedures that
may not be familiar to the implementors and the beneficiaries alike. It will
be necessary to train project personnel and organize beneficiaries so that a
cohesive team of institutional workers and beneficiary groups will work
together for the successful implementation of the project activities. The
training and community organization activities are deemed to be inherent part
of the technology packages to be tested.
The DOH Environmental Sanitation Unit (DOH/ESU) will be responsible for
providing technical assistance to the personnel of implementing agencies at
the local level. These include staff of local government units, city and
district health offices, water utilities as well as accredited NGOs. DOH/ESU
will be assisted by local consultants in training, planning, design,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of projects. Local government units
will be assisted in the coordination of project activities since the project
involves different agencies and organization.
In line with the decentralization policy of government as embodied in
the Local Government Code, the project will take the opportunity to train
local level agencies in the nuances of planning and programming of water
supply, sanitation, drainage, solid waste and food handling.
The project will also provide opportunities for NGOs to be trained in
water supply development, sanitation planning, drainage and solid waste



- 138 -
Annex 17
Page 5 of 8
management. Many NGOs working in communities miss the opportunity to provide
assistance in %hese fields due to lack of technical knowledge and experience
in such projects.
The pilot projects will adopt the strategy of providing an integrated
package of interventions to improve the environment in slums and squatter
settlements. The inclusion of drainage and solid waste management as part of
sanitation, which traditionally was limited to exereta disposal, will help
prevent the spread of diseases attributed to a dirty environment in the pilot
project areas.
The size of the pilot projects were chosen such that the resources
required to implement an integrated package of interventions will allow for a
number of projects to be implemented, monitored and evaluated. Funding
limitation may not allow the whole integrated package of interventions for
other communities.  For other communities covered by UHNP, NGOs will be
provided with environmental sanitation project grants under component 4 to
address specific water supply, excreta disposal, solid waste disposal or
drainage problems.
While the government sanitation interventions are to be implemented as a
pilot and demonstration project package, these will be closely linked to the
other components of UHNP. This will be true in planning and selection of
sites for priority but only to the extent that project costs will allow. It
should be noted that the environmental sanitation components are really
infrastructure projects that are relatively costly compared to other health
and nutrition interventions. It is for this reason that resources may not
allow the environmental sanitation component to cover the entire area targeted
by UHNP for its health and nutrition components.
Role of NOOs and Community Organizations
Considering the low priority accorded to slums and squatter settlements
by most government agencies, it is expected that development in these areas
will happen only if the initiatives come from the slum dwellers themselves.
The distribution of water either from the city water utility or from deepwells
will require some form of organization to manage collection, operation, repair
and maintenance. Maintenance of drainage systems and public toilets will also
require organized effort. Collection of sorted garbage and their disposal
will likewise need an organization to manage and maintain the system. The
same organization that will manage the different projects once completed will
be needed in the various phases of project development to its completion.
The active participation of the community is critical particularly in
the planning stages of the different projects. The fact that these are pilot
projects means that a lot of new concepts will be tried which make
consultation with the users a must. Once they are in place, the projects will
require close monitoring in order to see how they can be made to function
properly and how people can be motivated to use and maintain them properly.



- 139 -
Page 6 of 8
It ir recognized that NGOs who spend more time in the communities are
better situated to handle the community organization aspects of the sub-
projects. In many urban poor communities, NGOs are helping communities in
livelihood, health and nutrition projects for which the communities are
trained and organized to undertake the improvements themselves. The project
will need the help of these NGOs in working with the communities to improve
the environmental sanitation situation in the pilot areas. On the other hand,
the project will help NGOs develop their capabilities to plan and implement
water supply, sanitation, drainage and solid waste projects.
LGU-NGO Collaboration
With local government units providing the inter-agency coordination for
the planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the different
environmental health packages, the project will also promote collaboration
between the government agencies and NGOs at the community level. For most
LOUs and most of the newly elected local executives, the project will provide
the opportunity to implement development projects within their areas.
Successful collaboration can only be attained with the participation of
the inter-agency group in all aspects of the projects from planning to
maintenance of the projects. It will be crucial during planning that the
roles and responsibilities of each member of the group are defined and their
commitment made.
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
The experimental nature of the environmental health project package and
the application of technologies not familiar to the implementors and
beneficiaries will necessitate constant monitoring and close supervision
during implementation. Adjustments will be made as feedbacks are provided by
field implementors and beneficiaries. Demonstration projects will consider
changes made on the original design of the pilot projects of the first year.
Evaluation will be made at the mid-year of the second and fourth years. The
first evaluation will be used to improve the pilot project models. The second
will be used as inputs to the preparation of the environmental sanitation
program for urban poor communities.
ARRANGEMES FOR IMPLEMENATION
The Office of the Environmental Health Service (EHS) will be responsible
for overseeing the implementation of the environmental health component of
UHNP. They will provide technical assistance in planning, introduction of
appropriate technologies, training, and management support to the field
implementing units composed of the city and district health personnel, local
government units and NGO staff in the implementation of projects within their
areas of responsibility. The DOH will organize a project management team
within EHS to oversee the day-to-day project activities in collaboration with
the field implementing units.



- 140 -
nnx17
Page 7 of 8
The beneficiaries in each project site will be organized into Barangay
Waterworks and Sanitation Associations (BWSAs) as provided under R.A. 6717
dated March 17, 1989. The responsibilities of the BWSAs will be modified to
enable them to undertake wastewater disposal, solid waste management and
rodent/vector control in addition to their mandated water supply and
sanitation activities. Each BWSA will have one committee each for water
supply, sanitation (exereta disposal) and drainage, solid waste management and
food sanitation. These committees will be responsible for the operation and
maintenance of the facilities to be turned-over to them by the UMNP.
Aproach to Imnlementation
The project will strengthen the decentralization policy of the
government and provide the opportunity to exercise the provisions of the Local
Government Code. While the DOH Central Office is responsible for the
implementation of the project, planning and implementation will be the
responsibility of the CHO/DHOs, LGUs and NGOs. The role of EHS is mainly to
provide assistance to the local units through the Project Management Team.
Technologies will be introduced through the CHO/DHOs. Institutional
development support, particularly, on community organization and participation
will be provided by NGO partners, and local government units will be involved
in coordination and monitoring of projects. These groups who will be the main
_mplementors of the projects will be provided with technical training to
develop their capabilities to implement the project. NGOs will be provided
with technical support and training to help them implement environmental
sanitation projects under component 4 in addition to providing community
organization support to this component.
Members of the communities selected by the BWSAs will be included in the
training to motivate them to provide community inputs to the project.
Beneficiaries and users of the facilities will be trained on proper use and
maintenance of facilities to attain maximum health benefits from the project.
Implementation Schedule
The projects are to be implemented over a five-year period from 1994 to
1998. The 12 pilot projects will be implemented in 1994 to early 1995. The
36 demonstration projects will be implemented from late 1995 to 1997. The
final year (1998) will be used to evaluate the project and to prepare a long-
term environmental sanitation program for urban poor communities. The
detailed project implementation schedule is shown in the implementation
volume.
Consulting Services
The services of local consultants will be procured for the duration of
the project. The consultants will provide technical advisory services to the
project management team at EHS, the CHO/DHOs, NGOs and the local government
units in the following areas:



- 141 -
Annex 17
Page 8 of 8
-    project implementation
-     institutional support
-     technology options
-    monitoring and evaluation
-    project documentation, and
-    preparation of long-term environmental sanitation program for the
urban poor.
Consulting services will be for a total of 24 man-months (m-m) with 6 m-
m each during the initial (1994) and final (1998) years, and 4 m-m for each
year from 1995-1997.
Provision of Block Grants
There are 5 components for each project that will require civil works.
Each of these components will be designed to suit the situation in a
particular area based on actual surveys and consultation with the
beneficiaries. Materials would be better procured locally to offset the
difficulties of transportation to project sites if procured centrally.
Furthermore, adjustments may require changes in initially prncured materials
considering the experimental nature of the projects. It is, therefore,
recommended that in lieu of centralized procurement, block grants be provided
to the projects through the implementing NGOs for flexibility in disbursement
of funds. However, disbursements will have to be approved by the field
implementing committee composed of the CHO/DHO representative, the LOU
representative and the NGO representative.
ESTIMATED COSTS
The total cost of the proposed environmental health component is
P43,600,640. The project cost estimates are based on engineering designs
prepared by the Environmental Health Service officials of DOH with the
assistance of local consultants.
It should be noted that the average cost of providing water supply,
sanitation and drainage facilities were based on an assumed mix of technology
options. Technical surveys and detailed design of these facilities will
determine the actual costs for each project site. Annual financial
requirements will, therefore, be based on the design which are prepared before
the preparation of annual work and financial plan for each project area.
A detailed breakdown of the estimated cost of the proposed p-oject is
shown in the implementation volume. Civil works in the form of facilities
construction comprise 60.4 per cent of the total cost, technical assistance,
8.1. per cent, training, 7.1 per cent, logistics support, 13.8 per cent and
the remaining 10.6 per cent for equipment, materials, supplies and chemicals.



sam
Nma    ATN AND   MITIONUle
19n 4       I1995        1996      p199            1996   -    ota
A. S*on ic Delivery
women's NU  lth                               1.199,611   1,634,659    2.20.26    21s11,159    2Al4*         1O4t3a937
Childr.e' H elth                             542,3554   404,670.4    2.112,51t      2T,m415    1.414.411    9,33t14
tB Control                                    1,356,98    1,101,569    1. nu.274 *It,S67    970.611.4    5.102,360
Servlc. Upradig                              9,S0,070   1.14,4151    1.77,n 103        s ,71640  16,n6102   1S,034.63
Inct mntel Service Delivery St ff            l.9J31.91                I.flhU   AJS.LI 1.li1J1                 *-11JEt
Subttotl Srvic. DeliveqP                                     LIU         1KW1            11J    1E? 151j1
SuEketel 8-rvle Dellw-tr            U ,0614,146   GO52006 3    to 099,t19   19,633,7 §   I0,qN*|0   S,5sz23
11. ln Utitflt l DSYle_i.t
Aoea eased Planing                           241,197.4    50,94U3.*4    "H,94        90,943.4     9993.4   14o,97.9
Informtion, Uducetien a Caiucatile           717,117.0    61,109.4    1,202.0#       61,509.4     61,199.4    2,165.349
training S f" Rego"acrce Derlop ent          057,410.2  340,0.6    1S7,6f50.4    20,930.9         19,396.2   1.O1.001
"anagement 8rsteo tIptremwsnt                 1.132,076                               -     _            _    1,1-20
Adn*. T cIlity Upgtadlag                      4.0H0,774           -   246,237.2    246,217.2   *4.217.2   1.139.437
Projoet wanJ*Uemot a Coomdletion            S2.t25.2 UJ           ___j 9U -P I.t -Phi3tI -f!31!ft  -ptIU4II
Subtotal Institutional Developent               t     ,995   1,147,719 -,35B,SS1    1.2f 139                   -1,U VM
C. Comunity Parta.rsblp fot Health
flamning groats                              207,262.6   210,134.7    n 21,7n.4    210,199.7    210,19.7    1,5617                                  ,
Inetitutiemal Otnts                           10,24.2    10,26.2        10,264.2     10,.o4.2      6,343.4     60450.6
Project Otrnts                             1.1.iILfl      M!JMJ    I.l44b.. ..1Al2d M M           M.M.JILa!    S.=.nt rf
Subtotal Camuity t rtn rebip for Ualth           U9,945.1  1,S.7S,      1,33ff,t     1,095,74    05I,637I.7    44,7021
U. Roseacb 4 3val.tion
Baselin, a evaluation Sunreys                  6,11.8       6,113.2      6,1t1.       6,112.2      6,113.2    30.6,Oo
Unviro_mt.l Wealtb Dsve3t  mt                763,334.3  612,873.2    606,499.1    60.U49.1        61,66.4    2,66,246
wamen's Walth a ramlly Planing                112,080.2   15*,630.2   1S2,830.2             -            -    456,69".6
Nuttition Dewn l _nt                          144,241.5  14S65U.1              -            -                  m,000.0
Opeations los*arch                                   LSome
Subtotal Restrch 4    8v       jujtien 19lnm .3
toteol  SMILNt  CoSoS                           25,160,065   9e,611931   13,69,241             14   13.057.464  7W.0AS,2m
thysical comtingenoles                          1.369,467   120,649.6    101,430.2    126,303.7   170,769.6    1,666,620
Price Con6ilgencles
inflation
Local                                      S92,667.7  763,913.1    1,969,041    2,686,763    3,37,36    3,2,0*6
Foreign                                    t4.likii&   _130.tU.1      025.33.2!Id6 .30.    555.6 X_.  44.14
Subtotal Inflation                           741-34I, 3    9-9.1it   Z,219,074    3,0S1iI69   3,929,70   10,I12,96
Devaluation                                 -331,036.4  -432,S76.9 -1,123,069.0 -I,554,103.9 -1,"9,111.1 -5.419,560.1
Subtotal Price Contingenies                              -M.eft's                                                                                 Cs..ltdfl    L950. .LA2L114
total P5033CT cOStS                             26,926824  1o,40F,665    467    i4.761,66S1l79,26242,160,23X
taxes--                                                                                                    --I
Foreign Exchange                                9.727,914   2,909,320    3,397,603    3.600,974    4,322.6t9  23,956.490                           0 cO
,-



niultm~~~
m~um
an*  NIALTU MID UUITIOT   PROJff
E ws             MUa          M
Janesuseal O)et
$"Vigo DIllg.                     te.    1SIraS Imh.    ots &Ml        ssa       1.         u.
Mines's   afltdaa.                S.wvle        _          mssi  *mUema   Steaste.            agotas     Vs.ltv _b sgtI
C.        two case
a. etlvUbt                 .                        .              1.14.9                                      -s* .             .        4.17,09,1-
C. gqlpsmt                        ,1t,40.1   tH0.?1?.   10,.44.    1.911.1            -          -     14.e11.1   172,124.1           -  ls.112 e.m.         4 * 
C. -mee                                 -           -               62,22.3           -          -             *-                     -  2  2.8*6            -
D. V*108                                -           -          -   n31,14.3                                    -          -           -          -      324.6"
S. Isalaa-    -                                                -           .          -  144,24.0       42.90l.1   1,291.99           -          -            -
D. *"I"t     c
e    d  7st,n*.s  :":ns           :           :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.n.M
D IeetsCSa el Valgeasss                    2,t1,Ufi   2t -          -          -           -           -                 - *.o0 st s.           -            -
|  lt.smaa  ,eltme  tisi                           -          - .jhgj,               -          -                           JMaflLt -   -    fl  -iJ    -4
*.tse tateleal  .usas                               .          -   1    .N.                              :,iue.s -ii~ -,a,v -.i. -.s-                         -
C. s*atet &                             -           -          -,",        -          -          -             -           -          -          -            -I,.
A. Ca_ltsueps                    3.1433-            -          -           -          -45        - .--                                             
n. veasqpmst                       .nu       0,6.1             -   *.n,               -          -             -.n.  -52t.            -          -OsS.  I     -Z
Ct. OasUts*.ats                  7*.14. -  *        -44        -           -L l       -          -      m.u.               -          -          -            -..
S.* ba ugs ,2St b1.1      5        724.2   3.33.1  7,01.                    -           -    .    6s 2 S         -          -     _     -          -            -
3. lIs"t aoml                      2.tl,11 t.211. 5  S,02-   zt,0w,"   0,55                  -of.         1,16t,13    l, l         -,#       -.".        -,
t.ltae  Se1.q                      t@     .   -X,2.       -,5.    *              *.gga  -          -            -Y".  -X25.             -  *n         -"s *t.
U. eae J 1                l               -              *34,2.0"  101,132.1       -"   21471. 0.         -" 11,094.3    16.11)         - Z        -|.   93.311
1.te  caty oom ateu                 -2ll    -0",         -e@2       -XSX0    9*4.125.3  -X,X.             -,15         -,X5       -,sfi    -u,* 
t  g". g..aa                                                       .09. .                          _       i.H.      _10.               _          _3,1.  _316.
31.v  bd stb.g                                 ,s,5 O70,t17. cast,5l                    - 8.6441         n26. 11.2   -j,".  __________n                 t.2S.
MM~~~~~~~~!
st1ae caatlge SOUCY
n b~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ 



OM~IUM.N AeSmiWbg OWs mAb  Co0IWhW
inv.a.tiao    OsIth        Vmillp     W*tItlam    lpetetloawlooo
3. lewetuent c5t5
A. ci~11 ~vil                            -              -         -           -              -                      -           -    9,756.726   10.6   MIS".
197,3622          - -  -                        J           s6.* 255,67.2
S.  ebels                              --                      -                      ---                            6026          --
3. ?gejulaS  *12,069.6  * - n.tb    -      saa.sa~.a                            2,6.6        loses.?   Me   *It-s*.
V. tllel *stmeota
r.  iool Asslstws.. Fmo-                             -         .            -                        -           -           -        ,526.2      -         -        S
ftchoices Dselstoe,e talae______-
SDblotel T    icl Asste                  -              -         -           -              -          -           -           -                  -           -
r. tScoo  Costs
.  .trnqecl v.      ,  1                -              -        -            -              -         -            -           -    2.52.626.      -          -I
t. Vasd   l~t -be,t                                    -        -            -              -                                             St622.1- 120.*   
C.b*^ m.mt els.   > t                    -              -         -            -             -          -            -          -      ,22*,.-                 - -
Sr*.lt Sc u;gs £ Cimial-                          5       -                      -      6,166.1 X45669.                -          -; t5.21,292,  10.   2,2.
3. Hetegas                                -                _      _            _             _                 5,3.             -    6.59.2 -|
3. 811  Selecy                           -              -         -            -             -          -            -*,|       -    662.4S,21       *          -
0. Coisct Sellegys                024)                  -         -            -             .          .            ..6.* ..    -,|
3. t owcl             -121.    -411.  -4 -1.                            20.56.0        96e,566.6        -  -   .4)2t 0.0   50*,56.     112.6       2 
a. cInustpt^    -eute                                   -         -           ---                              s,    -.         -      *6.526.       -
*O. bla.gleSC*                           -              _         -            -             -9.6.      -            -          -    2.69221         -          -
c1. eetbu Opeetlg Casto                                 _         -            -             -          -____        -           -    s.J3!i 215_ -2 
Tote  Usureu C,nsto 34,71f.0  }*lt )6.131                                 0 1iKUO       0746.    -5.40 6j          4s.e    I0566.0   ~1if.. loi :,en!
1b.ls C.mtIeecs 1oI.5)5.2                                          -            -              -665.  -566            -           -     1,66.626.      -         -
Jtse                                       - t                            -                    -,8.       -           -           -             -,,1   -          -   l
PoseIg Isutz oestpe                   N.94l;Z.0             -   1.715.S                  2',59.   156,36.0   71,461ts f@.3      1292.1; 2.956s.40      4.  1.63 t  2.2.24
n".~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
Controc"4swe                                   4.-eel                           %              "*.7                 url|"         '   t"X           1
lrooo SWOON"to                                            :   201,932.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-   Ale'-
( I.       6                              tOcl.      *                             0 .        6                              03atn.      a
t. tstoftt costs
a. Ct.uweo                           a.9,21.b    6.63 0.133l    -  5.1,3    * no 2.2 40.    11.i1)       -  02,07.0  09.9  119 )6.369.1            -  1466.00.     1.3no.292 *.6)0 37         -  10.000660
3. bmI.pB-.t1 .0                                                                  6 .6                   -Ma.6           1,1.. 1.,692.1            -     0.0     3..0                             S..  -   *. 07
C. vwaatme                                   *                                                                #.1.tao  -   01 7- ,.b  -   t,5.5-    a.Ms.  -    I,I.10.    -   I  t.2.        -   1U2.12.1
0. Pothole.                          tn0.110.0   U3.1".0        -   0no    . m               -            -          *     2 020.4    "6.8         - a,401.4    *ag,4o0.2    13.12.1          - .1    * .161
*. betel.,                            06U.10).    3.02.214      -   1.61.02             -         -      -           -     S.1.    6,10,.6         -   70,643.3     5.1*6.1   1.614.              1,tS2.50
F. ? ace) l otelaeme
t1.031..l tet11... ?celip       424.521.3           -      -   420.1-.3                 -            -          -    S6,00.2           -      -    6,100.2    0).10  5            -      -   433,100.5
tI.cbmcal Afitlbt+  tccal        x§ W                                                                                                                                      - th"  4M,
Subtotal tIm.)Asolateac                                                                                                                                                             A  011
G.ta  Gtuw.teutco                              _ .44      U  ..... .44Je  ZLl                                                      - *2  t2__-   2  t6.                         _1.2S           - _-
tett tnnbnt  e*ts          ^,e t,0 19,2130            -   21.u0.2    U 0,01.3203,020.1          -  1,360.09)   306.202. ~Uto-          e--i   Xt "hI?i   s..X .,   -iI,tI*,2*          - Uit 8elo,%
11. Oecwt.e- Coot. 
A. Co.ttecqitlve                     3,113.8)            -      -    .16,561)1           -         -      -          -  330,12t.1           -      -  *16.3*0.  3.*079,ff2             -3-0)tt.0S2   Ut
t. Peed 0,t,9eet                                  .0. -            7 .380,33 - *.n  -2                                      -       07,722e.0      -  0.*0.t t20 ,e6s,no0                     -   *.001es    I
C. NIa.oeutglatt.                    3,340.236                  -   2.349.130           -          -      -          -  22,360.0           *-      -  323.3606    2,5 t.100            -      -   2.s6 .306
D. gs  6 c    cl                     0,ne        S tS 1..       - S  .207.23n 21.52.3 n2.6)n.0            - Ue12 20.2    1.21.) Sl.31.9            -  S60003.1    1.241.472  4630000.0        - e   .0I.11S
4. Itel.l tO                                     4,t5621?7      -   4.41.30l             -         -      -              14.062.)2 1340.21 t       -  t6 4,05.0    2.06.701  4.21.101         -   4.0s5.402
. stett 003.3                                -    .46.014       -   0. 1.043            -          -      -          -           -  l2,603.0       -  *12 03.9             -  1.14"A           -   9.66.441
C. Cetiect Sel.ay                                1.340.2*6      -  S.346.226             -         -      -          -           - 4.SS3.2         -  62".3s.2             -   s.610.f6        -  S 6n0.0
?. toe...I                                   -  1803.           -   3,30,629            -          -      -          -           -  41.243.8           06.243.s            -   1,152423        -    ,1 42.
t- Ceeaclit  Voluotooge                      -                       MAW2 - 2.13        -         -                              -    ,16,15.I     -   14,00.3             -   W1,11.A        -  00,.0)  |
eO.   Iat.aee                                              2.093.-   ..                                                             3:4.110.0      -    o,6s6.9            -   3.1270         -    .211.7140
3.Otbeg 01,96tiget0   03~.100II3L3                                                                  Cost                       140.3 10.3)6.-M1 .M1 a              .l8l.41n-1
tot) ocacret Coat.                                                                    BIIEiZ0JI1U                                j*il 21sIiU                         31
Total                                    23,473.096  13,S3.37        - n  t69.32n   3.0010 03S.001.4           -  13.60.020   S,449,616  3."22460       -  1.422,136   *.96.40  10,2013.21          - 0.60.21
Ir 



- 146 -                         Annex 19
FHua mmNES
~~Sehedub of Dlbrswnent
Disbursemen         % Cumulative     % Disburment
IDA Fiscal Year    Semester Cumaive        Amount      Proffie for Philippines
Nd Semestr         4US$ Mion)          Disbursed 4%)   Education Prject 1%)
Jan.-Jun., 94      0.2         0.2            0                 0
EM
Jul.-Dec., 94       1.4        1.6            2                 3
Jan.-Jun., 95      3.5         5.1            7                 3
EM
Jul.-Dec., 95      4.2         9.3            13                6
Jan.Jun., 96        6.3        15.6          22                 14
EMI
Jul.-Dec., 96       7.0        22.6          32                 22
Jan.-Jun., 97      7.7         30.3          43                26
Em
Jul.-Dec., 97      8.4         38.7          55                30
Jan.-Jun., 98       7.7        48.4          66                 34
EM
Jul.-Dec., 98      7.0         53.4          76                 42
Jan.-Jun., 99      8.3         59.7          85                 54
Jul.-Dec.. 99      3.5         63.2          90                 70
Jan.-Jun., 00      3.5        86.7           95                 78
EXD
Jul.-Dec., 00      3.3         70.0          100               88
Jan.-Jun., 01                                                  94
EM
Jul.-Dec., 01                                                  96
Jan.-Jun., 02                                                   100



-147 -Annex 20 
,1                                         ---  ----I1  
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _ _1 a                          
|    "      _   __   _    _    =  __ _  = _= _= =  _ =_ _itI   I I P



-148 -                              21
Page I of 9
DRAFT MMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT ("MOA"|)
BflViEEN
TE DEPARTME    OF HEALTH AND TH  LOCAL GOVERNMENT UNIT
AND THE DEPARTMENT OF INTERIOR AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT
1.   Pares to the MOA
This Agreement is entered into this -   day of     . 1993, by and
between the following parties:
1.1   The Department of Healt*, a national government agency established
and existing under the laws and regulatons of the Republic of the
Plippines, with offices at San Lro Hospital Compound, Sta Cruz,
Menla represented herein by Seetary           ,-(hereinafter
referred to as the "DOH");
1.2   The [city government] [municipal government of  4 a local
government established and idstig under the laws and regulations of
the Republic of the Philippines, with offices at
represened herein by its Mayor     (hereinafter refefred to as
the nLGU"); and
13   The Department of Interior and Local Government, a national
government agency established and existing under the laws and
regulations of the Republic of the Pbilippines, with offices at
- represented herein by the Secretauy
(hereinafter referred to as the "DILO").
1.4   Each of the DO, LGU and DILG are collectively referred to herein
as the "Parties".
2.   Promises
2.1 Whereas the Government of the Republic of the Philippines
(hereinafter referred to as the "Government") as a party to that
certain Development Credit Agreement dated          . 1993,
(hereinafter referred to as the "DCA") has obtained from the
Interntional Development Association (hereinafter referred to as the
"IDA") a credit in the amount of    _        million dollars
equiaen (hereinafter referred to as the "Credit") to assist in the
financing of a nadonal Urban Health and Nutrition Project
(hereinafter referred to as the UNHP"), which UNHP is described
in Schedule 2 of the DCA and covers, in    Ai. the area ad



- 149 -                      Annex 21
Page 2 of 9
population under the jurisdicon of the LGU;
22   Whereas pursuant to the provisions of Article  of the DCA the DOH
is designatd as the lead nadonal agenW charged with the
implementation of the UHNP;
23   Whereas pursuant to the provisions of Ardle   of RA 7160 (1991)
of the Republic of the PWlippines (hereinatr referred to as the
"Local Government Code of 1991") the DLO Is the national agency
pimarily r   ble for asssting the President of the Phipines in
exercising general supervion over local governent units, indluding
the LGU;
2.4   Whereas the effective plannig and  pleeon of U     actvities
require the partiipaion of agencies of the local gvne  by virhte
of the Local Govement Code of 1991 as well as other pertinent
legtoon and implemnting regltons;
2.5   Whereas pusut to an Inter-Agen  Memor m of Aeeme
tered into between the DOH and the De       of Finane, te
Depanment of InteLior and Local Government, the De     of
Budget and  M ement and the National Economic and
Development Authority of the Republic of the Philippires datd
1993 (hreinaft   referred to as the  lnter-Agency
Agreement), part of the proceeds of the IDA Credit shal be made
avalable to the LGU on a grant basis (hereinafter reerred to as the
"Grant") for the purpose of asssting in financing the ilementaio
of the UHNP within the terrtoral Jurisdiction of the LOU; and
2.6   Whereas the DOH and the LOU expresslycoize and akowledge
the desirabilty of implementing the U wiP with due diligence and
efficieny and the necesity of specldig their respective duties and
obligations in that regard so as to ensure the complete success of the
UHNP.
NOW THEREFORE, the Partes hereto hereby agree and covenant as follows
heeinxafte
3. Geral ProvisIons
3.1  Ibs Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions for the
mplementation of the UHNP within the teritorial  ction of the
LOU.



- 150 -                      Annex 21
Page 3 of 9
3.2  This Agrement defines the respective authorities, duties and
obligaons of each of he DOH DILG and LGU I undertaking the
vaious actvities necessaty fr the implemtain of the UHNPwitin
the teritori Jurisdiction of the LGU, which UHNP is a project
pardially fund  from the IDA Credit which constitutes a foreig
woue financing vithin the meaniDg of the prviions of Arcle 26,
Rule V on Eeption to Deion, of th Rules and Regulations
Implemenng the Loca Government Code of 1991.
33  ITe Paies heto shall at a times take a  ction necesay to
cooprat with eac other and peform their Nectve duties and
obligatio in order to, jnte aliB,:
(a) Acieve the objeives of the UHNP as they are set out in
Schedule 2 of the DCA, which objectiv iclude namely each of the
folowit (i) mwoving the health and nutiion stu of slum dwellers
In the LOU; (ii) bling aacity of the LGU to plan, finane, and
implement cost-effective slum health and nutrition prgrams, in
pa      i with local c     s, NGOs, and the DOH; (ii)
slum communities witin te LOU in idenfying ther own
health, nutriton, and enviroment problems and partcp   in
planning, Implemnng and moitoing ap         inte     ;-
asstng  the DOH develop apprpriate polces and strategies for
improving the outreach and cost-effectvs of health and delihey
sytems in urban areas; and (iv) im l   the main stmtegies and
related policies of the UHNP.
(b) Carry out prompt all UHNP atities and related duties and
obligao  faling within the territoia jursction of the LGU, as such
actities, dudes and oblgaons are desibed in this Agreement and
in the DCA, on the basis of an oveal fiyear Implementation
Program which shall hae been previous  approved by IDA. Said
Implemenatio Prgram shall be excuted anmal i accrdae with
a yearly Operational Plan, satisactory to IDA, wh  plan sball be
prepared by the Parties not later tban December 31 in each calendar
ye, beginning with the caladar year 1993. Said Operational Plan
shall include the pricpal indicators and terms and conditions set forth
in Annex I which is athed herew
(c) Not later than October31 in each calendar year, begning with the
calendar year 1994, meet with repr ves of IDA for the purpose
of revieing the proress acheved in executing the Impleaon
Program during the year under review and, takig into consid,%ration
IDA's comments and roco              adjust accon   the



- 151 -                       Annex 21
Page 4 of 9
Operational Plan for the immediately folling year.
4.   De_bgnation of the LGU as mlemetIgAgnq
4.1   Upon the effectveness of this Ageement in aordace with its terms,
the LGU sall be designated by the DOH as an implementing agency
for the UINP within the temtorial jurdction of the LGU.
4.2  lhe LGU hereby dewares its commitment to the objecives of the
UHP as set foth in sub-agh 33 (a) of this Agreement and, to
tbis end, shal: () cary out the UHP within its temtorwial jurisdiction
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriat
administratve, financial, ad health practices; and (ii) provide
promptl as needd, the funds, fcilities, serices and other resources
rquired for the UHNP within its territorial jurisdiction.
5.   Duties and Obiatin of the LGU
5.1   The LGU shall perform with due diligence and efficiency the followig
duties and oblgtion in implementing the UHNP within its territoril
jsdicto, all In accordan  wit the overall UHP implementatin
and the provisions of this Agreement:
(a) desigati  and asgnin all local officials to be responsible for
UBP  acivities within its teitorial  don
(b) appointing al UHP-stpported conactual personnel to be placed
under the supervisio and control of local officials;
(c) iniatg and preparing the anmual U P Operational Plans for
executing the Implementation Program in its the locality;r
(d) issling instrucions on the mamer of executing UHP activities in
its locality;.
(e) appving the locadon and sites for spedfic UHNP actvities in its
loaity;
(t) approving allpou emn contracts to be financed by proceeds of
the Grant and otherwise all Grant uds released withiDn its locality;
(g) apving all grants made to non-govnment organons to be
paid from UHNP fAnds relased to its locality;



- 152 -
Annex 21
Page 5 of 9
(h) aoving the attendance and pardcipation of all local persomel
in UHNP activities such as meedng, conferences, workshops, training
sessions and field visits.
52   In order to implement the UHP, the LGU, by executive action of th
Mao and, whenever required with the concrc of its Coun,
shall:
(a)   establish, authorize and maintain a loc orga tion that can cany
out or cause to cary out necessy tas  for the timely, proper and
effecie implementation of UHNP aciities in its locality;
(b)   adopt and comply with the tecmical and adminis e guddelns
issued by the DOH goveing UHNP acivides, inuding guidelines
requred by IDA;
(c)   promptly prepare, authorie, and execute as required by applicable
laws and regulations a local annual goverment budget wbich provides
for the following costs assoated with UH     mplemeion in
accrdance with the finanofg guidelines ofthe yearly Opeation  Plan
descrbed  in Annex ' hereto: (i) cost of aU local opertions which
UHNP is desided to augment or expand; (H) the LOU's local
goverment share in the Govemnt's counterpart cost funding for
UHNP implemenion; (iii) the costs of progressive absorbing in the
local goven   those UHP-financed activities which need to be
sustaned beyond the life of UHNP.
6.   D"ties and functions of the DOH
6.1   As the lead implemention agency for overal UBNP implemenation,
the DOH sbaU perform the following duties and obligatons with due
diligence and efficiency:
(a)   preparg  and issuing guidelines goerning the exeution of UHNP
activities, iluding the requirements of source of financing;
(b)  starting up the UBNP activities in each LOU locality,
(c)   preparing, consolidag and finalizing national anmual UHNP
Oprational Plans and related budgets based on the submission of the
local UHNP implementaon plans of the LOU;
(d)  implenting acivities involing several or all LOU localites which
ca be more efficiently executed regionally or nationallr,



- 153 -                      Annex 21
Page 6 of 9
(e)  initating the authorizaion of funds avaibity, the approval of
disbusements and the release of Credit proceeds for UHP
eaqxeodtures;
(f)   maintaining the flow of communicaton between the Government and
IDA relative to UHNP, between DIOH and the particpaing LOUs'
between the Iplemeon agenies and the other national agencies
such as DOF, DILG, DBEM and the Commission on Audits;
(g)   monitoig and evaluaiNg U P implementaton undertaken by other
local goverments;
(h)  ogizng quarterly, seminual, and nual U P implemention
proess reviews with the particpation of the LGUs;
(i)  providing for regular COnslUtatiOnS with LGUs on  UHNP
plemenatin namely NCR, Region VA, and Region X
62   In order to perfom the above, and support the LGUs Implementig
the project, the DOHS by acdon of its desigated ocals, shall
(a)   e ish- authorize and maintain a national and regional oWnization
to      the tasks and duties ff lead UHNP ipleme o agency,
(b)  prepare, propose, and exweute a departmetal budget that satses the
DOH ob      s for supporng the financig agements prwided
for in Annex I hereto;
(c)  provide or ange to prvide technical, administrative and material
assstance to local goverment in support of their implemenion of
UHNP.
7.   iaul An
7.1  Proceeds of the IDA Credit will be made available to the DOH cental
and regional agencies, as well as to the LGU tough the Municipl
Development Fund established under PD. 1914 (haeeinafter referred
to as the "MDF'). The specific rules and regulations goning the
valabity and use of the proceeds of the Credit through the MDF are
provided therefor under the Inter-Ageny Agreement which is attached
Annex II bereto. While the Credit is a national govermt loan,
the proceeds of the Credit heruder are being made available to the
LGU on the basis of the Grant.



- 154 -                      Annex 21
Page 7 of 9
7.2   Tbe LOU shl utilize the Grant and such other funds, facilities and
other resources allocated and made available to it for the purposes of
cayg out the activities plnned and programned for the terrltory
under its juridiction, in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement, including the Implementation Program, and also the
technical and administrative guidelin  of the DOH as the agency
respousible for the oveall manaement d supervision of the UHP.
7.3  (a) The LOU sh  maintain separate records and accounts adequate
to reflect in acodane with sound acoing practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respt  of the UHNP within its
toria  iction (indluding, without Umitation, its costs and the
benfits to be derived therefrom) or any part thereof.
(b) The LGU shalk (i) have the records and accounts referred to in
pararaph  (a) of this paragph for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with apropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independet auditors acceptable to IDA; (ii) fuish to the DOH
as soon as aviable, but in any case not later than four (4) moaths
fter the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said
uditors, osuch scope and in such detai as IDA sall have reasonably
requesd; and (Jll) furnish to the DOH and such other inf ation
cerng said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
DOH or IDA sha from time to time reasonably request.
8.   Eligblty ofDIsburs
8.1   All disbusements of the Grant made under the UNP shal be for
expenditres in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and servces
required for caryig out the UHP witin the teitorial urisdiction
of the LOU nd to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. Said
disbsemes shall also be at al times in compliance with UHNP
guideines as set out in the DCA in order to be eligible for financg
under the IDA Credit. The DOHl in coltaion with IDA, shall
determine the eligibility for UHNP finacg of ay d ment
made by the LGU. Any item of ependiture or tran on deemed
ineligible for U P finaniqg by the DOH shal be the labiflity of the
LOU concerned.
9.   EftI ss of an mendmeots to this Agemen
9.1   This Agreement s   bm    effecve oce signed by the Pates and
shall contue to be effectie fr the duration of the UHP In
ordance witf the provisions of the DCA The provsions of the



- 155 -                      Annex 21
Page 8 of 9
yearly Operational Plans as futher spedfied in Annex I hereto shall
be negotiated and agreed upon anmually.
92   T   Agreement may be teminated by any of the Prties upon three
months s advance written notice. Any amendments to ay provision of
this Agreement may be made only in wrting and upon formal
execution by the Parties.
10.  Pocu en o Goods and Work nd R               of COnuta
10.1 Except as IDA shall otherwise agree in writing, all procurement of the
goods and works required for the UHNP, and to be fiaced out of
the proceeds of the Grant, sall be governed by the proisions of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under MMRD L     and IDA Credits"
ublished by the World Bank in May 1992.
102  In order to assist the LGU in caring out the UHNP within its
titorial juisdiction, the LGU shall employ consultants whose
qalficatons, experience and tem  and conditions of employment
all be satisfactoiy to IDA. Such coltants shall be selected in
accordancewith priniples and procedures satisfactoy to IDA on the
bass of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
B0rrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Ageny" published by
the World Bank in August 1981.
11.  Reprsenttve and Addrss  of the Parties
Tbe foliowing represetatives and corresponding addresses are specied for
the purposes of this Agreement:
For the DOH:
For the LGU:
For the DILG:
IN WITNNS WHEREOF, the Pardes hereto, acting tirough their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agment to be signed in their



-156 -                        Annex 21
respective names in Maila, Republic of the Philippines as of the day and y   Mru
above writtel.
[WU]                              DOH
Authorized Representaive          Authoried Representative
DILG
Authorized RepresenUative



- 157 -
Arunex 22
MDF Funds Flow
(Loan Process)
Foreign Lend:     Institution
bsues Remittance
Advice
CBP
{ Issues Creit
Advice
BTR
Isues Certificate
of Availability
of Funds - CAF
Requests A/A    _   __BLGF
andNCA      rk  AL(r
andINCA                           Infoms CPO tha
Issues A/A         Funds are Available
and NCA__
DBM                      Approves reqWet
Transmit to BLOF
IssueCdits   Advices LBPT
NCA            to Relese   CPO
the Funds to  !
LGUs              Infonns LGUs that
L                     Funds are Available
lRequest for Release
of Funds
L_    -.4LGUs



- 158 -
Page 1 of 2
URBAN HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
IDA SUPERVI8ION PLAN
1.         IDA Supervision Input.  The staff input indicated in the table
below is in addition to regular supervision needs for the review of progress
reports, procurement actions, supervision report preparation and
correspondence (estimated for this project to require six staff-weeks per year
throughout project implementation).
2.          Borrower's Contribution To SuRervision.
fa)  Annual work programs, to be prepared by each participating local
government unit (LGU), would be reviewed by the Project
Coordinator and appropriate central DOH technical and financial
staff, and the content, plan and budget for each work program
would be negotiated and agreed between DOH and the LGU. These
plans would be aggregated into an overall project annual plan to
be agreed by the DOH Project Director and Chief of Staff.
(b)   Six-monthly progress reports to be prepared by the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) would use a simple, tabular format, agreed
with IDA during or before the project launch supervision mission,
to compare achievement against agreed plans. The initial progress
report would be due on June 30, 1994.
(c)   Annual project performance reports, to be prepared by the PCU,
would include the progress report for the two preceding six month
periods, and a concise, narrative section describing major project
achievements and problems encountered. Annual progress reports
would be due on June 30 of each year.
(d)   Project monitoring and reporting of implementation progress in
accordance with the approved annual work program would be the
responsibility of the PCU, with inputs from the DOH technical
services and regional field offices as required.
(e)   The PCU would be responsible for coordinating arrangements for
Bank and other donor supervision missions, and for providing information
required by missions. Mission briefings on arrival and wrap-up meetings would
be presided over by the Project Director and Chief of Staff.
(f) The Government's contribution to a Project Completion Report would
be prepared by the PCJ and submitted to IDA within six months of the closing
date.



- 159 -
Page 2 of 2
3.          Feld iarvision Plan
Approximate                                                 Staff Input
Dates                      Activity                    (staff-weeks)
01/94                 Project launch mission                    4
07/94                 Initial supervision mission               6
12/94                Annual plan review mission                 4
07/95                 Annual progress review mission            6
12/95                Annual plan review mission                 4
07/96                 Annual progress review mission            6
12/96                 Mid term review mission                   8
07/97                 Annual progress review mission            6
12/97                 Annual plan review mission                4
07/98                 Annusl progress review mission            6
12/98                Annual plan review mission                 4
07/99                 Annual progress review mission            6
12/99                 Final supervision/PCR mission             8
(a) Annusl progress reports would be reviewed by an IDA supervision
mission in July of each year. Lessons from this review of
progress would then be fed by DOH and LGUs into the annual plans
to be drawn up by LGUs.
(b)   These consolidated annual plans would be reviewed by an IDA
supervision mission In December of each project year.
(c) A comprehensive mid term review would be held in December, 1996 to
determine the need for modifications to the design and
implementation targets of all project components.
(d)   Each IDA supervision mission would:  (i) require at least two
weeks in the field; (ii) require the services of specialists in health and
management on a regular basis, and of specialists in procurement, geographic
information systems, computerized management software and Civil 'Jorks as
needed; and (iii) review progress of procurement and civil works, financial
statements and disbursements, credit covenants, and the implementation of
technical assistance and training activlties. Specialized skill requirements
would be added to the missions according to needs identified by previous
supervision missions, and would include among others the following areas:
women's health and family planning, nutrition, information technology,
architecture, and community participation.



t&M VAU AND aSilTtOl M
NadiOnal Capital Region
Population Change by Municipality, 1980-1990
Md"*aL  
p.14
csiowm S. ~ ~  ~     'm  ai
Increase Nationwide: 26.1%
Avg. Increase in NCR: 33.8%
Range of Change in NCR: ._-
-2.6% to 117.5%                     (                                     Percent Change
[.  .   .  GrN"o o2wt
*       (~~<30
30 - S
so - too 
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o .                             _ 
.                                   .~~~~~~~~p



WE3* MAL"M -M Jimit  MNOCT
National Capital Region
Population Detisity by Mun'iciality, 1990
ICIP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Avg. Density in NCR: 13357.619
Persons Per Sq. Km.
Range of Denity in NCR:
6290.3 to 40133.3 Persons
Per Sq. Km.                                                                      rsonslKM
L]       < 7513
'¢,;.;.<)~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~70 - 1000
lo.  - is.jg
I=- 25Me
I~~>200



- 162 -
Am=z 22
ZHIUIPPINES
URBAN HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
s. ,   DOCNNTS AVAnAWL  IN THE .Z.z  IEe
1)    A study of the Urban Pgeor in Cagagan De Qr  City. August 24, 1992.
2)    A Study of the Urban Poor In Ouezon City. Department of Health,
October 1992.
3)    Poor and Healthy? (The Health Situation of the UrMan Poor in Cebu City
in 19901. Office of Population Studies, University of San Carlos, Cebu
City, 1991.
4)    Component 1:  Service Delivery
Comoonent 2: Institutional Develooment
Department of Health, December 1992
5)    Component 3:  Community PErtnerghip
emonent 4: Research and Eval,tatL'
Department of Health, December 1992
6)    Assessing the Institutional Com=onent_ of the Service Delivery System of
the DOB Health Care Progra  ir Selected NCR Denressad Commmnities.
College of Publlc Administration, University of the Philippines, March
1992.
7)    Urban Poor Health. Nutritlon and Family Planning:  1991 Netro Manilla  AP
Sun=ey. Population Institute, University of the Philippines, June 1992.
8)    Health and Nutrition Status and Health Seeking Behavior among Families
in High Risk Urban Communities. Social Development Research Center,
College of Liberal Arts, De La Salle University, October 1992.
9)     an&id Anraisal of High Risk Communities:  The Case of Pasis. Taguig and
Kalookan CL q. Social Development Research Center, College of Liberal
Arts, De La Salle University, June 1992.
10)   A Studt of the Urban Poor in Ouezon City: A Brief Summary of
Nethodology and Findings. Department of Health.
11)   Poverty. Health and Nutrition in Cagyan de Oro City.  'xavier
Universitv, Cagayan de Oro City, October 1991.
12)   Rnorgt by N.F.C. Bowman (Consultant) on  MHNL Pre-Anpraisal Mission
(November 15-28. 1992). December 1992.



