Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17264
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
NATIONAL SEED AND QUARANTINE PROJECT
(xLOAN 3183 - UNI)
DECEMBER 30, 1997
Agriculture Technical Group 2
Africa Regional Of fice



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       Naira
US$1.0       =      7.0 Naira (at appraisal, 1989)
US$1.0       =      85.0 Naira (at completion, 1997)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP          -      Agricultural Development Project
APMEU        -      Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
BS           -      Breeder Seed
CS           -      Certified Seed
ERR          -      Economic Rate of Return
FAO          -      Food and Agriculture Organization
FGN          -      Federal Government of Nigeria
FMANR        -      Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
FMF          -      Federal Ministry of Finance
FMST         -      Federal Ministry of Science and Technology
FS           -      Foundation Seed
HRD          -      Human Resources Development
ICR          -      Implementation Completion Report
IITA         -      International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
MTR          -      Mid-Term Review
NARI         -      National Agricultural Research Institute
NARP         -      National Agricultural Research Project
NCRP         -      Nationally Coordinated Research Program
NRCRI        -      National Root Crops Research Institute
NSC          -      National Seed Council
NSS          -      National Seed Service
NSQP         -      National Seed and Quarantine Project
NVRRC        -      National Variety Registration and Release Committee
PFT          -      Project Facilitation Training
PME          -      Planning Monitoring and Evaluation
PMMC         -      Project Management and Monitoring Committee
PQCC         -      Plant Quarantine Consultative Committee
PQS          -      Plant Quarantine Service
PQTAC        -      Plant Quarantine Technical Advisory Committee
SAR          -      Staff Appraisal Report
UNDP         -      United Nations Development Program
Vice President                 :         Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director                       :         Yaw Ansu
Technical Manager              :         Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Team Leader                    :         Shiv Singh



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page
Preface
Evaluation Summary .......................................................i
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
Introduction .......................................................1
Project Objectives .......................................................1
Achievement of Objectives .......................................................3
Factors Affecting Project .......................................................8
Project Sustainability .......................................................9
Bank Performance .......................................................9
Bor-rower Performance .......................................................9
Assessment of Outcome ......................................................                      10
Future Operations ......................................................                          10
Kev Lessons Learned ......................................................                        10
Part II: Statistical Annexes
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and Credits .14
Table 3: Project Timetable .15
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .15
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .16
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation .19
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .20
Table 8A:  Project Costs ....................................................                          21
Table 8B:  Project Financing .....................................................                     21
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits ...................................................            22
Table 10:   Status of Legal Covenants ....................................................             23
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .....................                        27
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...................................................           27
Table 13:   Bank Resources: Missions .....................................................             28
Appendices
Appendix A:              Mission's Aide-memoire
Appendix B:              Borrower Contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
NATIONAL SEED AND QUARANTINE PROJECT
[LOAN 3183 - UNII
Preface
I.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the National Seed and
Quarantine Project (NSQP), for which Loan 3183 - UNI in the amount of US$14.0 million
equivalent was approved on March 29, 1990 and made effective on December 10, 1990.
2.    The Loan was closed on June 30, 1997, one year behind the original closing date of
June 30, 1996 and US$13.8 million (99 percent of the loan amount) had been disbursed as
of December 5, 1997.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Ms. Khushalani Bhagwanti (AFTA2) and Mr. Samuel
Eremie (AFMNG), supervised by Mr. Shiv Singh (AFTA2), and reviewed by Messrs. V.
Venkatesan, AFTAI, and Surjit Singh, AFTA2. The Borrower provided comments that
are included as an appendix to the ICR.
4.    Preparation of this ICR was begun during the joint Bank/Borrower final
supervision and completion mission, June 2 to 18, 1997. It is based on material in the
project file, field visits to all the project units and discussions with government officials
and project beneficiaries. The Borrower's staff from the Agricultural Projects Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit (APMEU) participated in the completion mission and the views of
officials of the FMANR were taken into account as recorded in the mission's aide-memoire
(Appendix A). A summary of the Borrower's final evaluation report is included in
Appendix B.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
NATIONAL SEED AND QUARANTINE PROJECT
[Loan 3183 - UNI]
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The National Seed and Quarantine Project (NSQP), approved in 1990 for a loan of
US$14.0 million, was to strengthen the institutions and strategies for seed production and plant
quarantine operations and build on previous Bank investments in the agricultural development
projects (ADPs). The loan became effective on December 10, 1990 and closed on June 30, 1997,
one year after the planned closing date of June 30, 1996 [para. 1].
Project Objectives
2.    Within the national goal of increasing agricultural production and farn incomes, the
objective of the project was to assist in the cost effective and timely production and distribution of
good quality seed. To address this, the project would develop a national strategy for effecting
changes in the roles of public institutions concerned with the seed sub-sector, including the
commercialization of their operations, seed pricing, seed certification, and quality control, and
strengthening the private seed sub-sector and the Borrower's Plant Quarantine Service (PQS).
Appropriately, the National Seed Service (NSS) would pursue institutional reforms in the seed
sub-sector, assist private sector development, strengthen the seed variety testing, registration and
release mechanism, improve the production of breeder seed (BS), foundation seed (FS) and
certified seed (CS), strengthen seed certification and quality control, develop human resources for
the sub-sector, and provide working capital for seed procurement and maintenance of reserve
stocks. Similarly, the PQS would effect institutional changes in quarantine operations and
management, improve office, laboratory and field facilities, and develop the human resources
Iparas. 2 to 5].
3.    Covenants. The main covenants stipulated in the Loan Agreement were: (i) provision of
adequate counterpart funds by the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN); (ii) establishment of the
National Seed Council (NSC), Plant Quarantine Consultative Committee (PQCC), Plant
Quarantine Technical Advisory Committee (PQTAC) and Project Management and Monitoring
Committee (PMCC); and (iii) implementation of measures to enhance project sustainability,
including the maintenance of a seed procurement revolving fund, full cost recovery for seed
production, introduction of seed certification fees, and user fees for quarantine services. The
covenants were complied with except those relating to adequate and timely counterpart funding
and the regularity of meeting of the project committees [para. 6, Table 10].
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Project Costs. Financing and Timetable. Project cost as at June 30, 1997, was US$17.2
million, compared with appraisal estimate of US$20.6 million. The NSS component cost was
US$10.5 million, compared with the estimate of US$13.2 million, while the PQS component cost
was US$6.7 million as against US$7.4 million. Out of the US$14.0 million loan, the Bank had
disbursed US$13.8 million by December 5, 1997 while FGN contribution was USS2.8 million,
which is 57 percent of its expected contribution. The US$0.5 million generated from various
service charges by the project was only 29 percent of the expected US$1.7 million. The project
was implemented in 6.5 years instead of the 5.5 years estimated at appraisal [paras. 28, 291.



ii
5.    Achievement of Objectives. The project achieved its objectives of reforming seed policy
and public seed agencies for effective production and distribution, supporting private sector seed
development, and strengthening the PQS.
6.    Institutional and Policy Reform for Seed Production.  The National Agricultural Seeds
Decree promulgated in 1992 provided the policy framework for the reforms in the seed sub-sector
while the National Seed Sub-sector Development Plan prepared in the same year outlined the
strategies for development up to the year 2000. The NSC which was established in 1992 approved
the seed sub-sector development plan, the National Seed Rules and Regulations, and the incentives
to encourage private sector participation. The structure of NSS was changed, the office facilities
upgraded, and the headquarters relocated to the savanna zone of the country as recommended at
the mid-term review (MTR). A revolving fund was also established for timnely seed procurement.
The PMMC achieved only 50 percent of its target of meetings to carry out its monitoring and
coordinating role for the project.
7.    The private sector participated in seed policy formulation through its membership of the
NSC and private enterprises had access to the BS produced by public research institutes. About 64
outgrowers were identified for the small-scale seed enterprises scheme although the five sets of
processing equipment meant for the scheme were yet to be distributed at the close of the loan.
Many contract growers considered the NSS prices for seed procurement (for FS, 30 percent above
average market grain price) too low and occasionally withheld their seed in anticipation of higher
market prices for grains. NSS trained the staff of seed companies and the ADPs and provided
advice on seed production and processing, variety testing, registration and release. Between 1990
and 1994, inflation, political uncertainty, unstable or unrealistic exchange rates and fertilizer
shortages adversely affected the operations of the seed companies. The difficulty in obtaining
fertilizer, supplied by the government at highly subsidized price, has remained a major constraint
for the seed producing companies [paras. 7 to 11].
8.      Seed Variety Testing, Registration and Release. NSS provided financial support for the
testing of new seed varieties under the nationally coordinated research program (NCRP) leading to
the release of a total of 34 varieties of maize, rice, sorghum, soybean and cowpea. The
performance would have been better but for the inability of the Crop Variety Registration &
Release Committee formed under Decree No. 72 of 1992 to function alongside the National
Variety Release Committee established earlier by Decree No. 33 of 1987. It took the first two
years of the project before the problem was resolved. The project provided funds to the National
Root Crops Research Institute (NRCRI) for the development of rapid multiplication techniques for
seed yam [paras. 12, 13].
9.    Seed Production, Processing and Storage. Only 19 percent of the appraisal target for BS
production was achieved because of delays in the procurement of equipment. But with the
establishment of nine seed units at six national agricultural research institutes (NARIs), the system
is well set for expanded production. About 74 percent of the FS production target of 2,563 tons
was met even though NSS stopped direct production of FS in 1992. Only 28 percent of the
certified seed (CS) production target (59,700 tons) was achieved because of the inability of the
private sector to quickly fill the gap created by the withdrawal of the public sector ADPs. The
equipment for upgrading the five NSS regional seed processing units was cleared from the ports
only in October 1997, i.e., after the loan closed [paras 14 to 17].
10.   Seed Certification and Quality Control. The certification and quality control activities of
NSS remained weak because of delays in the procurement of needed equipment and vehicles, and
inadequate staffimg and funding of operations. An autonomous certification agency was not
established by the Government, as suggested at appraisal, since it was not considered feasible due



iii
to inadequate infrastructure and equipment for seed testing and insufficient staffing and
operational funds [para. 181.
11.   Human Resource Developmentfor the Seed Sub-sector. About 601 staff of NSS and other
seed agencies benefited from specialized training on seed technology. In order to improve local
training, a Seed Science and Technology Center is being established at the University of
Agriculture, Makurdi, in collaboration with the Punjab Agricultural University in India. Some
faculty staff have been trained and course curricula and teaching materials developed [para. 19].
12.   Strengthening PQS.  The PQCC and PQTAC, established in 1991 guided PQS
management on policy and technical issues. The meetings of the committees were, however,
irregular with the last one held in 1994. During the restructuring of the PQS, the number of
sections was reduced from six to three and the staffing ratio (senior/junior) improved from 1:4 to
1:3. The target ratio of 1:2 was not attained due to management inability to redeploy the excess
junior staff. About 61 percent of the 630 months provided for local training was utilized but only
26 percent of the 139 months for overseas training was used because of poor management of the
training program. For technical assistance, only one consultant position for one year was filled.
The filling of other two positions was suspended on Bank's advice because of unacceptable delays
in recruitment by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (FMNAR) [paras 21,
221.
13.   The facilities for post-entry quarantine were substantially upgraded and the performance
of the PQS in the issuance of import permits and phytosanitary certificates was rated satisfactory
by its clients, including the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IITA). A few
countries have complained over infested plant materials smuggled from Nigeria or that came in
with phytosanitary certificates issued by the Port Health Service (not PQS). Government's
attention has been drawn to the damage this could do to the integrity of Nigerian agricultural
exports and the need to harmonize the policy and operations of the different agencies at the ports
and border stations. The PQS staff currently have no authorization to operate at the seaports and
the airport cargo terminals, two likely routes for the entry and exit of undesirable plant materials.
In spite of the intervention of the Minister of Agriculture, the Customs Service has not allowed the
use of a joint passenger declaration form incorporating the PQS needs [paras 23, 24].
14.   Most of the civil works for improving the facilities of the Port Inspectorate Services were
uncompleted due to poor contract management and inadequate counterpart funding. Some of the
installed fumigators and incinerators are not yet functional because they lack appropriate
electricity and water supplies. The working conditions for the Inspectorate staff are still very
harsh in several locations [para 25].
15.   Technical Assistance and Studies. While NSS utilized 181 months of technical assistance
(against the provision of 165 months) because of the demands of loan extension, PQS used only
16 percent of the 75 months provided. The quality of the assistance was satisfactory in both cases,
helping to build up the capacity of staff of the project and related agencies. The three studies
specified at appraisal were done, although delayed. The studies, led to: (i) enhanced private sector
participation in seed production; (ii) design of seed storage bins for different agro-climatic zones;
and (iii) information for the private sector on the marketing prospects for CS [paras. 26, 27, Table
71.
16.   Factors Affecting Implementation. Project implementation was adversely affected by: (i)
inadequate and untimely counterpart funding by the Federal Government; (ii) scarcity and high
Naira cost of agricultural inputs, political and economic instability and intermittent fuel crises; (iii)
government directives that prevented PQS staff from operating at the seaports and airports at
various times; (iv) irregular meetings of the project advisory committees; (v) delays in submission



iv
of loan withdrawal applications, procurement, and clearing of imported goods due to lack of
government funds; (vi) poor understanding of project concept and needs by project management
and staff in the early years; and (vii) no formal full Bank supervision mission for one year after
loan effectiveness and no systematic attempt to familiarize management and staff of implementing
agencies with the project concept and needs. Promulgation of the Seeds Decree, development of
linkages with other agencies and the private sector, and the high quality of the technical assistance
impacted positively on implementation and achievement of objectives Iparas. 30,311.
17.   Bank Performance. The performance of the Bank in project appraisal and implementation
was rated satisfactory by the Borrower and the implementing units. Except in the first year of the
project, formal supervision missions were regular and helped to resolve procurement,
disbursement and counterpart fund issues, and linked up the project with related Bank-assisted
projects such as the NARP. The implementation strategies were modified during the MTR in line
with experience, the loan proceeds reallocated as needed and the loan was extended by one year
[para. 331.
18.   Borrower Performance. The Borrower's performance was mixed. The promulgation of
the Seeds Decree marked a positive tuning point in the development of the seed sub-sector.
Government complied with most of the loan covenants, except those related to adequate
counterpart funding. Procurement and disbursement clearances at the FMANR level slowed down
project implementation significantly and contributed to uncompleted works and undelivered
equipment. Government intervention is still required in ensuring the return of PQS staff to the
seaports and airport cargo terminals and also the reintroduction of the quarantine declaration form
for incoming passengers Ipara. 34J.
19.   Project Sustainability. A framework for the development of the seed sub-sector has been
established with the institutional reforms achieved, and in particular, the promulgation of the
Seeds Decree and the involvement of the private sector and communities in seed production. The
seed revolving fund and the cost recovery principles adopted have reduced the dependency of NSS
on budgetary releases for the timely procurement of BS and FS. The improved management
capacity and the equipment already procured will enhance the operations of NSS and PQS. With
greater management autonomy in fixing prices and user fees and use of generated revenue to
support operations, the risks for non-sustainability of the project activities have been reduced.
However, funding support from the government budget is still essential to sustainability. If we
take into account up-to-date Borrower performance in this area, then long-term sustainability of
project activities is not certain. Ipara. 321.
20.   Project Outcome. The outcome of the project is satisfactory based on the re-estimated
economic rate of return (ERR) of 33.4 percent for the NSS component and achievements in
institutional reform for the PQS component [para. 35].
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
21.   Key Findings of Implementation Experience.  The key fndings of implementation
experience are that: (i) inadequate counterpart funding and poor contract management limit the
benefits derivable from a project, as evidenced by the non-completion of some civil works and
equipment installation; (ii) the extent of private sector participation in the seed sub-sector is highly
dependent on macro-economic factors and, especially, the price structure; and (iii) poor
coordination of the activities of related agencies hinder implementation, as in the issuance of
phytosanitary certificates by the Port Health Service and the PQS and the non-use of a joint
passenger declaration form by the Customs Service and PQS [paras. 10,11,15 to 17,24,251.



v
22.   Euture Qpemtions. The operational plans prepared by the project management (Appendix
A) reflect a commitment to complete outstanding activities, improve internal revenue generation,
increase cost recovery in seed production, and enhance private sector participation. The
effectiveness of the plans will, however, depend on improvements in government funding and
greater autonomy to project management in the utilization of internally generated revenue [para.
36, Table 6].
23.   Key Lessons for Future Projects. For future related projects, the Bank and the Borrower
need to: (i) provide take-off support to project management through a formal project launching or
project facilitation training (PFT) with a formal supervision mission early in the life of the project;
(ii) ensure more effective procurement planning and execution so that project activities are
concluded before loan closure; (iii) cost of ancillary civil works, such as housing of equipment,
electricity and water supply, service roads, etc., should be included in project costs; and (iv)
ensure that projects of the nature of the NSQP are designed with a longer life for meaningful
development impact [para. 37].






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
NATIONAL SEED AND QUARANTINE PROJECT
[LOAN 3183 - UNIJ
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
1.    The National Seed and Quarantine Project (NSQP) was approved in 1990 for a loan of
US$14.0 million to strengthen the seed sub-sector and improve plant quarantine operations in
support of the policy of the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) of increasing agricultural
productivity. Earlier Bank assistance had focused on increased food production through the
Agricultural Development Projects (ADPs), with each having a seed multiplication unit.
There was, however, little national planning and coordination of the activities in the seed sub-
sector. Between 1975 and 1989, the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the
United Nations Development Program (UNDP) had also assisted the National Seed Service
(NSS) and the Plant Quarantine Service (PQS) to build up physical infrastructure and train
staff for the development of the seed sub-sector and plant quarantine operations. The NSQP
was prepared in 1988, appraised in February 1989 and became effective on December 10,
1990. The loan was expected to close on June 30, 1996 but it actually closed one year later on
June 30, 1997. An amount of US$13.8 million (99 percent of the loan amount) had been
disbursed as of December 5, 1997.
Project Objectives
2.    Within the national goal of increasing agricultural production and farm incomes, the
primary objective of the project was to assist in the cost effective and timely production and
distribution of good quality seed. To address this, the project would develop a national
strategy for effecting changes in the roles of public institutions concerned with the seed sub-
sector, including the commercialization of their operations, seed pricing, seed certification,
and quality control, and strengthening the private seed sub-sector and the Borrower's Plant
Quarantine Service (PQS).
3.    For NSS this meant undertaking the following:
(i)    a program to rationalize the roles and responsibilities of the public sector seed
agencies and to develop a framework for greater private sector participation including
assistance to the private sector under a seed industry development program;
(ii)   a program of seed variety testing, registration and release including assessment
by farmers of new seed varieties and applied research on seed yam multiplication;
(iii) improvement of breeder seed (BS) production facilities in five research
institutes, enlarging certified seed (CS) production through outgrowers and hybrid
maize seed production by private seed enterprises, provision by NSS of technical



2
advice to outgrowers through the ADPs and private seed enterprises on processing,
and upgrading of existing NSS seed processing facilities.
(iv)  establishment of procedures for ensuring seed quality with implementation
support from qualified staff and vehicles to facilitate field inspections, upgrading of
two existing seed laboratories and establishment of three new ones, and supplemental
funding for operational deficits arising from certification and quality control activities;
(v)   human resource development (HRD) including local and overseas training for
NSS staff and selected persons from public (including universities) and private
agencies, and upgrading of training facilities at NSS and one or two universities with a
strong Faculty of Agriculture, and
(vi)  provision of additional working capital for timely procurement of seed from
outgrowers and maintenance of reserve stocks of BS and FS.
4.    For PQS this meant undertaking the following::
(i)   establishment of a Plant Quarantine Consultative Committee (PQCC), and a
Plant Quarantine Technical Advisory Committee (PQTAC), restructuring PQS,
establishing a computer-based management information system, upgrading and
rehabilitation of office, laboratory, housing and communication facilities and
equipment at the headquarters and at the pre-entry stations, and the reintroduction of a
quarantine declaration form for incoming passengers; and
(ii)  training of staff on management and technical aspects of quarantine operations.
5.    The design of the project was simple and provided for the coordination of the various
agencies involved in implementation. The mid-term review (MTR) in 1994 maintained the
project objectives and components but slightly adjusted the implementation strategies and
physical targets by: (a) including the development of a community-based seed program; (b)
shifting of the seed production and certification activities of NSS from the forest to the
savanna zone; and (c) involving the Bank-assisted project, the National Agricultural Research
Project (NARP), in the funding of BS production.
6.    Covenants to Achieve Project Objectives. Apart from the general covenants relating
to work plans, budgets and audits, the Loan Agreement required: (i) the provision of adequate
counterpart funds by FGN; (ii) the establishment of the NSC to guide the development of the
seed industry, the PQCC and PQTAC to provide policy and technical support to PQS, and the
Project Management and Monitoring Committee (PMMC) to coordinate and monitor project
implementation; and (iii) the implementation of measures to enhance sustainability of project
activities including, the introduction of seed certification fees to cover part of the operational
costs involved, full cost recovery scheme for seed production, user fees for services rendered
by PQS, and maintenance of a revolving fund to finance reserve stock of breeder and
foundation seeds. Most of the covenants were complied with except those relating to the
provision of adequate and timely counterpart funds and the regularity of meeting of the
project committees. The status of the covenants is summarized in Table 10.



3
Achievement of Objectives
7.   Institutional and Policy Reform Components for Effective Seed Production and
Distribution. These were implemented with satisfactory results.
8.    National Seed Council. The National Agricultural Seeds Decree promulgated in 1992
provided the policy framework for the institutional reforms in the seed sub-sector. The NSC
was formed in November 1992 with membership drawn from the public and private sectors
and with the Minister of Agriculture as chairman. The NSC met only twice as against the
target of eight meetings but it succeeded in setting Up three statutory committees, endorsing
the strategies for the seed sub-sector development plan, and approving the National Seed
Rules and Regulations as well as the incentives for private sector participation.
9.    Restructuring NSS. The PMMC was established in 1991 to coordinate project
implementation but it only achieved 50 percent of the target of meetings. The membership of
the committee, unfortunately, did not include a representative of the Agricultural Projects
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (APMEU) and the Planning Monitoring and Evaluation
(PME) function was not emphasized in the project until the MTR in 1994 and still needs
strengthening. The appraisal recommended structure for the NSS was implemented only in
1992, after which it was changed into three programs and four support sections in response to
changes recommended by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
(FMANR). The Seed Production Program remained responsible for the coordination of all
seed production and the Seed Certification and Quality Control Program for seed certification
and law enforcement. At the MTR, the PME and HRD functions were removed from the Seed
Industry and Skill Development Program and placed under the office of the Head of Unit, in
order to allow the program to focus on the development of the seed industry. NSS organized
contract growers for FS production and established a revolving fund for the Seed Production
Program. The fund helped in the timely procurement of FS in the first few years of its
establishment. The value of the fund, however, diminished from 1994 as the NSS
management used it also to fund administrative costs following the non-release of some of
counterpart funds by the FMANR. The project facilitated the construction, renovation and
equipment of additional office space as well as the relocation of the NSS headquarters to
Abuja in the savanna region in 1996 as against the MTR target date of 1994 in order for NSS
to play a major role in that region.
10.   Asisting Private Sector Develo    The private sector participated in seed policy
formulation through its representation in the NSC. There was, however, only modest success
in the adoption of a pricing policy to stimulate private enterprise. With its withdrawal from
direct seed production, the NSS approach was to offer for FS a 30 percent premium above the
average market price for the grain. Many contract growers considered this price too low and
often withheld their seed in anticipation of higher market prices for grains. The uniformity of
the procurement price across the country was also a disincentive to the growers. Sale prices
of FS to contract growers were adjusted in line with the cost recovery policy, the first stage of
which was introduced in 1991 and the third stage in 1995. The third stage, in addition to
recovering the procurement and processing costs, was to provide for a profit margin.
Unfortunately, the pricing of FS was not a fully commercial decision and NSS had to go to



4
FMANR for approval each time it wanted to change the prices. Under the NSQP, private
sector enterprises had access to the limited quantities of BS produced by the NARIs, but many
relied on initial materials from the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IITA).
NSS has identified 64 outgrowers for the small-scale seed enterprises scheme (against an
appraisal target of ten which was revised at MTR to five on pilot basis) but the five sets of
processing equipment imported for the scheme were yet to be distributed at the close of the
loan. In order to meet the larger demand of seed processing equipment by these enterprises,
additional 20 sets of equipment are being procured with the assistance of NARP.
11.   Seed Industry Development. The National Seed Sub-sector Development Plan
prepared in 1992 outlined strategies for seed industry development in Nigeria up to the year
2000. Seed production targets under the plan are reviewed annually during the seed
workshops. NSS advised the seed companies and the ADPs on seed production and
processing, facilitated the importation of parental material and access to BS and FS for the
seed companies, organized the training of staff and assisted in variety testing, registration and
release. State Seed Coordinating Committees were formed in most states to oversee the
implementation of the national seed policy and facilitate the development of seed industry at
the state level. Seed Industry Development Officers (SIDOs) were posted in eleven pilot
states to promote the development of small and medium scale seed industries. Between 1990
and 1994, inflation, political uncertainty, unstable or unrealistic exchange rates and fertilizer
shortages adversely affected the operations of the seed companies but seed sales picked up
again during 1996/97 following higher grain prices. The difficulty in obtaining fertilizer,
supplied by the government at highly subsidized price, has remained a major constraint for the
seed producing companies. A survey conducted by NSS in 1996 on the use of CS in the
different states provided the seed companies with information for planning production and
marketing.
12.   Program for Seed Variety Testing, Registration and Release. This was only marginally
satisfactory.
13.   Variety testing and release. NSS provided financial support to the project crop
coordinators for the testing of over 1,000 entries of maize, rice, sorghum, soybean and cowpea
under the NCRP during 1991-95. About 34 varieties of the five crops were released during
1991-96. The performance would have been better but for the inability of the Crop Variety
Registration & Release Committee formed under Decree No. 72 of 1992 to function alongside
the National Variety Release Committee established earlier by Decree No. 33 of 1987. It took
the first two years of the project before the problem was resolved. The project provided funds
to the National Root Crops Research Institute (NRCRI) for the development of rapid
multiplication techniques for seed yam
14.-  Improving Seed Production, Processing and Storage. Performance was not
satisfactory.
15.   Breeder Seed Production. Only 19 percent of the appraisal target for BS production
was met because of delays in the procurement of the required equipment by NSS and poor
implementation of the working capital arrangements for BS. In the absence of a systematic



5
varietal maintenance program in most of the NARIs, the quality of the BS was low. The
appraisal thus under-estimated the capacity constraints of BS production. However, with the
establishment of nine seed units at six NARIs by NSS in collaboration with NARP, the
system is well set for expanded production. Already there is a rise in the BS production from
about 10 kg. of each of the five mandate crop seeds to a total of 2.9 tons of BS in 1996.
16.   Foundation and Certified Seed Production. NSS ensured that all FS was produced by
contract growers from 1993, as recommended at appraisal. It assisted in the development of a
cadre of contract growers (107 in 1996) and coordinated the production and distribution of the
FS. About 74 percent of the FS production target of 2,563 tons was met. The projected
demand for FS was not attained because the private sector did not develop at the anticipated
rate and most of the public sector ADPs did not have adequate funds to organize CS
production by outgrowers. The withdrawal of some of the ADPs from FS production from
1993 disrupted the availability of CS to farmers as the private sector was unable to fill the gap
due to sector policies that adversely affected CS prices and the availability of fertilizer. Over
the period, 1991 to 1996, only 28 percent of the CS production target of 59,700 tons was
achieved. From 1995, NSS developed a pilot Community Seed Development Program in
eleven states, under which about 100 extension agents in each ADP were to organize farmers
to establish seed plots of about one hectare each. The plots were to serve as a demonstration
of the improved seed variety as well as provide farmers access to good seed. The 735 farmers
involved in the program during 1995-96 together produced about 1,500 tons of seed.
17.   Processing and Storage. The equipment procured for upgrading the five NSS regional
seed processing units remained at the ports for over a year and was cleared only in October
1997 after the loan closed. Accordingly, the project did not benefit from the equipment and
training on its use which was to be provided by the Seed Processing and Storage Advisor.
Government has extended the Advisor's contract to December 1997 to allow for the
installation and required training. However, the Advisor did help private seed plants on
processing and storage, trained some local fabricators on the fabrication of simple processing
and testing equipment, and designed storage bins suitable for different agro-ecological zones.
The seed store in Ibadan was re-conditioned for improved storage.
18.   Seed Certification and Quality Control. The objective of strengthening the seed
certification and quality control activities of NSS remained largely unachieved due to delays
in the procurement of seed testing laboratory equipment and vehicles as well as inadequate
staffing and funding. The area for seed production offered for certification decreased over the
years in line with the decline in CS production by the ADPs and the private sector. Revenue
generated from certification charges also declined over the years because of the clients'
inability to pay the charges and partly because the certification procedures were often not
completed by NSS due to lack of funds. Establishment of an autonomous certification
agency, as suggested at appraisal, was not considered feasible by the Govermnent during the
project because of inadequate infrastructure and equipment for seed testing as well as
insufficient staffing and operational funds. A feasibility study to facilitate its establishment
by June 1996, recommended at MTR, advised that the National Seed Certification Agency
(established in 1985 and funded separately by FGN) be delinked from NSS and placed under
the FDA. The MTR recommendation that the Seed Law Enforcement activities be delinked



6
from certification was not implemented by the Government because it did not consider it
necessary in the absence of an autonomous certification agency.
19.   Human Resource Development for the Seed Sub-Sector. This was satisfactorily
implemented. About 601 staff of NSS, the ADPs and other seed agencies benefited from
short specialized training courses, 552 of them locally. In order to improve local training, a
Seed Science and Technology Center is being established at the University of Agriculture,
Makurdi, in collaboration with the Punjab Agriculture University in India. Course curricula
and teaching materials have been developed and some teaching staff have undergone training
at the collaborating university.
20.   Strengthening PQSfor Efficient Services. Performance was mixed.
21.   Advisory Committees. The two committees, the Plant Quarantine Consultative
Committee (PQCC) and the Plant Quarantine Technical Advisory Committee (PQTAC) were
established in 1991. Due to lack of funds and follow-up by the management, the PQCC met
five times as against a target of 12 meetings and the PQTAC nine times, the last meetings
being in 1994. The PQCC stressed the need for staff training and education of the public on
the dangers of indiscriminate exchange of plant materials. This led to the organization of a
Plant Quarantine Week in 1994 and the production and distribution of various publicity
materials. Publicity of PQS remains weak, however, since no serious attempt was made in
this direction after 1994. The PQTAC advised PQS on the development of packages for
dealing with new pest outbreaks as well as a survey of the current pest status for updating the
quarantine regulations. The survey was not done due to lack of funds.
22.   Restrucring PQS. The structure of PQS was streamlined in 1992 with a reduction of
the six sections to three branches, viz., Headquarters Support Services, Post-Entry Quarantine
Technical and Diagnostic Services, and Pre-Entry Ports Inspectorate Services. The PME
Section has a computerized management information system and is well organized in the
preparation of periodic reports. However, it is still weak in analytical skills. The headquarters
office and residential structures were renovated and equipped but achievement in new
residential construction was very low due to poor contract management. Although the staffing
ratio (senior/junior) improved from 1:4 to 1:3, the target of 1:2 was not attained due to
management inability to redeploy the excess junior staff. Action on staff rationalization is,
however, in progress. About 61 percent of the 630 months proposed for local training was
achieved, including two staff that obtained a doctorate and masters degree in specialized
technical areas. Only 26 percent of the 139 months for overseas training was achieved
because of poor management of the training program. For technical assistance, only one
consultant position for one year was filled. The filling of the other two positions was
suspended on Bank's advice because of unacceptable delays in recruitment by the Federal
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (FMNAR) .
23.   Post-Entry Quarantine. The facilities were substantially upgraded and the laboratories
refurbished, although work in most cases was completed only towards the end of the loan. All
the 34 glasshouses and two screenhouses were repaired but the airconditioners imported for
some of the glasshouses were yet to be delivered by the clearing agent. The demand for, and



7
therefore the capacity utilization of the glasshouses fell during the project because of reduced
volume of germplasm imports that required growing-on tests in the glasshouses. However,
the IITA and a few universities have become the major clients. The performance in the
issuance of import permits and phytosanitary certificates was impressive, as attested to by the
IITA and other clients. However, the clients would prefer that PQS staff undertake inspection
with official vehicles rather than depend on them for transportation and are willing to pay
higher fees, if necessary, to avoid providing transportation.
24.   The Plant Health Services of some importing countries have complained over infested
plant materials from Nigeria. These materials have been exported either without certificates
or with phytosanitary certificates issued by the Port Health Service (not PQS). Also,
following government reorganization of ports operations, the PQS staff were excluded at
various times from operating at the seaports and the airports, two major avenues for the
introduction and exit of undesirable plant materials. Government's attention has been drawn
to the damage these could cause to the integrity of Nigerian exports and the Government has
plans to harmonize the policy and operations of the different agencies at the ports and border
stations.
25.   Port Inspectorate Services. Many of the office/laboratory complexes and staff quarters
for the border stations were yet to be completed at the close of the loan due to poor contract
management by the PQS and inadequate counterpart funding. Equipment such as fumigation
chambers and incinerators installed at some stations are yet to be functional because they lack
appropriate electricity and water connections. Overall, port inspectorate staff still work under
harsh conditions lacking in office and residential accommodation, potable water, electricity,
communications and laboratory equipment, adequate publicity about their role, and even
uniforms. A few cases of armed attack on staff have also been reported, leading to a request
for staff to carry arms like their counterparts in the Customs Service. In spite of the
intervention of the Minister of Agriculture, the Customs Service has not allowed a joint
passenger declaration form incorporating PQS needs.
26.   Technical Assistance and Studies. NSS utilized a total of 161 months (against the
target of 150 months) for long-term advisors on seed industry development, certification and
quality control, processing and storage and financial management. The technical assistance
helped to build up the capacity of staff of NSS as well as other seed agencies. The
effectiveness of the Processing and Storage Advisor was, however, limited by the delays in
procurement of processing facilities. About 20 months were used for short-term consultancies
for a number of studies as against the target of 15 months. The overutilization of technical
assistance by NSS was due to the extension of the loan for one year. The PQS, on the other
hand, utilized only one (Virologist) of the three TA positions specified at appraisal which was
only 16 percent of the total of 75 months. The quality of the technical assistance was
satisfactory in both the NSS and PQS.
27.   The project specified three studies: (i) feasibility of establishing a fully autonomous
seed production operation with private sector participation; (ii) identification of appropriate
seed storage designs for different agro-climatic zones and review of storage pest and disease
control practices; and (iii) seed demand and use survey. Although delayed, all the studies



8
were completed (Table 7). The feasibility study on the establishment of an autonomous seed
production operation encouraged NSS to disengage from direct FS production but instead use
contract growers for such production. The design of seed storage bins for different climatic
zones was the result of the second study. The seed demand survey done in 1996 provided the
private seed agencies information on the prospects of marketing CS in the different states. In
addition to the above, the MTR in 1994 resulted in the adjustment of some aspects of project
implementation while the completion report prepared by the Borrower provided useful data
for the preparation of this ICR.
28.   Project Costs, Financing and Timetable. Project costs (Table 8A) as at June 30,
1997 stood at about US$17.2 million, 83 percent of the appraisal estimate of US$20.6 million.
The NSS component cost of US$10.5 million was 75 percent of the estimated US$14.0
million, while the PQS component cost US$6.7 million, 101 percent of the estimated US$6.6
million.
29.   Bank disbursements approximating US$13.8 million as of December 5, 1997 were 81
percent of actual project cost, much higher than the appraisal target of 68 percent and a
reflection of the inadequacy of FGN funding. The FGN contribution of US$2.8 million (N
75.7 million) was only 57 percent of the expected contribution of US$4.9 million (N 158.2
million) and releases were untimely. The N 75.7 million released was 72 percent of the
approved budget of N 105.0 million. The internally generated revenue from seed certification
by NSS was negligible while PQS met 42 percent of the target for user fees. Altogether, only
US$0.5 million was generated which is 29 percent of the expected US$1.7 million. Due to
problems of counterpart funding and delays in procurement, the project was implemented in
6.5 years as compared with the 5.5 years estimated at appraisal.
Factors Affecting the Project
30.   The factors that impacted positively on implementation and achievement of objectives
include: (i) promulgation of the Seeds Decree and the development of a seed policy,
especially providing for support to the private sector; (ii) development of institutional linkages
with research institutions, ADPs, the private sector and communities; and (iii) good quality
technical assistance which facilitated implementation and helped build national capacity for
implementation of sub-sectoral projects.
31.   The major factors that adversely affected the project were: (i) inadequate and untimely
counterpart funding. FGN counterpart fund contribution was only 57 percent of the appraisal
estimate and the approved amounts were released late leading to delays in operations; (ii)
scarcity of agricultural inputs, notably fertilizer, high labor costs and interest rates which
discouraged timely operations and investments; (iii) political and economic instability and
intermittent fuel crises from 1993 which delayed construction activities and raised staff
traveling costs; (iv) government directives that prevented PQS staff from operating at seaports
and at the airport cargo terminals thereby creating loopholes for indiscriminate entry and exit
of infested plant materials; (v) irregular meetings of the policy and technical committees and
delays by FGN in the approval of project proposals; (vi) delays in submission of loan
withdrawal applications by the Borrower, procurement and clearing of imported goods at



9
Nigerian ports due to lack of government funds; (vii) poor understanding of project concept
and needs by project management and staff in the early years; and (viii) no formal full Bank
supervision mission for one year after loan effectiveness and no systematic attempt to
familiarize management and staff of implementing agencies with the project concept and
needs While the first seven factors are subject to the control of the government and project
management, the last factor was a weakness mainly on the part of the Bank.
Project Sustainability
32.   The project has established a framework for the future development of the seed sub-
sector through the institutional reforms and in particular, the promulgation of the Seeds
Decree, the establishment of linkages with other stakeholders in the seed industry, and the
facilitation of private sector participation. The NSS has effectively involved the private sector
and communities in the production of foundation and certified seeds while the procurement of
breeder and foundation seeds has become less dependent on government budgetary releases
because of the seed revolving fund. Both the NSS and PQS components have procured
equipment and facilities which when put into full use will strongly advance their effectiveness
while a cost recovery principle is being implemented. Substantial capacity has been built
through staff training for more effective management of the seed sub-sector and the
quarantine service and there is greater public awareness on the need for good quality seed and
the protection of local plants against foreign pests. The project activities are more likely to be
sustained if (i) the government can improve the sectoral policy environment to make it more
conducive to private sector participation in the seed sub-sector; (ii) greater autonomy is given
to management of NSS and PQS in fixing prices and user fee rates; (iii) the revenue collected
is ploughed back to support operations; and (iv) FGN adequately funds PQS activities. Based
on experience during the project implementation period and especially recently, there is
uncertainty over whether adequate funding will be available in the future.
Bank Performance
33.   The performance of the Bank in project appraisal and implementation was rated
satisfactory by the Borrower and the implementing units. There was no formal supervision
mission in the first year of the project when supervision was handled at the Lagos Resident
Mission which was close to the NSS and PQS headquarters. Formal supervision missions in
subsequent years were regular and helped to resolve procurement, disbursement and
counterpart fund issues, and linked up the project with related Bank-assisted projects such as
the NARP for complementarity in funding and operations. The Bank demonstrated flexibility
by modifying the implementation strategies during the MTR in line with experience,
reallocating the proceeds of the loan, as needed, and extending the loan closing date by one
year.
Borrower Performance
34.   The Borrower's performance was mixed. The promulgation of the Seeds Decree
marked a positive turning point in the development of the seed sub-sector. Government
complied with most of the loan covenants, with the exception of those relating to the release
of adequate and timely counterpart funds and the regular meeting of the project policy and



10
technical committees. Procurement and disbursement clearances at the FMANR level slowed
down project implementation significantly and contributed to uncompleted works and
undelivered equipment. Government intervention is still required in ensuring the return of
PQS staff to the seaports and airport cargo terminals and also the reintroduction of the
quarantine declaration form for incoming passengers
Assessment of Outcome
35.   The overall outcome of the project is satisfactory. It substantially achieved the
objective of strengthening the institutions and developing strategies for improved seed
production, especially through increased private sector participation, and more effective
quarantine services. The production of foundation and certified seeds was successfully
transferred to private seed companies and outgrowers. No major plant pest or disease
outbreak arising from the introduction of infested plant materials occurred during the project
period. The re-estimated economic rate of return (ERR) for the main NSS component of 33.4
percent was below the 41.0 percent estimated at appraisal due to the lower performance of CS
production. The re-estimated ERR was based on: incremental annual farm output, in tons,
from Year 6 (appraisal from Year 5) of 21,037 for Maize (appraisal 38,000), 5,218 for Rice
(appraisal 12,350), 2,179 for Sorghum (appraisal 12,600), 757 for Cowpea (appraisal 6,400)
and 1,199 for Soybean (appraisal 1,400); and 12.5 percent increase (appraisal ten percent)
over base yields due to the use of improved seed. Although PQS was strengthened through
provision of better facilities and staff training during the project period, it is difficult to assess
whether this had any impact on the occurrence of diseases from imported plants. Even
without the project, there had been no major outbreak of imported plant diseases. The borders
are still porous and screening at import points is hampered as PQS does not have the legal
clout. Nevertheless, PQS became more efficient in the issuance of phyto-sanitary certification
for exports and its interventions at border posts do reduce the risk of diseases.
Future Operations
36.   The operational plans for the next two years prepared by the project (annex to
Appendix A) reflect a commitment to: (i) complete outstanding project activities; (ii) enhance
internal revenue generation through charges for certification and quarantine inspections and
analyses; (iii) greater recovery of operational costs for seed; (iv) increasing private sector
participation in project activities; and (v) greater collaboration with other agencies with a
stake in the project activities. The FGN has given assurances of continued funding support to
the project activities, to supporting management efforts at staff rationalization and removing
the administrative bottlenecks to the effective operation of PQS staff at some border stations.
The effectiveness of the operational plans will, however, depend on improvernents in
govermnent funding and greater autonomy to project management to utilize internally
generated revenue for operations. The key performance indicators during the operational
phase are shown in Table 6.
Key Lessons Learned
37.   The following key lessons have emerged from the implementation of the NSQP: (i)
successful project take-off and implementation require strong initial support to the



11
management in the form of project facilitation' training (PFT) and supervision missions early
in the life of the project. The absence of these support activities for the NSQP led to
considerable delays in recruitment of technical assistance staff and commencement of
procurement; (ii) delays in appointments of consultants and procurements of goods and
services substantially reduce the potential contribution of these facilities to project
implementation and impact - many of the civil works projects were uncompleted, equipment
were either not yet installed or required to be connected to utilities to become functional, and
some of the training that should have been provided by the consultants on various equipment
was lost; (iii) cost of ancillary civil works, such as housing of equipment, electricity and water
supply, service roads, etc., should be included in project costs; and (iv) projects of the nature
of the NSQP need to have a longer life for meaningful development impact, as in countries
like India whose seed industry has passed through four phases of development with Bank
assistance.



12
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievemnent of Objec sSubstantial                    Par            Negligible      Not plicable
(00              (.1)             (                  /
Macro Policies                       El               El               El
Sector Policies                                                           lE
Financial Objectives                  Q                E                                 I]
bIstitutional Development            lI                                                  El
Physical Objectives                  El                0                E                 E
Poverty Reduction                     El               E                E                0
Gender Issues                                                                            El E  El
Other Social Objectives              E                 El               E                 0
Enviromnental Objectives              n                E                E                 0
Public Sector Management              n                0                E                E
Private Sector Development            0                E                E                E
Other (specify)                      El               El                E 
B.   oject Sustainability               Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncrtain
(V)                       (O)                        (i)
El               ~~El]



13
C. Banik Performiance                   fitffcvSatifacor                                 Deficin
(e                       (V)                       (V)
Identification                      E                        I                         a
Preparation Assistance               a0
Appraisal                            a                                                  o
Supervision                         I]
D. BionxowerPerfonmance                       satisfag=o      Satisfactor      Deficien
6')            (a/)             6')
Preparation                                                   E:
Implementation                                Da
Covenant Compliance                                                           0
Operation (if applicable)                                    []
Hiehl-i
E. Assessment of Outcome              satisfactorv   Satisfactoy    Unsatidaatoy       unsatis
(E)             (E)              (E)(



14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit Title              Purpose                      Approval       Status
Preceding Operations
1.   Ln. 1092-llNI, Funtua ADP      Integrated Rural Dev.             1975      Completed
2.   Ln. 1099-UNI, Gusau ADP                     "                    1975
3.   Ln. 1164-UNI,GombeADP                       "                    1975
4.   Ln. 1454-UNI, Lafia ADP                                          1977
5.   Ln. 1455-UNI, Ayangba ADP                                        1977
6.   Ln. 1667-UNI, Bida ADP                                           1979
7.   Ln. 1668-UNI, Ilorin ADP                                         1979
8.   Ln. 1838-UNI, Oyo North ADP     Integrated Rural Dev.            1980
9.   Ln. 1854-UNI, Ekiti-Akoko ADP               "                    1980
10.  Ln. 1981-UNI, Bauchi ADP                    "                    1981
11.  Ln. 1982-UNI, Kano ADP                                           1981
12.  Ln. 2029-UNI ATAP                                                1981
13.  Ln. 2185-UNI, Sokoto ADP                                         1982
14.  Ln. 2436-UNI, Kaduna ADP                                         1984
15.  Ln. 2733-UNI, MSADP I                                            1986
16.  Ln. 2988-UNI, MSADP II                                           1988
17.  Cr. 2035- UNI, MSADP III                                         1989
Following Operations
1.   Ln. 2261-UNI, Nat. Agric. Res.   Improved Applied Research      1991        On going
2.   Ln. 3451-UNI, Nat. Fadama       Small Scale Ifrigation           1992
3.   Ln. 3483-UNI, Agric. Tech.      Extension/Adaptive Research      1992



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date Actual /
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned              Latest Estimate
Identification (EPS)                                        August 1987
Preparation                       April 1988                July 1988
Appraisal                         Jan/Feb. 1989             February 1989
Negotiations                      July 1989                 September 1989
Board presentation                December 1989             March 29, 1990
Signing                          April 1990                 June 21, 1990
Effectiveness                     September 21, 1990        December 10, 1990
Mid-term review                   1992 and 1993             March 22, 1994
Project completion                December 31, 1995         December 1997
Loan closing                      June 30, 1996             June 30, 1997
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year     FY91   FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98l
Appraisal estimate     2.2    2.9    2.8    3.9    0.9l
Cumulative             2.2    5.1    7.9   11.8   14.0
Actual (a)             0.5    0.3      1.0    6.5    0.9       1.9    1.9   0.84
Cumulative             0.5    0.8      1.8    8.3    9.2   11.1   13.0  13.84
Actual as % of        22.7    15.7   22.8   70.3   65.7   79.3   92.9   98.9
estimate
Date of disbursement: December 5, 1997
(a) Loan was extended beyond the original closing date of June 30, 1996 by one year.



16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
L Key Implementation
Indicators in SAR                      Estimated                        Actual
1. National Seed
(i) Institufional Reform
(a) National Seed Council    To be established by September 30,  Established November 12, 1992.
1990.
(b) Reorganization of NSS:
Seed Production Section      All foundation seed to be produced   Foundation seed production on
by contract growers by end of 1992  NSS farms stopped end of 1992.
and section to operate separate  Revolving fund for seed
account for seed procurement.   established March 1993.
Seed Industry and Skill      To be established by end of 1990.   Established by end of 1990.
Development Section                                           Planning and Training functions
were excised from the section at
mid-term review.
Finance, Administration and  To be organized as a separate   Finance and Administration
Personnel Management         section by end of 1990.         organized as separate sections by
end of 1990.
(c) Private Sector Development:
Seed pricing policy         Cost of production and distribution   Stage I of cost recovery policy
to be fully recovered in three stages  introduced 1991, Stage 2 in 1993
at end of 1990, 1991 and 1992.  and Stage 3 in 1994.
Establishment of small-scale  NSS to provide equipment to assist  64 entrepreneurs identified by
seed enterprises            ten small-scale enterprises.     1996 and criteria for selection of
beneficiaries of equipment
prepared by NSS and approved
by Bank. Five sets of equipment
procured for scheme not
distributed by June 1997.
(d) Technical Assistance for  165 man-months of long and short-  181 man-months used. Excess
Seed Industry Development   term consultancies to be used for    is due to loan extension.
seed industry development.



17
Table 5: Continued
L Key Implementation
Indicators in SAR                        Estimated                       Actual
(e) Seed Sub-sector          Workshop to be organized in first year  First workshop organized in
Development Plan             as input to preparation of development  1992 and development plan
plan and in fourth year to review  prepared. Annual review
progress.                         workshops are held.
(ii) Seed Production, Processing
and Storage
(a) Breeder Seed (BS)        NSS to improve BS production      Nine seed units established in
Production                   facilities in five research institutes by   six research institutes from
December 1995.                    1994.
(b) Seed Processing and      Five NSS regional facilities to be  Equipment for upgrading
Storage                      upgraded by December 1995.        cleared from the ports in
October 1997.
(iii) Seed Certification and
Quality Control
(a) Seed Testing Laboratories    Two laboratories to be upgraded and    Two laboratories upgraded
three new ones established by     and two new ones established.
December 1995.
(b) Autonomous Certification  Seed certification to be managed by    Autonomous certification
Service                     autonomous service by September 30,  agency not established.
1993.
2. Plant Quarantine Service
Institutional Reform
(a) Establishment of         Two committees, Consultative and  The two committees were
Committees                   Technical Advisory, to be set up by    established in 1991.
July 31, 1990.
(b) Reorganization of PQS:
Reduction of number of       Existing six sections to be reorganized  Six sections reorganized to
sections                     to three branches.                three branches in 1992.
Post-entry Diagnostic Services   Facilities to be upgraded.    Facilities substantially
upgraded.



18
Table 5: Continued
L Key Implementation
Indicators in SAR                      Estimated                        Actual
Port Inspectorate Services   Facilities at selected field stations   Most civil works uncompleted
to be upgraded.                and equipment installed at some
stations not functional because of
lack of electricity and water
supplies.
Quarantine Declaration Form  To be reintroduced.             Form not reintroduced.
(c) Staff Rationalization and  Support staff strength to be  Staffing ratio (senior/junior)
Qualifications.              rationalized. Within five years,    improved from 1:4 to 1:3.
senior staff involved in       Unspecified number of staff
enforcement to have first degree or  undertook private studies leading
equivalent.                    to first degrees but are yet to be
upgraded to senior positions.
(d) Technical Assistance     75 man-months to be utilized for    Only 12 man-months was used
long and short-term consultancies.  and for one position only.
IL Modified Indicators
1. National Seed Service
(i) Relocation of NSS headquarters  NSS to relocate its headquarters to  NSS headquarters relocated to
the savanna region by 1994.    Abuja in 1996.
(ii) Establishment of small-scale    NSS to assist the establishment of   Five sets of equipment imported
seed enterprises            five small-scale seed enterprises.   not yet distributed.
(iii) Seed yam multiplication  NSS to finance the strengthening    NSS assisted NRCRI to upgrade
of facilities at NRCRI.        facilities and train staff.
(iv) Community seed development  NSS to promote community      735 farmers involved in the
program                     participation in availability and  program during 1995/96
spread of good quality seed.   produced 1,500 tons of seed.
2. Plant Quaatine Service
(i) Arrangements with reputable    PQS to directly screen imported  PQS continued with screening to
organizations for screening  plant materials.               the satisfaction of reputable
imported materials                                           organizations.



19
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation'
Modified Indicators for
Future Operation                             Estimated (1997 to 1999)
1. National Seed Service
(i) Seed production              About 1,990 tons of foundation seed to be procured during
1997-99 at N 108.3m. Although only 237 tons of FS was
produced in 1995 and 161 tons sold in 1996, government has
directed NSS to ensure increased FS production to cushion
the adverse effect on farmers of the removal of fertilizer
subsidy and meet the needs of the National Accelerated
Industrial Crops Scheme.
(ii) Seed certification and quality  About 151,764 ha. of seed farm to be inspected and 135,624
control                       samples tested for certification. About 90 inspections of
processing plants/stores to be done and 3,342 seed samples
tested for seed law enforcement.
(iii) Seed industry development  About 20 small/medium enterprises and 777 community seed
program farmers to be developed.
(iv) Planning, monitoring and    Two annual work plans, three annual reports and 10 quarterly
evaluation                    reports to be produced and used by NSS management to
guide implementation, and five studies done.
(v) Human resources development   Ten in-house training courses and local training for 25 staff to
be done, as well as upgrading the training facilities.
(vi) Finance and accounts        Three annual accounts to be audited and reports submitted.
2. Plant Quarantine Service
(i) Pre-entry ports inspection   Buildings at five border stations to be completed, four wells
to be dug and installation of six fumigation chambers to be
completed and access roads to be constructed.
(ii) Intemal quarantine          About 20 sprayers to be bought with associated pesticides,
and one pest/disease survey conducted.
(iii) Export inspection/certification    Two laboratories to be completed and plant treatment
materials procured.
(iv) Post-entry quarantine       Laboratory materials and supplies to be procured.
(v) Human resources development    About 30 headquarters staff and 80 inspectorate staff to be
trained.
1 No indicators were specified in the SAR. The estimates are derived from the Operational Plans (July 1997 to
December 1999) prepared by the project management.



20
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined at
Study         Appraisal/Redefined                Status       Impact of Study
1. Feasibility of    To rationalize roles of the  Review done in-    Led to disengagement
establishing a fully  public sector and enhance   house.             of NSS from direct
autonomous seed      private sector participation in                 foundation seed
production operation    seed production.                             production and the
ADPs from certified
seed production.
2. Identification of  To ensure seed viability and  Completed in 1995.  Seed storage bins were
appropriate storage  purity through technical advice                 designed by NSS
designs for different    to seed industry operators on               Processing Advisor for
agro-climatic zones   appropriate seed storage                        different agro-climatic
facilities.                                     zones but these had not
been demonstrated to
seed industry operators
by the end of the loan.
3. Seed demand survey  To provide reliable        Socio-economic      Provided private sector
information on seed demand to  seed use survey was  seed agencies with
guide national planning for  completed in 1996   information on pros-
seed production.           in place of the seed   pects of marketing seed
demand survey in   in the different states.
line with MTR      Future projects may
recommendation     stress the need for the
considering the level public sector to provide
of development of   a conducive environ-
the seed industry.    ment for private sector
development and leave
the private sector to
make its own demand
forecasts.



21
Table SA: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate        Actual/Latest Estimate
(US$M)                      (US$M)
Local    Foreign
Item                 Costs      Costs      Total            Total
NSS: Institutional Reform          1.1        2.0        3.1               3.2
Quality Control/ Certification  1.3       1.6        2.9               1.9
Production/Processing/Storage  2.0        2.2        4.2               3.6
Training                       1.0        1.2        2.2               1.3
Variety Testing/Release        0.8        0.8        1.6               0.5
PQS: Institutional Reform          0.5        0.7        1.2              0.8
Training                       0.5        0.8        1.3               0.4
Port Inspectorate Service      1.1        1.0        2.1               3.0
Post-entry Technical Support   0.8        1.2        2.0               2.5
Total                           9.1        11.5       20.6             17.2
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate        Actual/Latest Estimate
(USSM)                      (US$M)
Local     Foreign
Source                Costs      Costs      Total              Total
IBRD                               2.5        11.5       14.0             13.9
Federal Govemment (a)              4.9        0.0        4.9              2.8
Intemally Generated Revenue (a)
- NSS (Seed Certification)       0.5         0.0        0.5             0.03
- PQS (User Fees)                1.2         0.0        1.2              0.5
Total                              9.1        11.5       20.6             17.2
Note:   (a) Local funding is converted to US$ at the annual average exchange rates of the respective years:
1991 - N 10.4, 1992 - N 19.7, 1993 and 1994 - N 22.0, 1995 - N 82.0, 1996 and 1997 - N 85.0.



22
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
(N' million)
National Seed Service
Year             Project Costs          Total Benefit             Net Benefit
1991                 15.2                    0                      -15.2
1992                 32.3                    0                      -32.3
1993                 111.4                   0                      -111.4
1994                 168.5                  86.7                    -81.8
1995                 140.6                  299.5                   158.9
1996                287.2                   379.6                   92.4
1997 to
2010
287.2                  379.6                    92.4
For NSS component, using discount rate of 12 percent, NPV = N 337.5 million, ERR = 33.4 percent.
Note:  The ERR is calculated for a period of 20 years (1991-2010). The 'with' and 'without'
scenario is used on the assumption that even without the project, there would have been some
growth in the use of Certified Seed (CS). The first three years of the project are assumed to
have been used for the production sequence of Breeder-Foundation-Certified Seeds and
incremental project effect started in 1994. About 75 percent of the CS produced is assumed to
have been used by farmers. Incremental output in tons due to use of CS was, for Maize
10,417 (1991) and 1,037 (1996); for Rice 3,544 (1991) and 5,218 (1996); for Sorghum 1,019
(1991) and 2,179 (1996); for Cowpea 367 (1991) and 757 (1996); and for Soybean 404 (1991)
and 1,199 (1996). Project costs and benefits peak in 1996 and stabilize for the rest of the
period. Maize accounts for 65.5 percent of the peak year benefits, Rice 18.5 percent, S
orghum and Soybean 6.3 percent each, and Cowpea 3.4 percent. An SCF of 0.85 is used to
adjust the domestic retail prices of the non-tradable commodity (cowpea) to border values.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original -  Revised
Agree-               Covenant  Present   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
ment      Section    Type        Status     Date         Date         Description of Covenant                                 Comments
Loan      2.02 (b)   I           C          06/90        06/90        Government shall open and maintain two Special Accounts,  Accounts opened in 1990.
3183                                                                  one for NSS and the other for PQS.
3.01 (b)   I           CP         Continuous  Continuous  Government shall provide in its annual budgets amounts    Budget provisions were often lower than
(i)                                                         sufficient to cover its contributions to project costs.  expected and amounts released still less.
3.01 (b)   I           C         06/90         06/90        Government shall open and maintain two Project Accounts,  Accounts opened in 1990.
(ii)                                                        one for NSS and the other for PQS.
3.01 (b)   4           CP         09/90        09/90        Government shall pay into the Project Accounts its      Quarterly contributions were often lower
(iv)                                                        quarterly contributions.                                than expected, late or withheld (e.g. 1997).
3.01 (c)   5           C          -            -            Government shall establish and maintain a Project       PMMC was established in 1991 and it met
Management and Monitoring Committee (PMMC).            regularly.
4.01 (a)    I          C          Continuous  Continuous  Government shall cause NSS and PQS to maintain adequate  Adequate records and accounts were
records and accounts of their operations.               maintained by NSS and PQS.
4.01 (b)   I           C          Continuous  Continuous  Government shall cause NSS and PQS to have their          NSS and PQS employed auditors annually
(i)                                                         accounts audited annually by independent auditors.      to audit their accounts.
4.01 (b)   I           CP         Continuous  Continuous  Government shall furnish to the Bank within six months    Audit reports were submitted late in some
(ii)                                                        after the end of each year, copies of auditor's report.  years.
Covenant Iyp:                                                                                                                       Present Status:
I. =    Accounts/audits                                      8. =    Indigenous people                                              C  =    covenant complied with
2. =    Finan. perfornance/revenue generation from beneficiaries  9. =    Monitoring, review, and reporting                         CP =   complied with partially
3. =    Flow and utilization of project fuinds               10. =    Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9          CD =    complied with after delay
4. =    Counterpart funding                                  11. =    Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation  NC =    not complied with
5. =    Management aspects of the project or executing agency         12. -    Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
6. =    Environmental covenants                              13. =    Other
7. =    Involuntary resettlement



Table 10: Continued
Original    Revised
Agree-              Covenant  Present   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
ment    Section    Type        Status    Date         Date        Description of Covenant                              Comments
Loan     6.01 (a)   5          NC        09/90        09/90       Government shall cause PQS to review its staffing level and  No comprehensive staffing review or
3183                                                              prepare a staff development plan.                    development plan was implemented.
6.01 (c)   2         C          09/90       09/90        NSS shall introduce seed certification fees to cover at least   First stage of certification fees introduced in
25% of its direct operational costs.                 1991.
6.01 (d)   2         C          09/90       09/90        NSS shall open two accounts into which shall be paid  Accounts opened in 1991.
proceeds from seed certification fees, and revenues from
breeder and foundation seed sales.
6.01 (e)   2         C          09/90       09/90        PQS shall open an account into which shall be paid   Account opened in 1991.
proceeds from fees and charges levied by PQS in respect of
its operations.
6.01 (f)   2         C          09/90       09/90       NSS shall introduce the first stage of foundation seed prices  First stage introduced in 1991.
to cover seed procurement prices paid to contract growers
and the costs to NSS of processing such seed.
6.01 (g)   2         C          09/90       09/90       NSS shall obtain commitments from at least 3 major seed    NSS has obtained commitment from four
producing states to recover first stage of CS seed costs.  states, viz, Bauchi, Kano, Sokoto and
Ogun.
Sch. 6    5          C          12/92       12/92       NSS shall ensure that all foundation seed shall be produced   Contract growers and some research
(1)                                                      under contract with private seed growers, and phase out and  institutes have been producing foundation
cease to operate all seed farms owned by it.        seed from 1993. NSS seed farms ceased to
operate in December 1991.
Sch. 6    5          CP         01/93       01/93       NSS shall carry out a study into the feasibility of  Review done in-house by NSS. FS seed
(2)                                                      establishing a fully autonomous seed production operation    production now done by contract growers
with private sector participation.                  and public research institutes. CS
production is by private firms or
outgrowers organized by NSS and ADPs.



Table 10: Continued
Original    Revised
Agree-              Covenant  Present   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
ment    Section    Type        Status    Date         Date         Description of Covenant                               Comments
Loan     Sch. 6     12         C          Continuous  Continuous  NSS shall provide private sector breeders and seed growers   Contract growers have access to publicly
3183     (3)                                                       with access to breeder and foundation seed of publicly bred   bred breeder and foundation seed, and
varieties, and allow them import seed for use in     multinational companies can import seed.
development of new varieties and/or for seed production.
Sch. 6    11          C         -            -           NSS shall prepare assistance plan to small-scale seed  NSS would recover full cost of equipment
(4)                                                      enterprises and obtain Bank approval for it.          in local currency in ten equal installments.
Sch. 6    12         C          09/90        09/90       NSS shall enter into agreement with five research institutes   Agreement entered into with research
(5)                                                      for variety testing and breeder seed production.      institutes.
Sch. 6    2          CP         09/93        06/96       Government shall ensure that the NSS seed certification  Government allocated separate funds for
(6)                                                      service is during the first three years of the project given  certification since 1991 but decided that the  s
financial and operational autonomy, and by September 30,   certification service should still remain
1993, duly established as an autonomous service.     under the NSS for effective public control.
Sch. 6    3          C                                   NSS shall enter into agreement with selected universities  University of Agriculture, Makurdi, has
(7)                                                      specifying the facilities for training and seed technology to   been selected and a Seed Technology
be provided, and the training and research programs to be    Center is being developed here.
undertaken by the universities.
Sch. 6    1          C          Continuous  Continuous  NSS shall maintain a separate revolving fund account to  Separate revolving fund maintained.
(8)                                                      finance reserve stock of breeder and foundation seed.
Sch. 6    9          CD         12/93        12/93       Government shall conduct two separate mid-term reviews in  Joint mid-term review was done for NSS
(10)                                                     the second and third years of the project.            and PQS in 1994.
Sch. 6    5          CD         09/90        09/90       Government shall establish the National Seed Council  NSC established 1992.
(11)                                                     (NSC).



Table 10: Continued
Original    Revised
Agree-             Covenant  Present   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
ment    Section    Type        Status    Date         Date        Description of Covenant                              Comments
Loan     Sch. 6     10         C         05/90        05/90       NSS shall ensure that arrangements for seed variety testing,   Arrangements effected.
3183     (12)                                                     registration and release are put into effect.
Sch. 6    5          C          12/90       12/90       NSS shall regarde and reassign staff to its various sections.   Reassignment effected.
(13)
Sch. 6    5          C          07/90       07/90       Government shall establish the Plant Quarantine      Both committees were established in 1991.
(14)                                                     Consultative Committee and the Plant Quarantine Technical
Advisory Committee.
Sch. 6    10         CP         12/90       12/90       NSS and PQS shall employ the required consultants.   NSS employed most of its consultants but
(15)                                                                                                          PQS employed only one due to delay.
0o'
Sch. 6    2          CD         12/92       12/92       NSS shall introduce the second and third stages of a pricing   Second stage was introduced in 1993 and
(16)                                                     policy for foundation seed.                         the third stage in 1994.
Sch. 6    2          CP         12/95       12/95       NSS shall recover seed certification fees adequate to cover   The 50%/o recovery level introduced in 1993
(17)                                                    by December 31, 1992 at least 500/%, and by December 31,    was maintained due to high operational
1995, at least 100% of the operational costs.       costs incurred in certification.



27
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
The Project complied with all applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                                       Actual
Project Cycle                       Staffweeks        US$(000)
Preparation to appraisal                51.7            112.8
Appraisal                               24.4             62.4
Negotiations through Board approval      6.6             16.0
Supervision                            228.6            555.0
Completion                              14.1             21.5
Total                                  325.4            767.7



28
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Number  Days   Specialized    Performance Rating
Stage of             Month/       of      in    Staff Skills  Implem-  Develop-
Project Cycle         Year      Persons  Field  Represented  entation   ment                 Types of
Status    Objectives           Problems
Through Appraisal  07/88           6       19     a,b,c,d,e
Appraisal through   01/89-10/89    6      38       a,c.e.f
Board Approval
Board through     03/90-11/90      2       11       a,c
effectiveness
Supervision 1     03/92            5       8       a,b,c,g       3          2       Delays in procurement/disburs.
Supervision 2     10/92            7      10    a,b,c,g,h,ij     3          3       Counterpart funds,
procurement.
Supervision 3     05/93            6      20      a,b,g,hj       3          2       Disbursement lag.
Supervision 4     10/93            4       5       ab,gj         2          2
Supervision 5     03/94            6      24      a,b,d,gj       2          2       Mid-term Review. Private
Sector involvement., staffing.
Supervision 6     11/94            4       7       a,b,gj        S          S
Supervision 7     03/95            2       5        a,b          S          S       Strengthen private sector part.
Supervision 8     03/96            2       5        a,b          S          S       Community-based Seed Prog.
Supervision 9     07/96            2       5        a,b          S          S       Procurement.
Completion        06/97            9       16     a,b,c,d,fj                       ICR Preparation.
Kea to Staff Skills
a = Agriculturist/Agronomist             f = Plant Quarantine Specialist
b = Financial Analyst                    g = Procurement Analyst
c = Economist                            h = Extensionist
d = Seed Specialist                      i = Disbursement Analyst
e = Marketing/Policy Spclst.             f = Operations Officer
Performance Rating:              2 & S =  Satisfactory            3 =  Unsatisfactory



29
Appendix A
NIGERIA
NATIONAL SEED AND QUARANTINE PROJECT
[Loan 3183-UNI]
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
AIDE-MEMOURE
1.    A World Bank mission assisted by the staff of the Agricultural Projects Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit (APMEU)2 undertook a final supervision of the National Seed and
Quarantine Project (NSQP) during June 2 to June 18, 1997, in preparation of the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The mission visited the headquarters of the
National Seed Service (NSS) in Abuja and the Plant Quarantine Service (PQS) in Ibadan, as
well as the regional offices of the project in Ibadan, Ikeja, Kano, Zaria and Jos. In addition to
visits to some of the project sites and discussions with staff, the mission discussed with a
number of clients and beneficiaries of the project to elicit their views about the
implementation of the project. A wrap-up meeting held in Abuja on June 18, 1997, and
attended by the heads of the implementation units as well as the staff of the Federal Ministry
of Finance (FMF) and the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (FMANR)
discussed the observations of the mission and their comments have been utilized, as
appropriate, in this aide-memoire. The mission is grateful for the courtesies extended to it by
the management and staff of the FMANR and the project units.
2.    This aide-memoire, which is subject to review by the Bank management, summarizes
the mission's findings and conclusions, the agreements reached with the Borrower and the
implementing units, the operational plan of the project, and the follow-up actions required
under the ICR process. It assesses the objectives of the project and their achievements, the
major factors that affected project implementation, the performance of the Bank and the
Borrower, the sustainability of the benefits of the project and the key lessons learned from
implementation.
Project Background and Objectives
3.    Background. Established in 1975, the NSS had, with technical assistance from the
Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), trained a number of staff in seed technology and
developed some contract seed growers. Seed production, processing and quality control,
however, remained loosely coordinated and the weak policy environment and poor
production practices led to high operational costs. Meanwhile, the capacity of the PQS to
defend Nigerian agriculture against the introduction of exotic pests and diseases also suffered
from poor institutional arrangements, inadequate technical staffing and very poor funding.
The NSQP was to assist in the strengthening of the seed industry and the PQS. It was
appraised in March 1989, approved on March 29, 1990 and became effective on December
2 The mission comprised Shiv Singh (Team Leader), Bhagwanti Khushalani, Samuel Eremie (World Bank),
Shettima Mustafa, Ramiah Durairaj, Peter Oyekan, Bola Ajala, R-C. Okoro (Consultants, World Bank),
and Raymond Akor (APMEU).



30
2
10, 1990. The project was to cost US$20.6 million with the Bank loan amounting to
US$14.0 million. US$9.6 million of the loan was to be utilized by NSS and the remaining
US$4.4 million by the PQS. Following the mid-term review (MTR) in March 1994, the loan
was reallocated between its two main components to provide US$8.8 million to NSS and
US$5.2 million to PQS. The closing date of the loan was also extended by one year to June
30, 1997, with a reallocation of the loan to provide US$9.4 million to NSS and US$4.6
million to PQS.
Project Background and Objectives
4.    Objectives and Components. The main objective of the project was to support the
national goal of increasing agricultural production and farm incomes by reforming the
institutions for cost effective and timely production and distribution of good quality seed and
improving the efficiency of the PQS. Accordingly the project was to: (i) assist in
institutional reforms; (ii) accelerate the development of seed production programs; (iii)
improve seed pricing policy; (iv) improve the effectiveness of seed certification and quality
control operations; (v) strengthen the private sector through increased availability of breeder
and foundation seed; and (vi) improve the efficiency of the PQS operations.
5.    The two main components of the project are the NSS and the PQS. Under the NSS
component there is: (a) institutional reform , comprising the promulgation of the Seed
Decree, establishment of the National Seed Council (NSC), the reorganization of the NSS,
support to the private sector, assistance in the development of private seed enterprises,
establishment of ten small-scale seed enterprises, training, technical assistance of 165 staff
months for seed industry development, and organizing two workshops for the preparation and
review of the seed sub-sector development plan; (b) variety testing, registration and release,
involving the strengthening of the variety testing mechanisms through the Nationally
Coordinated Research Programs (NCRP), support of on-farm adaptive research for new
varieties, establishment of the National Variety Registration and Release Committee
(NVRRC), and development of rapid multiplication techniques for seed yam, (c) Seed
Production Processing and Storage, involving support for breeder and foundation seed
production, processing and storage by five research institutes and private outgrowers,
upgrading of NSS storage facilities; (d) seed certification and quality control, involving
formulation of seed rules and regulations and transfer of staff for ensuring quality of breeder,
foundation and certified seed, purchase of vehicles to facilitate field inspections, upgrading of
existing seed testing laboratories in two locations and establishment of new ones in three
locations, and funding of operational deficits for seed certification and quality control
activities; (e) human resource development and training for NSS staff and staff of other
public and private agencies, upgrading of training and seed technology research facilities at
two universities; and (f) provision of incremental working capital to finance breeder and
foundation seed operations and maintenance of reserve stocks.
6.    Under the PQS component there is: (a) institutional reform, involving the
establishment of a Plant Quarantine Consultative Committee (PQCC) and Plant Quarantine
Technical Advisory Committee (PQTAC), reorganization of the PQS, and incremental
staffing to operate the scientific specialization of pathology, entomology and virology; (b)
upgrading of facilities at post-entry and selected pre-entry inspection stations; and (c)
technical assistance involving 75 man-months of consultancies and staff training.



31
3
7.    Covenants. Among the covenants to facilitate project implementation were the
provision of adequate counterpart funds, the introduction of seed certification fees to cover
part of direct operational costs, implementation of full cost recovery scheme for seeds,
establishment of the NSC to guide the development of the seed industry, promotion of private
sector seed production, assistance in the establishment of ten small-scale seed enterprises,
maintenance of a revolving fund to finance reserve stock of breeder and foundation seeds,
establishment of the PQCC and PQTAC, introduction of user fees for services rendered by
PQS, and establishment of the Project Management and Monitoring Committee (PMMC).
Achievement of Objectives in NSS
8.   Institutional Reforms. Following the promulgation of the Seeds Decree (No.72 of
1992) which facilitated the importation of large quantities of genetic and parental material
and encouraged the establishment of private companies, the National Seed Council (NSC)
was formed in November 1992 with the Minister of Agriculture as its Chairman and with
representatives from the public and private sectors. Only two meetings were held during the
project life mainly because of because NSS management did not initiate further meetings.
During its second meeting in 1994, the strategies for the national seeds development plan
were endorsed, the National Seed Rules and Regulations and the incentives for private sector
participation were approved, and three statutory committees set up. The PMMC was formed
to coordinate project implementation and related actions but unfortunately did not include a
representative of APMEU. Only 50 percent of the target of meetings was achieved. The
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation (PME) function was not emphasized by the project
until the MTR in 1994.
9.    The first National Seed Workshop was organized in November 1992, with over 125
participants drawn from public and private sector organizations dealing with seed. The
outcome of the discussions helped immensely in preparing the Seed Sub-sector Development
Plan (up to year 2000) which outlined strategies to strengthen the National Seed System,
rationalize seed pricing policies, strengthen the varietal development and release
mechanisms, provide for a functional seed certification and quality control scheme, promote
incentives for private sector participation and provide estimates of the financial needs, costs
and benefits of the financial outlays as well as suggest sources of funding.
10.   Variety Testing, Registration and Release. The conflict in the contents of Decree No.
33 of 1987 and No. 72 of 1992 is making it difficult for the crop variety component to
operate separately from the livestock component. During one of its meetings, the National
Variety Registration and Release Committee (NVRRC), the FMANR and the Federal
Ministry of Science and Technology (FMST) were entrusted with the responsibility of
resolving this problem. The matter is being addressed by the Legal Unit of FMANR and the
Federal Ministry of Justice. Despite this difficulty, NSS supported the operations of the five
nationally coordinated research projects (NCRPs) to release 34 varieties comprising maize
(9), rice (7), cowpea (7) soybean (6) and sorghum (5).



32
4
Table 1: Achievements of the National Seed Services (1991 - 1996)
Achievement
Item                Target*      Quantity      %              Remark
Institutional Reforms
Committee Meetings (No.)
-National Seed Council           8       2          25         Council established on Nov.
12, 1992.
- Project Mgmt. & Monitoring     8        4         50          Established in 1991. Meet-
Committee (PMMC)                                               ings to be held as necessary.
-Seed Prod. & Planning           6       6         100
Seed Production (Tons)
-Breeder Seed                   52.9      10.2       19         For major cereals & legume.
-Foundation Seed                2563       1887      74         Through contract growers.
-Certified Seed                 59700      16895     28         Data on some states missing.
Seed Cert.& Quality Control
-Area certified (ha.)          83963     29916      36
-Seed Testing Lab (No.)          5       4          80
-Quality Control Staff (No.)    83       73                    Jos not established.
1996 figures.
Seed Processing & Storage
-Processing Units Established    5       5         100
-Process. facilities upgraded    5       1          20         One in each regional office.
-Conditioned Storage             2        1         50         Equipment held up at port.
One under const. in Abuja.
Seed Industry Development
-Seed Enterprises -Identified   NA       64
-Equipped         5         5
Equipment procured and
-Community Seed Dev. Prog.      10       11        110         awaiting installation.
Technical Assistance (months)
-Long-term                      150      161       107
-Short-term                     15        20       133         Extra due to project
extension.
Training
Local                           924      552         60
Overseas                        64       49          77
Funding (US$m)
Federal Government               3.4       1.7        50
Revenue from Seed
Certification                    0.5      0.03       0.1
World Bank**                     9.4       9.4       100
Total                            13.3      11.13      84       _
* As specified at appraisal and revised at mid-term review.
**As revised during loan extension in 1996.



33
5
11.   Seed Production. NARIs, due to lack of proper facilities, had been unable to produce
more than 10 kg. annually of each breeder seed (BS). The project, with the assistance of
NARP, is establishing nine seed units at six strategic NARls, equipped with irrigation
facilities and machinery. In 1996 a total of 2.9 tons of BS was produced for NSS alone. The
units will be fully operational by July 1997. NSS had earlier provided five tractors and
implements to the NARIs in support of seed production.
12.   The projected demand for foundation seed (FS) could not be attained as the private
sector did not develop at the anticipated rate. The expected uptake of foundation seed by
ADPs also did not materialize because most of the ADPs did not have adequate funds to
operate certified seed production. The full cost recovery on sales of foundation seed initiated
by NSS encouraged private sector development and reduced its dependency on Government
subventions. It was carried out in three stages. The first stage introduced in 1991 covered
procurement and processing cost of seed, the second phase introduced in 1993/94 included
cost of procurement, processing, overhead expenses, depreciation, transportation and storage
while the third phase introduced in 1995 also included a margin of profit. The Working
Capital and Reserve Fund provided under the project considerably helped in timely
procurement of FS.
13.   Under the project the ADPs were advised to withdraw from certified seed production
in favor of the private sector. However, since the private sector did not develop at the
anticipated rate, the abrupt withdrawal of the ADPs caused disruption in certified seed
production.
14.   Seed Certification and Quality Control. The area offered for certification decreased
over the years in line with the decrease in certified seed production by ADPs and private seed
enterprises. Consequently, the revenue generation from seed certification decreased over the
years because of clients' inability to pay for certification and partly because certification
procedures were not completed due to lack of funds.
15.   Seed Processing and Storage. Equipment procured under the project have been lying
at the sea port since July 1996 due to lack of funds. This has affected the installation of the
equipment and training of the staff, more so when the contract of the Advisor of Seed
Processing and Storage is terminating on June 30, 1997. Equipment procured under the
small-scale seed enterprise program (reduced from SAR estimate of ten to five at MTR) are
yet to be cleared. Equipment for upgrading the five NSS regional seed processing units are
also yet to be cleared. One seed store in Ibadan will be conditioned and dehumidifiers
installed before June 30, 1997. The Advisor has also designed storage bins suitable for
different agro-ecological zones. Assurances have been obtained that Government would
clear the equipment at the ports by the end of June 1997 and that the contract of the Advisor
would be extended by one or two months.
16.   Seed Industry Development. The large multinational seed companies had a set back
in 1994 due to the prevailing socio-economic environment. The marketing of seed has
picked up during 1996/97 due to higher grain prices.  About 64 outgrowers with
entrepreneurial ability have started functioning as seed producer/sellers but are yet to be
provide with the five seed processing equipment intended for them. Additional 20 sets of
this equipment are being procured with the assistance of NARP.



34
6
17.   The implementation of the Community-based Seed Program served a dual purpose of
demonstrating modem varieties and providing easy access to good seed produced by the
contract farmers. To encourage the development of this program, a provision was made for
equipment to the used by the contact farmers at cost of service. The equipment has been
procured and is being distributed to Seed Industry Development Officers (SIDOs). To further
assist this program, equipment such as tractors and threshing machines are also being
procured with NARP assistance.
18.   Iraining. A total of 601 staff benefited from short specialized training courses, 552
of them locally. In order to provide short-term and long-term training opportunities within
the country, a Seed Science and Technological Center is being established at the University
of Agriculture, Makurdi, in collaboration with Punjab Agriculture University in India. When
fully developed, the Center could eventually serve the needs of West and Central Africa since
no such institution exists in this region.
Achievement of Objectives in PQS
19.  Institutional Reform. The required committees, the Plant Quarantine Consultative
Committee (PQCC) and the Plant Quarantine Technical Advisory Committee (PQTAC) were
formed in 1991. The last meetings of the committees were held in 1994. Subsequent
meetings could not be held due to lack of funds and follow-up by the management. The
PQCC emphasized the need for staff training, and the education of the public, passengers and
residents of the border areas on the dangers of indiscriminate exchange of plant materials.
The PQTAC, among others, advised PQS on the need for the development of packages for
dealing with new pest outbreaks and a survey of the current pest status.
20.   The structure of PQS was streamlined in 1992 with a reorganization of the six
sections to three branches. The staffing ratio (senior/junior) improved from 1:4 to 1:3. The
target ratio of 1:2 was not, however, achieved due to inability to redeploy the excess junior
staff. However, action on rationalization is in progress. It is to be noted that some of the
junior staff have improved their qualifications to diplomas and degrees through self-
sponsored studies. PQS management should take necessary steps to harmonize their grades
with their new qualifications.
21. Post-entry Quarantine. Considerable improvement was made in upgrading facilities
and refurbishing the laboratories. While all the screenhouses and glasshouses were repaired,
the 25 airconditioners for the glasshouses are still with the clearing agent. The capacity
utilization of the glasshouses is low mainly because the demand for the facilities has reduced,
with the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IITA) and a few universities being
the major clients currently. The upgrading of some of the facilities was only completed
towards the end of the project and so their use has been minimal. Despite these constraints,
the performance of the project in the issuance of import permits and phytosanitary certificates
is satisfactory, as attested to by the IITA and other clients visited by the mission. However,
the clients would prefer that PQS staff undertake inspections with official vehicles rather than
depend on the clients. They are willing to pay higher fees, if necessary, to make this
possible.



35
7
Table 2: Achievements of the Plant Quarantine Services (1991 - 1996)
Achievement
Item                Target*      Quantity      %              Remark
Institutional Reform
Committee Meetings (No.)
- Consultative Committee         12           5        42     Committee established 1991.
- Technical Adv. Committee      NS            9               Committee established 1991.
Staffing
- senior (No.)                 399           224       56
-junior (No.)                   161          753       21
- ratio (senior/junior)         1:2           1:3
Vehicles (No.)                     33            21      64
- motorcycles                  NS             18             Yet to be distributed.
Post-Enhy Quarantine
Import permits issued (No.)       625         582        93
Phytosanitary certificates
issued (No.)                 3,000        3,546      118
Upgrading of facilities (No.)
- Screenhouses                   2            2      100
- Glasshouses repaired          34           34      100     Only 4 are in full use.
- Airconditioners (g/house)     25           25              Still with clearing agent.
- Phytotrons                    2            2       100
- Refurbishment of lab.          4            4      100      Lab. block also painted.
- Autoclave/sterilizers         12           12      100    Not yet distributed.
- Dangerous Chem. Store          I            1      100    New construction.
Port Inspectorate Services
Upgrading of facilities (No.)
- Office/Lab. complex           11            5       45     6 yet to be completed.
- Staff quarters                11            5       45     6 yet to be completed.
- Fumigation chanbers            7            7      100     Some require electricity.
- Incinerators                   6            6      100     Some require electricity.
- Uniforms (pairs)             576          141       24      Few tops were distributed.
Ports/Borders inspection (No.)
- Carriers                  800,000      875,332     109    PQS staff are currently
- Passengers with baggage    4,800,000    3,025,076   63     prevented from operating at
- Unaccompanied baggage   12,000,000    6,113,893     51    the sea ports from Apr.'96.
- Plant materials            52,000       38,150      73
TechnicalAssistance (months)    75              12      16
Training (months) - local         630          383       61     One Ph.D and one M.Sc. also
- overseas         139           37       26    produced.
Funding (USSm)
Federal Government                1.6          1.1      69
Revenue from User Fees            1.2          0.5       42
World Bank"                       4.6          4.5       98
Total                             7.4          6.1       82
* As specified at appraisal and revised at mid-term review.
**As revised during loan extension i n 1996.



36
8
22    Port Inpctorate Servics. Staff at the ports and border stations have been providing
dedicated services to protect Nigerian agriculture but work under a harsh environment. At
most stations, they still lack office and residential accommodation, water and electricity,
communication and laboratory facilities, and even uniforms. A few cases of armed attack of
staff on duty have also been reported, leading to a request for staff to carry arms like their
Customs counterparts. Many of the office/laboratory complexes and staff quarters are yet to
be completed, the fumigation chambers and incinerators are yet to be functional because they
still lack appropriate electricity and water connections or the building is yet to be completed
(as for the fumigation chamber in Ikeja). Work on some of the buildings stopped in 1995 and
the quality of workmanship in some of the buildings is low (as in the Jibiya office/laboratory
complex). Poor contract management by PQS as well as inadequate funding contributed
significantly to the poor performance in engineering related activities.
23.   Complaints have been made by the Plant Health Services of some importing countries
over infested plant materials from Nigeria. These have either gone out without phytosanitory
certificates or with certificates issued by the Port Health Unit (not PQS). Such complaints
could damage the integrity of Nigerian exports and need to be addressed through the
harmonization of policy and operations between the Port Health Unit and PQS
24.  In spite of the constraints, staff performance in pre-entry inspection is commendable.
Despite of the intervention of the Minister of Agriculture, two other problems of this sub-
component subsisted: (i) inability to have the joint passenger declaration form with the
Customs Department; and (ii) ban on PQS staff operating at the seaports and in the cargo
sections of airports. These are the two main avenues for the introduction and exit of
undesirable plant materials. Government is looking into the issues.
25.   Technical Assistance and Training. Only one of the TA positions specified at
appraisal (the Virologist) was utilized, and that for only 12 months instead of the 36 months
provided. The filling of the two other positions was suspended by the Bank because of long
delays in doing so and the short period of the project life left. About 61 percent of the 630
months for local training was achieved but the achievement for overseas training was much
lower (26 percent). No skill gap analysis was done by the component.
Factors Affecting Project Performance
26.   Some of the positive factors of project implementation include: (i) promulgation of
the Seed Decree; (ii) development of seed policy, especially the support to the development
of the private sector; (iii) adoption of the seed pricing policy; (iv) establishment of nine seed
units in NARIs to improve the quantity and quality of BS; (v) development of institutional
linkages by NSS with the ADPs, research institutes, private sector, communities, etc.; (vi)
organization of a plant quarantine week which improved publicity on quarantine activities
and sensitized the public; and (vii) good quality technical assistance.
27.   The major factors that adversely affected the project were: (i) inadequate and
untimely counterpart fimding, FGN funding performance being 56 percent of the target and
the releases of the approved amounts often coming late to the project; (ii) scarcity of
agricultural inputs, notably fertilizer, high labor costs and high interest rates that discouraged
private sector investment; (iii) socio-economic and intermittent fuel crises from 1993; (iv)



37
9
government directives that prevented PQS from operating at seaports and at air cargo
terminals which could be major avenues for the entry and exit of infested plant materials; (v)
irregular meetings of the policy and technical committees due to lack of funds or follow-up
by the management; (vi) poor supervision of civil works and maintenance of equipment and
vehicles because of the absence of qualified engineers; (vii) delays in approval of project
proposals due to improper documentation by project management, especially, at the initial
stage of the project; (viii) delays in procurement and clearing of imported goods due to lack
of funds; (ix) absence of a Project Facilitation Training (PFT) at the start of the project
leading to management not being equipped with crucial implementation skills; (x) no
supervision of the project for one year by the Bank after the project became effective; and
(xi) inadequate seed marketing arrangements by the private sector. While the first eight
factors are subject to the control of government and project management, the last three are
influenced by the Bank, project management and the private sector.
Project Outcome and Sustainability
28.   The overall outcome of the project is satisfactory. The objectives of strengthening the
institutions for improved seed production and distribution and plant quarantine have been
achieved. In particular, the promulgation of the Seed Decree establishing the National Seed
Council, providing policy guidelines for seed industry development, and incentives for
private sector participation have provided impetus to the orderly development of the seed
sub-sector. The PQS has also been able to minimize the risks to Nigerian agriculture from the
introduction of pests, despite its operational constraints. The re-estimated economic rate of
return of 33.4 percent for NSS component compares favorably with the appraisal estimate of
41 percent. The estimated net saving of N46,775 million for the PQS component also
exceeds the appraisal estimate of N582 million.
29.   The institutional reforms achieved through the project, the development of skills in
the public and private sector for orderly seed production and quarantine services, the shift of
the responsibility for funding breeder seed production to the National Agricultural Research
Project (NARP), the collaboration between the NSS and the NARIs for breeder seed
production, the increase in private sector participation in the seed industry including small
scale seed enterprises and a community-based seed program, the increased awareness on the
part of farmers on the importance of improved seed, the establishment of a revolving fund
(up to N7.7 million) for breeder/foundation seed procurement, the provision of essential
equipment for the seed industry and plant quarantine, the generation of user fees for seed
certification and quarantine services, and the awareness created among the public on the need
to protect Nigerian agriculture against introduced pests, all suggest the likely sustainability of
the project.
Bank and Borrower Performance
30.   Bank performance at appraisal and during implementation was rated satisfactory.
Supervision was fairly regular except during the first year when there was no supervision
mission. The Bank promptly treated withdrawal applications and granted a one-year
extension of the loan to enable the implementation of outstanding programs. During the
midterm review (MTR), the Bank provided for the funding of breeder seed production by
NARP and for the establishment of seed units at the NARIs.



38
10
31.   Borrower performance was generally satisfactory. FGN support for the project was
demonstrated through compliance with most of the loan covenants, especially the
promulgation of the Seed Decree. Counterpart funding was inadequate because of budgetary
constraints. Delays in release of approved funds also adversely affected implementation.
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
32.   The operational plans for the period 1997 to 1999 are attached to the aide-memoire.
They reflect a commitment to complete outstanding projects, enhance internal revenue
generation, increase private sector and community participation in project activities, and seek
financial assistance from other sources.
33.   The key lessons learned include: (i) the need for a PFT to facilitate project take off;
(ii) appointment of consultants early in the life of the project to ensure that they are fully
involved in the implementation process; (iii) advance procurement planning so that civil
works and procurement and installation of equipment are concluded early enough to
contribute to project impact; and (iv) the need for longer project life for meaningful
development of the seed industry and quarantine services, as in countries like India, whose
seed industry has passed through four phases of development with Bank assistance.
Next Actions
34.   The following are the proposals for the delivery of the ICR:
07/18/97          Send aide-memoire to Borrower
08/15/97          Receive Borrower's Final Evaluation Report
09/30/97          Send final draft ICR to Borrower
11/15/97          Receive Borrower's comments
12/30/97          Send final ICR to Borrower.
Abuja



11
NIGERIA: NATIONAL SEED AND QUARANTINE PROJECT
OPERATIONAL PLANS (JULY 1997 TO DECEMBER 1999)
Physical Target                                   Financial Resources (N million)
S/No.                 Item                      Unit             1997         1998        1999        Total         1997        1998         1999        Total
National Seed Service
A. Application of Fund
I Seed Production                                                                                              26.45        37.67        44.16      108.28
- Foundation seed procurement             Ton               550         640          800        1,990       22.65        32.40        37.12        92.17
- Planning meeting, workshops/seminars    Lump                I           I            1           3          0.10        0.42         0.54         1.06
- Joint monitoring of BS & FS fields      Lump                I           I            1           3          0.30        0.40         0.50         1.20
- Seed processing, treabment and packaging  Lump              I           I            1           3          3.40        4.45         6.00        13.85
2 Seed Certification and Quality Control                                                                        18.00       25.20        31.75        74.95
-Field inspectionvisits                    Ha.           41,000       52,763      58,001      151,764        15.00       20.10        25.00        60.10
- Seed samplingAesting                    No.            35,368       49,373      50,883      135,624         1.00         1.50        1.90         4.40
- Grow out testing                        No.               250         250          250          750         0.10        0.13         0.15         0.38
- Inspection of processing plants/stores  No.               30           30           30          90          0.30        0.45         0.60         1.35
- Review meetings/seminars                Lump                I           1            1           3          0.50         0.88        1.00         2.38
- Enforcement/quality control/enlighten.  Lump                I           I            1           3          0.85         1.70        2.40         4.95
- Seed samplinghesting for enforcement    No.               877        1,097       1,368        3,342         0.25        0.45         0.70         1.40
3 Seed Industry Dev. and Tech. Support                                                                          7.25        10.87        19.83        37.95
- Dev. of small/medium enterprises        No.                 5           5           10          20          2.00        2.80         7.84        12.64
- Conmnunity seed dev. program            No.              277          250          250          777         1.50         1.89        2.65         6.04
- Seed enterprises promotion              Lump                I           I            1            3         1.33         1.86        2.61         5.80
- Institutional linakges - variety release  Lump              1           1            1           3          0.30        0.42         0.60         1.32
- MTRMs                 No.              240          370         400         1,010        0.40         0.86         1.30        2.56
- Farmers' field days                     No.                15          30           40           85         0.45         1.26        2.35         4.06
-Supportto-SeedGrower'Network             Lump                I           I            1           3          0.15        0.21         0.29         0.65
-Seed Dealers'Network          Lump                 I           I            1           3         0.15         0.21         0.29         0.65
-State Seed toord. Committees  Lump                 I           I            1           3          0.37        0.52         0.73         1.62



12
Physical Target                                 Financial Resources (N million)
S/No.                Item                      Unit            1997        1998        1999        Total        1997        1998         1999       Total
- Monitoring of seed ind. dev. by SIDOs  Lump               1           1           1           3         0.40         0.56        0.78        1.74
- Dev. and publication of varietal descriptors              I           I           1           3         0.20         0.28        0.39        0.87
4 Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation                                                                        035         0.67         0.83        1.85
- Workplans, quarterly and annual reports  No.              4           6           6           16        0.03         0.07        0.07        0.17
- Monitoring                            Lump                I           I           1           3         0.13         0.25        0.30        0.68
- Special studies/surveys                No.                1           2           2           5         0.15         0.30        0.40        0.85
-Databank/resourcecenter                Lump                I           I           1           3         0.04         0.05        0.06        0.15
5 Human Resources Development                                                                                1.20        1.50         1.60        430
- In house training courses              No.                2           4           4           10        0.40         0.70        0.80        1.90
- Local training                         No.                5          10          10          25         0.40         0.80        0.80        2.00
- Training facilities                   Lump                I           0           0            1        0.40         0.00        0.00        0.40
6 Management and Administration                                                                             20.40       12.60         15.7        48.7
- Salaries and Wages                    Lump                I           I           1           3         0.40        0.30         0.20        0.90
- Maintenance                           Lump                I           1           1           3        18.50        10.30       13.00       41.80
- Meeting ofNSC and Committees          Lump                I           I           1           3         1.50         2.00        2.50        6.00
7 Finance and Accounts                                                                                      10.25        030         035         10.90
- Clearing of equipment and machinery   Lump                I           0           0           1        10.00        0.00         0.00       10.00
- Auditing of Accounts                  Lump                I           I           1           3         0.25        0.30         0.35        0.90
Total                                                                                                     83.91       88.80       114.22      286.93
B. Sources of Fund
1 Interally Generated Revenue                                                                               13.91       16.80       28.22        58.93
2 Federal Grant                                                                                             70.00       72.00        86.00      228.00
Totia                                                                                                     83.91       88.80       114.22      286.93



13
Physical Target                                   Financial Resources (N million)
S/No.                 Item                      Unit             1997         1998        1999        Total         1997        1998         1999        Total
Plant Quarantine Services
A. Application of Fund
I Pre-Entry Ports Inspectorate                                                                                  9.20         7.00         4.60       20.80
- Civil works const. - Buildings          No.                2            2            1           5          1.00        1.40         0.60         3.00
-Block fencing           No.                2           2            0            4         3.00        0.60         0.00         3.60
- Roads                  Km                 0          0.5           0          0.5         0.00         1.00        0.00         1.00
- Wells                  No.                0           2            2            4         0.00         0.80        0.80         1.60
- Installation of fumigation chambers     No.                3            3            0           6          0.30        0.30         0.00         0.60
- Maintenance and utilities              Lump                 I           I            1           3          3.90        2.10         2.40         8.40
- Rents                                   Lump                I           I            1           3          0.40        0.30         0.30         1.00
- Salaries and allowances                 Lump                I           I            1           3          0.60        0.50         0.50         1.60
2 Intern Quarantine                                                                                              1.70        2.00         2.10         5.80
- Plant treatment equipment (sprayers)    No.               20            0           20          40          0.20        0.00         0.20         0.40
- Pesticides                             Lump                 1           1            1           3          0.20        0.40         0.20         0.80
- Pest disease survey                     No.                0            1            1           2          0.90         1.00        1.00         2.90
- Maintenance                            Lump                 I           I            1           3          0.30        0.40         0.40         1.10
- Salaries and allowances                Lump                 I           I            1           3          0.10        0.20         0.30         0.60
3 Export Inspection & Certification/HQ                                                                           0.60        2.40         2A0         5.40
- Completion of laboratories              No.                0            1            1           2          0.00         1.50        1.50         3.00
-Planttreatmentmaterialsandsupplies      Lump                 I           I            1           3          0.10        0.10         0.10         0.30
- Maintenance and utility                Lump                 I           I            1           3          0.30        0.50         0.50         1.30
- Salaries and allowances                Lump                 I           I            1           3          0.20        0.30         0.30         0.80
4 Post-Entry Quartine /HQ                                                                                        4.60        4.20         4.30        13.10
- Laboratory materials and supplies      Lump                 I           I            1           3          0.10        0.20         0.20         0.50
- Maintenance and utility                Lump                 I           I            1           3          3.70        3.00         3.10         9.80
- Travel                                 Lump                 I           I            1           3          0.80         1.00        1.00         2.80



14
Physical Target                                  Financial Resources (N'000)
SJNo.                Item                     Unit            19          1997        1998        Total       1996         1997        1998       Total
5 Training and Hma Resowurces Dcevlopment                                                                  1.80        2.70        2.70         7.20
-TrainingofHQstaff                       No.              10          10          10          30         0.20        0.20        0.30        0.70
- Training of Inspectorate staff         No.              20          30          30          80         0.50        0.70        0.70        1.90
- Maintenance                           Lump               I           I           1           3         0.90        1.50        1.40        3.80
- Salaries and allowances               Lump               I           I           1           3         0.20        0.30        0.30        0.80
Total                                                                                                    17.90       1830        16.10       52.30
B. Sources of Fund
I Internally Generated Revenue
- Pre-entiy inpecon                                                                                      3.00        2.30        1.50        6.80
- Export inspection and certification                                                                    0.20        0.80        0.80        1.80
- Post-entry quarantine                                                                                  1.50        1.40        IA0         4.30
2 Federal Grant                                                                                           13.20        13.80       12.40       39.40
Tobl                                                                                                     17.90       1830        16.10       52.30



43
Appendix 
Borrower's Implementation Completion Report
Evaluation Summary
NIGERIA
NATIONAL SEED AND QUARANTINE PROJECT
(Loan No. 3183-UNI)
November 20, 1997



44
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1. PROJECT BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES
Despite government support for seed programs and the technical
assistance  from FAO/UNDP to NSS prior to NSQP,  there was no
effective coordination of the various seed programs and the
performance of the public sector agencies involved in seed
production was generally below expectation with the result that
seed supply was erratic,  inadequate and of low quality.   The
ability of PQS to provide effective quarantine services to the
Nigerian agriculture was undermined by obsolete facilities and
equipment,  inadequate  technical  staff,  low  staff  morale  and
ineffective management. At the instance of the Federal Government'
of Nigeria (FGN), the World Bank appraised NSQP in 1989 with the
aim of reorganizing and strengthening both NSS and PQS within the
overall policy objective of increased agricultural production and
farm income.   Some of the specific objectives of the project
include (i) institutional reforms (ii) rational seed pricing (iii)
increased private sector participation in the seed industry (iv)
improved  certification   and  quality  control   services   (v)
strengthening of PQS and (vi)  human resources development.  The
project was to be implemented over a six-year period, 1991 - 1996,
but was extended by one year to allow for the full draw-down of the
IBRD loan of US$14.0 million.
2.  ACHIEVEMENTS OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Both the NSS and PQS components substantially achieved.. the
objectives as set out in the SAR. The main acheivements of the NSS
component were the institutional reforms which included the
promulgation of Agricultural Seed Decree, the establishment of the
National Seed Council (NSC) and, three sub-committees to assist the
NSC; the formulation of a comprehensive National Seed -Development
Plan; the establishment of the State Seed Coordianting Committee
and the reorganisation and rationalization of the roles of NSS.
The adoption of full cost-recovery and rational pricing policy by
the NSS encouraged greater private sector participation in the seed
industry.  Through its certification and quality control program,
the project considerably enhanced the quality of seeds offered to
the public.   It provided ,technical assistance to private sUred
companies and assisted the small and medium seed companies in the
procurement of processing equipment.  However, the projected SAR
quantity of BS could not be attained due to poor funding and
facilities in the NARIS. Similarly, the anticipated uptake of FS
did not materialise due to lack of funds by the ADPs and the
generally low response from the private seed companies. To ensure
sustainable BS production the project supported the establishment
of 9 seed units in the 5 crop-based NARIS.  The seed units have
been equipped with seed processing and testing equipment, farm
machinery and irrigation facilities. Through the human resources
development, NSS trained a good number of seed technologists and



45
improve the capacity to manage and implement seed programs.   It
supported the establishment of the Seed Science and Technology
Centre as a means of ensuring regular and adequate supply of well
trained manpower for the Nigerian seed industry.
Under the PQS component, the main achievements were the
reorganisation of PQS, the upgrading and rehabilitation of
laboratory facilities and buildings, the provision of uniform to
Port Inspectorate Staff, inspection and certification of imported
plant  materials   and  germplasm,   issuance  of  phytosanitory
certificates and import permits, seed health tests and inspection
of a large number of carriers, passenger luggages, postal parcels
and imported consignments of plant materials. Through its human
resources sub-component, PQS was able to train a good number of
staff both locally and overseas and to strengthen the institutional
capacity for quarantine services.
3. FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION
Project implementation was positively influenced by the various
institutional reforms carried out under the project, the
stregthening of the NARIS seed units, strong linkages with research
institutes and related' organizations, low staff turn-over during
implementation, government support to NSQP and implementation
assitance by Bank missions, especially during the later part of the
loan period.   On the other hand,  implementation of NSQP was
adversely  affected  by  inadequate  and  untimely  release  of
counterpart funding, delay in procurement, absence of project
facilitation training and lack of supervision during the first year
of project operation, weak monitoring and evaluation system,
irregular meetings of Advisory technical and management committees,
the ban of PQS inspectorate staff from seaports and air-cargo
terminals and poor contract management by PQS.
4.   BANK PERFORMANCE
The  Bank  performance  was  generally  satisfactory.        Project
preparation  and  appraisal  were  adequate.        Supervision  was
.inadequate in the beginning but improved significantly during the
second and subsequent years of project operation.
S.   BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
The Borrower's performance was satifactory. The Borrower fulfilled
all the loan covenants except counterpart funding provision which
*was inadequate and untimely. One of its agencies, APMEU, conducted
the Mid-Term Review which provided a good guide to implementation
during the 2nd half of the loan period.



46
6. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
With the provision of the legal and policy framework for the seed
industry, incentives for private sector participation, the adoption
of full cost-recovery for FS and rational seed pricing,  the
establishment of NARIS seed Units and Seed Technology Centre, and
the operation of a revolving fund and the enhanced institutional
capacity of the NSS, , the seed program is likely to be sustained
and transformed  into a viable  national  seed industry.   The
upgrading of PQS facilities and laboratory equipment is likely to
attract more patronage and increase the, demand for its services.
The introduction of user-fees will reduce the dependence on
government subventions.
7.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
The appraisal estiamte of the project cost was US$20.6 million out
of which IBRD loan was to be US$14.0 million. Actual project cost
as at May, 1997 was US$16.13 million, ?epresenting about 78% of the
SAR estimate. The total loan draw-down stood at US#13.9 million or
99.3% of the US$14.0 million. The loan draw-down was affected by
the inadequate and untimely release of counterpart funding.
8.  PROJECT OUTCOME
The overal-l assessment of project outcome is satisfactory.  The
project has provided the institutional and legal framework for a
viable seed industry and created the enabling environment for
private sector participation.  It has increased the awareness of
and  stimulated  increased  demand  for  improved  seeds.    The
institutional and technical capacity of both NSS and PQS has been
enhanced through the provision of better facilities and equipment
and human resources development.        Overall,  the ERR is 33%
justifying that the investment was worthwhile. However, this rate
is lower than the appraisal estimate of 41a.   The delay in
procurement and implementation accounted mainly for the lower ERR.
9. KEY LESSONS
The key lessons from the implementation experience are the rTeed
for:  (a)  an orientation training workshop at project inception
(b) recruitment of key technical staff early in project life
(c) adequate and timely counterpart funding (d) early procurement
of goods and services to ensure their full contribution to project
implementation and (e) adequate provision for monitoring and
evaluation at project design stage.



