Document of
The World B&nk
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
3 /              AII_vs
Report No. 7763-UNI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NATIONAL SEED AND QUARANTINE PROJECT
OCTOBER 23, A9"
Western Africa Department
Agriculture Operations Division
I llis document has a reslicted diWbdwiion and mnay be used by   pet;onl In the peonene ofi
|their offlciil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discoseddfbu Wodd B=&aut mhorio l



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      -     Naira (N)
Us$1       -      17.0
M1 (100 kobos)      a     US$0.143
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated oll weights and measures
used in this report are metric.
1 metric ton (m ton)      =  2205 pounds (lb.)
1 hectare (ha)            -  2.47 acre (ac)
1 kilometer (km)          -  0.62 mile tm)
1 meter (m)               -  3.28 feet (ft)
1 milimeter (mm)          -  0.04 inch (in)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
NIGERIA
NATIONAL SEED AND QUARANTINE PROJECT
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP     - Agricultural Development Project
APMEU   - Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
FACU    - Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit
FASCOM  - Farmers' Agricultural Supply Companies
FDARD   - Federal Department of Agriculture and Rural Development
FGN     - Federal Government of Nigeria
FMST    - Federal Ministry of Science and Technology
FMAWRRD - Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and
Rural Development
IAR     - Institute for Agriculture Research
TAR&T   - Institute for Agriculture Research and Training
IITA    - International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
LCRI    - Lake Chad Research Institute
MANR    - Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MSADP   - Multi-State Agricultural Development Project
NAFPP   - National Accelerated Food Production Program
NCM     - National Council of Ministers
NCRI    - National Cereals Research Institute
NCRP    - National Coordinated Resear.ch Programs
NRCRI   - National Root Crops Research Institute
NSQP    - National Seed and Quarantine Project
NSS     - National Seed Service
OFAR    - On-Farm Adaptive Research
PCR     - Project Completion Report
PQS     - Plant Quarantine Service
SAP     - Structural Adjustment Program
SSMU    - State See1 Multiplication Unit
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



NIGERIA
NATIONAL SEED AND PLANT QUARANTINE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .............................................. i
I.   INTRODUCTION ................................     .......... I
II. BACKGROU. ..D...                             ....... .... 1
A.   Economic Environment .............................. .            1
B.   Agricultural Sector ...............................              2
C.   Government Objectives and PoLicies .......................... 3
D.   Bank Operations ............................................. 4
III. THE SEED SUB-SECTOR AID PLANT QUARANTiNE SERVICE            .    .     5
A.   Seed Sub-Sector ............................................. 5
1.   Industry Structure ..................................... 5
2.   Operational Procedures of the Seed Industry
Institutions.                                            7
3.  Summary of Major Constraints.                                9
4.   Government's Seed Sub-Sector Policy and
the Seed Decree .10
B. Plant Quarantine Service                      ..11
IV. THE PROJECT                  .....13
A. Rationale for Bank Support .13
B.   Project Objectives and General Description .13
C.   Detailed Features .      .......... 14
1.   Seed Sub-Sector    ......       .      .14
2. Plant Quarantine Service ..20
V. COSTS AND FINANCING                 . . .24
A. Cost Estimates                     ...24
B. Proposed Financing . . .26
C. Procurement. . . . 27
D. Disbursement                          .... 28
E.   Auditing and Reporting Requirements         . . .30
F.  Mid-Term and Completion Reviews                ....30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
comprising Messrs. Ashok Seth (Mission Leader), S. Onwona, S.
Thillairajah (Bank), M. Catley, J. Douglas (Consultants) which
visited Nigeria in February 1989. Mrs. A. Bagai and Ms. M. Soong
provided the secretarial support.



- ii -
Page No.
VI.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATIGA............................ 31
A.   Organization and Management .          . .............................. 31
B. Seed Sub-sector                           . . . .31
C.   Plant Quarantine Service                   ..       ....... 35
D.   Technical Assistance ant                      Training ...37
E.  Linkages with Research and Extension ...                               38
F.   Implementation Schedule ......... .......   _39
VII. DEMAND, MARKETING, PRICES AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ............ z ... 40
A. Demand    ...40
B. Prices and Pricing Policy    .                    .41
C.   Marketing, Market Promotion and Market Information ..                42
D.   Financial Results,  Cost Recovery & Project
Sustainability   ..43
1. Financial Analysis.. 43
2.   Cost Recovery and Financial Sustainability  ..                 43
3.   Financial Implications for the Federal Government .            46
VIII. BENEFITS. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS    .             .46
A.  Benefits and Economic Justification   . .46
B.  Risks .........-.  ......--.... 49
C. Environmental Effects .50
IX. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION                         ..50
AiS..UXES...54
1.    Draft Seed Sub-Sector and Plant Quarantine Policies ......... .. 54
2.     Institutional Roles and Responsibilities in the
National Seed System .65
3.  Private See Industry Development                                 .68
4.    Seed Sub-Project:  Economic Analysis   .....             .75
5.    Plant Quarantine Sub-Project: Economic Analysis  .             .81
6. Summary Cost Tables    ..83
7.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursement                  ....                    85
8.    Organizational Charts of: ........................ .86
(a) Seed Sub-Sector    .             ................. 86
Chart C-1: Present Organization of
National Seed Service.. .                           86
Chart C-2: Proposed Interim Organization
of National Seed System .87
Chart C-3: Variety Development, Registration,
Release and Seed Multiplication Scheme...... 88
(b) Plant Quarantine Service  . .89
Chart C-4: Current Organization of Plant
Quarantine Service .89
Chart C-5 (a) and (b): Proposed Organization of Plant
Quarantine Service .90
9.     Implementation Schedulec.. . ......... . .... ..... 92



- iii -
10.  Documents Available in Project File ........................... 93
Haps:             IBRD 21454s  Nigeria - Vegetarian Zones
IBRD 21457s Nigeria - National Seed Service:
Headquarters and Regional Offices
IBRD 21458: Nigeria - Plant Quarantine Service and its
Field Stations



NIGERIA
NATIONAL SEED AND QUARANTINE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers                 Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiarv:              Federal Republic of Nigeria
Amount:                   US$14.0 Million
Terms:                    Payable over 20 years, including five years of
grace, at standard variable interest rate.
Proiect Description:      The project would define the medium-term seed
sector policy framework, and facilitate the
enactment of seed legislation and introduction of
a rational pricing policy to promote the role of
the private sector in Nigeria's seed industry.
It would initiate institutional development
through: (i) establishment of a National Seed
Council (NSC); (ii) rationalization of roles and
responsibilities of public sector agencies the
National Seed Service (NSS), Agricultural
Development Projects (ADPs), and the Farmers'
Agricultural Supply Companies (FASCOMs).  The NSS
would continue to play a key role in the seed
sector with a focus on the promotion of the seed
industry; coordination of breeder and foundation
seed production; regulatory functions for seed
quality   maintenance; and human resource
development; (iii) strengthening of the Seed
Certification Service; (iv) encouragement of
private sector participation, through reform of
pricing policy, in the production of a large part
of foundation and all certified seed by private
contract growers, enabling private seed
enterprises to lease existing processing
facilities of ADPs, access for private seed
enterprises to breeder and founlation seed of
publicly bred varieties; freedom for private seed
companies to establish their own seed price and
to develop their own research capability;
assistance to "pioneer" seed   entrepreneurs in
establishing small-scale seed enterprises, and
supporting others by preparing proposals for
possible financing by lending institutions under
the World Bank funded Private Small- and Medium-



- ii -
Scale Enterprise Development Project (Loan No.
2995-UNI); and (v) technical assistance for
policy formulation ard seed industry development.
The project would also support: (i) upgrading
and Lehabilitation of facilities for breeder seed
production and storage by research institutes,
and processing and storage of foundation seed by
NSS; and (ii) strengthening of Plant Quarantine
Service (PQS) through: establishment of
mechanisms for policy formulation and for review
of priorities, streamlining of organization and
management along with updating of operational
procedures, rehabilitation and upgrading of core
facilities essential for pre- and post-entry
quarantine activities with a focus on areas of
highest risks, technical assistance, and a
program of in-country and overseas training for
PQS staff.



- iii -
Estimated Costs:
Local         Foreign          Total
-15------ $-US$ Million-------------
Seed Institutional Reform              0.9            1.7             2.6
Seed Quality Coditrol and
Certification                       1.1            1.4              2.5
Seed Production, Processing and
Storage                             1.7            1.9              3.6
Seed: Training                         0.8            1.1             1.9
Seed: Variety Testing and Release
Support                             0.7             0.7             1.4
PQS: Institutional Reform              0.4            0.6             1.0
PQS: Training                          0.4            0.7             1.1
PQS: Port Inspectorate Services        0.9            0.9             1.8
PQS: Post Entry Tech. Support
Services                         0.7            1.0             1.7
Total Base Costs                 7.6           10.0            17.6
Physical Contingencies           0.6            0.7             1.3
Price Contingencies              0.9            0.8             1.7
Total Costs a/                   9.1           11.5            20.6
a/ Of which US$1.2 million represents duties and taxes.
Financing Plan:
Local        Foreign           Total
------------US$ Million-------------
IBRD                             2.5           11.5            14.0
FGN                              4.9             -              4.9
NSS                              0.5             -
PQS                              1.2            -               1.2
Total                 9.1           11.5            20.6
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD Fiscal Year:         FY90      FY91       FY92     FY93      FY94    FY95
Annual                1.6       2.8        2.8      3.3       3.2      0.3
Cumulative            1.6       4.4        7.2     10.5      13.7    14.0



- iv -
Proiect Benefits:         The major benefit of the seed components of the
project would be the introduction of policy reforms
with significantly altered roles and responsbilities
of the public sector agencies. Introduction of full
cost recovery policy of seed handled by the public
sector agencies, and other policy changes woult
reduce their dependence on Government subventions
and encourage faster Private sector development.
Timely provision of good quality seed of food and
cash crops selected on the basis of technological
advantages, environmental suitability and market
demand, would result in increased crop production,
especially by smallholders. The main benefit of
the plant quarantine component would be to minimize
the potential threat to Nigerian and, to a certain
extent West African, agriculture from inadvertently
introduced pests, diseases and noxious weeds;
enhanced support to crop improvement and breeding
programs through timely and speedy clearance of
exotic germ plasm; support to the emerging seed
industry by facilitating importation of healthy seed
of improved varieties for local adaptation, and
assistance   to  private   sector  exporters   of
agricultural produce in meeting the phytosanitary
requirements  of  countries  importing  Nigerian
agricultural produce.
Risks:                    The main risk associated with the seed sub-project
relate to the speed of implementation of the policy-
related actions envisaged under the project, which
could reduce the effectiveness of the much needed
coordination between Research Instit ites, NSS, ADPs,
and FASCOMs and also inhibit a strong response from
the private sector. This risk would be increased
by the need for action in the states to sustain the
new policy framework. Another risk is that the key
seed sector activities of these agencies, such as
breeder and foundation seed production may not be
funded adequately.   To safeguard against these
risks,   Government's   commitment   to   speedy
implementation of policy changes would be reinforced
through a high level adoption of a seed sector
policy  statement.    In parallel,  a process  of
concensus building behind the policy reform has been
pursued by the NSS during the preparation phase and
is expected to be continued through national
workshops  and the National  Seed Council.    In
addition, the Bank's own agreements with individual
states under the ADPs also reflect these policy
objectives.   Furthermore,  the project provides



- v -
technical expertise to the Government daring .he
transitional   period.      To  minimize   funding
constraints, the Bank's disbursements are being
focussed on the crucial operations of breeder and
foundation seed production. To enhance the medium-
term sustainability of the NSS, it is proposed that
the operational expenses for seed service be
recovered through introduction of user fees.
The main risk with the plant quarantine sub-project
would be the unpreparedness of the PQS staff to
effectively manage a technically-oriented quarantine
service based on the concept of risk assessment.
The comprehensive in-country and overseas training
program for PQS staff provided fo- in the project
would enhance technical skills and provide them with
much needed exposure to up-to-date operational
procedures. In addition, the technical assistance
support to PQS would help build up management
capacity and update operational procedures. To help
insure sustainability of the services, it is
proposed that the work program of PQS be prioritized
to focus on areas presenting highest risks and
operational   expenses   be   recovered   through
introduction of user fees for certain services.
Economic Rate of Return: 41Z (Seed Component only)



NIGERIA
NATIONAL SEED AND PLANT QUARANTINE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) considers seed an essential
input, and plant quarantine an important service in support of its policy for
increasing productivity of the agricultural sector. The National Seed and
Quarantine Project (NSQP) is the result of the Government's request for
assistance from the Bank for strengthening these two areas of activity.
1.02      Through its seed sector policy statement,  the Government has
indicated its commitment to the development of an effective national seed
sector. The main objective of the proposed project, therefore, is to assist
in the development of seed subsector policies and institutions, leading to
greater private sector participation in production and marketing of high
quality seed, with public sector agencies providing technical and regulatory
(seed certification and quality control) services. This objective would be
achieved through policy changes, rationalization of roles and responsi-
bilities of participating public sector institutions, better coordination
between the public and private sectors and judicious investments.   The
project would increase production of good quality certified seed of selected
crops for which improved varieties are available.   Through the quality
control program, to be initiated following enactment of the seed legislation,
the minimum quality standards of all other seed sold would be established and
monitored.   The project would improve efficiency of the Plant Quarantine
Service (PQS) by strengthening its organization and management, reorientation
of the work program to areas of highest pest risks, and provision of
necessary human, physical and financial resources to facilitate the timely
and safe movement of agricultural imports and exports.
II. BACKGROUND
A.   Economic Environment
2.01      In mid-3986, FGN adopted a Structural Adjustment Program (.SAP) with
far-reaching pol_cy changes. The key changes under this program include a
market-determined exchange rate system and trade policy reforms (elimination
of the import licensing system and initial steps to reform the tariff and
export policies). The overall impact of the SAP on the economy is still
emerging, but the benefits to the export sector are already evident from the
increases in output, employment and investment. This is particularly true
in the case of agricultural commodities (cash crops) where prices in Naira
terms are significantly higher and exports of cocoa, oil seeds (groundnut),
palm   oil/kernel   and  coffee  have   shown   significant   improvements.
Unemployment, however, remains a serious problem and real wages, especially
in urban areas, have fallen.



2.02      With agricultuiral growth performance being weather-dependent and
petroleum and export earnings accounting for 15 and 95 percent of the total
1985 GDP, respectively, exogenous factors will continue to play a major role
in shaping Nigeria's economic prospects in the short term.  In 1986 f --orable
weather conditions, led to 2.1 percent growth in agricultural GDP with food
crop production increasing by 9.8 percent. Estimates of non-oil GDP show a
growth of 3.2 percent, while that of real GDP show a decrease of five
percent. In addition, the Nigerian economy is strongly dependent upon the
continued support of the Government and international creditors for the
implementation of fundamental reforms agreed under the SAP. What is clear,
however, is that with Nigeria's high rate of population increase, GDP
(including the oil sector) will have to grow by four percent per annum, just
to keep per capita consumption from falling. With SAP in place, such a
growth rate for GDP would also require: (a) the agriculture sector to play
a key role in the economy by growing roughly at 3.5 percent p.a. over the
next five years; and (b) the realization of the projected prices and export
volumes in the oil market.
D. The Agricultural Sector
2.03      Incentive Environment and Performance of Agriculture.  Before the
oil boom in the seventies, agriculture was the key sector and accounted for
50 percent of the GDP and 45 percent of exports.  The rapid rise in oil
export revenues in the seventies, its dramatic decline since the early
eighties, and the accompanying trade and exchange rate regimes adopted by the
Government have had far-reaching consequences for agriculture. The sharp
overvaluation of the Naira that accompanied the boom both encouraged cheap
imports of food and discouraged exports to the detriment of agricultural
growth. Agricultural imports increased by over 1,000 percent during the
seventies, while exports decreased by 46 percent in the same decade. The
boom also increased rural to urban migration, which raised rural wages, thus
contributing to agriculture's cost price squeeze.  By 1986, agriculture's
conttibution to the GDP fell to 27 percent, and total export earuings to 2.4
percent. However, despite this dramatic decline in its relative contribution
to the national economy, agriculture still accounts for 68 percent of
employment, for virtually all non-oil exports and domestic food supply. With
the sharp drep in oil export earnings from US$25 billion in 1980 to around
US$6-7 billion in 1986-87, the Government's decision to devalue the Naira in
1986 and to impose import bans on a wide range of agricultural commodities,
has significantly improved the incentive environment for agriculture.
2.04      Largely due to negative incentives and low budgetary allocations
to agriculture, growth of output and productivity for both import substitutes
and exports has been poor. Output growth between 1970-80 is estimated at 1.7
percent p.a., and between 1980-1985 at one percent p.a. Although these
estimates are based on unreliable information, the conclusion of poor
performance  remains.   Output  performance  is  highly  dependent  on  the
timeliness of rains, as exemplified by the severe drought of 1983-84, the
rebound in 1985-86 and followed by another drought of 1987. Alorg with
favorable weather in 1985-86, there was some improvement in the timely
availability of inputs, better supply services and better incentives for
export crops.  In particular, producer prices for cocoa increased by 67.3



-3-
percent in 1986 and for rubber by 154.5 percent. According to CBN sources,
agricultural GDP increased 3.8 percent in 1985 and 9.3 in 1986, but then fell
8.0 percent in 1987.
2.05      Outstanding Constraints.  The macroeconomic adjustment program,
including the devaluation of the Naira, has created short run problems for
those agricultural activities where increases in output prices have lagged
behind input prices or wheLe a gradual shift is needed from! imported inputs
to local sourcing. During the time of structural chantes associated with the
adjustment program, the private sector is reluctant to undertake major
investments with foreign exchange risk. In addition, as a result of past
neglect, agriculture continues to face a number of other constraints
including:  (i) weak services support. especially national research;  (ii)
poor marketing and information systems; (iii) low productivity of public
sector investment in agriculture; (iv) limited access to institutional credit
by smallholders; (v) poorly developed infrastructure; and (vi) erratic
availability of input (fertilizer and seed) supplies.
C.   Government Obiectives and Policies
2.06      The Government is well aware of the continuing constraints and
recognizes that the agricultural growth has to rise well above its one to
two percent p.a. of past decades to feed and to provide employment to a
population rising at its current 3.4 percent p.a.  In its Statement of
Agricultural Policy (January 1987) the key objectives set for the sector
are:   (i)  attainment  of  self-sufficiency  in  basic  food  commodities;
(ii) increased production of agricultural raw materials to meet the growing
needs of an expanding industrial sector; (iii) increased production and
processing of export crops; (iv) modernization of agricultural production,
processing, storage and distribution systems through improved technology;
(v) creation of increased rural employment; (vi) protection against
environmental degradation; and (vii) improvement in basic amenities available
in rural areas. The recent macro-economic policies pursued by the Government
which support the objectives outlined above includes the ban on a wide range
of agricultural commodities to promote self-sufficiency; the abolition of all
Cormodity Boards and deregulation of all agricultural prices to provide
incentives to growers, especially to exporters, and to the private sector in
general. In line with the privatization policy under the SAP, the Government
has stated its intention to withdraw from direct investment in production or
limit its equity participation in any state-owned enterprise to under 25
percent.
2.07      Following the publication of the Government's policy document, the
Bank and the FMAWRRD have been engaged in periodic sector consultations to
agree on a policy framework and operational strategy to underpin the Bank's
sector assistance to Nigeria. The most important elements of the emerging
agreement on the policy framework are that: (i) the incremental agricultural
production would largely originate from smallholders; in this context, ADPs
would be an effective implementation system for providing agricultural
services, and for implementing Government's rural development strategy; but,
the institutional structure providing these services to farmers would be
reviewed with an objective to develop institutionsisystems which are



efficient, flexible, responsive to changing circumstances and sustainable;
(ii) reduction and ultimate elimination of fertilizer subsidy, with the pace
of the removal taking into account the effect on maintenance of soil
fertility, income distribution, efficiency of fertilizer use, and the Federal
budget; (iii) privatization of input supply activities with state-owned (ADP)
owned Farmers' Supply Companies (FASCOMs) viewed as interim arrangemeats
leading to their privatization and active private sector role (including
cooperatives) in input supply with the states playing only a regulatory,
promotional, or complementary role; (iv) provision of credit to farmers, but
with the Government withdrawing direct involvement of state ministries in
credit operations; (v) removal of Government or its agencies from direct
marketing of agricultural produce except under compelling circumstances, with
increased attention to the development of supporting rural marketing
infrastructure to facilitate timely movement of produce, dissemination of
information on markets, quality and prices and facilities for agricultural
trading; (vi) priority to be given to the maintenance of existing rural roads
over new construction; and (vii) the potential contribution of irrigation to
agricultural development in Nigeria, particularly in the drought-prone
northern states, to be fully exploited through support for small-scale
irrigation on flood plains (known as 'fadamaso).
D. Bank Operations and Lessons Learned
2.08      The Bank's assistance to Nigeria has emphasized increased food
production through Agricultural Development Projects (ADPs) and support
institutions. The Bank has committed loans totalling US$1,157.6 million for
17 ADP projects. By the time the Second and Third Multi-State ADPs are under
implementation, every state in Nigeria will have an ADP. The ADPs were
designed to increase smallholder income and foodcrop production through a
core agricultural package of support services with emphasis on input supply,
seed multiplication and extension. The ADPs also included an important
infrastructure component for the construction of feeder roads, farm service
center network and rural water supplies. Among farm inputs, fertilizer and
seed were considered to be most critical. To improve availability of good
quality seed, multiplication units were established, piecemeal, under each
ADP, without an overall national plan or coordination of various activities
under the sub-sector.   Nine first generation enclave ADPs, most of them with
a seed multiplication component, have been completed and project completion
reports (PCRs) have been prepared on all of them.
2.09      The Lessons learned from completed ADPs, which are relevant to this
project, include the need to ensure that:  (i) the technical packages are
based on proven technology acceptable to farmers and that an appropriate
on-farm research program exists which tests improvements to confirm
acceptability; (ii) close linkages are developed with national research
institutes so that their programs respond to problems experienced at farm
level; (iii) extension services are unified and streamlined to ensure a
single source of technical advice to reduce overlap and inefficiency; and
(iv) the distriDution of agricultural inputs is gradually privatized to
provide the basis for cost-effective, efficient and timely delivery. The
poor performance of seed components of ADPs was further influenced by weak



- 5 -
management, low productivity and high operational and establishment costs.
2.10      The key featurec of this project which specifically respond to
past experiences include:  (a) the establishment of a well coordinated,
independent national program to cater for the needs of the seed sub-sector;
(b) strengthening of links of National Seed Service both with the research
institutes and unified extension services under each ADP to ensure transfer
of clear messages on proven seed technology; tc) encouragement of the private
sector to play an increasingly important role in production, processing, and
marketing of good quality seed; and (d) rationalization of roles and
responsibilities of the pubJic sector agencies and reorientation of their
operations along commercial .ines to promote cost-effective management of the
transitional role in seed production, processing and marketing.
III. THE SEED SUB-SECTOR AND PLANT QUARANTINE SERVICE
A. Seed Sub-Sector
1.   Industry Structure
3.01      the Nigerian  seed programs have been  in operation since the
mid-1970s, with several public sector agencies investing in institutional
and physical infrastructure. The key roles of various institutions involved
in the seed industry are:
Ca)  National Crops Research Institutes.  The Department of Agricultural
Sciences Research in the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology
(FMST) is responsible for the coordination of agricultural research
undertaken by 18 different national research institutes. Within
this system, plant breeding and breeder seed production of food
crops  is  undertaken  by  the  followings    The  Institute  for
Agriculture Research  (IAR),  Samaru,  Zaria,  is responsible for
sorghum, groundnuts, cowpeas, cotton and sunflower; the Lake Chad
Research Institute (LCRI), Maiduguri, is responsible for millet,
wheat and barley; the National Cereals Research Institute (NCRI),
Badeggi, is responsible for rice, soybeans and sugarcane; the
Institute for Agriculture, Research & Training (IARUT), Ibadan, is
responsible for maize, cowpeas, kenaf and jute; and the National
Root Crops Research Institute (NRCRI), Umudike, is responsible for
cassava, yam, cocoyams, Irish potato, sweet potato and ginger. In
addition, the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
(IITA), based near Ibadan, provides technical support to national
institutes, mainly in breeding programs and development of new
varieties of crops for which it has a mandate (maize, rice, cowpea,
soybean and cassava). Evaluation of new varieties through multi-
location testing prior to release for general adoption is operated
by FMST under the National Coordinated Research Programs (NCRP).
Each major crop such as maize, rice, cowpea has its own
multi-disciplinary team of scientists drawn from different
institutes. In practice, however, due to lack of clearly defined



- 6 -
objectives, the absence of a nationally coordinated work plan and
inadequate funding, NCRPs have not been very effective;
(b)  National Accelerated Food Production Program (NAFPP). FDARD.  This
unit has in the past undertaken on-farm testing of new varieties
prior to release. This function is now either not performed or is
partially undcrtaken by ADPs in some states, e.g., Sokoto and Kano,
without national planning or coordination or financial support;
(c)  National  Seed  Service.   The NSS  operates  under  the Federal
Departrent of Agriculture and Rural Development (FDARD) of the
Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Rural
Development (FMAWRRD) as the main public sector institution for the
development of national seed programs. Its present organizational
structure is given in Annex 8, Chart C-1.   The NSS has its
headquarters in Ibadan and four regional offices to cover various
agro-climatical zones (see Map IBRD 21457) of the country. It has
a total staff of 200, 67 of which are professional; and more than
30 staff have university degrees with training in seed technology.
The number of trained staff is sufficient for its present
activities, but additional specialized training would be necessary
to provide national coverage under the revised role, particularly
for the development and promotion of the seed industry, and seed
certification and quality control operations. There is a lack of
focus on priority activities of the service. For example, it is
involved in seed production on its own farms and through contract
growers and also retails seed through its regional offices. The
involvement of NSS in these loss-making operations not only
increases its financial burden but also conflicts with its
responsibility for seed certification and quality control which was
planned to be its major function through its National Seed
Certification Service (NSCS) section. The financial management at
the NSS needs improvement. The accounting procedures in use do not
present classification of expenditures, and fail to provide
information needed for the financial management of the service. In
addition, the budget allocation and erratic release of funds by FGN
for operational purposes has been a major problem for the NSS. For
example, the budget allocation for 1988 was Naira 2.5 million
against the proposed budget of Naira 7.2 million. The deficit of
Naira 1 million for the previous year (included in the Naira 7.2
million) was to be met out of the 1988 allocation.  Thus, the
actual operational budget for 1988 of Naira 1.5 million made it
very difficult to plan and finance purchases of breeder and
foundation seed and provide certification and quality control
services.   Further details on the operations of NSS and an
historical cash flow statement are given in Project File Working
Paper C-1 and C-ll respectively;
(d)  Agriculture DeveloPment Projects (ADPs).  ADPs -perate at the State
level and have responsibility for the production of certified seed
on their own farms and through contract growers;



(e)  Farmers' Su0lvY Companies (FASCOMs) and Commercial Services Units
(CSU) of ADPs. FASCOMs, established as commercial arms of ADPa in
Kano, Bauchi, Kaduna, Katsina and Sokoto and CSUs in other ADPs are
responsible for distribution of seed produced by ADPs; and
(f)  Private Sector.  The major activities of this sector at present
are: (a) limited amount of contract seed growing for NSS and ADPs;
and (b) production and distribution of hybrid maize seed through
two Nigerian companies (Agri. Seed Ltd. and Obasanjo Farms Ltd.).
One of these companies has also started producing limited
quantities of seed of open pollinated varieties of maize, cowpea,
soybean, sorghum and cotton.
2.   Operational Procedures of the Seed Industry Institutions
3.02      Plant Breeding and Variety Development.  The Research Institutes
have had well developed plant breeding and variety development programs in
operation for some time, although the productivity in recent years has not
been high, due mainly to reduced and erratic funding of the research system.
Nevertheless, these inctitutes have released new varieties capable of
producing higher yields than local selections for maize, rice, sorghum,
cowpea, soybean and cassava.  However, to derive maximum benefit, these
varieties need to be largely grown in monocropping situations with optimum
inputs and crop husbandry practices. This has meant that farmers following
mixed cropping systems have not been able to greatly benefit from these
developments. The value of research to farmers is further reduced by limited
varietal testing at the farm level and inadequate maintenance of varietal
characteristics throughout the process of breeder seed production and
subsequent  stages of seed multiplication.   As a result,  seed supplies
reaching farmers do not often have a significantly higher genetic and quality
value than their own seed.
3.03      Variety Testing and Release.   A  recently enacted legislation
documents various tests that should be performed prior to the release of a
new variety. Under this law a National Crop Variety and Livestock Breeds
Registration and Release Committee would be set up with the authority to
officially register and release varieties which have undergone the necessary
tests.   Once implemented,  this decree would make  it mandatory for all
breeders to submit new varieties for validation tests prior to release to
farmers. This committee would operate under the Genetic Resources Center
(GRC) of FMST.  The Director of the NSS, who would be a member of this
committee, would represent the interests of FMAWRRD. The Head of GRC at
present does not have separate funds to finance the activities of the variety
registration and release committee and to maintain the national register.
While recognizing the importance of farmer participation in the process of
variety development, the decree does not provide any mechanism for assessing
the performance of new varieties under farmers' conditions before official
release.
3.04      Seed Production.  Seeds of improved crop varieties go through a
three-stage (breeder, foundation and certified seed) multiplication process
before they are transformed into sizeable stocks supplied for crop



production.   In 1987,  the NSS and ADPs produced about 13,500 tons of
certified and other commercial seed of publicly bred varieties of maize,
rice, cowpea, sorghum, millet, groundnut, wheat, soybean. This was achieved
through both direct production as well as contractual arrangements with
private farmers. The performance of ADPs has varied from state to state, but
the overall quality of seed has been poor.  It is estimated that in 1987,
total production of hybrid maize seed by private companies was about 1,200
tons. The main users of hybrid maize seed at present are medium to large
scale commercial farmers.   More detailed information on seed production
activities is given in Project File Working Paper C-S.
3.05      Seed Certification and QualitX Control.  Monitoring and effective
quality control of seed production and associated operations is a key element
of any meaningful seed program. The main objective of this activity is to
maintain the genetic and physical characteristics of the original variety
(breeder seed) throughout the entire process of multiplication, the
associated operations (processing and storage), and until it reaches the
farmer.
3.06      The Seed Certification service of NSS undertakes field inspection
of seed crops produced by all sources and tests for varietal characteristics,
physical purity, germination and moisture content. It has a core of well-
trained staff, headed by a Chief Certification Officer supported by some
staff based in the States. The present number, however, is not adequate to
provide effective coverage on a national scale.
3.07      For quality control work, the NSS has seed testing laboratories
in Ibadan and Samaru but these are not fully operational due to lack of
essential equipment and operating funds. In addition, two more laboratories
are under establishment at Jos and Umudike (see Map IBRD 21457).  Special
quality control checks are not made at the marketing stage.
3.08      Quality standards and procedures for seed certification and quality
control activities have been set by the NSS; but because of shortages of
suitably qualified staff, transport and operational funds, as well as lack
of a seed legislation, they have not been implemented.
3.09      Processing and Storage.  Facilities for seed processing and storage
are available at the NSS and ADPs in various states. None of the national
research institutes have adequate facilities for processing of breeder seed.
Due to the absence of essential equipment and poor maintenance of plants, the
quality of foundation seed processed by the NSS is poor with a high risk of
variety mix-up during these operations. Many of the ADPs, e.g., Bauchi,
Kano, Kaduna, Sokoto, Oyo North, and Ekiti-Akoko, have established good
processing plants, but because of high capacities (1-3 tons per hour), low
volumes of production and difficulties of transporting seed over long
distances to one central location, they remain underutilized. Other states
have either incomplete plants or are in the process of establishing improved
facilities (e.g. Gongola and Imo). Thus, there is a need for rationalization
of the use of available facilities, completion of work already started, and
decentralization of operations through increased private sector involvement.



3.10      Conditions for lcng-tern, storage of seed are unsatisfactory in
meat cases. Research institutes have no facilities to store breeder seed
under controlled conditions. Similarly, foundation seed storage conditions
available at the NSS lack good facilities to control temperature and
humidity. While most ADPs have large central stores, conditions are not
suitable to preserve seed viability, especially in more humid parts of the
country. The private seed companies have sufficient processing and storage
facilities for their own needs. An inventory and other details of the public
sector seed processing and storage plants are given in Project File Working
Paper No. C-6.
3.11      Seed Marketing and Prices.  ADPs sell seed either directly or
through  wholly-owned  FASCOMs,  where  they  exist,  operating  through
distributors who also handle fertilizers, chemicals and farm tools.
Reliable information on "effective" demand for good quality seed is not
available. It is claimed by NSS and ADPs that the demand for "certified,
seed far exceeds the available supply.  This may be true as long as the
present practice of high subsidies on seed prices prevails. On the other
hand, if suitability of varieties and quality of seed is improved, reduction
of subsidy may not affect high demand.  In planning seed multiplication a
distinction must be made between "potential" demand and "effective" demand.
3.12      Prices.  Despite lack of reliable information on production costs,
it is generally known that seed sold by various public institutions are
priced below actual costs. While this is claimed by the government as a
promotional activity, in some instances this policy has even resulted in
certified seed being sold and/or used as commercial grain. It also results
in the public sector production and marketing operations incurring losses
with no incentive to control costs or to maintain quality. The private
sector is, however, free to set its own prices for all types of seed.
3.   Summary of Maior Constraints
3.13      Despite past investments in human and physical resources, the
efficiency of the on-going seed activities and their impact on crop
production leaves much to be desired. Seed supplies are erratic and of poor
quality.  The key constraints facing the seed industry, which are being
addressed in the proposed project, include:
(a) lack of clearly defined cost-effective and sustainable objectives
and a national strategy for the sub-sector, resulting in piecemeal
attempts at development of the seed programs (paras 4.02 and 4.03);
(b) weak public sector institutions with poorly defined roles and
responsibilities resulting in duplication and assignment of
conflicting functions to participating organizations (para 4.04);
(c) lack of appropriate environment for private sector development that
inhibits competitive market growth (para 4.04);
(d) pursuance of ad hoc seed pricing policy without due consideration
to costs of production and marketing - which adversely affects the



- 10 -
viability of public and private sector operations (paras 7.04-
7.06);
(e)  a weak national system for the development,  registration and
release of new varieties (paras 4.05-4.08);
(f)  absence of vital national seed legislation to provide a framework
for the future development of the industry and to provide legal
backing to the certification and quality control operations (para.
3.14);
(g)  inadequately  staffed and  ill-equipped  seed  certification  and
quality control operations (para. 4.14);
(h)  absence of reliable information on effective demand for good
quality seed (para 7.01);
(i)  inadequate allocation of funds for human resource development
through national or international institutions for the public
and private sector agencies (paras 4.15 and 4.16); and
(j)  inadequate  funding  of public  sector  agencies  and cumbersome
financial procedures for release of funds leading to delayed
payments and increasing costs for time-sensitive operations
(para. 4.17).
4.   Government's Seed Sub-Sector Policy and the Seed Decree
3.14      The Government's Agriculture Policy for Nigeria (January 1987)
stresses the importance of ensuring an adequate supply of good quality seed.
While it is important to view the policy for the seed sub-sector as an
integral part of an overall policy for the agricultural sector, there should
be an independent policy which clearly defines long-term objectives and goals
of the sub-sector.  It should also clarify roles and responsibilities of
various institutions and provide a favorable environment for the growth of
the private sector. During the preparation and appraisal of the project, key
issues affecting the future development of the industry were discussed with
relevant government agencies. As a result, a draft policy paper developed
by NSS (Annex 1) has been reviewed and approved by the Government.
3.15      The  Government's  seed  sub-sector  policies  would  be  further
reinforced by the forthcoming Seed Decree which is currently being processed
by the concerned Ministries (FiAWERD and Justice). A copy of the draft Seed
Decree is included as Project File Working Paper C-2. It is expected that
submission of the proposed draft to the National Council of Ministers (NCM)
would be completed prior to Board presentation.



B.   Plant Quarantine Service
3.16      Role of the Service.  The quarantine services are the first line
of defense against the introduction of exotic pests, diseases and noxious
weeds  along naturel  or manmade pathways.   Almost  all countries with
significant agricultural production have established plant quarantine
services.   The strength and effectiveness of these services is directly
related to the amount of funding provided, how the funds are spent, the
biological basis for regulatory activities, and the technical and managerial
competence of its inspectors and specialists. The PQS in Nigeria operates
under FDARD and has an important role in developirtg and sustaining
agriculture bys ti) preventing the entry of dangerous exotic pests, diseases
and weeds; (ii) facilitating the safe importation of germplasm, and other
plant materials such as biological control agents and cultures for crop
improvement and research; and (iii) to provide export inspection and
certification for plants and plant products to meet tne quarantine
requirements of importing countries. The service is also required to meet
Nigeria's obligations under the FAO International Plant Protection
Convention.
3.17      Within  the  West  Africa  region,  the  Nigerian  PQS  has  a
responsibility to neighboring countries to maintain an effective plant
quarantine service to guard against the entry and spread of exotic pests.
As a member country of the Inter-African Phytosanitary Commission, Nigeria
is also expected to provide some post-entry quarantine facilities and
training for staff from 'regional" plant quarantine services.
3.18      Because of the unpredictable behavior of many pests and diseases
when introduced into a new environment, it is difficult to assess in monetary
terms the potential impact of exotic pests on Nigeria's agriculture. In the
worst possible scenario, entire crops could be devastated on a regional or
even national scale. However, it is more likely that yield and production
would be significantly reduced or expensive control measures would be
necessary.   Such severe losses of agricultural production can not only
increase the cost of food to the consumer but may require the importation of
food which would affect foreign exchange balances.
3.19      Organization and Management.   The PQS has its headquarters and
post-entry plant quarantine station at Ibadan with 44 field stations located
at seaports, international airports, international post offices and border
crossings (Map IBRD 21458). The field stations are organized into four zones
as follows:  (a) Southwest Zone:  Zonal Headquarters at Ikeja - 20 stations;
(b) Northwest Zone:  Zonal Headquarters at Kano - 9 stations; (c) Southeast
Zone:  Zonal Headquarters at Port Harcourt - 8 stations; and (d) Northeast
Zones   Zonal Headquarters at Maiduguri - 7 stations.   Under the present
organizational arrangement, the service operates with insufficient guidance
from and inadequate linkages with related agencies and client (importers and
exporters) groups. The Project Director's span of supervisory control of the
organizational units (Annex 8, Chart C-4) is too great for efficient
operation  of  the  service.    The  Project  Director  is  administratively
overloaded, because currently he not only deals directly with the four zonal
program leaders and several specialists from the various units of the post-
entry station at Ibadan but also interacts with counterparts in other



- 12 -
government agencies, in addition to dealing with exporters, importers and
scientists.
3.20      PQS  has  difficulty  in  recruiting  and  retaining  experienced
technical staff because of unsatisfactory working conditions and lack of job
satisfaction.    As  a  result,  there  are  -ery  few  experienced  senior
professional employees (GL-8 and above) in the service, and the total number
from 1986 onwards has remained around 55.  There is a serious shortage of
specialists with advanced training in plant pathology and entomology, and
virtual stagnation at the 1970's level in technology and procedures. The
number of middle level professional staff (GL 06 and 07) increased from 70
in 1986 to 91 in 1988, but the technical training in biological subjects is
inadequate. Over the same period, however, the number of junior staff (GL
05 and below) increased dramatically from 148 to 587 without much
justification.  Number of employees at each location is as follows:  PQS
Headquarters - 160; South-east Zone - 42; North-west zone - 90; South-west
zone - 406; and North-East Zone - 38.
3.21      The PQS needs a strong measure of public support and cooperation
to be effective in preventing the entry of pests and diseases. To gain this
support, active publicity programs are required to promote an awareness of
the plant quarantine role and the PQS.   No attempt is made to advise
passengers travelling to Nigeria of quarantine restrJctions, and even after
arrival, quarantine declarations are not sought.  At Ikeia international
airport, quarantine notices are not obvious, and inspectors do not have
proper examination facilities similar to those provided for customs officers.
Accommodation, offices and transportation facilities at border crossings are
also unsatisfactory and inferior to those provided for immigration and
customs cfficials.
3.22      In common with other public sector organizations,  another key
constraint faced by PQS is the inadequate and erratic funding of the service.
For example, between 1981 and 1988, allocations fluctuated from 12.25 million
down to NO.3 million, whereas for 1988 N1.8 million was estimated to be the
minimum operating budget required to provide minimal service. In addition,
there are long periods when no funds have been released to the PQS out of the
allocated budget. As a result, the PQS is operating at less than 20 percent
capacity due to the deterioration of facilities and equipment as weli as a
shortage of essential supplies.   In this atmosphere, it is difficult to
recruit staff or provide adequate training and technical support for an
effective service. International and national institutes are being hampered
in their research by delays in quarantine clearance of imported germ plasm
and exporters of plant products are not being provided efficient service.
Further details on the organization, staffing, functions and constraints of
the PQS are given in Project File Working Paper No. C-12.
3.23      Plant Quarantine Policy.  The Government's policy is built around
the plant quarantine legislation and its obligations under the Inter-African
Phytosanitary Commission and FAO International Plant Protection Convention.
However, due to inadequate support in the recent past, the PQS is operating
with major deficiencies which the Government now wishes to correct and
provide an environment for sustained development of the quarantine services.
During the appraisal of the project, key issues affecting the PQS were



- 13 -
discussed with relevant Government agencies. As a result, a draft policy
paper (Annex 1) has been developed which would be the subject of further
discussion at negotiations. The key elements of the proposed policy include:
institutional reform leading to strengthened organization and management of
the PQS; concentration of resources on areas presenting highest risks;
systematic program for human resource   velopment; and introduction of a
system of cost-recovery for key quarantine services to ensure medium-term
financial sustainability.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Rationale for Bank Support
4.01      The ready availability of good quality seed of improved varieties
suited to farmer's needs is crucial for continued growth of the Nigerian
agriculture.   The seed industry in Nigeria is at a critical stage in
development with the public sector agencies requiring institutional reform
and financial strengthening.  The private seed secsr, although small, is at
a stage where creation of a favorable environment would increase its
participation in the future growth of the seed industry.   Several of the
agricultural projects financed by the Bank in Nigeria have included a small
seed component, which have not had a major impact due to weak policy
environment and inappropriate management practices. Based on its experience
elsewhere, the Bank has an important role to play in much needed
rationalization and strengthening of the national seed industry. In the case
of the Plant Quarantine Service (PQS), the Bank's assistance would arrest the
past neglect and ensure implementation of necessary policy and institutional
reforms and upgrading and rehabilitation of essential facilities to assist
imports and exports of plants and plant products with minimal risks.
B.   Proiect Objectives and General Description
4.02      The main objective of the project is to support the national goal
of increasing agricultural production and farm income by ensuring
institutional development for cost-effective and timely production and
distribution of good quality seed of selected varieties. In particular, the
project would assist in the formulation of a well-defined national strategy
for:   (i)  institutional  reform  leading  to  changes  in  the  roles  and
responsibilities of the public sector; (ii) accelerating development of the
seed programs; (iii) pricing of seed; (iv) improving the effectiveness of
seed certification; and (v) improving quality control operations.   The
project would include actions to strengthen t%e private sector and help to
ensure availability of breeder and foundation seed of publicly bred varieties
to private seed exaLxrprises. Operations of public sector agencies for seed
production, processing, and marketing would be reoriented along commercial
lines to prepare them for possible future privatization.  It would also
improve the efficiency of the PQS through streamlining organizational and
managerial procedures and by focussing programs on activities presenting the
highest risks.



- 14 -
4.03      The Proiect, which would be implemented over a period of five
years, would be comprised of the followingt
(a)  institutional  reform  through  rationalization  of  roles  and
responsibilities of public sector agencies operating in the seed
sub-sector, initiation of specific actions for greater private
sector participation, and provision of technical assistance;
(b)  strengthening of variety testing, registration and release programs
through the introduction of streamlined operating procedures and
provision of vehicles and essential equipment for field trials;
(c)  support  for  production,  processing  and  storage  of  breeder,
foundation, and certified seed;
(d)  expansion and strengthening of seed certification and quality
control operations;
(e)  human resource development through short-and long-term local and
overseas training in key activities related to the seed industry;
(f)  provision of incremental working capital for the NSS to finance
its breeder and foundation seed operations, and funds for
maintenance of strategic reserves of these two categories of seed;
and
(g)  strengthening of the PQS through reorganization and improved
management supported by technical assistance, improvements in
facilities for priority activities, and human resource development
through selective recruitment and systematic training of technical
staff.
C.   Detailed Features
1.   Seed Sub-Sector
a.   Institutional Reform (US$2.9 million)
4.04      The initial focus of the project would be to rationalize roles and
responsibilities of the public sector agencies and develop appropriate policy
framework for greater private sector participation. The changes envisaged
under the project are summarized in Annex 2 and the salient features are
described below.
(i)  Establishment of the National Seed Council (NSC).  A national
council, with representation from major public and private sector
interests, with the Minister of FMAWRRD as Chairman, would be
constituted under the proposed Seed Decree as a policy-making body
to guide overall development of the seed industry.
(ii)  The National Seed Service.  The NSS would continue to be an
integral part of the Department of Agriculture and Rural



- 15 _
Development (FDARD) in FMAWRRD, but with modified responsibilities
and organizational structure (Annex 8, Charts C-1 and 2).  The
coordination of breeder and foundation seed production would be
undertaken by its Seed Production Section. By December 31, 1992,
all foundation seed would be produced through contracts with seed
growers.  To ensure financial autonomy, this section would have.
access to a separate bank account (see also para 4.15). By Janua:,
31, 1993, feasibility of establishing a fully autonomous operation
with  private  sector  participation  would  be  investigated.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations. To assist
in the development and promotion of the seed industry, specifically
the private sector,   a new Seed Industry and Skill Development
Section would be established. This section would be responsible
for overall planning, monitoring and evaluation, technical support
to the seed industry, and human resource development. Support to
variety testing registration and release activities and transfer
of new seed technology through ADPs would also be provided through
this section. The Seed Certification and Quality Control Section
would have the responsibility for ensuring purity and quality of
traded seed. Operationally, the certification service would locate
adequate number of competent staff at the state level.   Seed
quality control would be organized to fulfill the requirements of
the Seed Decree and provide quality checks on all seed offered for
sale.  Finance Administration and Personnel Management would be
organized as a separate section.  Financial procedures would be
reviewed and management strengthened. To ease overcrowding and to
upgrade current office facilities, the project would finance
construction of additional offices space, renovation of some
offices and the purchase of furniture and equipment.
(iii)  The Private Sector.  The specific actions to be initiated to create
appropriate  incentive  environment  for  the  private  sector
deve'opment, details of which are given in Annex 3, would includet
Polic changes - first, a pricing policy for the public sector
agencies aimed at full cost recovery of foundation and certified
seed would be phased in to remove a key constraint to greater
participation by the private sector which would have freedom to set
its own seed prices.  Second, the public sector seed production
agencies would li-hit their involvement to publicly bred open-
pollinated varieties to encourage development and/or introduction
of new hybrids by the private sector. Third, througi- membership
of the NSC, the private sector would be able to directly
participate in the formulation of seed policies. Fourth, access
to breeder seed and clear allocation policies for foundation seed
of publicly bred varieties to enable establishment of seed
enterprises without independent research capability.   Fifth, to
assist development of wider product range, private seed enterprises
would be able to import breeding material to develop their own
varieties. Assurances to this effect were sought at negotiations.
Technical Support - technical assistance specialists attached to
the NSS would also advise the private sector, particularly on the
management of small-scale seed enterprises, engineering aspects



- 16
related to construction and operation of processing plants, seed
storage facilities, and the development of internal seed quality
assurance programs.
Support for Establishment of Small-Scale Seed Enterprises - limited
quantity of equipment, to be financed under the project, would help
to establish up to ten small-scale enterprises with a capacity to
produce 150-250 tons per annum of good quality saed. Each small-
scale enterprise would need relatively small amounts of equity
capital of around Naira 100,000.   Short-term working capital
requirements, not being provided under the project, would be met
by the existing lending institutions.   These investments would
serve to demonstrate the technical and financial viability of
small-scale private initiatives. The project's assistance, which
is not in the nature of a credit component, would provide the
entrepreneurs ready access to imported equipment and technology.
The cost of equipment would be fully recovered by NSS in local
currency and funds utilized for seed industry promotional
activities. At negotiations assurances were -htained that criteria
to be applied in selecting small-scale pic  .r entrepreneurs for
assistance to purchase equipment would be developed by NSS and
agreed with the Bank prior to approval of such investments; the
assistance, te be paid back in full by the participants, would not
be in the nature of a credit component and funds recovered from
investors utilized for promoting the seed industry.
Trainini - NSS would assist in identifying suitable in-country and
overseas training places for a selected number of candidates from
the private sector in technical and managerial skills required for
operating seed enterprises.  The cost of this training would be
partly borne by the Government.
(iv)  Technical Assistance for Seed Industry Development.  To overcome
the current weaknesses of participating institutions and to ensure
long-term development of the industry, technical assistance is
considered necessary. The project would finance 150 staff months
of long-term internationally-recruited advisors on seed industry
development,   financial   management,   quality   control   and
certification, processing and storage.   Short-term assistance,
totalling 15 staff months, would be provided to assist in
specialized areas, e.g., seed demand survey, seed legislation and
human resource development.   In addition, consultants for seed
industry workshops and other specific studies related to the
development of the seed industry would also be financed under thc
project. All technical assistance staff would operate through the
NSS. Details of the technical assistance proposal and suggested
terms of reference for various activities are given in Project File
Working Paper C-3.
(v) National Seed Workshops to Prepare and Review Progress of the Seed
Sub-Sector Development Plan. During the first year, the project
would finance a national workshop to be organized by NSt under the
guidance  of  the  NSC.    This workshop would  be  attended by



_ 17 -
representatives from public and private sector agencies including
existing seed companies, potential local and overseas investors in
the  seed  industry  and  financing/lending  agencies.   The main
objective of this workshop would be to review the current status
of the seed industry in Nigeria and develop recommendations for its
future development.   These would then form the basis for the
preparation of the Seed Sub-Sector Development Plan by the NSS with
support from the Seed Industry Development Ad isor and consultants
as required.  The Plan would highlight areas for private sector
participation. A second workshop, to be held in the fourth year
of the project, would review progress and develop an action plan
to overcome continuing constraints.
b.   Variety Testing. Registration and Release (US$ 1.7 million)
4.05      Under the project, funds would be provided to strengthen variety
testing mechanisms involving the NCRP and selected staff from the NAFPP (para
3.01). NCRP teams would be made operational and their effectiveness enhanced
through a nationally coordinated system with clearly defined objectives and
responsibilities. The project would provide vehicles to increase mobility
of coordinators and other scientists involved in variety testing, and
essential equipment for implementation of the trials program.
4.06      Activities of NCRP teams would be further supported by farmer
assessment of new varieties before they are officially released to the
public. To achieve this objective, the project would fund on-farm trials,
to be planned and coordinated by selected NAFPP staff transferred to the
newly created Seed Industry and Skill Development Section of the NSS (para.
4.04 (ii)). Implementation of thsse trials would be undertaken by On-farm
Adaptive Research (OFAR) teams of ADPs.
4.07      As proposed in the Seed Decree, a National Variety Registration and
Release Committee (NVRRC) would be formed under the NSC.  This committee
would assume responsibility for variety registration and release decisions
that are now with the National Crop Variety and Livestock Breeds Registration
and Release Decree.    The Genetic  Resources Unit  of FMST would have
responsibility for registration of varieties. Based upon the results of the
NCRP trials and on-farm tests, varieties would be released upon the
recommendations of the NVRRC to the NSC. Varieties developed privately would
also enter the NCRP trials.  On-farm tests, organized by the private seed
enterprises would be eligible for submission to the NVRCC.   The private
sector trials would be subject to official verification by NSS technical
support service.
4.08      In addition, project financing has been included for one priority
area of applied seed technology research, covering development of rapid
multiplication technique for 'seed' yam using biotechnology.   Seed yam,
currently in short supply, is often of poor quality. As a result, this is
considered by the NP.CRI, the NSS and the private sector seed yam growers to
be a major constraint to increasing productivity of this crop. As the NRCRI
does not have the expertise to mount such a research program, this would be
a joint activity with a suitably qualified international institution.
Project support would cover capital costs of laboratory equipment and



- 18 -
supplies, and participation by the overseas institv.ion. The project would
also finance the purchase of a vehicle for technical support by the NRCRI to
the Seed Yam Growers Association of Nigeria, aimed at enhancing the quality
and quantity of seed yam being produced by private growers using conventional
and mini-sett techniques. Signing of an agreoment between NSS, NRCRI and an
international institution and finalization of the work program satisfactory
to the Pank would be a condition of disbursement against the Category No. 5
(research).
c.   Seed Production, Processing and Storage (US$ 4.2 million)
4.09      Breeder and Foundation Seed Production.  The project would finance
purchase of farm machinery, laboratory equipment and transport for each of
the five Research Institutes to improve facilities for breeder seed
production. The NSS would coordinate requirements for breeder and foundation
seed of different varieties for various locations and place orders with
individual institutes or contract growers.  Foundation seed of privately
owned and bred varieties would be handled by the private sector.  To prevent
supply/demand imbalances, NSS would plan the production program to allow a
reserve stock of up to 1002, and 50Z of projected requirement of breeder and
foundation seed, respectively. These would be maintained and carried forward
by the institute concerned and/or, the NSS in controlled environmental
storage.   To safeguard the quality of breeder and foundation seed, plots
would be subjected to the certification process.  Control tests would be
performed on each lot by the NSS seed certification staff.   A detailed
description of the seed production program is given in Project File working
Paper  No.  C-5.    To  ensure  that  breeder  seed  production  units  are
appropriately staffed and funds provided under the project made available to
the 4nstitutes for the intended purposes, NSS would sign agreements with all
the five institutes by September 30, 1990. Assurances to this effect were
obtained at negotiations.
4.10      Seed Processing and Storage.  Under the project, the five Research
Institutes dealinig with the food crops would be provided with facilities to
process and stole under controlled (temperature and humidity) conditions
small lots of breeder seed of different crop varieties.  No increase in
processing capacity of foundation or certified seed under public sector
agencies is proposed under the project.   However, to echieve the needed
technical and quality standard of processed foundation seed, the NSS would
be provided specialized equipment to rehabilitate and upgrade existing
fatilities.  This' u-%ild include establishment of drying facilities, receiving
facilities for seed from contract growers, seed elevators, cleaners, assorted
spare parts for processing plants, tools and generators.   In the case of
processing plants owned by ADPs, the project would only provide technical
advice on plant operations and training in plant maintenance. This work
would be the responsibility of the Processing and Storage Advisor and the NSS
staff trained by him. His services would also be available to the private
seed enterprises.
4.11      To provide good storage facilities for foundation seed, the NSS
would  upgrade  facilities  at  its  regional  locations.   As  the  storage
facilities for certified seed, especially in more humid parts of the country,



_ 19 -
are inadequate to preserve seed viability during prolonged storage, the
Processing and Storage Advisor would, by June 1992, undertake a study to
identify appropriate storage designs for different agro-climatic zones of the
country to ensure seed viability and purity and review the storage pest and
disease control practices. The Storage and Processing Specialist would work
clo4ely with the Processirng and Storage Unit of the Engineering Division of
the FDARD based in Ibadan.   Assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations.  This study would also be used as the basis for technical
advice to FASCOMs, and the private sector for building and/or upgrading of
storage facilities for seed in transit, at the distribution points and at
processing plants.  More detailed information on processing and storage
proposals are given in Project File Working Paper C-6.
d.   Seed Certification and Quality Control (US$ 2.9 million)
4.12      To ensure effective quality control arrangements at each stage of
seed production on a country-wide basis, the project would strengthen the
seed certification and quality control activities through: (i) formulation
and implementation of procedures and mechanisms for ensuring quality of
breeder, foundation and certified seed; (ii) transfer of necessary staff to
quality control and certification operations; (iii) purchase of vehicles to
facilitate field inspections and other visits; (iv) upgrading of existing
seed testing laboratories at Ibadan and Samaru, and the establishment of some
new ones at Jos, Umudike and Ilorin; and (v) provision of finance for
operational deficit for seed certification and quality cont-ol activities.
Detailed information on certification and quality control procedures are
given in Project File Working Paper C-7.   At negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the seed certification would be managed by an autonomous
certification service by September 30, 1993.
e.   Human Resource Development (US$ 2.1 million)
4.13      The project would provide for both degree and non-degree courses
and other local and overseas training for NSS staff and others selected from
public and private agencies.  These would include:  (i) graduate training at
M.Sc. and Ph.D. levels for senior technologists; (ii) visits or attachment
to research centers, seed certification programs, or private seed companies
for other senior staff to broaden experience; (iii) short-term technical
courses, largely conducted in Nigeria, to upgrade skills of staff from public
and private sector staffs at different levels; (iv) short-term management
courses, both in Nigeria and overseas to upgrade skills in planning, and
management of seed enterprises, and seed regulatory procedures; and (v)
support for senior seed technologists to participate in regional and/or
international courses, workshops, and seminars.
4.14      In addition,  the project would fund upgrading of facilities
purchase of essential equipment, and skill enhancement of teaching staff to
establish training and seed technology research facilities at one or two
universities with a strong faculty of agriculture. The universities, working
in close collaboration with the NSS and IITA, would provide regular courses
in seed technology at the professional level, and research at the M.Sc.
level. Problems for research would be selected jointly by the university
concerned and NSS.  A major focus of the training program is to develop



- 20 -
national capacity to meet future training requirements locally. The proposed
training plan is given in Project File Working Paper C-8. At negotiations
assurances were obtained that NSS would enter into agreement with selected
universities identifying facilities to be provided and training and research
program to be undertaken.
f.   Incremental Workinx Capital for NSS and Reserve Stock Funds (US$
0.5 million)
4.15      The involvement of the NSS in the planning, coordination and
procurement of breeder and foundation seed production is expected to be a
self-financing operation in the long-term.   Initially, however, it would
require additional working capital to ensure timely procurement of seed from
contract growers and maintenance of reserve stocks of both the categories of
seed. The reserve stocks would be comprised of 100? and 502 of anticipated
demand for breeder and foundation seed respectively. The incremental working
capital required to finance breeder and foundation seed operations and
maintenance of reserve stocks would be provided to the NSS as a grant. At
negotiations assurances were obtained that the working capital required to
finance breeder and foundation seed operations and reserve stock funds would
be maintaLaed in separate accounts (revolving funds) to be operated by the
NSS.
2.   Plant Quarantine Service
4.16      The project would strengthen the ability of the PQS to efficiently
and effectively provide essential services through:
(a)  Institutional Reform (US$ 1.0 million)
(i)  Establishment of Consultative and Advisory Committees.   To
provide policy guidance, advice on technical matters and
improve linkages of PQS with related agencies and client
groups,  two committees would be  formed with  distinctly
different functions and membership. These are: (1) The Plant
Quarantine Consultative Committee - a broadly based body to
assist PQS on policy matters including review of current
quarantine legislation, priorities of the service and resource
allocation, and increasing awareness of the general public
about objectives and operations of the PQS to increase
voluntary compliance of quarantine regulations; and  (2) The
Plant Quarantine Technical Advisory Committee - this would
be a high level technical committee to advise the Head of the
PQS, and through him the Government, on the biological risks
of unprecedented events, such as import of high-risk
biological materials, emergency response to exotic pests or
disease incursions, and information on pest and disease
occurrences in Nigeria prior to a change in policy or
operational guidelines.



- 21 -
(ii)   Organization and Management.  Major functions undertaken by
the PQS would be streamlined and the work program would be
reoriented to ensure that resources are concentrated in areas
where PQS intervention would yield greatest benefits.  The
existing six Divisions (units) of the PQS, along with
essential functions which are not being undertaken at present,
would be organized into three groups as follows:
(a)  Headquarters Support Services. 1/  This section would
give administrative support to the field stations as well
as to the units in Ibadan. A computer based management
information system would be established, the office
equipment upgraded, and operations streamlined to improve
efficiency.   The productivity and efficiency of *he
Permit Unit would be enhanced by a computerized
information retrieval system. The Training Center and
its programs would be e;zpanded to meet PQS needs in
Ibadan and at field stations.  The Information/Public
Relations activities would be expanded to inform the
travelling,  commercial,   scientific  and  diplomatic
community of plant quarantine risks. Broadly based media
campaigns and publicity targeted at partin-lar groups,
such as schools, farmers, importers and exporters would
be developed to increase understanding of plant
quarantine   issues   and   voluntary   compliance   of
legislation.    The  quarantine  declaration  form  for
incoming passengers would be reintroduced;
(b)  Post-entry Technical and Dia_nostic Support Services (US$
1.9 millon).  This unit would consist of the existing
Post-Entry Quarantine Station, a new Diagnostic and
Identification Program, and a new Biological Assessment
Program.   This would strengthen the composition of
scientific specialists at the Ibadan Headquarters. The
introduction of the pest risk analysis concept under the
Biological Assessment Program, coupled with the use of
data from the results of inspections at ports of entry,
would assist in the determination of articles moving on
the man-made pathways, and the risk that this presents
to the greatest risk to agriculture in Nigeria.  This
would, thus, enable appropriate allocation of plant
quarantine resources. At the same time, to reduce delays
and facilitate importation of certain categories of
plants  and  germplasm,  the  PQS  would  enter  into
arrangements with reputable Nigerian and foreign
organizations to permit them to test and screen certain
categories of imported materials for diseases, pests and
weeds to PQS standards.   Overall responsibility for
quarantine will remain within PQS which will issue
permits, prescribe standards for testing facilities, and
1/  Costs included under Institutional Reform



- 22 -
monitor the performance of approved organizations. For
example, Research Institutes which are major importers
of germplasm, could perform thiui function under PQS
supervision, thus improving efficiency and reducing costs
to the Service. Initially, the essential facilities at
the Post-Entry station to be provided during the second
year of tha project with emphasis on rehabilitation and
upgrading of existing facilities, would include: 4 out
of 6 screenhouses; 17 out of 34 sealed quarantine
glasshouses; 2 phytotrons; 2 growth chambers; improved
facilities for seed health testing; and refurbishing of
existing laboratories. Purchase of essential laboratory
equipment and supplies would also be included.   The
remaining glasshouses, screenhouses and other facilities,
representing approximately 451 of the total cost of this
component, would be rehabilitated during the third and
fourth year of the project if the demand builds up and
additional facilities  are required.   Signing of an
agreement between PQS and reputable Nigerian and/or
foreign institutions would be a condition of disbursement
on Category No. 8 for the second stage of upgrading of
this service; and
(c) Port Inspectorate Services (US$ 2.2 million). Facilities
available at selected field stations would be upgraded.
These would include international airports (Ikeja and
Kano), seaports (Lagos and Port Harcourt and 11 border
crossings (4 in South-west zone, 3 in North-west zone,
2 in North-east zone and 2 in South-east zone).  The
requirement for fumigation facilities at two high volume
ports  to  treat  imports,  and  exports,  would  be
investigated. Communicatibns between zonal centers and
headquarters as well as between zonal centers and field
stations would be improved through installation of radio
communication equipment and telex machines. In addition,
as material entering under permit from other countries
may still be infected with pests and diseases or
contaminated  with   noxious   weeds   of   quarantine
significance, inspection of imported articles would be
initiated through establishment of pre-entry inspection
stations. Further, to help Nigerian exporters to meet
the import requirements of other countries, each zone
would be provided with two Export Certification Units per
zone. Initially, however, the facilities (office-cum-
laboratories, staff houses, laboratory equipment &
supplies) required for these new services would only be
provided in one zone on a pilot basis. If shown to be
successful through the mid-term review, establishment in
other zones would be phased in from the third year of the
project onwards. The second stage rehabilitation would
be approximately 30X of the total cost of this component.
At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
performance, and volume of work undertaken by the first



-  23  -
set  of  Pre-entry  Inspection  Station  and  Export
Certification Units would be evaluated after they have
been in operation at least one year before establishing
additional  units.    This  would  be  a  condition  of
disbursement on Category No. 8 for the second stage of
upgrading the Port Inspectorate Services.
(iii)  Staffing. 2/   Incremental staff required to operate the
reorganized service would mainly be scientific specialists in
plant pathology, entomology and virology for the Technical
Support Services at Ibadan and zonal centers of the Port
Inspectorate Services. The new staff would be phased in as
facilities are strengthened and in accordance with the
workload of the service.
At present, many of the staff employed in enforcing quarantine
regulations do not have a B.Sc. degree or equivalent
professional  training  with  emphasis  on  one  or  more
agriculturally related sciences (e.g., entomology, plant
pathology). In the future, for new staff joining the service
for this type of work at grade GL-8 and above, a B.Sc. degree
would be  a minimum  requirement.    Existing  staff  in  a
prcfessional status without a degree qualification would be
given opportunities for appropriate training.  The current
high ratio between junior support staff (GL-5 and below) to
professional staff (GL-6 and above) would be reviewed and
rationalized to be consisteut with the workload of the
service.  Job descriptions, which at present do not exist,
would be prepared and jobs would be graded. In the meantime,
no further recruitment of junior staff into the service would
be undertaken and those leaving the service would not be
replaced.  Review of staffing level and preparation of job
descriptions and a staff development plan resulting in at
least 50Z of the professional employees of the PQS involved
in enforcing quarantine regulations at grade GL-8 and above
having a B.Sc. degree within five years would be a condition
of effectiveness.
(iv)   Technical Assistance. 3/  An advisor with experience at a
senior level in plant quarantine operations would be provided
for 24 months to assist the head of PQS on the implementation
of organizational changes and advise on updating of
operational procedures at headquarters, as well as at the
field stations. An experienced virologist would be provided
for 36 months to run the virus characterization program using
recent techniques and to train counterpart staff and
laboratory technicians. Short-term assistance for 15 staff
months would be provided to Aodernize and upgrade operations
21 Costs included under Institutional Reform.
3/ Costs included under Institutional Reform.



- 24 -
at airports, seaports and border-crossings, to review
requirements for fumigation of imported and exported goods,
training of PQS staff in pesticide use and safety, and to
upgrade the financial management system.
(b) Trainino (US$ 1.2 million)
4.17      All proposals for upgrading, enhancing and expansion of quarantine
services envisage training of program managers, technical specialists and
inspectors. In-country courses would be developed to cover the followingt
(i) inspection of imports and exports for pests, diseases and weeds; (ii)
pesticide application and safety; and (iii) courses in technical aspects of
quarantine.  Program managers and technical specialists would be provided
with overseas training to gain knowledge in specific areas of quarantine
operations.    These would  include  skill  enhancement  visits  by  senior
management to quarantine services in other countries, training in risk
assessment techniques, studies on recent advances in plant quarantine
techniques for staff from Technical Support and Port Inspections Services
sections. Details of the proposed training program are given in Project File
Working Paper C-8.
V. COSTS AND FINANCING
A.   Cost Estimates
5.01      Project base costs  are estimated at N132.8 million  (US$17.7
million) with a foreign exchange element of N74.9 million (56Z). Base costs
are calculated using prices obtained during appraisal and updated to levels
expected to prevail in June 30, 1989.   With the exception of technical
assistance, where provisions are not likely to change significantly, all
other costs have been estimated with a lOZ physical contingency.   Price
contingencies have been estimated using 152 for local inflation in 1989 and
102 thereafter; foreign inflation rates have been assumed at 32 for 1989 and
1990, and 42 thereafter.  In order to keep the dollar inflation of local
costs equal to the dollar inflation of foreign costs, sufficient devaluation
of the naira has been allowed for over the five-year project period. Project
costs include all identifiable duties and taxes. Based on these assumptions,
total project costs including all contingencies would amount to N191.7
million (US$20.6 million), which represents 442 of base costs in Naira terms
(or 172 in dollar terms). Sixty-eight percent of the project costs would be
taken up by the seed component and thirty-two percent by plant quarantine
component. A Project Cost Summary is given in the following table (Annex 6
provides detailed project costs estimates):



NIGERIA
NATIO1A  SEED AND GUARANTINE PMJECT
Finantial Costs
PROJECT COST SU"mRY
(NAIRA '000)                                    (USS '000)
% Total                                       Z Total
Z Foreisn  Uase                               % Foreisn  Base
Local    Foreign   Total    Exchange   Costs    Local Foreign   Total   Exchanse  Costs
A. SEED: INSTITUTIOL REFORN
ORGANISATION AND MANAGEMENT                             5.212.9  :390.3   9,603,2           41        7    761.7    S18.7  1,280.4         ii       7
SEED INDUSTRY DEVELOPhNT ASSISTANCE                      923.9   8,982.6  9,806.5          91        7    12732  1,184.3  1,307.5         91       7
Sub-Total SEED: INSTITUTIONAL REFORN                       6W6369  12772.9  19,409.7           66       15    884*9  1,703.1  2,598.0         66      15
B. SEED IUALITY CONTROL AND CERTIFICATION
QUALITY CONTROL                                         4,852*4   6,268.4  11,120.9         56        8    647.0    835.9  1,4828         56       8
SEED CERTIFICATION                                      3750#0   4,3984   8,148.4           54        6    500.0    586.4  1,086.5         54       6
Sub-Total SEED QUALITY CONTROL AND CERTIFICATION           8602.5  10,666.7  19t269,2        5S        15  l.147.0  1,i'2.2  2,S69.2         55      15                   rJ
C. SEED PRODUCTION P PROCESSING AND STORAGE
BREEDER SEED                                            2,491.1   6,372.7   8,863*9         72        7    332.2    849.7  1W181.9         72       7
FOUNDATION SEED                                        10,310.2   79907#2  18,217.4         43       14  19374.7  1,054.3 2,429.0          43      14
Sub-Total SEED PRICP"1ION   PROCESSING AND STORAGE       12,801.3  14,279.9  279081.3         53       20  1,706.8  1,904.0  3,610.8         53      20
D. SEED: TRAINING
LOCAL TRAINING                                          5,920.2  2,167,2   8,087.5          27        6    7M9.4    299.0  1,078.3         27       6
OUERSEAS TRAINING                                             -   64313.5   6,313.5        100        5       .-    841.8    841.8        100       5
Sub-total SEED: TRAINING                                   5,920.2   8,480.8  14,401.0         5?       11    799.4  1,130.8  1.920.1         59      11
E. SEED: VARIETY TESTING AND RELEASE SUPPORT               5,209*6   5,335*7  10,545.3         51        8    64.6    711.4  1,406.0          51       8s
F. PC: INSTITUTIONAL REFORM                                3,214,5   49174.5   7,389.0         56        6    428.6    556.6    95.2.         56       6
6. PO: TRAINING                                            39212.7   4,977.6  8190.3          61        6    428.4    663.7  1M092.0         61       6
N. PO: PORt INSPECTORATE SERVICES                          6,967.5   7,01B.9  13,986.4         50       11    929.0    935.8  1,864.9         50      11
1. FO: POST ENTRY TECH SUPPORT SERVICES                   S268.8   79242.4  12,511.2          58        9    702,5    965.7  1 668.2         58       9
Total BASELINE COSTS                                        57,833.8  74o949.4 132,783.3         56      100  79711.2 9,993.3 17,704.4          56     100
Plhsical Contingencies                                    4,242.8   5P382.5  9,625,2          56        7    565.7    717.7  1,283.4         56       7
Price Continenties                                       23,94463  25,369.4  49,315.7         51       37    827.1    832.9  1,660.0         SO       9
Total FROJECT COSTS                                         86P022.9 105,701.3 191,724.2         55      144  9,104.0 11,543.9 20,647.8         56     117
:-r_r=r:==rr:=:re=_:s-:=:::: r===-r--   =                                    =:=-.---



- 26 -
B.   Proposed Financing Arrangements
5.02      The proposed Bank loan of U$14.0 million represents 73Z of the
total project costs, net of duties and Laxes (68? of total costs) and covers
100Z of the foreign exchange costs of US$11.5 million plus 282 of local costs
amounting to US$2.5 million. 4/ The loan would be for a 20-year period,
including a five-year grace period, carrying the standard variable interest
rate. The remaining amount (72Z of local costs or 31? of total costs) would
be financed from FGN contributions as well as revenues generated by NSS from
seed certification charges and revenues form sales of foundation seed, plus
user fees from PQS.
5.03      In order to minimize the risk of underfunding, which might be
caused by lower than anticipated income from foundation seed sales, seed
certification fees, and user fees from PQS, a conservative estimate of only
50? of anticipated revenues from NSS and PQS has been taken.  This would
reduce NSS and PQS projected revenues to about US$0.5 million and US$1.2
million respectively, with the remainder (US$4.9 million) coming as FGN
contributions. This does not imply that FGN contribution would be a fixed
percentage of costs as indicated in this financing plan; the FGN share of
annual costs would vary dependent upon the actual revenues generated by the
NSS and PQS. At negotiations assurances were obtained that the NSS and the
PQS would each open and maintain an account for the project in a local
commercial bank to receive project contributions from FGN which would be paid
into these accounts quarterly in advance, except for the first year's
contribution of which 502 would be paid in advance as an initial deposit.
Payment of initial deposit would be a condition of effectiveness.
5.04      The NSS and PQS would also establish, in a commercial bank, Special
Accounts, denominated in US dollars, into which the Bank would make initial
deposits of US$0.2 million for NSS and US$0.1 million for PQS, respectively.
The initial deposits would be used to prefinance goods and services provided
under the project. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
4/Financing of local costs would be essential for key operations (such as
working capital, reserve stock funds, training and research) for which
inadequate and/or delayed release of funds could jeopardize the project.



- 27 -
Proiect Financing Plan
(USS Million)
IBRD       FGN       NSS       PQS    TOTAL
Civil Works                    1.7         0.2        -         -     1.9
Technical Assistance
Long-Term                    1.5          -                   -     1.5
Short-Term                   0.4         _          _        -      0.4
Training
Overseas                     1.4          -         -        -      1.4
Local                        1.1          -         -         -     1.1
Seed Research                  0.7          -         _        _      0.7
Machinery/Equipment            4.5         0.5        -         -     5.0
Vehicles                       2.3         0.2        -        -      2.5
Incremental Working Capital   0.2           -         -         -     0.2
Reserve Seed Stock Fund        0.3          -         -         -     0.3
Staff Salaries/Allowances       -          1.0        -         -     1.0
Operation/Maintenance           -          2.2       0.5      0.5    3.2
Other Costs                     _          0.7      _         0.7    1.4
Total Project Costs     14.0         4.9       0.5       1.2   20.6
Percentage               68.0       24.0        2.0      6.0  100.0
C.   Procurement
5.05      All procurement under the loan would be made in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines for this activity.   Goods estimated to cost an amount
equivalent to US$60,000 or more, but less than US$500,000 would be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding and under
procedures satisfactory to the Bank with an aggregate amount not exceeding
US$1.0 million. Goods estimated to cost an amount equivalent to US$60,000,
or less, may be procured through prudent shopping with total value of such
items aggregating not more than US$0.8 million.   Imported items such as
vehicles, equipment, farm machinery and spare parts estimated to cost an
equivalent of US$500,000 or more and totalling US$5.0 million would be
procured under ICB procedures.   Civil Works contracts totalling US$1.7
million made up of small and scattered contracts, would be awarded using LCB
procedures.   All procurement under LCB (goods and civil works) will be
required to incorporate advertisements in local papers, public bid "pening,
awarded to the lowest bidder on the basis of the predisclosed criterion, no
local preferences would apply and foreign bidders would not be precluded from
participation.   These arrangements would be agreed at negotiations.   The
research contract with an international institution and technical assistance
consisting of consultancy services and internationally-recruited experts
would be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines. All bidding packages
and contract awards for goods and services estimated at US$500,000 or more
equivalent would be subject to prior review by the Bank. The remaining



- 28 -
contracts would be subject to post-review after contract awards.  A summary
of procurement arrangements is given below; the amounts to be financed by the
Bank are quoted in parenthesis.
Amounts and Method of Procurement
(US$ Million)
ICB         LCB           Others          Total
Civil Works                      -          1.9              -              1.9
(1.7)                          (1.7)
Technical Assistance             -            -             1.9             1.9
_           _            (1.9)            (1.9!
Training                         -            -             2.5            2.5
(2.5)           (2.5)
Seed Research                    -            -             0.7            0.7
(0.7)           (0.7)
Vehicles/Machinery and          5.0         1.7            0.8             7.5
Equipment                    (5.0)        (1.0)         (0-8)           (6.8)
Incremental Local
Salaries/Allowances             -           -             1.0             1.0
Operation/Maintenance            -           -              3.2            3.2
Incremental Working Capital    -             -              0.2            0.2
(0.2)          (0.2)
Reserve Seed Stock               -            -             0.3             0.3
(0.3)          (0.3)
Other Costs                                                1.4             1.4
TOTAL                     5.0          3.6           12.0            20.6
(5.0)       r2.7)         ( 6.3)          (34.0
D.   Disbursements
5.06      The IBRD  loan of US$14.0 million would be disbursed over a
five-year period from the second quarter of FY90 to the first quarter of
FY95.  Though the rate of disbursement associated with area development
projects in Nigeria covers a longer period (usually 7 years), a faster
disbursement pace could be expected under this project, since the main
implementing agencies, NSS and PQS are already operational and are expected



- 29 -
to utilize the funds more quickly. The proposed allocation of loan proceeds
and the disbursement percentages are summarized below:
Summary of Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
Amount              Percentage of Expenditure
Categorl                     Allocated                  to be financed
1.  Civil Works                 1.0                100! of foreign and
90? of local
2.  Vehicles, Machinery         5.0                10OZ of foreign and
and Equipment                                  90? of local
3.  Technical Assistance        1.7                100?
4.  Training                    2.-                10CZ
5.  Seed Research               0.6                100Z
6.  Incremental Working        0.2                 1001
Capital
7.  Reserve Seed Stock          0.3                100! of local
expenditures
8.  PQS Stage II                1.6 a/             1002 of foreign and
902 of local for
civil works
9.  Unallocated                 1.3
Total               14.0
ai   Covers civil works and purchase of vehicle, machinery E id equipment for
the second stage upgrading of Post-entry Technical S..pport and Port
Inspectorate Services of PQS.
5.07      Disbursements of the IBRD loan would be fully documented, except
for expenditures under contracts va.lued below US$60,000 equivalent, which
would  be  made  against  Statement  of  Expenditures  (SOEs).   All  IBBD
expenditures less than the US$20,000 limit would be financed from the Special
Accounts. The same limit would apply to requests for direct payments.



- 30 -
E.   Accounts. Auditing and Reporting Reauirements
5.08      NSS and PQS would maintain financial records in accordance with
sound accounting practices to reflect their operations and financial
positions, and would have the accounts (Account Nos. 1, 2 and SOEs) audited
annually by independent auditors  acceptable to the Bank.   The audited
accounts and the auditor's report, including the long form report, and a
statement as to whether or not Bank funds have been used for their intended
purpose would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the
fiscal year. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
5.09      NSS and PQS would prepare annual budgets and work programs wh.ch
would be based on appraisal estimates and as might be amended periodically.
The budget would adequately portray all project activities by cost centers
and provide the basis for a proper management information system. At the
time the annual work program and budgets are prepared, NSS and PQS would also
prepare a procurement program for the ensuing year with detailed information
on cuantities, sources of funds, timing and procurement methods by
expenditure categories. These programs would be submitted to the Bank along
with the annual budgets. NSS and PQS also would prepare quarterly reports
and management accounts, showing projected and actual expenditures and
revenues to date, copies of which would be sent to FDARD and the Bank. The
management accounts would contain key information, including sources and use
of funds, processing plant capacity particularly on utilization, inventories,
profitability and turnover.   Assurances on the above were obtained at
negotiations.
F.   Mid-Term and Completion Reviews
5.10      Two separate joint mid-term reviews would be une rtaken with the
Bank and Government participation during the second and third years of the
project.  APMEU would also participate in both the reviews on behalf of the
Government. The first review, to be undertaken by independent consultants
during the second year of the project would focus on PQS as the implementing
agency. This would include an assessment of the Technical Support Services,
including agreements entered into by PQS with other national and
internatlonal  institutions.   Effectiveness of the Pre-Entry Inspection
Station and Export Certification Units would be assessed in terms of volume
of plant samples handled and "customer" satisfaction. Stage II upgrading of
Technical Support and Port Inspectorate Services would be contingent on the
findings of this review (para 4.16 ii a and b). Progress in implementing
the staff rationalization and development plan would also be the subject of
mid-term review (para 4.16(iii)). The second review, during the third year
of the project, would focus on the NSS with particular emphasis on seed
pricing policies and private sector development. Special attention would be
given to the financial sustainability of the project, e.g. performance of
foundation seed operations and success of the seed certification program.
Recommendations of this review would provide the basis for necessary changes
for implementation to be considered during the second half of the prrject.
After completion of the project, NSS and PQS, with the help of APMEU, would
prepare a Project Completion Report, analyzing project implementation and its
impact in relation to stated objectives, and submit to the Bank within six



- 31 -
months of the loan closing. Assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Organization and Management
6.01      The responsibility for project implementation would be with FMAWRRD
which, through FDARD, would exercise overall control and coordination.
Execution of different components would be undertaken by the concerned line
agencies,  principally Research Institutes,  NSS, PQS, ADPs,  FASCOMs and
participating  private  sector  enterprises.   A  Project  Management  and
Monitoring Committee (PMKC) would be established to coordinate project
implementation and related actions. PMMC would be chaired by the Director,
FDARD, with members including the Deputy Director, NSS, the Deputy Director,
PQS, the Head of the Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU), the
Director  of Agriculture  Sciences  Research,  FMST,  representatives  from
Research Institutes (two nominated in rotation), ADPs (one selected by ADPs
in rotation) and the private sector nominees (one nominated by the Seed
Industry   and   Growers   Association).    PMKC   would monitor   project
implementation, review disbursement of project furv's, and approve recruitment
of the technical assistance consultants and review their performance
reports.   The PMMC would meet as necessary with the NSS providing the
secretariat and executive support. NSS would also approve the release of
funds to Research Institutes.   PQS would approve the releast of funds
allocated to the quarantine component.   At negotiations assurances were
obtained that the arrangements for project management specified above would
be implemented.
B.   Seed Sub-Sector
6.02      The National Seed Council (NSC) to be established to Jrovide policy
guidance, would ensure that the seed program conforms to national priorities
and provide the benefit of advice from major Nigerian interests involved with
the seed industry. The Chairman of NSC would be the Minister of FMAWRRD and
its members would includes  the Director General, FMAWRRD, the Director
General of the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture; the Director,
FDARD; the Director of the Division of Agricultural Science of the FMST; four
representatives of the State Ministries of Agriculture and Natural Resources
or State Seed Coordination Committees (one from each zone on a rotational
basis); four representatives of the Nigeria Seed Industry and Growers
Association; two representatives of the farmers associations and cooperatives
of Nigeria; one representative of the Federal Ministry of Finance; one member
from a private lending institution; and the Director of the NSS, who would
serve as the member Secretary. Whenever required other members would be co-
opted by the Chairman of NSC. With such broad representation, the Council
would ensure that the seed development priorities conform to national goals
for agricultural development.   The NSC would also:   (a) approve variety
registration and release and publish lists of approved varieties; (b)
establish quality standards for different categories of seed; (c) monitor



- 32 -
inter-state trading of seed through specification of ecological conditions
for seed production of specific crops; (d) develop a pricing policy to
promote financially sustainable seed industry; and (e) advise the national
research system of the changing patterns of seed demand and farmer needs.
To carry out these functions, the NSC would set up appropriate committees.
The NSC would meet as necessary, but at least twice a year. The NSS would
provide the executive and secretarial support.
6.03      While formal establishment of the Council would need to await
promulgation of the Seed Decree, it was agreed at appraisal that the
suggested members of the Council would be brought together as an informal
committee immediately to start providing guidance to the Government on seed-
related issues such as pricing policy. As promulgation of the Seed Decree
is now expected by December 1989 (para 3.14), assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the National Seed Council would be made operational by
September 30, 1990.
6.04      Research Institutes.  The Research Institutes involved under the
project would implement the variety testing and breeder seed production
activities. On-Station Variety Trials to be implemented by the FMST's NCRP
teams (para. 4.05) along with estimated budgets would be prepared ty
coordinators of respective crops.  NCRPs would also evaluate privately
developed varieties.   The proposed programs, together with the previous
year's findings, would be reviewed in an annual meeting organized and chaired
by the Director, Agricultural Sciences Research, FMST, and attended by all
the Coordinators, key public and private scientists and the Director of NSS.
After the meeting, reports on variety trials, summarizing the test results
and work plan for the coming season would be prepared by coordinators and
distributed to all interested parties.   These reports would also carry
recommendations  for  on-farm  variety  testing  trials.   Based  on  these
recommendations, a program of On-farm variety testing and test packages
comprised of seeds and other inputs would be prepared by the Development and
Technical Support Unit of the Seed Indc!stry and Skill Development Section of
the NSS in consultation with NCRPs, FACU and the ADPs.  The test program
would be implemented by the On-Farm Adaptive Research (OFAR) teams of ADPs.
Private seed enterprises would also be able to organize their own on-farm
variety trials. Findings from on-farm variety trials would be reviewed in
regional meetings organized by NSS Specialists and attended by relevant NCRP
teams, NSS, ADP, FACU private breeders and other interested parties.
Findings from crop specific NCRP and NSS/ADP variety trials would be
submitted to the Variety Registration and Release Committee for review and
approval for release. Following these regional meetings and in the light of
demand put forward by the ADPs, FASCOM, and the private sector, NSS and
Research Institutes would prepare a plan for breeder seed production of
publicly bred varieties. All agreements between various parties would be
confirmed in writing. At negotiations, FDARD provided the Bank with a copy
of the statement confirming agreement with the Director, Agriculture
Sciences, FMST, on the variety registration and release procedures outlined
above and at negotiations assurances were obtained that these arrangements
would be made operational by May 31, 1990.
6.05      The  National  Seed  Service.   The  proposed  organization  and
reallocation of staff would help to make the NSS more service-oriented and



- 33 -
increase its interface with the private sector, including outgrowers,
seedsmen, dealers, and seed companies. It would divest its involvement in
certified seed production and marketing and phase out direct farming
activities. The revised organization of the NSS is given in Annex 8, Charts
C-2 and C-3 and its proposed responsibilities are described in para 4.04(ii).
Ultimately, all the sections of the NSS would be headed by a staff at
Assistant  Director  (GL15)  level.   Additional  staff  required  for  the
strengthening of quality control and certification activities would be
selected from within the NSS, provided necessary training and phased into the
jobs as the workload increases.   Similarly,   with the exception of the
Economist and Statistician, all other incremental staff for the Seed Industry
and Skill Development Section, including the Head of Section, would be
selectet from within FHAWRRD including the NAFPP staff, and would be provided
with any necessary training before commencing their jobs. The NSS would
continue to retain many of its old functions, e.g., administration,
foundation seed production and processing, and the present staff holding
these  functions  would  continue  in  their  jobs.   However,  revised job
descriptions for all NSS positions would be prepared to improve the
operational efficiency of the establishment.  These jobs would also be
regraded in relation to skill requirements. The Director of the NSS, helped
by the heads of various sections and technical assistance staff to be
financed under the project, would be responsible for this task. Taken in
aggregate, these job descriptions would describe NSS's operational system.
Most importantly, they would provide clear criteria for assessing potential
recruits and making judgments about staff performance and promotional
aspects. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that this task would be
completed by December 31, 1990.
6.06      Planning  and  Coordination  of  Breeder  and  Foundation  Seed
Production. Because of the long lead time involved, planning for breeder
and foundation seed production would start 18-24 months in advance. Demand
projections would stem ftom the seed production programs and sales of
publicly bred varieties achieved by ADPs, FASCOMs and private companies. To
collate the necessary information, the Seed Production Section of the NSS
would organize annual seed production and planning meetings at the regional
level to help decide on the quantities of the different varieties to be
produced. These meetings would be attended by Research Institutes, ADPs,
FASCOMs, and the private sector. The NSS would follow these meetings by
negotiating production contracts with Research Institutes (breeder seed) and
contract growers (foundation seed). Key considerations in developing such
contracts are given in Project File Working Paper C-5. The NSS would locate
one staff member at each institute to assist in breeder seed production. In
the case of foundation seed, the number of contract growers would be kept to
a minimum to reduce the inherent inefficiencies of large numbers of farmers
undertaking seed growing. The NSS would also be responsible for distributing
information on the quantities of seed produced and the status of the reserve
stocks of breeder and foundation seed. The support provided by IITA to the
national seed program through provision of breeder and foundation seed
supplies has been critical to the progress made to date. Continued support
of this nature is seen as extremely beneficial to the Nigerian seed industry.
6.07      The State Seed System:  Agriculture Development Proiects (ADPs)
and Farmers Suvvly Companies (FASCOMs). ADPs now occupy a key position in



- 34 -
the agricultural development programs at the state level. Under the Bank
financed projects, these agencies have developed an effective organization
and management system and would continue to play a major role in providing
technical  support  through  extension  and  adaptive  research.    Seed
multiplication would over time move into the private sector. However, to
improve availability of quality seed and to promote managemen. of public
sector seed production, processing and marketing functions on sound
commercial lines, a restructuring of the state seed system is proposed as
followst (a) each state would establish a State Seed Coordinating Committee
to guide  planning,  supply and use  of  seed.    It would also oversee
implementation of national seed policies, promote private sector development
and monitor progress of seed programs. This committee would be chaired by
the Commissioner and would have representation from ADPs, FASCOMs, private
sector and Research Institutes or universities directly involved in
supporting research activities in the area; (b) responsibility for certified
seed production through contract growers and seed processing, along with key
staff, would be transferred to FASCOMs, where they exist, or to the
commercial 'arm' of ADPs. It is proposed that initially the five northern
states, Kano, Bauchi, Kaduna, Katsina and Sokoto, where independent FASCOMs
are already in existence, would adopt this system.  In other areas, ADPs
would use contract growers to produce certified seed until the private seed
enterprises develop; (c) planning of seed requirements and technical support
services for all aspects of seed production and processing to private seed
enterprises, FASCOMs and contract growers would be provided by the seed units
of ADPs working alongside Seed Development Specialists to be seconded by the
NSS. These seed units would also be responsible for liaising, through the
NSS, with NCRPs and for planning the on-farm variety testing programs for
implementation by OFAR teams of ADPs; (d) to ensure optimum capacity
utilization and to encourage new entrepreneurs, processing plants owned by
ADPs, would provide a custom processing service to private seed enterprises
and be eventually transferred, through outright purchase or long-term lease,
to FASCOMs or seed enterprises; and (e) to ensure wider availability of
quality seed in rural areas, FASCOMs (and A'DPs) would develop a network of
private retailers.   The NSS has been using pre-negotiation stages for
developing a consensus on the proposed policy, and the Bank's agreements with
individual States as part of the project restructuring and upcoming closing
dates under the ADPs also generally reflects the proposed seed system. 5/
6.08       Private Seed Industry Development. Two actively operating private
seed companies exist today, but the long-term objective of the Government is
to shift all certified and other commercial seed production to the private
sector.   The actions proposed under the project to help achieve this
objective,  are given in para 4.04 (iii).   The NSS would catalyze this
development by clearly outlining the new policies  and helping growers
interested  in  starting new  small-scale  seed  enterprises.    Such  seed
enterprises are much more likely to meet the present needs of the country and
5/ This waf agreed with Kano and Bauchi during the last extension
agreement in December '88 and January 89 respectively, and with
Kaduna/Katsina during final discussions in May '89. This will be confirmed
with Sokoto during the forthcoming extension discussion in June '89 and
MSADP I during the FY'90 redesign.



- 35 -
offer many advantages over large companies. These include: flexibility in
developing operations that are more responsive to local needs and can be
added to existing farm or business operations with low initial capital outlay
and reduced risks. The small-scale enterprises to be established under the
project, would serve to demonstrate the viability of such operations which
would attract private sector entrepreneurs. They would also serve as sources
of information to NSS staff in their efforts to assist other investors to
prepare proposals for possible financing by lending institutions under other
schemes such as the recently approved World Bank project for Private Small-
and Medium-Scale Enterprise Development (Loan No. 2995-UNI) andfor other
similar sources.
6.09       The dealers--in large numbers--will also be an important element
in the new seed system. Their participation would be encouraged by ADPs and
FASCOMs and provided training to do an effective job of selling seed. They
can complement national and state extension services by providing information
to farmers about planting and crop management practices. Dealers would be
provided adequate commissions by building this in the pricing structure of
seed.
6.10       Seed Associations.   The NSC and the NSS, would encourage the
development of a Nigerian Seed Industry and Growers Association. States with
major seed production activities may also encourage association development.
These associations would contribute to the flow of information among members,
thus, strengthening operations of the seed industry.
6.11       Seed Sub-Sector Development Plan.   The initial step in the
preparation of the Development Plan during the first year of the project
would be a national seed workshop. The workshop would review: (i) the seed
sub-sector policy; (ii) roles to be played by the public and private sector
agencies; (iii) mechanisms for transition to greater private sector
participation; (iv) credit needs and sources; (v) financial, physical, and
human resources needed; and (vi) goals to be achieved over the next five to
ten years. Working groups would be organized to develop guidelines dealing
with various components of the seed sub-sector.  The drafting of the Seed
Sub-Sector Development Plan would be undertaken by the Seed Industry
Development Advisor assisted by the NSS staff and consultants as required.
It is expected that the Plan would take about six months to complete. In the
fourth year of the project a second workshop would be held to assess
progress, consider revisions in the plan, and identify specific actions
needed to achieve the goals of the sub-sector.
C.         Plant Quarantine Service
6.12       Institutional Arrangements.   The Plant Quarantine Consultative
Committee would be chaired by the Director, FDARD, with representation from
research institutes, industry organizatians, importers, exporters and other
major clients.   PQS which would provide the secretariat.   The Technical
Advisory Committee, to be chaired by the Head of PQS, would have a core of
designated entomologists, nematologists, and pathologists from research
institutes and universities as its members. It would also co-opt any other
scientist that may be required to meet the special circumstances of each



- 36 -
case. This committee would serve strictly as a source of biological advice
and would not be encumbered by policy, administratve or decision-making
functions. This Committee would meet as necessary and the PQS would provide
the  secretariat.    At negotiations,  assurances were  obtained that  the
Quarantine Consultative and Technical Advisory Committees would be
established and made operational by July 31, 1990.
6.13       Organization and Management of PQS:   The Headquarters Support
Services would be headed by an Assistant Director. Officers, in charge of
the Training Center and Information and Public Relations, would prepare
annual work programs for their respective units. The proposed Permit Unit
would be managed by a regulatory officer and would issue permits for all
uprecedented' matters (based on existing guidelines, manuals, policy
statements  and  regulations),  but would  seek  recommendations  from  the
Biological Assessment Program for any regulatory decisions that were not
"precedented'.
6.14       Post-entry  Technical  and Diaanostic  Support  Services.    The
Diagnostic and Identification Program headed by an Assistant Director.  The
staff in thiE program would assist 4n the training of the PQS staff in the
following: (i) survey programs; (ii) early confirmation of early reports of
the occurrence of a new pest or pathogen; (iii) research and method
development in the identification of pests and pathogens; and (iv) seed
health testing for imports and exports. The Biological Assessment Program
woulds (i) provide biological input for management decisions; (ii) update
regulations to meet changes in the world distribution of pests and pathogens;
(iii) provide pest risk analysis that management can use to plan the
allocation of resources to the areas of highest risk; and (iv) advise on the
entry status of articles or issuing of permits for unprecedented events.
Specialists would be available to assist in training and in diagnostic
activities.
6.15       Port Inspectorate Services.  Like the other two sections, the Port
Inspectorate would also be headed by an Assistant Director. The Pre-entry
inspection stationing would be staffed by a professional entomologist and a
pathologist and would be responsible for on-the-job training of inspectors
in detection of pests and pathogens on imports or exports and provide
technical backup identification and diagnostic service within the zone. To
improve the service provided to exporters, each zone would also establish
Export Certification Units headed by an experienced inspector supported by
one or two junior inspectors.   These would be located where high volume
export crops are grown.  When not involved in export certification work,
trained staff of these units would undertake surveys on selected pests and
pathogens as specified by Headquarters.
6.16       Since plant quarantine officers cannot inspect each and every
piece of international baggage, voluntary compliance backed up by penalties
for violations and development of "passenger profiles" to select passengers
for baggage inspection would be the keystone to successful enforcement. A
system to develop profiles would be introduced for future use. Provision of
separate counters for agricultural inspections would facilitate the work of
inspectors and speed up the process. Awareness of the Nigerian quarantine
regulations amongst travellers would be improved through publicity--and re-



- 37 -
introduction of a passenger declaration form. Nigerian quarantine officials
would visit counterpart port operations in other countries to identify what
modern innovations of baggage inspection could be used under Nigerian
conditions.
6.17       The Service would maintain a high visibility to deter unauthorized
activities at border crossings. As Nigeria already has many of the pests and
pathogens that occur in the neighboring West African countries, the main risk
is presented by prohibited materials of West African origin or from overseas
which may be imported in adjacent countries. Intensity of supervision and
level of staffing would be greater at the southern crossings because of the
proximity to seaports in the neighboring countries. As the degree of risk
is directly proportional to the volume of consignment being brought into the
country, the focus of inspection would be on commercial vehicles bringing
large quantities of high-risk unauthorized materials.
D.    Technical Assistance and Training
6.18       Seed Sub-Sector.  Shert-term consultants and long-term technical
assistance staff would be attached to the NSS. They would act as advisors
to Nigerian officl als, instead of filling line management or executive posts.
The only exception to this approach would be the Financial Controller who
would have a trainee counterpart. This is because the Government agencies
in the past have had difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified
Financial Controllers due to higher incentives in the private sector and
shortage of suitably qualified applicants. A Financial Controller and a
local counterpart would be recruited not later than July 1990. Training of
the counterpart would be commenced immediately after recruitment.   The
Financial Controller would be recruited initially for two and a half years,
but as the project progresses, his duties would shift from performing a line
function to advising the local counterpart trained under the project. The
exact role of the Financial Controller would be reviewed and agreed between
the Bank and the Government at the time of the renewal of the contract for
che additional two years.
6.19       Planning the short-term and long-term training for NSS staff would
be based on actual needs and reviewed annually. A systematic evaluation of
needs would be made to determine which staff members would undergo training
and where.   Heads of sections and regional officers would meet at least
annually with the Director of the NSS and the Training Officer to agree on
the training plan a year in advance. The technical assistance advisors would
participate in courses held in Nigeria and assist, as needed.  The Director
of the NSS and the Training Officer would also discuss training requirements
and potential candidates to be trained from agencies, other than the NSS,
with the State Seed Coordinating Committees (ADPs and FASCOMs), universities,
and the Seed Growers and Industry Association.  The Training Officer would
prepare schedules for courses and a brochure listing various short courses
to be offered by the NSS.  Concerned public and private sector agencies would
be invited to nominate candidates for training at least three months prior
to the start of a course. Plans for implementing training courses would be
discussed with interested parties, e.g., universities, the IITA, and others
depending on the nature of the course, the instructional staff required, and



- 38 -
where the courses are to be held. Courses would provide as much practical
training as possible with a view to meeting the current requirements of the
public and the private seed agencies. Overseas training programs would be
prepared by the Director of the NSS and the technical advisors. The training
program developed through the project can serve as an example to emulate by
other countries in the region and the NSS may eventually be able to offer
some training opportunities for them.  From time to time, IITA has provided
a few specialized training courses for seed technologist in the region. IITA
management has shown willingness to continue these efforts wherever possible
for the benefit of Nigeria and other countries in the region.
6.20       Plant Quarantine Service.  Technical strength of the PQS needs
considerable strengthening both through recruitment and training.  Local
short-term training to cover a basic quarantine course would be provided by
the PQS's own training center. Overseas study tours would be offered to
senior staff to strengthen management and specialized technical skills. An
annual training program would be prepared by the Training Officer and the
Head of the PQS would agree phasing to minimize disruption. Internationally
recruited advisors would undertaken long-term technical assistance for 60
staff-months to fill skill gaps in specialized areas of post-entry quarantine
virology and current quarantine management and operational procedures. Terms
of reference for these two posts are given in Project File Working Paper C-
3. In addition to the short-term Financial Management Advisor, the project-
financed NSS Financial Controller would also support the financial activities
of the PQS.  Other short-term consultants would be engaged for specific
areas, such as advice on design and location of fumigation facilities and
training in pesticide application techniques, especially fumigants.
6.21       At negotiations,  assurances were obtained that the long-term
internationally-recruited technical assistance staff needed to strengthen
the NSS and the PQS would be engaged no later than December 31, 1990 in
accordance with the Bank guidelines.
E.    Linkages with Research and Extension
6.22       Seed Sub-Sector.  Efficient and effective mechanisms for meeting
farmer's need for good quality seed and for transferring appropriate seed
technology to farmers through extension service would be the key to the
successful seed program. At present, the NSS's direct linkages with research
institutes and ADPs largely revolve around procurement and sale of breeder
and foundation seed.  Proposed involvement of NSS in the variety testing,
registration and release process would strengthen its linkages with agencies
under FMST including research institutes.  Funding for upgrading of training
facilities and seed technology research would enhance its linkages with the
universities.
6.23       The establishment of the State Seed Coordinating Committees and
assignment of the NSS Seed Development Specialists to seed units of ADPs
would considerably strengthen linkages with the state seed system, in
particular the extension services of ADPs. The NSS Development Specialist
would also participate in selected Monthly Technology Review Meetings (MTRMs)
organized by the extension service, and jointly with ADPs' Seed Technology



- 39 -
Subject Matter Specialist, provide training to extension staff in the state
and develop educational and promotional material to support the objectives
of the seed programs for the area. Annual seed production planning meetings,
to be organized by NSS on the regional level 'rith participation from research
and  extension  specialists,  would  further  strengthen  links  between
participating agencies. The workshops will be organized under the National
Seed Council's sponsorship to ti) bring together research, extension,
university, NSS, and the private seed industry leadership to update the
technical knowledge of those attending; (ii) assess the spread and use of
good seed of improved varieties in different parts of the country; (iii)
review ti-e impact of the seed programs; and (iv) consider additional
mechanisws for improving linkages among the participating agencies.
6.24       Plant Quarantine  Service.   Even though there are no direct
operational links between the PQS and the research system or the
universities, it does rely on technical support from these organizations.
In return, it provides an essential service to both the national and
international (IITA, ICRISAT) research institutions by facilitating imports
of plant material (germplasm) for use in research programs leading to
production of new varieties for Nigerian agriculture. Similarly, the future
development of the seed industry, including that of the private sector, would
be influenced by the ability of the PQS to quickly and efficiently process
seed material imported either for direct sale or for use in the de'elopment
of new varieties. Therefore, rebular contact between the PQS, universities,
research institutes and the seed industry would be strengthened through
establishment of the Technical Advisory Committee (para 4.16 (a)) and regular
meetings with the scientific community.
F.    Implementation Schedule
6.25       Seed Sub-sector.   During the first year of the project, the
emphasis would be on the establishment of essential policy measures
including:  formation of the NSC, modification of present institutional
responsibilities and associated organizational changes, official adoption of
seed legislation, introduction of seed pricing policy and commencement of the
first stage of the demand survey. Other early activities would include: (i)
commencement of variety development and testing program; (ii) the NRCRI7s
rapid seed yam multiplication program's joint initiation with an overseas
institution; (iii) planning meeting for breeder and foundation seed
production along with finalization of seed production contract documents for
foundation and certified seed production; (iv) recruitment of incremental
local staff and technical assistance specialists and local staff with
specialized skills; (v) preparation of tender documents and ordering of
vehicles and laboratory equipment; (vi) preparation of building construction
and rehabilitation plans; (vii) preparation of a training program for the
duration of the project; and (viii) holding the National Workshop on the Seed
Sub-Sector Development Plan.   Seed testing laboratories and processing
facilities at the NSS would be made progressively operational with completion
of work scheduled for year 3. Commencement of a study to determine optimum
design and upgrading work necessary to improve storage facilities would be
done during years 2 and 3. Small-to-medium scale seed enterprises would be
established during the first three years of the project.  Seed production



- 40 -
targets would be achieved at full development, i.e., in the fifth year of the
project.
6.26       PQS.  During the first year of project, reorganization of the
service would be completed along with establishment of consultative and
technical  advisory  committees.    Technical  assistance  specialists  and
essential incremental staff would be recruited by July 1990. Rehabilitation
of a post-entry station and other facilities at the Headquarters in Ibadan
and of the field stations would be phased in, commencing during the second
year of the project. Training programs for the duration of the project would
be prepared and implementation commenced during the first year. For the two
new activities--Pre-Entry Station and zonal Export Certification Units--
implementation in one zone would commence during the second year.  If the
experience from the pilot program is positive, establishment of facilities
in the remaining three zones would be phased from the third year onwards.
VII. DEMAND. MARKETING. PRICES AND FINANCIAL ANALYSES
A.    Demand
7.01       Seed.   To date, no reliable information on actual demand for
improved seed exists.  Seed production figures differ significantly from
actual sales because, in many instances, seed has not been available when
needed and/or quality has been poor. For instance, in 1986 NSS reported an
output of about 7,000 tons of maize, rice and cowpea seed, but it is not
known how much of this was actually sold to growers.   During project
implementation, a demand survey would be conducted and NSS would coordinate
planning activities at the national level, based on findings of this survey
to ensure that supply is demand driven. Terms of reference for the survey
are given in Project File Working Paper C-5.
7.02       Given the unreliability of the existing data on demand for
improved seed, projecting demand for the high quality seed of new varieties,
at prices reflecting full cost recovery, is somewhat speculative.
Nevertheless, newly introduced varieties, especially of rice and maize, are
finding increasing acceptance by farmers.  This trend would be further
strengthened by improvements under the project,  including:   (a) a more
rigorous selection of improved varieties in relation to agro-ecological
conditions; (b) implementation of certification and quality control measures
on a national scale leading to a better quality product; (c) increased seed
production and marketing capacity with private involvement; (d) better
storage facilities at all stages of multiplication; (e) an aggressive program
for promoting the use of improved varieties and good quality seed; and (f)
an increase in sales outlets with incentive commissions, particularly,
because of private sector participation. By full project development (PY5),
incremental output of good quality certified and other commercial seed is
estimated to be about 14,700 tons. This would more than double the current
level of seed production with a much higher proportion of certified seed of
high yielding varieties than is the case at present.



-  41  -
7.03       Plant Quarantine. Demand for plant quarantine service would arise
from: (a) imports of germplasm and improved varieties for local adaptation;
and (b) export of agricultural produce.   With a well established seed
industry, plant material imports are expected to rise significantly beyond
current levels. Available data from PQS shows that between 1975 and 1986
over 63,000 plant selections/varieties from about 82 different agricultural
crops and plant types were imported for research and crop production
purposes. With the abolition of Commodity Boards (especially for cocoa and
cotton), and devaluation of the Naira, better producer prices would lead to
increased exports: hence, higher demand for phytosanitary, warehouse and
field L.spection certificates. The reorientation of services provided by the
PQS under the project would increase their capacity to meet anticipated
increases in demand.
B.    Prices and Pricing Policy
7.04       In all the ADP's and FASCOMs engaged in seed production and
marketing, prices are set without due consideration for costs of production.
NSS prices were found to be between 20Z-302 below, or at best, equal to
commercial grain prices and did not include the operating costs of the
processing plants. This ad hoc pricing policy not only inhibits the entry
of the private sector into seed production of publicly-bred open-pollinated
varieties, but reduces the importance of quality seed. Most importantly,
such large sulsidies cannot be sustained by the government in the long term.
7.05       In order to provide good quality seed in a cost-effective manner,
the prices must reflect full-cost recovery,plus a reasonable margin for
profits.  At the foundation seed level, preliminary calculations based on
proposed investments in the project suggest a level around 2.4 times the
commercial grain price. Cost recovery,based on a prototype seed business
that is likely to prevail in the private sector, is a necessary condition for
long-term sustainability. This implies that calculated seed prices would
have to cover the full costs of production, including contract grower costs
(procurement cost), processing and storage costs, overhead and depreciation
charges, sales commissions plus adequate margins for profits. Based on this
assumption, preliminary estimates indicate that prices for certified seed of
rice, maize and cowpea varieties would be around 2.0 times commercial grain
prices. Under the proposed model, foundation and certified seed produced
through contract growers would receive sufficiently high premiums (302 and
202 for foundation and certified seed, respectively), above average annual
grain prices to ensure the needed quality standards and security of
procurement.  Illustrative seed prices at full cost recovery are given in
Project File Working Paper C-10.
7.06       The first stage of the pricing policy to recover the seed
procurement prices paid to contact growers and co3t of processing such seed
would be introduced as a condition of lean effectiveness involving the
following actions by NSS:
(a) adjustment of the foundation seed prices as stated above;



- 42 -
(b) agreement with at least three major seed producing states for the
introduction of the first stage for certified seed prices; and
(c) jointly with the ADPs of other seed producing states, prepare an
action plan with commitment to recover the first stage certified
seed costs no later than December 31, 1990;
(d) the second stage during which all transportation, storage,
overhead and depreciation costs over and above the first phase
costs recovery for foundation and certified seed would be
introduced by NSS and ADPs by December 31, 1991; and
(e) the third stage during which costs of retailing foundation and
certified seed and adequate margin for marketing would be added
by NSS and ADPs/FASCOMs by December 31, 1992.
It was further agreed that the Borrower shall ensure that the ADPs and
FASCOMs carry out the second and third stages of the pricing policy for the
recovery of cost of seed for items referred to above. The Bank would assist
in the implementation of this overall policy through its dialogue with
individual State ADPs during the course of operational activities covering
lending, supervision, and restructuring of existing projects.
C.    Marketing, Market Promotion and Market Information
7.07       Marketing of seeds is undertaken by both the public and private
vector agencies. The project would streamline seed marketing by eliminating
duplication of efforts at various stages of production. Breeder seed would
be marketed mainly by the NSS and/or the research institutes, while the major
portion of foundation seed would be marketed by the NSS. At the certified
seed level, ADPs would utilize their commercial arms, FASCOMs, where tney
exist, for wholesaling activities, leaving retailing largely to private
dealers. Private seed enterprises would develop their own marketing channels
either direct to farmers or through private dealers.
7.08       In view of the past low seed quality and prices, market promotion
would be necessary in the initial years of the project before full cost
recovery would be acceptable to farmers. Accordingly, extension service of
ADPs, with NSS support, would organize workshops and on-farm demonstrations
to create demand for good quality material. Certified seed produced under
the project would not reach the market until the third year, thus the first
two years would provide lead time for effective promotion of good quality
seed.
7.09       Systematic collection and dissemination of market information on
the production and marketing of seed through all stages of multiplication,
essential for maintaining a competitive environment in the industry. NSS
would compile such information through its Seed Industry and Skill
Development Section and distribute to all the concerned public and private
sector agencies. Similarly, in consultation with these agencies, information
on demand forecasts and stocks would also be collated and made available to
all interested parties to assist the seed production planning and
distribution process.



- 43 -
D.    Financial Results. Cost Recovery and Proiect Sustainabilitv
1.   Financial Analysis
7.10       Apart from the general increase in production of foodgrains which
would result from the use of improved seed by farmers, improved incomes are
also expected through the contract grower scheme at both the foundation and
certified seed levels.  Estimated financial gains to the contract growers
based on models for five open pollinated crops are summarized below:
Net Revenues a/
Seed Crop                 Foundation Seed                Certified Seed
Maize                         2,000                         1.700
Rice                          2,900                         2,600
Cowpea                       1,900                          1,700
Sorghum                      1,290                          1,100
Soybean                      2,180                          2,000
a/    The figures represent Naira revenues/ha, but each representative model
would cover a 5-ha farm. Differences in revenues between foundation
seed and certified seed arise from differences in premiums to contract
growers.
Procurement prices from outgrowers have beer, calculated with due
consideration for incremental costs associated with specialized activity of
growing good quality seed.  Rejects  (seeds which do not meet quality
standards of the contractor, but can be sold in the open market at about 502
of prevailing prices) have been assumed to be 10? of estimated yield. In
order to ensure security of procurement by the NSS (at foundation seed
level), ADPs and FASCOMs (at certified seed level), premiums would be
calculated over average annual prices, rather than harvest prices.  These
benefits, plus expected higher yields resulting from better inputs and
technical assistance, would provide sufficient incentives to private growers
to participate in contract growing under the project.
2.   Cost Recovery and Financial Sustainability
7.11       Seed.  The project would help establish a seed industry which is
both efficient and sustainable, the ultimate objective being one of providing
the proper institutional framework for rational participation by both public
and private sector agencies. Calculations based on data provided by the NSS
indicate that for the last three years the NSS operations have required an
average annual cash subsidy of M4.0 million (Project File Working Paper C-
11).  To reduce this deficit, the foundation seed prices would cover the full
costs of production, including the outgrower costs, processing and storage
costs, overhead and depreciation charges, plus adequate margins (152) for
profits.
7.12       In order to provide an efficient certification program in a
sustainable fashion, charges would be introduced for this service.  These
would include certification and revalidation charges for laboratory and field



- 44 -
tests.  The estimated costs of this service identifies the minimum set of
charges necessary for complete recovery of direct operational costs by full
development (PY5).   The implicit subsidies during the project years are
summarized in the ensuing table.  The certification fees levied would be
increased in three stages. First, the recovery of at least 25? af the full
operational costs would be introduced as a condition of effectiveneas. This
would be followed by the introduction of the second stage by December 31,
1992, which would recover 50? of the full operational costs. Finally, all
operational costs would be recovered in the third stage (PY5) by December 31,
1995. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations. Beyond the
fifth year, certification charges would have to be increased to recover
salaries as well if the certification service is to be self-supporting. To
ensure some measure of financial autonomy for operational erpenditures, as
well as minimize possible delays in the release of funds to NSS, separate
bank accounts (Revolving Funds) would be set up into which proceeds from
certification fees, and revenues from foundation seed sales would be kept.
This would be a condition of effectiveness.
Illustrative Certification Charges
Based on Likely Recovery of Full Operational Costs a/
Field                                              Full
Inspection                       Certification  Certification
Yield       Fees       Lab Test        Material          cost b/
CROP               (T/Ha)      ("/Ha)       (N/T)      (U/T)      (N/T)      (N/T)
Hybrid Maize       1.000        36.0        36.0         6.00     12.000      54.000
Composite Maize    1.800        24.0        13.333       1.200    12.000      26.533
Rlice              1.800        24.0        13.333       1.200    12.000      26.533
Cowpea             0.720        24.0        33.333       1.200    12.000      46.533
Sorghum            1.620        24.0        14.815       1.200    12.000     28.015
Soybean            1.350        24.0        17.778       1.200    12.000      30.978
a/ In 1989 prices; and
b/ This does not include revalidation charges which are estimated to be
25 N/ton applicable to 20? of the certified seed produced.



- 45 -
Direct Subsidy to the Certification Service Under
the Illustrative Certification Charges
('000 N)
PYl     PY2      PY3       PY4      PY5+   TOTAL
Including Salaries      1,124   1,043       936      810       667    4,580
Excluding Salaries        452     371       264      138        -     1,225
a/    Details of calculations are provided in Working Paper No. 13.
7.13       Plant Quarantine:  Cost-recovery measures would be adopted under
the projec._.. to ensure long-term financial sustainability.   The costs of
providing quarantine  and inspection  services have been  identified and
contributions required from FGN have also been determined.  User fees have
been estimated for the:   greenhouse processing of plants and germplasm;
laboratory procedures including seed health testing; and quarantine and
export inspection services performed outside of official working hours on
request from client.  These operations are not only costly by nature, but
also require prompt and uninterrupted supply of special chemicals, materials
and electric power to avoid loss of valuable imported germplasm. To ensure
operational continuity, therefore, a measure of financial autonomy for the
service would be established by setting up a separate bank account into which
proceeds of the user fees charged by PQS would be kept. Establishment of the
bank account would be a condition of effectiveness.
7.14       The ensuing table provides a summary of illustrative service
charges by activity, as well as the implicit subsidy level for each activity.
Over the five-year period revenues generated directly from user fees, plus
receipts from general laboratory/field inspections, as well as importlexport
certificates, would represent an average recovery rate of about 42? of direct
c?era.ional expenditures. This excludes salaries, and repair and maintenance
charges for vehicles, equipment and buildings.  Details of computation of
service charges and revenues are provided in the project file Working Papers
C-14 and C-15, and the illustrative fees are summarized below:
Illustrative
Activity                                    Unit         Fee
1. Laboratory Seed Health Testing         Variety        330
2. Glasshouse/Phytotron Testing           Variety        444
3. Irrigation/Plant Treatments
Small Package                        Package        110
Medium Package                       Package        220
Large Package                        Package        520
4. Tissue Culture                            Nos.        456
a/    Direct Operational Costs include material inputs, electricity, and
water. It does not include operational/maintenance costs of vehicles
and equipment, nor salaries and allowances.



- 46 -
3.    Financial Implications for the Federal Government
7.15       The financial burden on FGN would be minimized through the cost
recovery measures proposed under the project. Projected annual revenues from
foundation seed sales and PQS service charges are expected to peak at US$0.5
million and US$0.7 million, respectively, by full development (PYS). Under
a conservative assumption of realizing only 50X of projected revenues, this
would reduce FGN contribution to the project by US$1.7 million (or 8Z of
total project costs) over the five year period. After project completion,
recurrent and replacement costu associated with the entire investment program
would constitute an additional outlay of US$2.0 million per annum, US$1.1
million for PQS and US$0.9 million for NSS.   Taking revenues generated
through foundation seed sales, certification charges and user fees for
quarantine services into account, the incremental net annual outlay to FGN
would come down to US$0.8 million (US$0.4 million each for PQS and NSS).
Given the large potential impact of these services, e.g., on smallholder
productivity and on development of export markets, this level would be seen
consistent witl public expenditure priorities.
VIII. BENEFITS. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.    Benefits and Economic Justification
8.01       Seed.    The principal benefit of the project would be the
development of an appropriate institutional framework for establishing an
efficient seed industry, resulting from the rationalization roles and
responsibilities of the public sector agencies vis-a-vis private sector
participation.  Introduction of sound pricing policies and cost recovery
programs for services provided by NSS would minimize dependency on government
for financial support and lead to a more sustainable and competitive industry
after project completion.
8.02       On the production side, the major benefit would be the incremental
crop yields obtained by farmers through the use of good quality seed of
improved varieties. Assuming no change in current cultural practices or in
the level of use of other farm inputs, available research findings indicate
that the use of certified seed of improved varieties under the project would,
on average, result in a 10? increase above current levels as follows:



- 47 -
Incremental Yield        Certified Seed
Open Pollinated                Due to Certified Seed      Rate        Cost
Crops                        kg/ha       N/ha a/      ks/ha      N/ha b/
Composite Maize                   200          300          25          80
Rice                              200          420          50         210
Cowpea                             80          320          25         187.5
Sorghum                           140          182          10          29
Soybean                           140          308          50         220
a/ Based on certified seed prices at full cost recovery.
BJO3Based oAseun agcillcgvakagprixfes*.9Wltivated area by full development
year (PY5), the incremental annual output from year 5 would be 38,000 tons
maize, 12,350 tons rice, 6,400 tons cowpea, 12,600 tons sorghum, 1,400 tons
soybean. In economic terms, the incremental annual value of output would be
N46.2 million. An economic rate of return has been estimated under the
following assumptions: (a) all farm inputs included at full economic costs,
but net of transfer payments (taxes) to the economy; all other costs were
converted to border prices (Naira) using a standard conversion factor (SCF)
of 0.85; (b) all outputs valued at farmgate economic prices; for
internationally traded goods, this was derived from import parity prices, and
adjusted for transportation and other local costs.  For non-tradeables,
domestic retail prices were adjusted to border values by the use of the
conversion factor; and (c) incremental output from hybrid seeds have been
excluded since all hybrid material is assumed to be handled by the private
sector.
8.04       Based  on  these  assumptions,  the  preliminary  ERR  estimate,
excluding plant quarantine costs, is 411.  A lag of 2 years in project
benefits would reduce this to 252. It is only when the project costs go up
by 50X and benefits down by the same percentage that the rate of return falls
below the opportunity cost of capital (12Z). Such high ERRs are not uncommon
with seed projects especially as the cost of seed as a proportion of the
total crop budget is very small.
8.05       Plant Quarantine:  The principal benefit of the plant quarantine
component would be to minimize the chances of exotic pests, diseases or
noxious weeds of quarantine importance entering the country by blocking man-
made pathways. PQS has listed at least 452 foreign pests and diseases which
could pose serious problems for Nigerian agriculture, based on the extensive
damage they cause elsewhere. Even a single violation of plant quarantine
regulation, resulting in establishment of hazardous exotic c-op pest or
disease agent, could result in losses amounting to hundreds of million Naira
each year, not counting the millions that must be spent on research and
control, and possible damage to the environment.  For example, the recent
infiltration of the black Sigatoka disease has led to substantial yield
losses (up to 60X) for plantain and banana in infested areas.   It is



- 48 -
estimated that once the disease reaches all the plantain/banana producing
areas in Africa, output will decline from the existing level of about 18
million tons to between 5-9 million tons.   In the absence of disease-
tolerant cultivars this could create food security problems for about 60
million people, who depend on this crop for more than 252 of their
carbohydrate requirements. Similarly, the recent infiltration of the cassava
mealybug and green mite into Nigeria (and other African countries) and their
subsequent establishment, has resulted in extensive losses in production,
estimated to be about N50 million annually for the past decade.   Other
benefits of strengthening the plant quarantine program would includet (a)
support to crop improvement and breeding program through speedy and timely
clearance of exotic germplasm; (b) assistance to the developing seed industry
by facilitating the importation of healthy seeds of new and improved
varieties for local adaptation; and (c) assistance to exporters of
agricultural produce in meeting phytosanitary requirements of importing
countries.
8.06       Due to inherent uncertainties regarding the timing and value of
benefits and costs associated with the plant quarantine service, or the lack
of it, no attempt has been made to estimate an ERR for the quarantine
component. The plant quarantine program is essentially an insurance against
infiltration of foreign diseases of significant importance, with the annual
cost of running the service being the insurance premium paid by the country
each year.  In the absence of an effective quarantine service, chances of
pest or disease infiltration would be high and in the event that it happens,
costs to the nation would inclr-4e chemical control and/or research funds for
developing disease-tolerant varieties in addition to yield losses incurred
in the interim.
8.07       Depending on the spread capacity (epidemiological progression
rate), coverage by the foreign pest or disease may be rapid or somewhat slow,
but is usually polycyclic in nature. In any event, complete replacement of
the infested area with a tolerant variety adapted to local conditions, if
available, could take many years. Based on the above disease infiltration
profile, an attempt has been made to estimate the cost-savings to the country
from a strengthened plant quarantine program vis-a-vis the status quo. The
analysis considered the scenario in which a hazardous foreign disease
associated with each of four key staple crops (maize, cassava, rice and
cowpea) entered Nigeria and followed the average rate of epidemiological
progression.  It was further assumed that it would be possible to develop
chemical control methods against these diseases or pests to minimize yield
losses within two years; and that a minimum of five years would be required
before varieties tolerant to the pest or disease could be developed.
Finally, it was assumed that an additional five years would be required to
replace large infested areas under cultivation with disease tolerant
varieties. Under these assumptions, the costs of chemical control and yield
loss for each crop are then compared with the entire investment costs of the
plant quarantine component. Even without counting the benefits of being able
to avoid reduction in yields (in the absence of disease infiltration and
establishment), as well as revenues from user fees for PQS, the cost savings
are tremendous, ranging from about 1002 (for rice) to 5002 (for cassava) of
investment costs associated with plant quarantine program over the project
period. The implication is that the cost to the nation (excluding research)



- 49 -
of chemically controlling one hazardous foreign disease far outweighs the
cost of upgrading the entire Plant Quarantine Service. In other words, even
if the service led to the prevention of only one foreign disease into
Nigeria, the country would still be better off.  In practice, however, an
inefficient PQS could lead to infiltration of many foreign diseases/pests
and noxious weeds with devastating financial, economic and social effects.
Summary of Benefits a/
As a Percent
Net Cost Savings Associated with:              N million       of PQ Revenues
Maize                                       62             128
Cassava                                    268             556
Rice                                        47              97
Cowpea                                     205             425
a/   Detailed assumptions underlying the analysis have been presented in
Annex 5.
B.    Risks
8.08       Seed.  The main risk associated with the seed sub-project is that
the Federal and State Governments may not go forward fully and speedily with
policy related actions, in particular revised institutional responsibilities
and pricing policy to attract the private sector at a fast pace, and reduce
the effectiveness of the much needed coordination between Research
Institutes, NSS, ADPs an FASCOMs. This risk would be particularly increased
by the need for action in the states to sustain the new policy framework.
Another risk is that the most vital seed sector activities (such as breeder
and foundation seed production) of some of these agencies, which come under
different ministries, may not be funded adequately.  To safeguard against
these risks, Government's commitment to speedy implementation of policy
changes would be reinforced through the creation of the NSC, adoption of the
seed sub-sector policy statement, organization of a seed industry development
workshop and promotion of small-scale private seed enterprises. In parallel,
during the preparation phase of the project, a process of consensus building
behind the policy reform has been pursued by the NSS, and is expected to be
continued through the NSC and national workshops. The Bank's own agreement
with individual States also reflect these policy objectives. In addition,
the project provides technical expertise to the Government during the
trar.sitional period.   To minimize funding constraints,  the Bank's loan
disbursements are being focussed on the crucial operations of breeder and
foundation  seed production.    Furthermore,  to  enhance  the medium-term
sustainability of the NSS, operational expenses would be recovered for seed
certification services through introduction of user fees.
8.09       Plant Quarantine.  The main risk with the quarantine sub-project
wonld be the unpreparedness of the PQS staff to effectively manage a
quarantine service based on the concept of biological risk assessment. To



- 50 -
minimize this risk, a comprehensive in-country and overseas training program
for PQS staff would enhance technical skills and provide them much needed
exposure to up-to-date operational procedures for quarantine activities. The
technical assistance support under the project would build up management
capacity and update operational procedures. To minimize funding constraints,
the work program of the PQS would be prioritized to focus on areas presenting
the highest risks and as much as possible of the operational expenses would
be recovered through introduction of user fees for certain quarantine
services.
C.    Environmental Effects
8.10       The project is not expected to have any adverse environmental
impact.  Crop production activities under the project would be limited to
small areas to be planted for variety testing and seed production. As the
new varieties of major crops, like maize, rice, cowpea, soybean and cassava,
now being introduced or under development, have tolerance to many of the
common pests and diseases of Nigeria, use of chemical control measures is not
expected to be a major activity. However, if required, pesticide use during
variety testing, seed production and storage would accord with the Bank's
guidelines.    To assess  the need  for the establishment of  fumigation
facilities at ports, for use by the PQS, the project provides expert
assistance to design facilities and to train staff.
IX. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
9.01       During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
on the following:
(i)  By December 31, 1992, all foundation seed would be produced
through contracts with seed growers and seed farms owned by NSS
would be phased out (para. 4.04 (ii));
(ii) By January 31, 1993, the feasibility of establishing a fully
autonomous operation with private sector participation would be
investigated (para 4.04 (ii));
(iii) Private sector participants would have access to breeder and
foundation seed of publicly bred varieties and would be free to
import seed for use in development of new varieties and/or seed
production   subject   to  national   phytosanitary   and   seed
import/export regulations (para 4.04 (iii));
(iv) Criteria for selection of "pioneer" small-scale seed enterprises
to be assisted to purchase equipment under the project would be
developed by NSS, and agreed with the Bank prior to approval of
such investments; this assistance, to be paid back in full by the
participants, would not be a credit component and funds recovered



- 51 -
from investors would be utilized for promoting the seed industry
(para 4.04 (iii));
(v) To ensure that the breeder seed production units are appropriately
staffed and funds provided under the project are available to the
institutes for the purposes intended, by September 30, 1990, NSS
would sign agreement with all the five crop research institutes
outlining obligations, roles and responsibilities of participating
agencies (para 4.09);
(vi) By June 1992, the processing and storage advisor would undertake
a study to identify cost effective storage designs for different
agro-climatic zones of the country to ensure seed viability and
purity and review the storage pest and disease control practices
(para 4.11);
(vii)  Seed  certification  activities would be managed by  a  fully
autonomous service by September 30, 1993 (para 4.12);
(viii) NSS would enter into agreement with selected universities
outlining the facilities to be provided and training and research
programs to be undertaken (para 4.14);
(ix) The working capital to finance breeder and foundation seed
operations and reserve stock funds would be maintained in two
separate accounts to be administered by NSS (para 4.15);
(x) NSS and PQS would each open and maintain a project account in a
local commercial bank to receive the project contributions from
the government, which would be paid into these accounts quarterly
in advance, except for the first year's contribution 501 of which
would paid in advance on an initial deposit (para 5.03);
(xi) The NSS and PQS would each open and maintain a special account
denominated in US dollars to be used to prefinance goods and
services reimbursable under the loan (para 5.04);
(xii)  NSS and PQS would fulfill auditing requirements specified in para
5.08, and prepare quarterly reports and maintain management
accounts as stated in para 5.09;
(xiii) Mid-term and completion reviews would be carried out as specified
in para 5.10;
(xiv)  Arrangements for project management specified in para 6.01 would
be implemented;
(xv) The National Seed Council would be made operational by September
30, 1990 (para 6.03);
(xvi)  Proposed arrangements for variety testing,  registration,  and
release would be made operational by May 31, 1990 (para 6.04);



- 52 -
(xv) Preparation of job description and allocation of required staff
to various sections in NSS would be completed by December 31, 1990
(para 6.05);
(xvi)  The Quarantine Consultative and Technical Advisory Committees to
advise PQS would be established and made operational by July 31,
1990 (para 6.12);
(xvii) Long-term internationally-recruited technical assistance staff
needed to strengthen NSS and PQS would be engaged no later than
December 31, 1990, in accordance with Bank guidelines, which would
also apply to short-term consultants (para 6.21);
(xviii)  Incroduction of the second and third stages of the pricing policy
for foundation seed by NSS and certified seed by ADPs and FASCOMs
would be implemented by December 31, 1991 and December 31, 1992
respectively (para 7.06); and
(xix)  The second and third stages of the seed certification charges
would be implemented by December 31, 1992 and December 31, 1995,
respectively (para 7.12).
9.02            Conditions of loan effectiveness would be:
(i)   PQS would review and rationalize the number of support staff to
be consistent with the workload of the service.   They would
prepare job descriptions and a staff development plan, which would
ensure that at least 50Z of the professional employees of PQS
involved in enforcement of quarantine regulations at GL8 and above
would have a B.Sc. or equivalent degree within five years (para
4.16 (iii));
(ii)   FMG would pay one half of their first year's contribution in
advance into the respective accounts of the NSS and the PQS (para
5.03);
(iii)   The first stage of the pricing policy for seed handled by the
public sector agencies would be implemented tc recover seed
procurement prices paid to contract growers and the processing
costs incurred by the participating public sector agencies (para
(7.06);
(iv)   The first stage of certification charges would be introduced to
reccver at least 25X of direct operational costs of providing this
service (para. 7.12); and
(v)   Separate special bank accounts would be operated for revenues from
seed certification services, foundation seed sales and quarantine
services (paras 7.12 and 7.13).



- 53 -
9.03            Conditions of loan disbursement would be:
(i)  Against the research category, the NSS and the National Root Crops
Research Institute would enter into an agreement with a suitably
qualified overseas institution for the development of rapid seed
yam multiplication techniques (para 4.08);
(ii)  Against PQS Stage II category PQS would enter into arrangements
with reputable Nigerian and/or foreign organizations to permit
them to test and screen certain categories of imported materials
for diseases, pests and weeds subject to PQS standards and
monitoring before commencing the second state rehabilitation of
the Pre-entry Technical Support Services (para 4.16 (ii b)); and
(iii)  Against  PQS  Stage  II,  the performance  and volume  of work
undertaken by the first set of Pre-entry Inspection Station and
Export Certification Units would be reviewed after they have been
in operation for at least one year, before establishing additional
Centers/Units during the second stage of the rehabilitation of the
Port Inspectorate Services (para 4.16 (ii c)).
9.04       With these conditions  and assurances,  the project would be
suitable for a Bank loan to Nigeria of US$14.0 million equivalent to Nigeria
on standard Bank terms with 20 years maturity.
AF4AG
October 23, 1989



-54 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 11
NIGERIA
NATIONAL SEED AND QUARANTINE PROJECT
DRAFT SEED SUB-SECTOR AND PLANT QUARANTINE POLICIES
I. SEED SUB-SECTOR
A. Introduction
1.        Provision of good quality seed of varieties suited to farmer's
needs in diverse agro-ecological conditions is crucial for continued growth
of Nigerian agriculture. Thus, as part of the overall national goal of
increasing agricultural production and farm income, the Government of
Nigeria is initiating an action program of policy and institutional reforms
for the seed sub-sector to ensure timely and stable supply of quality seed.
The seed policy statement outlined below proposes a development strategy
for the sub-sector with the roles and responsibilities of public and
private sector agencies.
B. BACKGROUND
2.        In the absence of reliable data, realistic estimation of
potential seed demand is very difficult. Actual replacement sale for most
open pollinated varieties is generally no more than 202 of total potential
demand. For hybrids, full replacement of seed every season, especially in
areas endowed with stable growing conditions, is normal. The current
production of seed of different crops from all public sector agencies is
estimated to be around 13,500 tons, only enough to plant areas ranging
between 0.12 (for millet) to 82 (for rice). Thus, substantial increases
over present level of demand can be foreseen, provided the quality of seed
and appropriateness of variety could be improved. Recent research in
Nigeria, in cooperation with the International Institute for Tropical
Agriculture (IITA), has led to release of high yielding varieties of
several crops, e.g. maize, rice, soybean, cassava, cowpeas with a range of
maturation periods and tolerance to major pest and diseases. However,
despite past investments in human and physical resources, the country is
unable to fully benefit from these developments. Seed supplies at all
stages of multiplication are erratic and of varying quality. The key
constraints facing the seed sub-sector include:
(a) lack of clearly defined cost effective, sustainable objectives
and a national strategy for the sub-sector, resulting in a
piecemeal attempt at development of seed programs;



-55 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 11
(b) poorly defined roles and responsibilities of different public
sector agencies, resulting in duplication and assignment of
conflicting functions to participating individual organizations;
(c) lack of appropriate environment for private sector development,
especially due to seed pricing poli:ies which inhibit
competitive market growth;
(d) weak national system for development, registration and release
of new varieties;
te) absence of vital national seed legislation to provide a
framework for the future development of the industry and to
provide legal backing to the certification and quality control
operations;
(f)  inadequately staffed and ill-, uipped seed certification
operations;
(g)  absence of reliable information on effective demand for quality
seed;
(h) inadequate allocation of funde for human resource development
through national or international institutions for the public
and private sector agencies;
(i) inadequate funding for public sector agencies and cumbersome
financial procedures (for release of funds leading to delayed
payments) increasing costs for time sensitive operations; and
(j) pursuance of ad hoc pricing policy without due consideration to
costs of production and marketing, adversely affecting the
viability of public and private sector operations.
C. SEED SUB-SECTOR POLICY
3.        The proposed policy statement provides a framework for future
development of the seed sub-sector and proposes actions to overcome the
constraints outlined above. The key goals of the sub-sector are tot
(a) support development, registration, release and multiplication of
appropriate varieties;
(b) improvement in quality of seed sold to farmers;
(c) reorientation of the operation of public sector seed agencies
along commercial lines; and
(d) encourage private sector participation in seed operations
through appropriate policies and promotional activities.



-56 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 11
(i) Legal and Institutional Arrangements
4.        Seed Act.  It would provide the legal framework for regulating
the various aspects of seed production and quality control activities so as
to safeguard both the seed producers as well as users. The regulations
included in the legislation would covert (i) cultivar research; (ii)
registration anti release and seed certification; (iii) seed quality
control; (iv) production and marketing; (v) institutional structure giving
broad outlines of roles and responsibilities of various agencies; (vi)
imports and exports of seeds; and (vii) other special and transitional
aspects. The legislation would also provide guidance on the intended
direction of the sub-sector policy, particularly encouragement for greater
participation by the private sector. The enactment of the seed legislation
would be decreed by the Armed Forces Ruling Council (AFRC). AFRC would
also delegate necessary powers to the Federal Ministry of Agriculture,
Water Resources and Rural Development (FMAMRRD) for promulgation of
regulations and procedures for their enforcement. The Minister would have
authority to amend these regulations as necessary to keep pace with the
development of seed improvement programs. A draft of the proposed seed
legislation is currently under review by FMAWRRD.
5.        National Seed Council.  A national council, with representation
from major public and private sector agencies involved in the seed industry
would be constituted as a policy body and to guide overall development of
the seed industry. The Council would also control: (a) variety release
and production; (b) quality standards for different categories of seeds;
Sc) inter-st3te trading of seed through specification of ecological
conditions for seed production of specific crops; and (d) development of a
pricing policy to promote financial sustainable seed industry. NSC would
also oversee preparation of the seed sub-sector development plan in
relation to national priorities and monitor implementation of its
recommendations. To carry out these functions, NSC would set up
committees, as necessary, for which the National Seed Service would serve
as the Secretariat. The chairman of NSC would be the Minister of FMAWRRD.
Its other members would include the followingt Director, FDARD, Director
of the Division of the Agriculture Sciences Research, FMST; the Director
General of IITA; four representatives of the State Ministries of
Agriculture and Natural Resources or State Seed Coordinating Committees,
when established -- one from each zone on a rotational basis; four
representatives of the private sector (nominated by Seed Industry and
Growers' Association when formed); two representatives of farmers'
associatious and cooperatives; one representative from the private lending
institutions; Director, NSS, who would serve as the member Secretary; and
others as co-opted when necessary, by the Chairman of NSC.
6.        National Seed Service.  The NSS would continue to play a major
role in the future development of the seed industry. Its responsibilities
would be modified to allow a sharper focus on planning, coordination, and
promotion of the seed programs and industry development, transfer of new
seed technology to farmers through assistance to the extension services of
Ar?s, seed quality enhancement activities, and human resources development.



-57 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 11
NSS would cease all involvement in production and marketing of certified
seed. Its organization would be restructured to included the following:
Seed Industry and Skill Development Section: The Section would
be responsible for development and technical assistance to seed
growers, producers, and enterprises in the private sector. In
addition, it would assist the transfer of technology and
Jnformation to the seed industry, the ADP, extension, and
farmers. A special emphasis would be placed on human resource
development through training courses both inside and outside the
country.
Seed Production Section: This Section would be responsible for
the coordination of breeder seed, supplies and the production
and supply of foundation seed, the estimation of demand and the
monitoring of certified and other commercial seed supplies. The
section would also provide custom seed processing services for
private seed producers and enterprises.
Seed Certification Services and Seed Quality Control Section:
The Seed Certification Service would function with a revolving
fund to help support its activities. The agency would locate
staff at the state level to provide service to seed producers
and enterprises producing and marketing certified seed. The
Seed Quality Control program applies to all seed sold and would
be a part of the section. Sampling and testing of all
categories of seed would be done as the seed law enforcement
activity.
Special groups would be attached to the Director of NSS to
handle finance and personnel, together with planning, monitoring
and evaluating the seed program.
7.        Policy Issues Related to NSS.  The Seed Production Section would
require a rotating fund for its operation. Within three years, the section
would be formed into a self-sustaining autonomous/foundation seed
organization. A foundation seed allocation policy shall be established to
encourage the development of private seed producers and enterprises. To
provide for the growth of the seed certification service in response to
demand, financial autonomy would be required which can be achieved by
establishing a rotating fund into which certification charges could be
credited. If such a fund cannot be established, consideration would be
given to developing an autonomous seed certifying agency.
8.        Directorate of Agricultural Sciences Research. PMST.  The
institutes under the Directorate would have the responsibility for breeder
seed production and supply to the NSS and the private sector. NSS would
coordinate demand anI supply of breeder seed and, if required, pre-finance
production activities. As the proposed seed act is implemented, the
National Seed Council, along with a National Cultivar Registration and
Release Committee will be formed. This Committee would assume the
responsibility for cultivar registration and release decisions that are now



- 8 -
Annex 1
Page 5 of 11
with the National Crop Variety and Livestock Breeds Registration and
Release decree. The Genetic Resources Unit of FNST would have
responsibility for registration of cultivars. Upon the recommendation of
the National Cultivar Registration and Release Committee to the NSC,
cultivars would be released.
9.        Agriculture Development Proiects (ADPs) and Farmers SupPlY
Companies (FASCONs). ADPs operating at the state level currently have the
responsibility for the production and processing of certified seed. They
also provide extension support to farmers. Except in States with existing
PASCOMs, they also sell seed to farmers either directly or through
distributors. It is envisaged that in future ADPs would maintain major
emphasis on technical agricultural components of extension and adaptive
research. All other services, including seed multiplication, would shift
over time and move into the private sector or become the responsibility of
other appropriate agencies. As an early step in this direction, certified
seed production in states would increasingly be through contract growers
reaching 901 within the next four years. As FASCOMs are better placed to
undertake seed production and marketing as a commercial activity and have
more operational freedom, it would be more cost effective for them to have
the responsibility for these functions. For effective seed retailing -
private sector participation would be encouraged. Siailarly, the transfer
of processing plants into a more commercial environment, either through
outright purchase or long-term lease by FASCOMs and/or other seed producers
would be a more cost effective operational arrangement. Wherever required,
the private seed enterprises would be provided c'istom processing service.
Accordingly, in future responsibilities for seed production, processing and
marketing, along with the necessary support staff would be transferred from
ADPs to FASCOMs and other seed enterprises as appropriate.
10.       Private Sector.  It is intended that in future seed production,
processing and marketing activities would be increasingly provided by the
private sector, i.e. private seed producers, seed enterprises and seed
distributors and retailers. A number of specific actions are proposed to
achieve this goal. The private seed sector wouldt
(a) participate in the formulation of policies through
representation in NSC;
(b) have equal access to breeder and foundation seed of publicly
bred varieties on a regular basis to enable the establishment of
seed enterprises that do not have independent research
capability;
(c) breeders with registered private research organization have
access to germplasm banks;
(d) have freedom to import breeding material, subject to plant
quarantine regulation, So develop its own cultivars;



- 59 -
Annex 1
Page 6 of 11
(e)  be provided technical support by NSS especially on aspects
related to seed production and operation of seed processing
plants and storage facilities;
(f) be provided technical support by NSS to prepare proposals for
establishment of seed enterprises through financing by lending
institutions andlor the lease/purchase of equipment.
(g) be recognized as a priority industry and be granted credit, tax
and other incentives available to all such industries;
(h) be provided in-country and overseas training in skills required
for operating seed enterprises;
(i) have an opportunity to produce and sell certified and/or
authorized seed; and
(j) be encouraged to increase involvement of private dealers in
retailing seed to farmers.
D. Seed Pricing Policy and Cost Recovery
11.       The key objective of the Government in the seed sub-sector is to
develop a souni pricing policy which would allow for both financially
sustainable programs in the public sector, as well as encourage active
participation by the private sector.
12.       To this end, seed prices would be dictated by market forces,
thus eliminating subsidies for both foundation seed and certified seed
operations. Specifically, seed prices would cover the full costs of
production, procurement, transportation, processing and storage costs,
overhead and depreciation charges, marketing costs plus adequate margins
for profits.
13.       Prices charged by public sector agencies, which are currently
below comparable levels of the private sector, would be increased gradually
until they reach market-determined levels.
14.       To ensure a continuous and financially-sustainable program for
providing support services in the seed industry, the agencies involved
(National Seed Certification Service) would be allowed to introduce service
charges to recover direct operational expenses. Proceeds from these
charges would be maintained in a revolving fund wholly administered by the
Service to ensure financial autonomy.
E. Seed Reserve Stock
15.       To safeguard against fluctuations in demand/supply of seed due
to natural hazards (floodidrought and pests/diseases epidemics). NSS would
maintain an adequate reserve stock of Breeder and Foundation Seed.



- 60 -
Annex 1
Page 7 of 11
P. Seed Industry Human Resource Development
16.       Funds would be provided for both short- and long-term (degree).
and local and overseas training of selected candidates from public and
private sector agencies. To provide regular courses in seed technology at
the professional level and research at Master's level in Nigeria,
facilities would be established at a university with a strong faculty of
agriculture. The university would operate these courses and research
programs in close collaboration with NSS and IITA. to derive full benefit
from their respective areas of expertise.
G. Seed Sector Monitoring and Evaluation
17.       The NSS would coordinate and periodically evaluate activities of
various seed organizations and make necessary recommendations for
improvement. NSS would assemble key data on the sub-sector, publish an
annual report and working paper for review by the NSC. The exact format of
these documents would be determined and revised as necessary by the NSC.
II. PLANT QUARANTINE SERVICE
A. Current Functions
18.       The Nigerian Plant Quarantine Service (PQS), operating under the
Federal Department of Agriculture, Rural Development of the Ministry of
Agriculture, Rural Development and Water Resources, performs the following
functions:
(i)  interception of higi-risk, prohibited plant materials at 44
points or ports of entry;
(ii) provision of quarantine services, (e.g. post-entry quarantine)
and other safeguards to allow the importation of small
quantities of plant materials for research purposes of those
crop species whose importation '.s prohibited to the general and
commercial public;
(iii) issuing of permits for the entry of authorized agricultural
imports for scientific, commercial, or other purposes based on
inspection and treatment at origin, as shown by the
phytosanitary certificate (PC) issued by the quarantine service
of the exporting country; and
(iv) provision of export inspection and certification services to
facilitate the acceptance of Nigerian agricultural exnorts.



- 61 -
Annex 1
Page 8 of 11
C. Current Constraints
19.       At present, the PQS operates at less than 20 percent capacity
due to deterioration of facilities and equipment, as well as shortage of
supplies that can be traced directly to shortfall in funding over a long
period of time. In addition, due to unsatisfactory working conditions, the
service is unable to recruit and retain experienced technical staff. Other
problems faced by the service include: (a) insufficient policy guidance
and inadequate links with related agencies and client groups; (b) negative
public image; and (c) virtual stagnation at 1970's level of technology and
operational procedures.
D. Proposed Policy
20.       The Policy DesiRn.  The Government recognizes the importance of
the Plant Quarantine Service for the future development of the Nigerian
agriculture and wishes to provide the necessary human, physical and
financial resources for sustained and efficient delivery of quarantine
services. The proposed policy is built around the plant quarantine
legislation, the Government's obligations under the Inter-African
Phytosanitary Commission and the FAO International Plant Protection
Convention. It aims at concentrating the available resources on areas of
highest risks and takes into account the need to enhance financial
sustainability through a system of cost recovery for key services.
21.       Imvlementation Strateav.  The proposed strategy for the future
operation of the service includes the following elements:
'i) identifying unwanted pests and diseases that threaten national
economic and social welfare and concentrating resources in areas
presenting highest risks;
(ii) assessing risks and effectiveness of control measures
systematically on the basis of biological and other evidence,
taking full account of the need to conform with international
obligations to facilitate legitimate movement of passengers,
cargo and plant materials; and
(iii) formulating and implementing cost effective responses to the
assessed risks.
22.       Institutional Structure
Ci) The Plant Quarantine Consultative Committee. A broadly based
consultative committee would be formed to guide the PQS on
policy matters including review of current quarantine
legislation, resource allocation, and increasing awareness of
the general public about the objectives and operations of the
PQS. This committee would be chaired by the Director, FDARD,
with representation from research institutes, industry



- 62 -                         Annex 1
Page 9 of 11
organizations, importers, exporters and other major clients.
The Head of the PQS would be the member secretary;
(ii) The Plant Quarantine Technical Advisory Committee.  This would
be a high level technical committee to advise the Head of the
PQS, and through him the Government, on the biological risks of
unprecedented events, such as import of high-risk biological
materials, emergency response to exotic pests or disease
incursions, and information on pest and disease occurrences in
Nigeria prior to a change in policy or operational guidelines.
This committee would be chaired by the head of the PQS and would
have a core of designated entomologists, nematologists, and
pathologists from Research Institutes and Universities as its
members. It would also co-opt any other scientists who may be
required to meet the special circumstances of each case.  It
would serve strictly as a source of biological advice on
unprecedented biological challenges not covered by manuals or
regulations, and would not be encumbered by policy,
administrative or decision-making functions. This Committee
would meet as necessary on the request of the Head of the PQS.
(iii)  The Plant Quarantine Service.  Major functions and the work
program of the PQS would be reoriented to areas where
intervention would yield the greatest benefits. The existing
six Divisions (units) of the PQS, along with essential functions
which are not being undertaken at present, would be organized
into the following three groups of services:
(a) Headquarters SuDport Services. This section would give
administrative support to the field stations in all the
four zones, as well as to the units in Ibadan.  It would
include the Permit Unit, Training Center, and
Information/Public Relations Office, Estate Management,
Accounts and Records and General Administrator.
(b) Post-Entry Technical Support Services: This section would
consist of the existing Post-Entry Quarantine Station, a
new Diagnostic and Identification Program, and a new
Biological Assessment Program. The introduction of the
pest risk analysis concept under the Biological Assessment
Program, coupled with the use of data from results of
inspections at ports of entry, would assist in the
determination of the man-made pathways and articles moving
on such pathways that present the greatest risk to the
Nigerian agriculture.
(c) Port Inspectorate Services. The field activities of the
PQS would continue to be carried out by this section
through various points of entry including seaports,
international airports, international post offices and
border crossingL. A selected number of these, with high
volumes of traffic and/or with strategic locations, would



- 63 -
Annex 1
Page 10 of 11
be upgraded and strengthened. As materials entering under
permit from other countries may still be infected with
pests and diseases or contaminated with noxious weeds of
quarantine significance, inspection of imported articles
would be initiated through Pre-entry Inspection Stations.
In addition, to help Nigerian exporters to meet the import
requirements of other countries, this section would
establish Export Certification Units at zonal level.
Establishment of both the Pre-entry Inspection Station and
Export Certification Units would be phased in relation to
demand and cost effectiveness of these activities.
(iv)   Arrangements with Other Organizations.  To facilitate and reduce
delays in importation of certain categories of plants and
germplasm, the PQS would enter into arrangements with qualified
Nigerian and foreign organizations to permit them to test and
screen material for pests and diseases to PQS standards.
Overall responsibility for quarantine would remain with the PQS
which would continue to issue permits, prescribe standards for
facilities and testing and monitor the performance of approved
organizations.
23.       Human Resource Development.  Improvements in technical expertise
of PQS officers would be essential for effective and efficient operation of
the quarantine program. This would be achieved both through recruitment of
new staff and the implementation of in-country and overseas training
programs. In addition, the professional staff (at GLOS and above) involved
in enforcing quarantine regulations, would be required to have a B.Sc.
degree with emphasis on one or more agriculturally related sciences (e.g.
entomology, plant pathology) as the minimum qualification. The existing
staff in professional status without degrees would be given opportunities
for on-the-job training. The current high ratio between junior support
staff (GL5 and below) to middle to senior level professional staff (GL6 and
above) would be reviewed and rationalized to be consistent with the
workload of the service. Job descriptions, which at present do not exist,
would be prepared and jobs graded. In the meantime, no further recruitment
of junior staff into the service would be undertaken and those leaving the
service would not be replaced.
24.       Sustainability. Cost Recovery and Financial Autonomw.  A system
of cost recovery for key quarantine services would be adopted to ensure
long-term financial sustainability. This would include the following
servicess
(a) greenhouse processing plants and germplasm;
(b) laboratory procedures including seed health testing; and
(c) quarantine and export inspection services performed outside of
official working hours on request from client.
These operations are not only very costly, but also require
prompt and uninterrupted supply of special chemicals, materials and
electric power to avoid loss of rare germplasm imported at high foreign



- 64 -
Annex 1
Page 11 of 11
exchange costs. Therefore, to ensure ready availability of funds for
operational expenses and provide a measure of financial autonomy to the
Service, a separate bank account would be established into which proceeds
from the user fees charged by the PQS would be credited.
25.       Monitoring and Evaluation of the Plant Quarantine Program.  The
Plant Quarantine Consultative Committee would arrange for periodic review
of the PQS activities using suitably qualified consultants who will make
recommendations for improvements in policy and operational procedures
governing the quarantine activities. The PQS would assemble the necessary
data, publish an annual report and prepare background papers for review by
the consultants.
DocumentName:annex-l;disksashokiv/sar



- 65 -
NIIIEIA
NATIONAL SEED AND S t E          eC
INSTITUTIONAL ROLSS AND RESPONSIBILITIES IN THE NATIONAL SEED SYSTEM
Role                                Action Roquired
Activityllnstitution
Variety Development
Research  Institutes, Privat.         Dovelopment    and             Concentrate  resources  In developing
Seed Enterprises, Universities.       introduction of new crop       lmproved varieties for dry and semi-dry
IITA                                  varieties,                     areas.   Facilitate introductiof  and
testing of new varieties/hybrids by
private and public sectors.
Coordinsted Variety Testina
Coordinators of National Crop         Pro-release   variety          Define  areas  for  which  varieties/
Research Program                      testing                        hybrids will be selected and approved.
Conduct trials under a        Activate NCRP if not now functioning
coordinated   scheme.         properly.    Provide  for  entry  of
Consolidation of trial        privately bred varioties and hybrids.
data.     Registration        Organize  coordinated  regional  and
recommendation                notional  varioty trials with parti-
cipation of all public and private
institutions concerned.   Produce
annual report with research reults.
On-Form Testinn
NSS, FACU, NAFPP                      Assist In planning             Develop  planning  and  coordinating
mechanism in tates.
ADPs                                  Conduct tets                   NSS  Seed  DOvlopmnt  speciallt's
position.
Private eed enterprise                Conduct own trials
Variety Reaistration
Variety Registration and Release      a) Provisional and final       Develop the concept. of provisional and
Comaittee                              egistration                   final registration.
Informtion
National    Agric    Research,       Isue  variety   trial          Diffuse variety test repoert.  Avoid
Extesion Service, Private Seed        reports.        Diffuse        specific recomaendations, except for
Enterprise                            variety   performence          variety use in specific regions.
Info.



- 66 -
Seed Production
Res-orch    Institutes,               Produce breeder seed of        Improve facilities and see  quality.
Universities,  Private   Seed         public    varieltes.           Allow Importation of breeder seed for
Enterprise                            Identify    pri vote           local production of seed after due
varieties.                    approval from authorities.  Establish
quality   standards  for  *11  seed
categories.
NSS, Private Seed Enterprises         Produce  Foundation            Improve  facilities  and  managment.
Seed through  contract        Provide rotating fund.
growers.
Private   Seed   Enterpries,          Produce   Certified            Secure adquato and opportune funding.
ADPs/FASCOlb                          authortz  and/or common        Provide assistance for sed  Industry
seed through  contract        dovelopment.
grower.
Seed Procesino and Stornge
NSS,   ADPo/FASCOMs,   State          Process Foundation seed,       Improv    physial  facilities,   add
Organizations,  Private  Seed         Certified   Authorized         storage  ftciliti"e,  transfer  ADPe'
Enterpries                            and common seed.               fac I Ities to FASCOM or prIvote sector.
Make long term credit aval able for
physical facilities.
Seed Certification
NSS                                   Inspect    Breeder,            Legislation and standards. Funding of
Foundation and Certif led     operational  expenses  with  fees  in
Seed                          rotating fund.
Seed Markoetin
Private seed enterprise               Market seed                    Adjust pricee to recover all costa.
FASCOMU                               Id                             Privatlze FASCOMa and register them as
wholosale seed distributors and/or
producers.
Development market surveys on seed
demand and use.
Cooperatives                          Id                             Promote  good   seed   and  Improved
verieties.
Wholesalers                           Id                             Make  loans  and  warranting  system
available for Inventory bulIdup.
Dealors                               Id                             Entercede business and promote use of
qualty seed.
Seed Imaort/Export
Min of Agr., Plant Quarantine         Issue   Phytosanitery          Define requirements clearly.
Division                              Certificates.
NSS                                   Issue licenses.                Seed legislation



- 67 -
Research Institutes. IITA, Seed       Oermpleam and breeding         Fac litate proces.
enterprise                            materlal exchange
Seed    enterprlses,    seed          Trade In certified and         Facilitate process.
mporters/exporters                    other commercial seed.
Sse Quality Control
NSS                                   Low enforcent on all           See   legislation  and  stndards
classes of seed sold          lnstitutionalorganization,devolopmnt
of Central Sed Testing Laboratory
Seed Policy Formulation
National Seed Council                 Develop    proposal.,          See  legislation, organizatton of NSC,
advise on seed subsector      develop terms of reference.
policy,  and  monitor
activities.
Seed Industry Dovelosmnt and
Promotion
NSS                                   Coordination and *ssist        Institutional   reorganization,  seed
seed    subsector              legislation, llnkages with sta   ADPs.
development activities,
keeping    registers,
organiation, planning.
Private Sector Representation
National  Seed  Growers  snd          Representation    In           Form   Association,  prepare  action
Industry Association                  National Seed Council,         program. nominate mebrs  for NSC,
links to NSS and State        develop state links.
committee.
Workshops and Traintn.
Organize  and  conduct        Institutional reorganization. Annually
|  NSS, Universities                  training programs.             plan  program  and  links with  other
Institutions.
Monitorine of Seed Proaram
Activities
National Sed Council, NSS             Assessment    and              Seed legislation. Improve statistics,
recommendations               Institutional    reorganization,
monitoring and evaluation.
Docnams: ANNEX-2;Disk:ashokIv/sar



-68 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 7
NIGERIA
SEED QUARANTINE PROJECT
Private Seed Industrv Develooment
1.    The  private  seed  industry  includes  seed  growers,  seed  producers
(individuals who grow and sell), seed companies, cooperatives, seed dealers as
well as importers and exporters.   This project is designed to assist the
Government's objective to encourage the development of this totally private seed
industry. At the same time it would also provide assistance to those public
sector organizations which are essential for this development to occur.
2.    The development of the Seed Sub-Sector Policy statement (Annex 2) provides
a clear definition of the Government's intentions to encourage the private
sector.  The acceptance and implementation of the Seed Decree (Project File
Working Paper C-2) will further support this intent.    Opening opportunities
for the private seed enterprises to undertake plant breeding and testing. to
introduce new germplasm, varieties and hybrids, enter into the national variety
evaluation process, have private varieties registered and certified, if they
choose to do so, is expected to encourage some companies to become actively
involved in the seed industry.  For others, the availability of breeder and
foundation seed from publicly developed varieties, and the possibility to
produce, process, and sell seed at a profit, would provide the opportunity to
establish small- and medium-sized new enterprises.
Development of Small and Medium Scale Seed Enterprises
3.    The decision to form a Seed Industry and Skill Development Section under
the NSS would enable it to actively support the development of new seed
enterprises. This section, with staff located at the regional and state levels
and backed by other sections of the NSS, will spearhead the development of new
seed enterprises.  NSS staff would be supported by the technical assistance
consultants and comprehensive training program to be provided under the project.
4.    The seed enterprises formed may be small, medium, or large.  Frequently,
resources are not available to start large enterprises unless links are developed
with outside organizations or large financial complexes within the country.
Although a few large enterprises are likely to develop, small- and medium-sized
enterprises are more likely to meet the present needs of the country and offer
many advantages. These include: (1) flexibility in developing operations that
are more responsive to local needs; (2) low initial capital outlay; (3) limited
requirement for management skill compared to large enterprises; (4) can be added
to an existing farm or business operation, thus reducing costs and risks; (5)
have the possibility of using family and local labor at low cost; and (6) can



-69 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 7
provide good quality seed consistently to stay in business since the market is
largely local. If successful, small and medium-scale enterprises can be enlarged
to become big producers. Practically all large seed enterprises in the developed
world were at one time small and medium-scale enterprises.
5.    To promote and demonstrate the feasibility of establishing profitable
small seed enterprises, ten sets of small-scale seed processing equip,ment will
be provided under the project to "seed pioneers". Each small-scale enterprise
will need relatively small amounts of equity capital around N 100,000. Short
term working capital requirements which will not be provided under the project,
would be met by the private lending institutions. Initial financial analysis
based on a plant capacity of approximately 150 tons/annum is given in Table 1.0.
6.    The NSS will establish clear criteria for the allocation of tuis equipment.
For example, such criteria could includes (i) preferential treatment for people
engaged in contract seed growing; (ii) demonstrate good entrepreneurial ability
and sincere interest in the seed business; (iii) respected in their community
and considered trustworthy, with adequate capital and resources to grow and hold
seed until the next selling season; (iv) with infrastructure facilities for
locating seed processing equipment; and (v) a safe storage area. Records will
be kept of the operation to assess the profitability of the venture, and that
the facility will be available for demonstration purposes to others considering
entering the seed business.
7.    These operations will provide the experience and knowledge needed by the
NSS staff who would encourag and assist the establishment of such units. Once
these "seed pioneers' are started and have demonstrated the profitability of
these operations, others are expected to enter the seed business. Those that
follow will be able to obtain necessary financing either from lending
institutions participating in the Private Small and Medium Enterprise Development
Project assisted by IBRD or other similar sources.
8.    Some states, e.g. Kano, Kaduna, Bauchi, Katsina and Sokoto, have FASCOMs
that are marketing agricultural products including seed.   These companies,
presently owned by the State Governments (ADPs), are destined to be privatized.
Under the project, it is proposed that FASCOMs should take over responsibility
for managing production and processing of seed. Those FASCOMs in a position to
take this step would be encouraged to do so and compete with other seed
enterprises. If the FASCOM is not prepared or able to undertake the production
and processing of seed, it should encourage the development of seed enterprises
in its area and become a market outlet for seed from both public and private
enterprises.
9.    Pricing Policy.  Appropriate pricing policy would play a crucial role in
the development of the private seed enterprises.   Project proposals for the
implementation of a pricing policy leading to full cost recovery of seed sold
by public sector agencies is given in Annex 9 of the SAR.
10.   Technical Supoort and Human Resource Develo2ment.  Technical assistance
support included under the project (details given in Ann x 6 of the SAR), would



- 70 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 7
also support the private sector on policy, technical and management issues. The
Seed Industry Development Advisor, working closely with NSC and the Director NSS,
would be able to assist the private seed industry development process from a
policy level.  The long-term consultant on seed processing and storage will
support the establishment of the ten seed enterprises to be used for
demonstration purposes  to encourage  other  similar units.   The Financial
Controller will be able to assist in financial matters. The Seed Certification
and Quality Control Consultant will assist the development of internal quality
assurance programs in the seed enterprises. Similarly, findings of short-term
studies on specific issues related to the development of the seed industry,
e.g., a seed demand survey and market analysis over the whole country, would be
invaluable to the private seed industry.
11.   Training in technical, management, and marketing aspects (details given
in Annex 8) would be provided to assist the private seed industry through in-
country courses. Management training and internships in overseas seed companies
are included to further assist the development of the seed enterprises.
docname: annex-3.sarldiskname: ashok IV.sar



-71 -                                                  Annex 3
Page 4 of 7
NIGERIA
PRIVATE SEED FARM: Financial Prices
(Annual) -In Naira
Table 1.0
CROP YEAR
1989 to
Unit     2008
Outputs
MAIZE                       TONNES   1.250 S
COmPEA                     TOIUEs      3. 000
RICE                        TOlNES     1.500
SORGHUM                    TOINES      921. 7
SOYBEAN                     TONNES     1. 500
OP MAIZE MEN SEED           fONNES     3.200
IIiputs
FERTILIZER                    KG         1.2
OP MAIZE NEW SEED             KG         3.2
RAN SEED                      KG         1.8
MAIZE OLD SEED                KG         1. 5
COEA NEW SEED                 KG         7.5
COIPEA OLO SEED              KG            4
RICE NEW SEED                 KG         4.2
RICE OLO SEED                 KG         2 1
SORGHUM NEW SEED             lG          2. 9
SORGHUH OLD SEED             KG          1.3
SOYBEAN NEw SEED             KG          4.4
SOYBEAN OLD SEED             KG          2. 2
STORAGE CHEMICAL              KG         ISO
SEED DRESSING                 KG        41.2
FUNGICIDE                    KG           40
INSECTICIDE                LITRE        54.3
HERBICIDE                   LIrRE       69.6
UltDIINGS                   VALUE          I
THRESHING/DRYING FLOOR     VALUE           I
ELECTRIC WIRING FANS. ETC  VALUE           I
SEEO CLEANER               VALUE           I
DRUM TREATER               VALUE           I
BAG CLOSER                 VALUE           I
ItAIZE SHELLER             VALUE           I
WINNOWtER                   VALUE          I
THRESHER                   VALUE           I
INSTALLATION               VALUE           I
ELECTRICITY                Vl'UE           I
EQUIPMENT MAINTENAh..E     VALUE           1
BUILDING MAINTENNCE         VALUE          I
TRaSPORTAT ION             VALUE           I
STORAGE                    VALUE           1
CERTIfICATION CHARGES      VALUE           I
SEED LOSSES                VALUE           I
INITIAL WMING CAPITAL    VALUE             1
Labor
UNSKILLED FARI LABOR        ODA           10
MECHANIC                    VALUE          1
LABOUR                     VALUE           I
March 24. 1989 14:05
PRIVATE SEEO FARM Activity Model PROCESSED.



- 72 -
NIGERIA                                                           Annex 3
Table 1.1                                                           Page 5 of 7
PRIVATE SEED FARM: Farm Model
Production and Inputs
CROP YEAR
Wi thout
Unit     I to 20
Cropping Intensity               Percent      100.0
Cropping Pattern
Existing Technology
PRIVATE  SEEO FARM           HA           1.0
Cropped Area                                  i.
Operating
March 24. 1989  14:05
CROP YEAR
With Project
Unit       1      2 to 20
Cropping Intensity               Percent      100.0      100.0
Cropping Pattern
New Technology
PRIVATE  SEED FARM            NA          1.0        1.0
Cropped Area                                  1. 0       1. 0
Main Production
OP NAIZE MEW SEED              TONMES      150.0      150.0
Sales
OP 1AIZE HEli SESD             TONNES      150.0      15. 0
Investment
BUILDINGS                      VALUE    43. 200.0
THRESHING/DRYING FLOOR         VALUE     6.000.0          -
ELECT HIRING FANS. ETC         VALUE     2.000.0          -
SEED CLEANER                   VALUE    21. 000.0         -
DRUN TREATER                   VaLUE     5.600.0
BAG CLOSER                     VALUE     3.500.0          -
MAIZE SHELLER                  VALUE     5. 800.0         -
iNHNOWER                       VALUE     2. 100.0         -
THRESHER                       VALUE     1.400.0          -
INSTAtLATIONS                 VALUE      7.800.0         -
INITIAL WORKING CAPITAL       VALUE    10.000.0          -
Operating
Inputs
RAN SEED                      KG    150.000. 0 ISO 000. 0
TRASPORTATION               VALUE    18.000.0  18.000.0
STORAGE                     VALUE    10.500. 0  10. 500.0
CERTIFICATION CHARGES       VALUE     4.000.0   4,000.0
LOSSES                     VALUE      9. 600.0  9. 600.0
Lahor
UNSKILLED FARM LAtOR         DAY          1.0        1.0
MECHANIC                    VALUE     3.300. 0   3. 300. 0
LABOUR                     VALUE      6.000.0   6 000.0
March 24. 1989 14:05



- 73 -                                           Annex 3
Page 6 of 7
NIGERIA
Table 1.2
PRIVATE SEED FARM: Farm Model
Financial Budget - In Naira
CROP YEAR
Ni thout
I to 20
Prodjction Cost
erat ing
larch 24. 1989 14:05



- 74 -
Annex 3
Table 1.2 (contd.) PRIVATE SEED FARM                                        Pagc 7 of 7
Farm Model
Financial Budget (In NAIRA)
CROP YEAR
with Project S lncreiintal
I        2          1         4      Sto 20
Han Product ion
OP MAIZE HEW SEED                     480. 000. 0 480. 000.0 480. 000.0 480. 000.0 480. 000.0
Net Value Of Production                  480.000.0 480.000 0 480.000.0 480.000.0 480.000.0
Production Cost
Investment
8UI tDINCS                          43.200.0          -         -         -         -
THRESHING/DRYING FLOOR               6.000.0          -         -         -         -
ELECT WIRING FANS. ETC               2. 000.0         -         -         -
SEED CLEANER                        21. 000.0         -         -         -         -
DRUN TREATER                         5. 600.0         -         -                   -
8AG CLOSER                           3.500. 0         -         -
IAIZE SHELLER                        5. 600.0         --                            -
HINNOiER                             2. 100.0         -         -         -         -
THRESHER                             1. 400.0         - 
INSTALLATIONS                        7. 800.0        -                    -
INITIAL HORIING CAPITAL             10.000.0         -          -         -         -
Sub-Tota I Investment                 108.200. 0
Operating
Inputs
RAM SEED                        270,000. 0 270.000.0 270. 000.0 270. 000.0 270. 000. 0
TRANSPORTATION                   18. 000.0  18.000. 0  18.000.0  18.000.0  18.000. 0
STORIAGE                         10. 500.0  10, SOO. 0  10,.500.0  10o, 500.S0 i. SO0.0
CERTIFICATION CHARGES             4,000.0   4.000.0   4.000.0   4.000.0   4.000.0
LOSSES                            9. 600. 0   9. 600.0   9. 600.0  9. 600.0   9. 600. 0
Sub-Total Inputs                   312,100.0 312.100.0 312. 100.0 312. 100.0 312.100.0
Hired Labor
NECHANIC                          3.300.0   3,300.0   3.300.0  3. 300.0   3,300.0
LAtROI                            6, 000. 0   6.000.0   6.000.0   6, 000. 0   6.000. 0
Sub-Total Hired Labor                9. 300. 0   9,300.0  9. 300.0   9.300. 0   9. 300. 0
Sub-Total Operating                   321,400.0 321,400.0 321t400.0 321,400.0 321.400.0
Sub-Total Production Cost                429,600.0 41,.400.0 321.400.0 321. 400.0 321.400.0
Other Costs
ELECTRICITY                               200.0     200.0      200.0     200.0     200.0
EGIJIPNENT NAINTENANCE                  9,400.0   9.400.0   9.400. 0   9.400.0   9.400. 0
SUIl LOING MAINTENANCE                   1.000.0   1.000.0   1.000.0   1.000. 0   1.000.0
Sub-Total Other Costs                     10.600. 0  10. 600.0  10. 60  0  10,600.0  .O 6 00.0
UtT fLOWS                              440.200.0 332, 000. 0 332. 000. 0 332.000.0 332.000.0
CASH FLOM BEfORE FINANCING                39.800. o 148. 000.0 148. 000. 0 148, 000.0 148.000.0
Sourees Of finance
Disbursaents On Long Term Loan         75. 740.0         -                   -         -
Disbursments On Short Term Loan       321,400.0 321.400.0 321.400.0 321.400.0 321.400.0
Transfer From Previous Period          32,460.0          -         -         -         -
Sub-Total Sources Of Finance             429.600.0 321.400.0 321,400.0 321,400.0 321.400.0
Loan Repyments
Long Term Principal                           - 20.807.7  24.969.2  29, 963. i
Long Term Interest                            -  15. 148.0  10.986.5   5,992.6         -
Shert Two Principel                            - 321,400.0 321,400.0 321.400.0 321,400.0
Slwut Two  letesest                            - 32. 140.0  32. 140.0  32, 140.0  32. 140.0
Sub-Tetal Letn ut l   nts                         - 389, 491.? 389. 495.7 389.495.7 353. 540.0
NET FINANCING                            429,600.0 -68, 095.7 -68.095.7 -68.095.7 -32. 140.0
FARiS FANILT BENEFITS AFTER FINANCING    469, 400.0  79.904.3  79.904.3  79.904.3 115,860.0
Returns per Family-Day of Labor          469. 400.0  79.904.3  79. 904. 3  79.904.3 IIS, 860.0
--  - -- - - - -- - - -- - - _-_-_-_-.  _-_-_-_-_  .-_-_-_-_                      -_   -  _
Narch 24, 1989  14:05



- 75 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 6
Seed Sub-Project: Economic Analysis
NIGERIA
NATIONAL SEED SUBPROJECT
Economic Prices (Annual)
(in NAIRA)
CROP YEAR
1989 to
Unit        2008
Outputs
MAIZE                     TONNES      1,250.5
COWPEA                   TONNES         2.500
RICE                     TONNES         1.500
SORGHUM                  TONNES         924.4
SOYBEAN                  TONNES         1.275
Inputs
FERTILIZER               KG              1.2
OP MAIZE NEW SEED        KG              2.7
MAIZE OLD SEED           KG              1.3
COWPEA NEW SEED          KG              6.4
COWPEA OLD SEED          KG              3.4
RICE NEW SEED            KG              3.6
RICE OLD SEED            KG              1.6
SORGHUM NEW SEED         KG              2.5
SORGHUM OLD SEED         KG              1.1
SOYBEAN NEW SEED         KG              3.7
SOYBEAN OLD SEED         KG              1.9
STORAGE CHEMICAL         KG            143.3
SEED DRESSING            KG             40.6
FUNGICIDE                KG             39.4
INSECTICIDE              LITRE          53.5
HERBICIDE                LITRE          68.6
Labor
UNSKILLED FARM LABOR     DAY             8.5



NIGERIA
NATIONIAt SEED SUBPRODEC1
IALE  1.1  lotal Project
PRODUCTION AND INPUIS
CROP tEAR
Without                      With Project                                              Incremental
. .... ..     ... .. .... .. ...... .. . ..... .     ....... .......... ..... . . .     ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .. . . . . . .
1989 to 1989 to                                                  1989 to
Unit   2008    1990       1991        1992        1993     1994 to 2008  1990       1991        1992        1993     1994 to 2008
Cropping Pattern
New lechnology
CDIIPOSI I MAIZE              NA-                      60, 000.0   124,000.0  184. 800.0   200. 000.0           60, 000.0   124, 000 0   184, 'I . 0    200. 000. 0
RICE                          NA*                      25. 000.04   45.000 0    65.000 0    6S.000 0            25.000 0    45.000 0    65. 000o0     65.0000a
COWPLA                                                 25. 10000.    38.000.0   80.00.0     80 000.0             10.000.0    38,000.0    80.000 0     80.000 0
SORGNUI                       NA                  -   78,000 0    90.000.0   90.000.0       90.000 0             78.000 0    90,000 0    90. 000 0    90,000 0
SOYBEAI                       HA              -         3000.0    7,000.0    10, 000. 0      10,000 0            3.000. 0     7. 000. 0    10,000.0   10.000 0
Sub-total New lechnology Area                -       -   176.000.0   304.000 0   429,800.0   445.000 0         -   176.000.0   304,000.0  429.800.0    445,000.0
Main Produclion
MAIZl                          IONNES                     11.400.0   23,560 0    35. 112.0    38,000.0              11.400.0    23,560.0    3S, 112 0    38,000 0
RICf                           IONlES        -       -    4.750 0    8,550.0    12. 350.0       12.350.0       -    4,750.0      8.550.0   12,350 0      12.350 0
CO1PLA                         IONSES        -       -       800.0     3,040 0     6.400.0      6,400.0               800.0      3,040.0     6.400 0      b,400 0
SORCNU14                      IOIINES        -            10, 920. 0    12.600 0    12, 600. 0  12,600.0            10.920 0    12.600.0    12,600.0     Q2 600. 0
SOV8lAN                        lOIlElS                       420.0       980 0      1,400.0      1,400.0              420.0        980.0     1, 400.0     1,400.0
Operat ing
Anputs
OP MAIZE NEW SEEO             KG                    1.500.000. 0 3. 100. 000. 0 4. 620. 000.0  S,000.000 0  - 1.500,000 0 3, 100. 000. 0 4.620.000 0 5.000.000 0
RIPCE NEW SEED               ItC                  - 1. 250. 000. 0 2,250.000 0 3.250.000 0  3,250.000 0     - 1.250.000 0 2,250.000.0 3.250.000 0  3.250.000 0
COMPEIA NEW SEED             llC                      250,000.0   950,000.0 2.000.000.0  2.000,000.0           250,000.0   9S0.000 0 2.000,000.0  2.000.000 0
SORGHUHM NEW SEED             KG                      780.0000   900,000.0   900.000 0    900.0000             780,000.0   900,000.0   900.000 0    900.000 0
SOYBEAN NEIW SEED             KG                      150. 000.0  350. 000.0  500.0000    S00.000.0            ISO, 000 0   350. 000.0  500,000.0   500.000.0
tabor
UNSKlltEO FARM tASOR         DAt                      352,000.0  608.000 0  859,600.0    890.000.0          -  352.000.0  608.000.0  859,600.0   890.000.0
March IS. 1989  18: 46
0
lIto 
0'



- 77 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 6
NItGERIA
NATIONAL SEED SUBPROJECt
TA8LE  I 2   Total Project
Econranc Buoget
Iln NAIRA)
CROP YEAR
Without                 Mith Project A Incergental
1989 to 1989 to
2008    1990       1991         1992          1993     1994 to 2008
::::::z  :::::.:: :n:::::::    2::::::::::  :2222222222 iSttflt2fl2S
Main Production
MAIZE                                         - 14. 255. 700. 0 29.461.780.0 43. 907. 556. 0 47.519.000.0
RICE                                          - 7. 125. 000.0 12. 825. 000.0 18. 525. 000.0 18. 525. 000.0
COMPEA                               -          2.040.000.0  7. 752. 000.0 16. 320. 000.0 16.320.000.0
SORGHUM                                       - 10. 094. 939. 8 11 648.007. S 11. 648. 007. S 11. 648. 007. S
SOYBEAN                                       -   535. 500. 0  1 249 500.0  1.785.000 0  1.t85.000.0
Sb-Total Main Production                -         34.051. 139.8 62.936.287.1 92. 185.563.5 95.797.007.5
Product ion Cost
Operating
Inputs
OP IIJZE NEW SEED                       - 4.080.000.0  8.432.000.0 12.566.400.0 13.600,000.0
RICE MEN SEEO                      -      4.462.600 0 8.032.500.0 11.602.500.0 11.602.SOO.O
COIIECA NEM SEED                       -  1.593. 750.0  6.056.250.0 12. 750. 000.0 12.750.000.0
SORGHUM NEW SEED               -       -  1.922.700.0  2.218.500.0  2.218.S00.0  2.218.500.0
SOYE8AN NEM SEED                            561. 000.0  1.309.000.0  1.870. 000.0  1. 870. 000.0
Sub-otal Inputs                           - 12.619,950.0 26.048.250.0 41.007.400.0 42.041.000.0
Hired Labor
UNSKILLEO FARR LAROR                    - 2.992.000.0  S. 168. 000. 0  7.306.600.0  7. 56. 000.0
Sub-Total Operating                           - 15.611.950.0 31.216.250.0 4B.314.000 0 49.606.000.0
CASH FIOW BEFORE F INANCI'4G             -       - 18.439. 189.8 31.720.037.5 4;. 871. 663.5 46. 191. 007.5
March 15. 1989 18:46
*e  Running Subfile  SEED/ANALYSIS  Called by Subfile   COMPASS



-78-
Annex 4
Page 4 of 6
NIGERIA
NATIONAL SEED PROJECT
Economic Analysis
lini millions of Nairal
1989    1990    1991    1992    1993 1994-2008
INCRENENIAL BENEFITS
Subtotal  INCREMENTAL REVENUES         -       -       18      32      44        46
INCREHENTAL COSIS
IUCRENENTAL COSTS                    21      33       14     tO       11         6
INCRENENTAtl NET BENEFIrS
INCRENENTAtt  ET BENIfITS            -21     -33       4       22      33        40
_:_:    z    ::S:  :.::    :       :   ::=_zz_
Internal Rate Of Return for the project: 415.
ftech 15. 1989  18:46
SMITCHING VALUES 4T 12S
APPRAISAL    SIIITEIING    PERCENTAGE
STREII                 VALUE         VALUE        CHANGE
:::z:::::2::::::::::::::stn;s.:::::::c:s: :tStStt
at                    236.42         69.69        -52.061
CI                     89.69        236.42        163.1
net Present Value at OCL 12:  146.7
Internal Rate of Return: 40.52
|Couon Equivalent Rate of Return   363
SENSITIVITY AtALYSIS
INPUT STREAMS FOR BASE CASE
Subtotal
INCRIEENTAL  INCRENENTAL
PERIODS    REVENUES       COSTS
I        0           21
2        0           33
3       Is            14
4       32            to
5       44            Ii
6-20       46            6



-79-
Annex 4
Page 5 of 6
AGGREGATED SIREAMS fOR BASE CASE
TOTAL        tOTAL         NEI
INCREMENTAL  INCREMENTAL  INCREMENTAL
PERIODS    BENEFITS      COSTS       BENEFITS
I       0            21          -21
2        0           33           -33
3       Ia           14            4
4       32           10           22
5       44           t            33
6-20       46            6           40
SENSITIVITY TESTS
NPV AS A S
PRESENT             OF PRESENT          INTERNAL
VALUE AT OCC        COSTS AT OCC        RATE OF
IEST CASES    TEST CASE VARIATIONS               OF 12.00S            OF 12. 0            RETURlt
BASE CASE                                                146.*               163.6S           40.51
TEST CASE  I SI        OSmm 101                          123.I              137.21           36.71
TEST CASE  2  Bt               DOWN 201                   99.4              110.9S           32.6S
TEST CASE  3  Cl               003 101                   155.7              192.91           44.71
TEST CASE  4   1                OGRJI 201                164.7              229.51           49.61S
IEST CASE  S  8I               UP   I01                  170.4              190.01           44.31
TEST CASE  6 o1                UP  202                   194.0              216.31           47.91
TEST CASE  7  Cl               UP   10                  137.8              139.6S           37.0
TEST CASE  8  Ct               UP  20                    126. 8 6             9.7n           34.01
TEST CASE  9  01               LAG    1 lEARS            121.4              135.41           31.1t
TEST CASE tO  81               LAG    2 YEARS             98.8              110.1I           25.41
TEST CASE It 8t                LAG    3 YEARS             78.6               al 6S           ".61
PRESENT VALUES OF NET STREAS AT A DISLIT RATE OF 12S
at      UP  0t1     UP 201      UP 501   1NUN 101    0011 201   DOMN SO0  LAG 1 YEAR LAG 2 YEARS LAG 3 YEARS
Ct                 146.7        170.4      194.0        264.9       123. 1       99.4         28.5       121.4        98.8        78.6
UP 1O0             137.6        161.4       185.0       256.0       114. 1       90.5         19.5       112.4        89.8        69.6
UP 20S             128.6       1S2.4        176. 1      247.0       0OS. I       81.5         10. 6      103.5        80. 8       60.6
UP 501             101. 9       125.5       149.2       220.1        78.2        54. 6       -16.3        76.6        S3. 9       33.7
00DW  101          155.7       179.3       203.0        273.9       132.1       108.4        37 5        130.4       107.7        87.8
01OHN11 20S        164.7       188.3       211.9        282.9       141.0       117.4        46.5        139.3       116.?        96.5
0OWN3 501          191 6       215 2       238.9        300.8       167.9       144.3        73.4        166.2       143.6       123.4
LAG I YEAR                         -            -           -           -                                131.0       108.4        88.2
IAG 2 VTARS                                     -                       -                        -                   1I7.0        96.8
tlAG 3 VtWA                                                                         -            -           -                   104.4



- 80 -
Annex 4
Page 6 of 6
INTERN6L RaTES Of REtUR! OF NET STREAS
SI      UP 10S       UP 201      UP 501   COHN 101    DOW 201    00M   01  LAtG I YEAR LAG 2 YEARS LAG 3 YEARS
Cl                 40.544      44.270       41.864       57.989      36.665       32.606       18.811      31.053       25.428      21.630
UP tNS             3?.025      40 544       43 937       53.498      33.359       29.518       16.380      28.625       23.552       20.0YO
UP 201             33 981      37. 323      40 544       49. 616     30.497       26.841       14.239      26.487       21.885      la 713
UP S0o             26 841      29. t81      32 606       40 544      23.764       20.515        8.997      21.322       17.786       15.292
141  101           44.676      48. b46      52.476       63. 261     40.544       36.223       21.620      33.849       27. 564      23. 371
OSIN 20X           49 616      53 879       S7 989       69.558      45. 180      40.544      24.936       3?. 123      30.035      25.369
DOIU  S0N          73. 199     78.833       84.257       99.474      67.326       61. 179     40.544       51.907       40. 851      33. 940
LAG I YES                            *           *                                                         40.144       31.053      19.42
LAG 2 YEMRS             -o -                                                                                               4         316 3
L*   3 YEARS                                                                                                                        40.144



NICERIS
PLANT QUARANTINE SULPROJECT
ECONOMIC  ANALYSIS
(IN 180 CWNSTANTNRAS)
BASIC RATIONALE  N Net Cost Saving  between the use of chemical control methods vie-a-vie establshmnt of an efic ent Plant
Quarantine PV  Service is taken as the benefIt to the economy of the PQ program
PYI     PY2      Pya     PY4      PYS      PYO      PY?     PYs      PY9    PYlO
I. WIlUT PLNT  JARANTDIE PROJECT/a
Peent"ge of Area affected by di"ase/b        0.0006  0.0200  0.0800  0.1700  0.2900  o,66%*  0.9700  1.0000  1.0000  1.0000
Parc nt  ot Area sprayed with chmicals       0.0000  0.0000  0.0100  0.0600  0.1000  0.2000  0.4000  0.6000  0.6000   0.6000
Percentag  of area not sprayed               0.0006  0.0200  0.0700  0.1200  0.1900  0.4600  0.6700  0.4000  0.4000  0.4000
S Yield lose of diseas  (unsprayed) area     0.4000  0.4000  0.4000  0.4000  0.4000  0.4000  0.4000  0.4000  0.4000  0.4000
X Yield lose of sprayed area                 0.1000  0.1000  0.1000  0.1000  0.1000  0.1000  0.1000  0.1000  0.1200   0.1000
Not Percent Red  in Yield (unsprayed are)    0.0002  0.0080  0.0280  0.0480  0.0760  0.1600  0.2280  0.1600  0.1600   0.1600
Net Percent Redn In YelId (sprayed ar")      0.0000  0.0000  0.0010  0.0060  0.0100  0.0200  0.0400  0.0600  0.0600  0.0600
Total Percent Redn In Yield                  0.0002  0.0060  0.0260  0.0680  0.0660  0.2000  0."80   0.2200  0.2200  0.2200
Avg. Yield (t/ha): Maiz a    1.00 ;Ccsavan   6.00 ;RIce         1.00 Cowpa a   0.40
Projected Land Ares: Maize/c                 606.00  566.00  615.00  677.00  677.00  677.00  677.00  677.00  677.00  677.00
('000 ha)      : Casova                  1327.00 1418.00 1614.00 1618.00  1616.00 1616.00  1618.00  1610.00 1618.00 1618.00
Rice                     212.00  260.00  896.00  688.00  6a8.00  686.00  688.00  658.00  688.00  6a8.00
: Cowpe.                  966.00 1084.00 1118.00 1208.00 1208.00  1208.00 1208.00 1208.00  1208.00 1208.'0
Total reduction in yield: MaIl                 0.10    4.46    17.64   85.88   68.22  186.40  181.44   140.94  148.94  148.94
(@000 t)            : Cassova               1.69   60.06  268.44  614.62  684.89 1041.60 2601.74  2186.76  2186.76  2186.76
s RIc                  0.04    2.80    11.46   28.61   46.27  107.60  144.18  116.86  118.36  118.86
Cowpsa               0.08    8.81    12.97   26.61   41.66   96.64   129.60  106.80   106.80   106.30
A. Total Value of Yield Los (m mlillion)
Maize                             0.1      8.8    18.1    26.4    42.9    99.8   188.7   109.8   109.8   106.8
Cassava                           o.a    11.6    44.8    87.6   141.9   880.1   442.8   888.1   868.1   U8.1
Rice                              0.0      2.1    10.6    26.4    42.8    89.6   188.    109.4   109.4   109.4
Coopee                            0.2      8.4    88.1    65.8   106.0   246.4   880.2   271.1   271.1   271.1
--- _- - - --------- ----------------w-------------------_---_- ------------_____             ____ --- - ------- --___---
Subtotal (Cost of Yield Lose)                   0.6    26.4   101.6   906.0   a88    775.6  1088.6   865.8   868.8   8586.
~~~~- ------S- -----                     -------a- ----                               ----a



S. Cost of Chmicol Control (N million)
Rate:I/ha  N/lit    N/ha
Meitz       1.50  150.00  225.00                0.00    0.00      1.38     7.62    15.23    30.47    80.93    91.40    91.40   91.40
Casava      1.20   100.00   120.00              0.00    0.00      1.82    9.?1    19.42    38.63    77.66   116.60   116.50   116.60
Rice        1.20   130.00   168.00              0.00    0.00    0.62    4.20        8.39    16.79   33.67    60.36   60.36   iO.36
cospee      1.60   140.00  210.00               0.00    0.00    2.35    12.68   26.37   60.74   101.47   162.21   162.21   152.21
~~~~~~~~- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - --   - -- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- - - - - - - - - - - -           _
Subtotal (Cost of chmical control)              0.00    0.00    6.16    34.20   68.41   136.82   ?78.64   410.44   410.46   410.46
C. TOTAL COST V/0 PQ PROJECT (A - 8)
Maizo                         0.07     3.29    14.53   84.06    68.14   130.26   194.65  201.16   201.16  201.16
Cassaa                        0.27    11.67   46.60   97.18  161.36   368.90  619.98  479.58   479.68   479.68
Rice                          0.04    2.13   11.21   30.66    61.16   116.26   166.86   169.77   169.77   169.77
Coepa                         0.20    8.44    35.42   77.99   131.33  297.17   431.69  423.28  423.28   423.28
TOTAL COST */0 PQ PROJECT                       0.68    25.43  107.76  239.79  401.99   912.56  1313.16  1263.79  1263.79  1263.79
II. WIEH PLAT   ANDINE PROJECT/d
0.  lncr. Cost of Plant Quarantine Project      2.20   27.60    7.60    6.40       4.70     2.60    2.60    2.60       2.60     2.60
New Cot Savings (It mai  dimse   comes In)   -2.13  -24.21        7.08   27.66    53.44   127.76   192.15   199.66   198.66   198.66       c
Nat Cost Savings (if caseve diosoe   com    in)  -1.93  -15.93   39.10   90.76   156.66   866.40  517.48  477.06  47.00   477.08
Not Cost Savings (if rice disoeas comes in)    -2.16  -26.87      3.71   24.15   46.46   113.75   164.36  157.27   157.27   167.27
Net Cost Savings (if cowpsa di-seas com  in)  -2.0)  -19.06   27.92   71.69  126.63   294.67  429.19  420.78  420.78   420.78
NET COST SAVINIS OURING PROJECT PERIOD (PY1 - PY5)
NET COST SAVDINS AS A PERCENT OF INVESTMENT COSTS
5-year Cost Savings (asooc with Maize)         61.80                                120
S-year Cost Savingo  1awsoc with casova)      268.67                               656
6-year Cost Savings t .ec with rice)           46.79                                 97
5-year Cost Saving  (&n*oc with cowpea)       205.07                                425
/a. Under this scenario, potentially dangerous foreign poste/diseases are assumd to enter the country at the average *pidbmiological
rate for Nigeria, and that an effective chmical control method to minimie yield loss can be developed within 2 yarsr of
lnfiltration of dimeas/pest.  It is further assumed that once a foroign diseae/pest enters the country, a minimum of 5 yers
(which Is quite optimistic) would *lapse before varietles tolerant to the disease/post (under local conditlons) can be developed.
Finally, It Is assumed that another 6 years minirAm would be required to replace existing area under cultivation with disease-
tolerant varieties.
/b.  Epidmiological Progression Rate ti defined as the Spread Capacity (in pereentag  terms) of a foreign disese/peat from the time
of infilt:ation until 1001 coverage. This is derived from the polycyclic process of disease/pest  pidemiology (Zadok & Schin,
1979), which applies to the mjority of the d ,seases/pests foreign to Nigeria
/c. Source: Agricultural Policy for Nigeria. Implementation Strategies *nd Program  (workingP paper); Federal Ministry of Agriculture     x
Water Resources and Rural Development (FUANRO), August 1997.
/d. Under this scenario, it is assumed that an efficient plant quarantine service is in place, aid that the chances of infiltration of o
potentially hazardous plant diseases/pests are minimum.



- 83 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
Summary Cost Table
NIGERIA
NAT IONAL SEED AND QUARANTINE PROJECT
F;nancial Costs
S-imry Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingsnc.os                       Totals Including Contingmancirs
INAIRA '0001                                          (US$ '000O
1989     t990     t91t    1992      1993    Total      1989    1990    191   1992    1993    Total
:S=5:           53=:=  =:S3S 55:5*5:: :5 St=  ===S: SS StS *555  *:5::55 *323555 515353  XSS:S:S 355:555
1. INVESTNEUT COSTS
A  CIVIL moRiS                         1.527. 3 10. 89. 1 3. 371.4    940.2      -  16.828 1    181.5 1. 22S 3   355.8   93.8        -  1.857. 4
8. LOIIGTERF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE       959.6  4,374.1  4.069.4  2.646.4  2.013.0  14,062.5    114.t  48& 1   429.4   284.0   169.9  1,465.5
C. SHORTTERN TECHNICAt ASSISTANCE     1.534.4    236.1    421.5  1.102.2    330.5   3.624.8    182.4    26.4   44.5   110.0    31.2    394.4
0. OVERSEAS TRAINING                  1.966.9  3.798.9  3.333.1 2.022.7  1,819.8  12.941.3    233.6  423.0   351.7  201.8   171.8  1,382.9
E. LOCAL TRAINING                     1. 839. 8  2.938.9  1.754.5  1. 706. 0  1, 674. 0   9.913. 2    218 7   328. 0   185. 1   170.2   157.9  1.059.9
f. RESEARCH                             811.7  3. 339.7    979.7  1.077. 6       -  6, 20  7     96. 5   372.7   103.4   107.5       -    660.1
G. INRMENTAL MtING CAPITAL                   -  1.162    481.7   187.3           -  2.387. 3         -   191.7    5O.Sa   I&aI       -   261.3
H. MACHINERY AND EQIIPUtE            11.419. 1 27.481.4  2.637.0  2.066. 1  1.530.5  45. 134. 1 1. 357.3 3.06. 7  27. 3   206 .    144.4  5. 052.8
1. VEHICLES                           3. 8s? 7 12. 121. 1   310.7  1,504.3  S, 647.5  23,442.3    458.7 1, 352. 6    32.8  150.1   532.7  2,526.8
J. RESER  STOCK FUNDS                   8O&5 1S . 117. 1   314.5    121. 5       -  2 361. 6     96.1  124. 7    33.2    12. 1       -    266.1
......-   --------     --------     -------- ... --------     ---------. . --- --   -- - -   -- - -   -- - -   -- - -   -------- ___  _... ._
Total INVEStIENT COSTS                  24. 725.8 68. 114.8 17. 673.5 13.374. 3 13. 015. 2 136,903.8  2. 939.0 7. 601. I 1.864.9 1.334. 3 1.227.7 14. 967.0
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. LOCAL SALARIES / ALLONANCES        1.205.8  1.890.3  2.079.4  2.287.3  2,381.0   9.43.9    143.3   210.9   219.4   228.2   224.  1t,026.5
R. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE          1,628.1  6,612.1  7. 139.9  7.672.6  8.182.8  31.236.0    193.5  737.9   753.4  765.5   771.8  3.222.2
C. GENERAL EXPENSES                  1,258. 1 3, 136. 1 3.201.4  2.795.6  3.349.4  13. 740. 6    149.5  350.0  337.8  27& 9   315.9  1,432.2
Total RECURRENT COSTS                    4. 092. 1 11,639. 0 12.420.7 12.755.5 13. 913.2  54.820.5    486.4 t,298. 8 1,310.7 1,272.6 1S,312. 4  5. 680.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                      28,;817.9 79 753.6 30. 094.2 26. 129.8 26. 928.5 191,724.2  3,425.4 8.899.9 3. 175.  2.608 9 2. 540.0 20,647.8
::::;:::= *t~ ======:= =====::       SS*SSS: S:::: :s:t=::  *555 , SSS  5555  *SSSS  SSSSS ::::555-555  t
....l 26.... 19.. 89_ .                                                                      ..  ..... .. 8.9..  .... la.         ... .     .....2.3
dprii 2Q  1989  t5.23



Summary Cost Table
t41GERIA^
NATIONAL SEED AnH  QUARANTINE PROJECT
Iinncial Costs
Project Coaneents by Year
Totals Including Contingencios                       Totals Includino Contingpncies
INAIRA '0001                                          (US$ 0001
1969     1990     199l     1992     1993    lot4l       es89    1990    1991    1992   1993   total
a. SEED: INS1ITUtIONAt REfORI
ORGANISATION AND NIANGENIIT                            S.207.8  1, 441.7  1,816. 9  1, 643.0  4.200.1  14.309.5   619.0  160 9   191.7  163. 9   396.2  1.531. 7
SEEO INDUSTRY OEVELOPIIENI ASSISTANCE                  1. 654.7  3.323. 2  3,703.0  2.728. 1 2,298.6  13,707.6    196.7  370.8   390.7  272.2  216.8  1,44t.3
..-- --   -- -- -   -- -- -   -- -- -   -- -- -   -- - - -  .   .      .........     .......   . .. ------   -- - -   -- - -   --- ---
Sib-Totsl SEEO: INSIITUIIONAL REFORI9                     6,862.5  4.764.9  S,519.9  4.371. 1 5,498.7  28,017.0    815.7  531.7  582.5  436. 1  613.0  2.979.0
B. SEED OUALITY CONtROL ASID CERTIfICATI4N
QUALITY CONIROL                                        6.598. 1  2,563.2  1,859.5  2,024.9  2,779.7  15.825. t    784.3  286.0   196.2  202.0  262.2  1.730.t
SEED CERTIFICATION                                     2,309.9  6,237.9  1. 092 7   98619    630.2  11,459.3   274.6  696. 1   115.3   98.6   78.3  1,262. 9
Sub-Iotcl SEED OJAtLtlY CONRDt AND CERTIfICATION         8.908.0  8.801.2  2,952.2  3,013.0  3,610.0  27,284.4  1,958.9  982.1   311.5  300.6  340.5 2t993.6
C. SEED PRODUCt ION   PRDCESSING AND SIORAGE
GREEDER SEED                                           3.247 8  6, 239.4  1.082. 3    990. 5  1, 491.4  12. 611.S    386.0  696.3   114.2   54.9  140.7  1.392. 1
fO910A10' SEED                                         1.407 2 16,903.3  3,625.2  2.408 2 2.022.1 26,365.9    167.3 l.A*- t  382.5  240.3   190.7  2.867.1
Sub-lotal SEED PROOUCTION , PROCESSING AND SlORAGE        4,659.0 23.142.7  4,707.5  2,958.7  3,513.5  38.977.4   553.3 2.52.9   496.7  29M.2  331.4  4.299.2
D. SfEO: ITRAINING
LOCAL IRAINING                                         2.494.8  1.964 4  2.544.9  2.358.5  2,173.0  11.539.7   296.9  219.2  268.5  235.3  209.0  1,224.6
OVERSEAS TRAINING                                      1,644.9  2,250.3  2, 317. 0  1,299. 5  1,024. 2   8 535. 9    195.5  251.1  244.5   129. 6    96.6    917.4
Sub-lotal SEED: TRAINING                                  4, 139.8  4,214. 7 4,861.9  3,657. 9  3.197.3  20,071.5   492.1   470.3  513.0  364.9  301. 6  2. 142.0
E. SEEO: VARIETY TESTING AID RELEASE SUPPORT              1,794.0  S,088.2  2.949.2  2,998.5  3,316.2  16.1460    213.2  567.8   311.2  299.1  312.8  1 704.2
f. PO: INSTI UlIONAL REfORN                              1.278 0  3,795.4  1,908.6  2.142.9  1.231.8  10,356.8    1S1.9  423.9  201.4  213.8   116.2  1,106.81
A. PO: IRAINING                                           1. 126.2  6.229.2  1. 495.0  1.206.0  1,326. 6  11,343.0    133.9  695. 1   153.5  120.3   125.1 1.228 0
M. Po: PORI INSPECIORItE SERVICES                            54.5  9.705.3  4,665.1  3,988.2  2,933.9  21 346. 8      6.5 1,083.0  492.3  391.9  276.7 2,256.4
1. PO. POST ENTRY TECl SUPPORI SERVICES                         - 14 012. 3  1074. 8  1, 793.5  1 300. 6  18. 181. 2    - 1.563. 7   I13.4  178.9   122 7  1.978.7
TotaI PROJECT COSTS                                        28,817.9 79. 753. 8 30.094.2 26. 129.8 26,928.5 191. 724. 2 3,4 25.4 8,899.9 3, 175. 6 2,606.09 2940.0 20, 647. 8
=:s::::S :::::::s  ::::s::: ::::;::s .::;:,:   :a::: *20:2;:S  :::s:fs s: :;:; C:;:;  C;t::;:  ::: :2: _: ::::s
_ _ ~~~~~~~~~~..zzz Mc ... z.. z..=..z                 a-a  ..... . . ..z  . ..  ... _.. . a . .aa                ..Zz; z......
aprIl 26. 1989  15:23
IN
OQ 
to



- 85 -
Annex 7
NIGERIA
NATIONAL SEED AND PLANT QUARANTINE PROJECT
..._._. ._................_ _._..... ...........
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
____ ............... .....................
tUSS Nillion)
IBRD          IBRD                           Cumulative       As a percent of         Project
Fiscal Year     Quarter      Disbursent       Disbursement         Total Loan        Profile (%)a/
... .... _-      ...........  ----- -----      ............   .  . ---------------..  _. _............................................ ........... 
FY90            I              -
It            0.4               0.4                   3                   0
III           0.6               1.0                   7
IV            0.6               1.6                  11                   1
FY91            I             0.6               2.2                  15
11            0.7               2.9                  20                   5
III           0.7               3.6                  25
IV            0.8               4.4                  31                  12
FY92            1             0.7               5.1                  36
I            0.6               5.7                  40                  20
III           0.7               6.4                  45
IV            0.8               7.2                  51                  29
FY93            1             0.7               7.9                  56
1            0.6               8.5                  60                  39
III           1.0               9.5                  67
IV            1 0              10.5                  75                  S0
FY94            1             1.3              11.8                  84
II            0.6              12.4                  88                  60
III           0.6              13.0                  92
IV            0.7              13.7                  97                  70
FY95            I             0.3              14.0                 100
it                                                                       78
III
IV                                                                       86
FY96            I
11                                                                       91
IV                                                                       95
FY97            I
11                                                                       99
III
IV                                                                      100
a/ Based on Disbursement Profile for Nigeria Agricultural
Area Development Project Profile as of September 1985.



NIGERIA
NATIONAL SEED AND QUARANTINE PROJECT
Present Ovganlzatlon of NatOnnd See  Sevice
WatrRessuros
wa- PuAMO
Dr) F.D.AR.D.
N.8.8. fr t  Direor 
HEADQUARTERS SUPPORTNG SERVICES                              HEADO 5AHTERS SUPPORTNG SERICES
| 42                   |                  (14|| 4) Sce                              (,Vmn   | C HT|X
REGWNAL OFFICES                                           REGAI.AL OFFICES
U=Kdib - Anarbra,   I         Kaduna.  KI o
--RW  Crs-rvr                Kabnm SWebwd.                                        -= W
I24)                                      3C6)
(42) Number     "   r In peunUi~ total nrmber of dtaf In each Sudan.
rt~
c  CID



NIGERIA
NATIONAL SEED AND QUARANTINE PROJECT
Fed"S MW
oWandTehr. . .               ee  ................    War F _mur  an
FMST~~~~~~~D
.   ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.f
Field~~ Ofieb ule Se
..FDM?fDS
One for leea rch of                                                      I Podcd  1           I      a
B111mw                                                                      s CAO * 5"   T     _  sew  & Ainweas7an
.   F   I  .  I 1~~~~~~~~~D . 
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~p I                       ft bb    Iw                                                  se bsw
.~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~n to ,             g-.                                     .             .             .
.... .. eac... hal | to  Produce b |.                                                                               0 or,=
|   a  FbA=Sl               -iid80"I
WmI@         |              A     a          FARMERS
IR _hd Iute             1    8 ed         1  11 
|      I  E_ -   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VA4W



NIGERIA
NATIONAL SEED AND QUARANTINE PROJECT
VARIETY DEVELOPMENT, TESTNG, REGISTRATION, RELEASE AND
SEED MULTIPUCATION SCHEME
NATIONAL EED
OOUNCO
SEEW INDUSTRY                 VAMREG'Y    TM" SD  STAN M
DEVELOIMENT COM                      RELEA8E COMITEE E            l        CO    E
1. RESEARCH INSTITS                   VARETY REGISTRATION a
. PRIVATE SEWD ENTERES          _EIA^EMMEE
Wr       .       CRLP.      N             .                                       N d.r al  e
FleldObeervtl       10.5 Is      On8 laDP8 |         Adb                            |Nbd 
sP8w         _uf co" t l|                       _| 
GAC-GeuSo Ros Ceter Feduw Mey  d Scnos Id Tehndomo (FMSI)
N.C.fP.-P. Naflna Cowrinaftd Rheerch Progpama FMST                                                               r 
N88 Naon.! Seed S"e *O
NAFPP= Ntonal A  _hd    Food Puon  ProFm .
ADPs. Aqlouiu Dweopnww Procts; FASCOMS. Femme Sip* Cannua



NIGERIA
NATIONAL SEED AND QUARANTINE SERVICE
Preent Organizat lnsi Structure of the Plant Quarantine Service, Nigeria
Wate  esource
and RU  DevdpMe
I
DbeLFr F.DARD.
I  Deputy pfec
_W~~~~~MO                                                           _       _
S8Wa _o             Law RevePw
A Fdmbt m        -20 Stato              Pe_nt Progra
9 smonsabhipnion0
L  ;2               _ 8E Zw               Testing ProgrPbn
SE Zwon
Bbl  Stations    _tase Hom
NE               - TebTing rogan
7 Statins
Tretmentand
-TbsO@e
T EabV_ar
Source: d on an oveiw of teP OPM   IM, by Dr. M. 0. Mis
Mt X
c.aD



Proposed MaL.  S                                        i other Agencieo
Wateral&
PIwuwnS           --     DkwofAWmtwn 
Pailff Unit
Cownn mn y                                           cwm _  _     Rn1
CoW                                   _J_wad  Dq| 
Tedir.:jWAdWay                  ______  ;__._Fadllon
ZJW  L___i1 L4 
* Rew*msadedNl
-Aountlse and Rnlz.oel uL 14                 CIL 14        (IL 14       GE 14
- P81am 9 Pbnb                  0|
r~~~~~ -i r---*   r ---nr---
R|nw@nxiN#wpodfos ~ ~~        ~      ~~~~~ I  Pm  I         I ddQ       I          la
(law~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .Am  .w= .



NIGERIA
NATIONAL SEED AND QUARANTINE PROJECT
Propoed OrganIztIon Strcture
Technical and DiagnosIc Support Services
A)0 .           L 16 
.L -r----
OICNIroIogIsGL 128   j1 A) Pm  QLeader GL 12tf PoVD   SW.1AN
.~~ r--------   ~~--
Sdead 4atbTestingn  s
aRW1pewwwist   4GLI              12M'
trmdTHxuoTaft
As& OIC GL 11/13          3L10 d                   GL 1Y2
LiaisonOmo r i(TA,N88  _wn_
eb10011 )10'                                      GL *
_     CueObire SpOdAU    Habam OEm                V
cL i112                  OL 112t                   L 112
GwM 3msiosewuIon                                 Lamrada
OIflarGLlOfl2                                     etU12
5AM44257
".0m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
* ruwnw   MW puSluOm 
R.        w  now oan-izo  wun5



-92-        Annex 9
_____ ___.,,,
w
t ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~i:I
*jj,, * .ll  a;   ;^
*   . ,, . ..
-  _.  1.



- 93 -
Annex 10
PICERIA
NATIONAL SEED AND QUARANIBU PROJECT
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
A.  Background
Strategy for Agricultural Growth                  Report No. 7988-UNI
Green Cover Sector Report                        June 30, 1090
B.   Proiect Identification and Preparation
8.1. A review of developments in the seed
sub-sector with emphasis on the National
Seed Service - Review report prepared by
Hr. M.W. Chilton, Seed Consultant, World
Bank, August 1987
B.2. Preparation Mission Report, Main Tezt and
Annez 1-8, Report No. 36f88 CP-NIR25 by
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
Investment Center, April '. 1988
C.  Working Papers
C.1. National Seed Service
C.2.  Proposed Seed Legislation
C.3.  Technical Assistance
C.4. Variety Development, Registration and Release
C.5. Seed Production and Marketing
C.6.  Seed Processing and Storage
C.7. Seed Quality Control and Certification
C.8.  Human Resource Development
C.9   Incremental Working Capital and Reserve Stock Fund
C.10  Crop Budgets and Estimated Prices for Foundation
and Certified Seed
C.11  NSS Cash Flow (Historical)
C.12 Projected Cash Flow for Foundation Seed Operations
C.13 Operating Statement for Seed Certification Service
C.14 Plant Quarantine Service: Computation of Service Charges
C.15 Plant Quarantine Service: Projected Revenues from
Service Charges
C.16 Plant Quarantine Service
C.17 Detailed Project Costs and Financing Tables
Doc.Name:Annexl0;DisksAshok V



4-   _.a_  /^_._  8-  i-  10  {2-    I  J  84   I~~~~~~~~~~,
BU K NA,S   .  SO OT      KATI~   G * -'R..>. 
[  (~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   \             |    |  n   [  J l - ] N | 2 F l  A n S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$m w J   
sa.*r~~~~~~~~&  i'AUC#*                 ^ I    S7      c~ !Sen ;
L~~~~~~~~ /ICA _B to:'m 0n 13,w|_*
l~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~0~ w ,  WMNN   <L4-/ ': Li=       <-*) -t <10  i   :XCLGAE    S   icA



NIGERIA                                           CHAD
NATIONAL SEED AND QUARANTINE PROJECT
Location of National Seed Service Headquarters and
t     _       <              ~~~~~~~Regional Offices                         , 
BURKINA                                                                                                             d I G E R
,FASO)       /        so     ,           IINA                                    ueR              ~       8
4/       t     t     ~~~SOKOTO                        KANO@
~  KILOMETERS  40 BOUt__ 80RA -   nmi
Zaa                                                             0,tLS6  2  o 6 8 1to  -   S  a
BENIN                                      KADUNA                                                                  ' .Ax|:  ^
,               X         ;,\         W         R~~~~~~~~AUCH!                          4
KWA                    MNKWAI |                                                  -.      e    D
w                                                                                                                       usOYO  1 ~  /   ^   5    &-nue  GOIGOLA
>  } lN     3 gUg~~~E    t_                ,MlAKWIDI         )
43^BE_ > {1 oNDO  )   -    >   t   '~~~~BFNUf/                 .                Staes Under "ona Ofcs.
OGUN                                                                                           Soth JW   ri\est
t gl > certor 9 G ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~North West
LAGOS    BOE 4 f1  fNrhas
LAGOS                                                                                     A   tif* eadlduarters
W   Lrr  /MO )^l RlMtR \  x                       A   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sub -Regional Offce
R   }>\/30wRtzj >   {                            {  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Regional Offices
W jff~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILOETRS(t//'   00                     i  1,0. 160  69      vers jr
gL                                                                     MIE  ' ,o 46i  o91             taeBudre



NICtlERIA                                      CH-\D
NATIONAL SEED AND QUARANTINE PROJECT( 
/-ls?cat~~ion of Plant Quarantine Stations A 
BSURKINA      l,ela                f                  +N I G E R r9ud
[ ASO)                             Jo ib                                  Yobe R.3\ 
9 /   . t   <    ~~soST     KeATSINA9                  
{   >   3Ka.)pba                                                                                       2
r   I   f   43    }        <los        f     ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ limmeta  ADSH.I
r 2 _\7 < | M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YLF4A   AFRICA\
>         \ 01t~~~IORIN                                     4                        /      X
Idrk;<ABEOKUTA    .  3             IJ                                8tsua                            ,
< Sapebl0~~~~~IT                                                               HQ    a
Wam L~~~~~~~~~~~r 5 M Ai ;
Oi Glf of Guslnea  \/gs                                                                     k gkg-r 
Z              \2t &      ;            0         n",o~~~~~~~~~~OMnis  40, , 120, t60 
0 _                                                                             .  .  I    



