Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                FILE Copy
Report No. P-3006-R0
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD INDUSTRY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
FOR A
CARACAL - TITU IRRIGATION PROJECT
April 1, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Leu (Plural Lei)
1. Conversion Rate for Traded Goods
Lei 15.00 = US$1.00
Leu 1.00 = US$0.07
2. Tourist Rate
Lei 11.00 = US$1.00
Leu 1.00 5 US$0.09
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BAFI                                Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
(Banca pentru Agricultura si Industrie
Alimentara)
CAP                       -         Agricultural Production Cooperative
(Cooperative Farm)
ERR                       -         Economic Rate of Return
ICA                       -         Inter-Cooperative Association
IAS                       -         State Agricultural Enterprise
(State Farm)
MAFI                      -         Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry
SMA                       -         Agricultural Mechanization Stations
(State Mechanization Units)
UAC                       -         Unified Agro-Industrial Councils



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ROMANIA
CARACAL - TITU IRRIGATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI)
Guarantor:         Socialist Republic of Romania
Beneficiary:       State enterprises and cooperatives
Loan Amount:       US$80.0 million
Terms:             Repayable in 15 years, including 3-year grace period,
through semi-annual installments. Interest at 9.6 percent
per annum.
Relending
Terms:             The loan from BAFI to Agricultural Production Cooperatives
(CAPs) for buried pipelines would be for 25 years including
5 years grace, and for on-farm irrigation equipment 12 years
including 3 years grace. The interest rate would be 3
percent for CAPs with a penalty rate of an additional 3
percent for late payments. The Government would bear the
exchange risk.
Project
Description:       The main objectives of the project would be to increase and
stabilize crop production and to raise productivity in a
gross area of 130,677 ha (127,173 ha net) consisting of two
separate subprojects in the areas of Caracal and Titu
located in the south central part of Romania.  This would be
accomplished through construction of irrigation and drainage
systems and related facilities.  The project works would
include construction and improvement of irrigation
facilities and surface drainage systems, soil erosion
control, sandy area reclamation, construction of four flood
retention dams and valley training. Equipment for operation
and maintenance and farm machinery would also be provided
under the project. Benefits from crop production in the
project areas would increase from a fluctuating annual
average of about $342 million to a relatively stable annual
average of about $693 million. Yield increases in various
crops in the newly irrigated areas would range from about
100 percent for wheat to about 175 percent for maize and
alfalfa and the
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



cropping intensity would increase by about 17 percent. The project would more
than double labor productivity. The economy at large would be the main
beneficiary of the project. However, it would also somewhat increase the
income of the 73,700 active members of CAPs and the 4,300 employees of the
lAbs in the project area, and is expected to create about 5,000 new jobs
during construction and 1,200 thereafter. The project faces no special risks.
Estimated Cost                                     Local        Foreign       Total
----------US  Million---------
Caracal Subproject                                 155.6         40.1        195.7
Titu Subproject                                     93.8         27.2        121.0
Base Cost                                          249.4         67.3        316.7
Physical Contingencies                              18.7          5.0         23.7
Price Contingencies                                 18.0         20.9         38.9
Total Cost                                         286.1         93.2        379.3 1'
Financing Plan                                     Local        Foreign      Total
---------US ,Million--------
BAFI                                                32.0          -           32.0
State Budget including
cofinanciers (foreign commercial banks)         243.4          13.2        256.6
Sub-borrowers                                       10.7          -           10.7
IBRD                                                 -           80.0         80.0
Total                                              286.1         93.2        379.3
Estimated Disbursement    Bank FY         1982      1983    1984    1985    1986
Annual                                  2.0      22.0    21.0    21.0    14.0
Cumulative                              2.0     24.0    45.0    66.0    80.0
Rate of Return;   About 20 percent
Appraisal Report: Report No. 3294-RO dated April 1, 1981
EMENA Projects Department
/ Net of taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD INDUSTRY OF ROMANIA
FOR A CARACAL-TITU IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry of Romania, with the guarantee
of the Socialist Republic of Romania, for the equivalent of US$80 million to
help finance a Caracal and Titu Irrigation Project. The loan would have a
term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at 9.6 percent per
annum. Cofinancing of up to US$100 million is being sought, all from foreign
commercial lending institutions.
PART I. THE ECONOMY
2.       The first basic report on Romania (Report No. 1601-RO, "The
Industrialization of an Agrarian Economy under Socialist Planning") was
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 20, 1978. An updating Country
Economic Memorandum (CEM) discussing the New Economic Measures introduced in
January 1979 was circulated to the Executive Directors on August 20, 1980
(Report No. 2757-RO). Country social and economic data are given in Annex 1.
A. Long-term Trends and Development Strategy
3.       Over the past three decades, Romania has pursued a development
strategy designed to industrialize a primarily agrarian economy. The main
features of this strategy have been (a) a high rate of investment; (b)
development of a broad industrial base, with priority given to heavy industry;
(c) development of local natural resources, including the reorganization and
modernization of agriculture; (d) balanced regional distribution of production
and incomes; and (e) training of a skilled labor force. This strategy had
been carried out through a system of comprehensive central planning and
management, guided by central party and government authorities.
4.       As a result, Romania's economic development since 1950 has been
impressive, characterized by a rapid economic growth and considerable
structural change. According to official statistics, national income has
grown in real terms at an annual average rate of about 9 percent. Per capita
GNP in 1979 is estimated to have been US$1,900, according to the Bank Atlas
methodology. Since 1950, investment has grown at an average annual rate of 13
percent, as a result of which the share of gross investment in GNP has risen
to about 30 percent in 1978.  Industry, which grew at 11.3 percent per annum



over 1970-1979, has been the driving force of economic growth, receiving
around 50 percent of investment, most of which has been allocated to the
capital goods industry. As a result, industry has become the leading sector,
accounting in 1978 for about 50 percent of GDP and for 34 percent of the labor
force, compared with agriculture's 14 percent share of GDP and 33 percent of
the labor force. With the transfer of labor from agriculture to industry, the
population has become increasingly urbanized. Standards of living have
increased substantially, partly because of the growth of personal incomes and
partly because of provision through the state budget of expanded and improved
education, medical services, housing and social expenditures of other kinds.
Furthermore, Romania's integration into the world economy has increased, as
the level of trade has grown and its composition altered.
B. Recent Economic Developments
5.       During the first four years of the last Plan period (1976-80), the
expansion of the Romanian economy has slowed down perceptibly. The average
annual rate of national income growth of 8.4 percent was below the planned
growth rate of 11 percent, and growth has been decelerating, falling annually
from 10.5 percent in 1976 to 6.2 percent in 1979. These changes reflect the
emergence of a number of internal and external constraints, notably the pace
at which improvements in productivity and efficiency can be attained; the
ability of the economy to bring new capacity into operation as planned; a
deterioration in the terms of trade; and trade restrictions in important
export markets.
6.       Industry continued to be the leading sector of the economy.  However,
the growth of industrial production also slowed down from an average of 12
percent per annum during 1976 and 1977, to 9.0 percent in 1978 and 8.1 percent
in 1979. As in the past, the growth of capital goods exceeded that of
consumer goods and the fastest growing subsectors were metallurgy,
machine-building, chemicals and construction materials. Agricultural
production grew at a respectable average rate of 6.3 percent between 1976 and
1979, displaying however, large annual variations due to changing weather
conditions.
7.       As elsewhere, energy has become a critical sector for the Romanian
economy. In the aftermath of the 1973 fuel price increase, an emergency
decree was issued, fostering domestic energy production and imposing cuts and
stringent restrictions on industrial energy consumption. These steps were
followed by further measures in 1977 and 1979, designed to conserve domestic
oil and gas resources and expand use of domestic coal and hydropower
resources. Although small increases in domestic oil production were
originally planned in the present plan period, production has in fact fallen
while natural gas production has stabilized. Coal production increased only 8
percent in the first three years of the plan, but jumped by 12 percent in 1979
and strenuous efforts are being made to expand it further. In spite of the
campaign to restrain the growth of energy consumption, the difficulties in
bringing new coal mines into operation on schedule has resulted in a tripling
of oil imports between 1975 and 1979. The comprehensive directives for the
preparation of the energy development program for the period 1980-2000,



- 3 -
published in July 1979, is designed to make Romania self-sufficient in energy
by 1990, through further development of coal and hydropower resources, through
the introduction of nuclear power and through investment in energy saving
industrial equipment. This may be optimistic, given the rapid pace of coal
and nuclear power development required to meet the target, but the vigorous
adjustment of policies and priorities by Romania to the changed energy
situation is expected to result in striking changes in the pattern of energy
production by 1990, and further improvements in the efficiency of energy use
by consumer.
8.       Between 1976 and 1979 investment fell about 6 percent short of
planned levels. The shortfalls occurred chiefly in industry where the planned
annual growth rate of investments of over 20 percent could not be met, partly
because of the diversion of resources in 1977 to the repair of earthquake
damage. Industrial investment, in fact, grew by 13 percent a year--in itself
a very respectable achievement. The shortfall in investment does not reflect
difficulties in mobilizing internal financial resources, but a number of
supply-related factors, in particular, capacity constraints of design
institutes, shortfalls in the production of construction materials, capacity
constraints in the construction sector, production shortfalls for some
domestic equipment and more restrictive foreign exchange allocations for
imported capital goods.
9.       Changes in the level and distribution of employment accompanied the
growth and structural change of production. The total labor force increased
by only 0.3 percent per year between 1976 and 1979, but large intersectoral
shifts in the labor force continued. Between 1976 and 1979, the agricultural
labor force fell from 36 percent to 31 percent of the total. The outflow from
agriculture, which is determined chiefly by the needs of non-agriculture
sectors rather than the ability of agriculture to compensate for the loss
through mechanization, appears to be leading to some seasonal labor shortages;
recourse has been necessary to students and other groups to meet short term
labor needs. The Government recognizes that the transfer of labor has to
slow down to avoid adverse effects on agriculture output, and is thus giving
greater emphasis to increases in labor productivity.
C. New Economic Measures
10.      The slow-down of growth during the 1976-80 Plan period reflects to
some extent the increasing maturity and complexity of the economy and the
difficulties of moving from a development strategy emphasizing growth through
increases in capacity to growth from using existing capacity more
efficiently. As part of its efforts to improve productivity and efficiency,
the Government introduced in January 1979 a number of changes in the planning
and management system, commonly referred to as the "New Economic Measures".
Their main purpose is to increase the responsibility of enterprises for
implementing plan targets by extending the scope of enterprise autonomy and by
sharpening the impact of financial rewards for success and financial penalties
for failure.



-4-
11.      The centerpiece of the New Economic Measures is the replacement of
gross production by net production as the major performance indicator
complemented by physical output targets. The change from gross to net
production is to heighten the inducement for reducing inputs. To reinforce
concerns about net production at the enterprise level, a new system of
enterprise revenue and expenditure budgeting has been introduced which
combines evaluation criteria, computation of income bonuses and penalties for
over and under-fulfillment of net production targets, and the tax assessment
of enterprises. The second major element of the New Measures is the
modification of the planning system. The changes introduced have two
components; first, the greater involvement of enterprises in the resolution of
inconsistencies and constraints in the planning process. Second, the measures
increase the use of purchasing and delivery contracts. Whereas, in the past
enterprises could make annual contracts only after the finalization of the
plan, they are now able to make multi-year contracts which will form the basis
for the first draft of the annual plan. Both of these changes are intended to
bring greater reality to plans.
12.      The New Measures also involve important changes in financial flows
between the enterprises and the state budget. In the past, enterprises
retained very little of their profits, and transferred most, in the form of
taxes and other payments to the state budget. In future, enterprises will
retain a greater share of profits. The major payment to the budget will be a
"prelevation tax", which is calculated on the value of net production and paid
from profits, but the enterprise will retain a greater part of its profits for
distribution between funds for investment, working capital, housing,
socio-cultural activities and profit-sharing fund. The New Measures, however,
are explicitly not intended as a step towards "decentralization". Central
planning remains the foundation of the system and will not be relegated merely
to determining major macro-economic ratios and setting price or policy
parameters, on the basis of which enterprises would autonomously prepare their
own output plans. The New Measures are, in fact, a conservative attempt to
strike a balance between extended enterprise autonomy dictated by the growing
complexity of the economy on the one hand and a firm belief in centralized
planning and control as the means of obtaining high growth rates and
structural change on the other.
D. External Trade and Foreign Borrowing
13.      In foreign trade, developments have in the 1976-1980 Plan period been
substantially different from and decidedly less favorable than those planned.
The five-year plan for 1976-1980 envisaged growth rates of 13 percent per
annum for imports and 18 percent for exports in real terms aiming at a trade
surplus which would allow the country to repay some of its foreign debt.
Between 1976 and 1979, in fact, imports increased at an annual average rate of
16.4 percent and exports of 13.1 percent in current prices. This resulted in
a sharply growing trade deficit which in 1979 reached $1.3 billion, virtually
all of it in the convertible currency area. On the import side, the
deteriorating trade balance reflects rapidly rising international prices,
especially for petroleum. Export growth has been unable to keep pace with
import requirements, partly because of less favorable price movements in



Romania's principal export markets. The insufficient growth of exports is
also explained by the vulnerability of Romanian exports to import demand
fluctuations and import policies of the receiving countries, and to
difficulties in meeting design and quality standards and establishing
marketing policies essential to extend the foothold in highly competitive
product markets.
14.      The large trade gap together with rising interest payment has led to
a current account deficit of US$1.7 billion by 1979. The deficit has been
financed through increased capital inflows, with total medium and long-term
debts rising from US$2.8 billion in 1975 to about US$5.6 billion at the end of
1979. Most of the inflows have been suppliers' credits and eurocurrency
borrowings; Romania has borrowed almost US$1.1 billion on the eurocurrency
market since 1975, and has been able to lengthen maturities and reduce the
spread over LIBOR considerably during the period. The scale of term borrowing
available to Romania has not been sufficient, however, to finance the current
account deficit fully and the Government had to resort to substantial
short-term borrowing between 1977 and 1979. The net inflow of short-term
capital was particularly large in 1979, about US$1 billion, and by the end of
1979, outstanding short-term debt had increased to US$1.8 billion.
E. Development Prospects
15.      In November 1979 the Twelfth Congress of the Romanian Communist Party
approved the Directives for the preparation of the new five-year plan 1981-85
which has not yet been finalized. Although they suggest the continuation in
broad terms of the past development strategy, they project lower growth rates
than envisaged in earlier drafts of the Directives and than those achieved
during the 1976-1980 Plan period. They also call for lower investment rates.
These changes indicate government recognition that a major issue underlying
the development path of the economy in the 1980s is the allocation of
resources between consumption and investment. In our view, this planned
slowdown of growth momentum is commendable for three particular reasons.
First, there is a need to allow Romanian consumers, who compare their economic
position increasingly with that in Western European economies, to share more
fully in the fruits of economic growth than the high investment levels of the
past have permitted. Second, due to the growing complexity of the economy,
its rate of growth is increasingly influenced not only by the rate of
investment but also by improvement of productivity and efficiency, and, as is
now widely recognized within COMECON countries--this cannot be accomplished
without tangible incentives translating into higher consumption. And third,
as the more recent empirical evidence suggests, the Romanian growth path is
approaching the margin of absorptive capacity. It remains to be seen whether
the consumer goods industries have the capacity to increase production and to
improve their output mix sufficiently, and whether the investment goods
industries can provide for the investment requirements of the consumer goods
industries.



- 6 -
16.      The directives and back-up documents prepared for the Twelfth
Congress make clear, that the economy is becoming more dependent upon imported
raw materials and--at least temporarily--energy, and more vulnerable to sudden
changes in the terms of trade. The Romanian authorities, recognizing the need
to economize on the use of energy and imported raw materials, have been
reexamining the composition of investment in a number of sectors prior to
finalizing the new five-year plan for 1981-1985. It is clear that to contain
the growth of imports to manageable proportions, domestic production must be
stimulated in certain areas (i.e. energy, investment goods) and the efficiency
of input use improved.
E. Creditworthiness
17.      With the large increase in the current account deficit and the
associated increases in external borrowing described in paragraphs 13 and 14
above, the debt service payments (including interest on short-term credits)
rose to $1.24 billion in 1979 or the equivalent of 12.3 percent of gross
foreign exchange earnings. In the convertible currency area where most of
Romania's debts were incurred, the debt service ratio was 20.6 percent
compared with 17.4 percent in 1978 and 18.6 percent in 1977. For 1980,
another large current account deficit is expected reflecting in part the sharp
increase in oil prices. To contain future deficits and to keep the service
burden manageable, the Government has recently adopted a series of measures
aimed at increasing exports and restraining imports. The most important one
has been the introduction of a new exchange rate mechanism in early 1981 which
allows world prices to be reflected more directly to users of imports and
producers of exports. This will provide strong incentives to economize on
imported goods, to substitute domestic products for imported ones, and to
produce for export markets where better prices could be obtained. At the same
time, the government has stated that prices for locally produced raw materials
will be increased so as to bring them closer to world prices. Other steps
taken include a directive giving priority to export production over production
for the domestic market; renewed emphasis in offsetting trade arrangements; a
consolidation of the investment program which will result in lower imports of
investment goods; and increased recycling of raw materials. Given Romania's
strenuous development efforts within the context of well articulated plans,
these measures and possible future steps aimed at enhancing exports and
economizing the use of imported inputs, are likely to succeed in keeping the
country's debt burden within manageable limits, thus preserving its
creditworthiness for medium and long-term borrowing.
PART II. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
18.      The proposed loan would bring total Bank commitments to Romania to
$1,862.6 million for 30 loans in agriculture, industry, power and transport.
Disbursements under the Bank's initial loans were slow during 1975, but this
situation has improved considerably since 1976. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans to Romania and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects as of February 28, 1981.



-7-
19.      Foreign exchange, especially in convertible currencies, continues to
be a major constraint. It remains one of the major objectives of Bank lending
to help alleviate the country's shortage of foreign exchange by providing
long-term external capital and by financing projects which will expand foreign
exchange earnings or savings. The Bank has also assisted the Government to
mobilize cofinancing for appropriate projects. The Bank helped to attract
foreign commercial banks to provide $100 million cofinancing in August 1979
for the Second Livestock Project for which a Bank loan of $75 million was made
in April 1979. Also, syndicated cofinancing loans of $200 million in total
were concluded for the Mostistea and Calmatui Irrigation and Drainage Project
for which a Bank loan of $70 million was made in April 1979 and the Third
Livestock Project for which a Bank loan of $85 million was made in January
1980. More recently, another $200 million syndicated cofinancing loan from
commercial banks was concluded in January 1981 for the Danube-Black Sea Canal
project for which a Bank loan of $100 million was approved in April 1980.
Through their contacts and subsequent negotiations with commercial banks, the
Romanian authorities now appear convinced of the positive value of cofinancing
in the form of financial credits, and have indicated their intention to seek
similar arrangements for future Bank assisted projects. Bank lending also
aims at supporting the steps being taken by the Government to introduce new
industrial technologies, to improve the quality of products and production
efficiency, to reduce production costs and to provide for necessary electric
power development. Marketing, especially for export goods, is also
emphasized. Special attention is given to agriculture where production is
still unnecessarily dependent upon weather and where productivity levels are
still comparatively low.
20.      A number of further loans are under consideration, including loans
for irrigation, industry, power, road and rail transport and regional
development. The Government has also proposed and the Bank is considering
lending for a port project and for the development of additional petroleum
resources.
21.      In addition to lending, the Bank (through EDI) has assisted Romania
by conducting training courses on economic and financial evaluation and
methods of analysis in various sectors, including industry and transportation,
for 169 Romanian officials in Belgrade in 1973 and in Bucharest annually since
1975 in collaboration with a Romanian academic institution. Additional
courses, including one for agricultural project appraisal, are under
discussion with the Government. The methodologies taught in these courses are
becoming more widely known in Romania and are expected for some projects to
begin to supplement the methodology normally used by the Romanian planning
authorities.
22.      The projects, for which assistance has been committed or is being
considered, represent only a small portion of Romania's total need for
external financing. However, they will provide a substantial net addition to
the inflow of convertible currency, and are helping to set a pattern for
obtaining longer-term convertible finance from other sources. The disbursed
debt outstanding to the Bank constituted about 13 percent of Romania's total
projected convertible currency debt in 1980; the Bank's share in Romania's
debt service payments in 1980 was about 6.7.



-8-
PART III. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR IN ROMANIA
23.       Agriculture continues to be a key sector in the Romanian economy,
providing almost all of the nation's food, the raw materials required for
agricultural processing industries and significant foreign exchange
earnings. In 1979 agriculture accounted for 15 percent of GDP, 31 percent
of the labor force and 12 percent of export earnings. The proportion of the
total labor force employed in agriculture declined from 74 percent in 1950
to 31 percent in 1979, thereby releasing a large number of people for
employment elsewhere in the rapidly growing Romanian economy. National
income increased at an average rate of about 9 percent from 1951 to 1979.
During this period national income in agriculture grew at a rate of 3.5
percent per annum. Agriculture's share of national income declined from 28
percent in 1950 to 15 percent in 1979.
24.       About 14.9 million ha, or 63 percent of Romania's land area, are
used for agriculture. Of this area, 66 percent is arable, 29 percent is
grassland and 5 percent is used for orchards and vineyards. There are three
principal agro-climatic zones; the Plains Zone, the Foothills Zone and the
Mountain and Tableland Zone. The Plains Zone which is the richest
agricultural area, including all of the land in the Danube plains, includes
53 percent of Romania's arable land. About 64 percent of all arable land is
devoted to production of grain (mostly wheat and maize). Other crops
include sunflower, sugarbeet, soybeans, potatoes, vegetables, fodder crops,
grapes and fruit. In 1979 crop production accounted for 56 percent of total
agricultural output, while livestock accounted for 44 percent.
Sector Organization
25.       Romanian agriculture has undergone a major transformation
following the collectivization measures introduced since the Second World
War. Today agricultural production, especially crop production, is
dominated by state agricultural enterprises (IASs) and agricultural
production cooperatives (CAPs). For example, in 1979, 87 percent of cereal
production was in the socialist sector. Production by individual farmers
and from small private plots of cooperative members is important for fruit
and livestock but not for field crops. Agricultural mechanization stations
(SMAs) play a major role in providing machinery hire services. Recently a
number of Inter-Cooperative Associations (ICAs) have been formed through
combining the activities of a number of individual cooperatives. These ICAs
are engaged in various large scale agricultural operations such as pig and
poultry production.
26.       In 1979 Romania had 396 IASs with an average size of 5,100 ha and
an average labor force of 550. They farmed 2.0 million ha, equivalent to 14
percent of all agricultural land. Other state agricultural units, including
research and experimental stations and farms belonging to Popular Councils
(local administration bodies), covered 2.5 million hectares, or 16 percent
of agricultural land. In the same year, there were 4,400 CAPs, with an
average size of 2,080 ha and 530 members.



- 9 -
The total area of land under CAPs was 9.1 million ha, equivalent to 61
percent of all agricultural land. There were 709 SMAs which provide
machinery services to producers. Each SMA had an average of 194 tractors
plus a wide range of other equipment. Each working member of a CAP is
allocated a small plot (normally 0.15 ha) which he can use for production of
crops. Members are also allowed to keep limited numbers of livestock on CAP
land. About 10 percent of the land controlled by CAPs is used for
individual members' plots. Individual farmers number almost half a million
and own about 9 percent of total agricultural land. Most of their farms are
in the more mountainous regions. They use only 5 percent of the nation's
arable land, although they have 19 percent of the grasslands and 21 percent
of the orchards. They own 16 percent of all cattle, 14 percent of sheep, 12
percent of poultry and 7 percent of pigs. Together with CAP plotholders
they produced 55 percent of all milk, 60 percent of eggs, 42 percent of
wool, 47 percent of poultry and 63 percent of fruit in 1979.
27.       At the national level, the major State institution in the
agricultural sector is the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry
(MAFI). MAFI plays a major role in preparing the Five Year Plan for the
sector and is the supervisory institution for plan implementation. In each
district, the Ministry is represented by a general directorate, which is
responsible for all agricultural activity in the district including both
IASs and CAPs. Marketing is organized nationally under MAFI, with general
economic directorates responsible for processing and marketing specified
commodities. Foreign trade companies are responsible for the exports of the
general economic directorates.
Performance in the Agricultural Sector
28.       Although considerable progress has been made in developing
agriculture in Romania, the sector remains relatively undeveloped. Between
1951 and 1979 gross agricultural output increased at an average rate of 4.5
percent. During this period the area of arable land has remained about the
same but crop yields have increased markedly. For example, the average
yield of wheat increased from 1.1 tons per ha in 1951-1955 to 2.6 tons per
ha in 1977-1979, while maize yields increased from 1.3 tons per ha to 3.3
tons per ha over the same period. Livestock yields have increased while
there have also been significant increases in the numbers of all types of
livestock. Milk yields for instance, increased from 867 litres per cow in
1950 to 1,961 litres per cow in 1979. Nevertheless, crop and livestock
yields in Romania are still appreciably lower than those obtained in a
number of other countries. While agricultural production has been
increasing, the labor force in agriculture has been falling. Labor
productivity has thus increased much faster than agricultural output. In
1979 gross agricultural output per worker was more than six times the level
in 1950. Despite this substantial improvement, the absolute level of labor
productivity is still relatively low. Labor intensive methods of
production, such as hand harvesting of maize and the use of animal-drawn
carts, are still common, especially on cooperatives.



- 10 -
Sector Issues and Development Strategy
29.      The growth of Romanian agriculture has been constrained by several
factors, especially rainfall, lack of machinery and farm inputs and problems
concerned with organization and incentives. Rainfall in Romania is both low
and erratic, especially in the main cropping areas in the Plains Zone.
Flooding has also been serious in many low lying areas. Fortunately the soils
in the Plains Zone are good while there are excellent sources of water in the
Danube and its tributaries. Romania has therefore given high priority to
development of irrigation and drainage. The total area under irrigation has
increased from 200,000 ha in 1960 to 2.2 million ha in 1979. Government plans
to increase this to 3.7 million ha by 1985. By then 38 percent of arable land
would be irrigated.
30.      Serious shortages of machinery and farm inputs, especially
fertilizers, insecticides and herbicides have been experienced. These
shortages have been aggravated by Romania's foreign exchange needs, for
Government has sometimes exported fertilizers or restricted imports of other
inputs needed by the agricultural sector. Hitherto, Government policy has
given much greater emphasis to development of IASs rather than CAPs. IASs
have been provided with the best managers and have received much higher levels
of investment and supplies of tractors, machinery and fertilizers, while CAPs
have been neglected. In 1979 the level of investment per ha of IASs was
about fivetimes that of CAPs and they were therefore more productive than
CAPs. This neglect of CAPs has been one of the key weaknesses of Romanian
agriculture, for CAPs control more than 60 percent of all agricultural land.
In 1978 Government decided to accord equal treatment to IASs and CAPs. This
new policy is to be implemented through the creation of Unified Agro-
industrial Councils (UACs) which are responsible for providing equal levels of
service and material inputs to IASs and CAPs. About 700 UACs have been
established, and for each one there is an SMA. Each UAC will be responsible
for coordinating all agricultural activities undertaken by the IASs and CAPs
for which it is responsible. On average each UAC will be responsible for
about 20,000 ha of land. Implementation of this new policy is still underway
and it is too early to assess the effectiveness of the UACs. These
organizational changes are being complemented by changes in the structure of
wages and incentive bonuses. These changes, which link payments to workers to
achievement of profit targets, were introduced in 1978 under the "New Economic
Measures". These changes have already been introduced on IASs and their
extension to cooperatives is planned.
31.      Agricultural policy is formulated within the framework of a national
plan approved by Government and the Romanian Communist Party. For the 1981-85
plan, the guidelines forecast that national income will increase between 6.7
and 7.4 percent p.a., gross industrial production will increase in the range
8.0 to 9.0 percent p.a. and gross agricultural production at 4.5 to 5.0
percent p.a. Investment in agriculture in this period will amount to 155
billion lei (US$10 billion), equivalent to 12.7 percent of total national
investment for the plan period. The main thrust of agricultural development
strategy will be to increase crop and livestock yields through improved



- 11 -
organization, the use of more efficient techniques, especially greater
mechanization, increased use of fertilizers and other inputs, and further
large investments in irrigation.
The Need for Irrigation Infrastructure
32.      Instability in agricultural production results from vulnerability to
erraLic weather conditions and the lack of infrastructure to mitigate their
iiiipact. Excessive precipitation and flooding during planting and harvest
seasons, and inadequate rainfall during summer growing seasons, have resulted
in year to year fluctuations in national output of the order of 10 to 20
percent. Fluctuations of production in particular regions can be even
gk:f..ter.  Only production of vegetables has increased steadily, reflecting the
TUllatively more controlled conditions under which they are produced.  The
Gcvernment is well aware of this problem and has placed high priority within
Lhe agricultural sector on solving it. Forty percent of agricultural
inivestment in the 1971-75 Five-Year Plan was for land reclamation, irrigation
and drainage; the comparable figures for the 1976-80 Five-Year Plan and the
1981-85 Five-Year Plan are about 20 percent and 18 percent, respectively,
reflecting a relative decline in infrastructure investment and increasing
eiphasis on investments to make productive use of irrigation facilities
already established. Since 1960, total irrigated land has been increased from
about 0.2 million hectares to 2.2 million hectares in 1979, and, the relative
reduction in the share of the agricultural budget allocated for irrigation
notwithsLanding, another 700,000 hectares are expected to be brought under
irrigation by the end of 1980. The Government plans to irrigate about 3.7
million ha by 1985. Irrigation works to date have concentrated on large
schemes using waters pumped from the Danube. Six such projects have already
been financed by the Bank since 1975; execution of these projects, which also
include drainage, soil erosion control and farm mechanization components, is
proceeding satisfactorily (see Annex II). The Bucsani-Buzau-Siret-Prut
Irrigation (BBSP) Project for which a Bank loan of $75 million was made in
December 1980 was the first Bank financed irrigation project in Romania to
take water not directly from the Danube but tributaries of the Danube. The
proposed project would also take water from the Danube tributaries of Olt and
Arges. In this and in the previous irrigation projects, the Romanians have
accepted a number of the Bank's suggestions which improved project design,
particularly in canal alignment, location of pumping stations, the design of
canals in loess soils, the design of drainage works and methods of soil
reclamation. Also close understanding on technical and policy matters in this
,asic sub-sector has been attained by continuous dialogue with the Romanian
authorities through missions and negotiations. This has enabled the Bank to
become more involved in recent years in detailed discussions of projects at an
early stage in their preparation which has increased the Bank's influence on
project formulation.
Agricultural Investment Financing
33.      The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI) is the Government's
specialized agency for financing projects in agriculture, irrigation and food
processing. As such, BAFI has been the Borrower for all Bank loans in support



- 12 -
of agriculture and would be the Borrower for the proposed loan. BAFI was
established in 1968 as a channel for, and administrator of, all investment
funds provided under the State plan for the agricultural sector. It lends to
both IASs and CAPs and repays the Government as it receives repayments of
subloans. BAFI is involved in all phases of project appraisal, execution and
supervision, and it has a large technical and economic staff located in
Bucharest, in 39 district (judet) branch offices and in 92 sub-branches
throughout the country. BAFI has thorough review and approval procedures for
all investment projects. In addition to BAFI's review, all agricultural
investments for more than lei 10,000,000 ($66,667) are reviewed and approved
by MAFI and those greater than lei 70,000,000 ($4.7 million) must be approved
by the Council of Ministers. BAFI also provides short-term credit to, and
maintains settlement accounts for, all cooperative and State agricultural
enterprises; and acts as fiscal agent for the Government for collection of
State revenues from these enterprises. As the Government's channel for
investment financing in agriculture, BAFI's primary source of funds is the
State budget; the Guarantee Agreement therefore includes a provision that the
Guarantor shall provide all necessary funds for the implementation and
operation of the project.
Bank Contributions in the Agricultural Sector
34.      The Bank's lending strategy is based on the findings of various
reports, including the Agricultural Sector Survey of October 1976 (No.
953a-RO), the Basic Economic Report of March 1978 (No. 1601-RO) and a number
of recent appraisal reports. A cattle and sheep survey was also carried out
during 1979 and its report is under preparation. Beyond the provision of
foreign exchange, the main objectives of Bank lending remain to assist the
Government in addressing the problems of production instability and low
productivity. In addition, in appropriate cases, foreign exchange earnings or
savings are an objective. Attainment of these objectives will help to raise
the level and quality of domestic food consumption.
35.      With increasing experience in the agricultural sector and a greatly
improved relationship with the Romanian authorities, the Bank has been able to
make other significant contributions. Technical improvements in project
concept and design have been attained in a number of fields including
irrigation, poultry, pig and cattle production and horticulture.
Additionally, BAFI has introduced the Bank methodology in its economic
evaluation of subprojects. The Bank has made fourteen loans for agriculture
totalling $896.5 million since 1975. The Giurgiu-Razmiresti Irrigation
Project, the first agricultural project financed by the Bank in Romania, has
been successfully completed with cost overrun and higher yields growing at a
faster rate than the appraisal estimates, and a completion report on this
project has been prepared. No reports of the Bank's Operations Evaluation
Department have yet been prepared on agricultural projects in Romania.



- 13 -
PART IV. THE PROJECT
36.      The project, which is included in the Government's Sixth Five-Year
Development Plan, was originally discussed with an identification mission in
February 1979 for possible Bank financing. After two preparation missions, a
preliminary preparation report was provided to the Bank at the end of July
1979. After the Bank's request for additional data and information, the
preparation report was revised in August 1980. Through these stages of
preparation, the Bank has made significant contributions to improving the
technical aspects of the project design. The project was appraised in October
1980, and negotiations were held in Washington in March 1981. The Romanian
delegation was headed by Mr. Ion Rusinaru, President of BAFI and included
representatives from BAFI and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry.
A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Caracal-Titu Irrigation Project"
No. 3294-RO dated April 1, 1981 is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. The main features of the project are mentioned in the
Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III.
Project Objectives
37.      The project addresses the two major problems in the Romanian
agriculture sector, namely production instability and low productivity. In
particular the project addresses the production instability resulting from
erratic weather conditions and the shortage of facilities and management
skills to mitigate their impact. The project would aim to increase and
stabilize crop production and also to raise labor productivity in a gross area
of 130,677 ha (127,173 ha net) consisting of two separate subproject areas
located in the south central and south eastern part of Romania (see Maps);
this would be accomplished through the construction of irrigation and drainage
systems and related facilities. The cropping patterns for the project areas
have been related to domestic needs and foreign markets. These cropping
patterns include a range of crops with varying growing seasons which together
cover the entire summer period ensuring an almost continuous use of labor and
farm implements. The area under major crops would be maize (51 percent),
wheat (17 percent), alfalfa (5 percent), sunflower (7 percent), fruit and
vegetables (5 percent), sugarbeet (6 percent) and soybeans (6 percent).
Project Description
38.      The project would consist of two distinct and geographically separate
subprojects in the south central and south eastern areas of Caracal and Titu.
Water sources for these subprojects are the Olt and Arges rivers respectively,
which are tributaries of the Danube river. Project works consist of
construction of new irrigation facilities for about 121,900 ha, improvement of
existing irrigation facilities for 8,800 ha, construction of new surface
drainage systems for 63,400 ha, improvement of existing surface draining
systems for 9,400 ha, soil erosion control for 1,700 ha, sandy area
reclcamation for 4,000 ha, construction of four flood detention dams and 55 km
valley training. The project would also provide equipment for operation and
maintenance of irrigation and drainage works and farm machinery to intensify



- 14 -
agriculture on the area to be irrigated by the project. The existing
capacities for processing and storing cereals, vegetables, fruits, sunflowers,
soybeans, sugarbeet and other project products are considered sufficient to
absorb the incremental production.
39.       Water availability for the irrigation systems would depend on the
timely completion of the multi-purpose dams now under an advanced stage of
construction by the Government outside the project. Assurances have been
obtained from the Government that Draganesti dam on the Olt river be completed
by December 31, 1984 to permit timely irrigation of Caracal subproject (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.01(d) and Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.03). Assurances
have also been obtained from the Government that the Golesti and Riusor dams
on the Arges river would be completed by December 31, 1983 and December 31,
1984, respectively to enable irrigation in the Titu subproject (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.01(e) and Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.03). Since some
of the drainage works under the project would be more successfully carried out
if the works that the Government is now undertaking are completed on time,
assurances have been obtained from the Government that the flood diversion
channels to the Arges river from the adjacent Dimbovita river be completed by
December 31, 1982 (Loan Agreement, Section 4.01(f) and Guarantee Agreement,
Section 2.03). These diversion channels would crosscut the Sabar flow which
would have the dual function of a canal and a drain under the Titu subproject.
Project Implementation and Operation
40.      The Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry, through its various
departments and trusts, would be responsible for planning, designing,
construction, supervision and operation and maintenance of the project.
Planning and design of all project works would be carried out by the Institute
of Land Reclamation and Design, and construction by the Construction Trust for
Land Reclamation Works. Both organizations are part of the Ministry's General
Economic Directorate for Land Reclamation and Agricultural Construction. The
irrigation, drainage and soil erosion control works would be operated and
maintained by the Ministry's Directorate for Exploitation of Land Reclamation
Works. The Ministry of Electrical Energy, through its subordinate enterprises
and their units, would be responsible for construction, operation and
maintenance of power transmission facilities and for supplying energy to the
project area. BAFI would serve as financing agency for all project works under
the arrangements noted in para. 33 above. All agencies are competent to carry
out the proposed works and have undertaken previous Bank financed works
satisfactorily. A panel of independent qualified experts would review the
design of the dams involved in the project and the associated structures and
construction of these facilities, and that after completion of the
construction of these facilities, they would be periodically inspected
according to procedures to be established between the Bank and the Romanian
authorities concerned (Loan Agreement, Section 4.01(g) and Guarantee
Agreement, Section 2.03).



- 15 -
Cost Estimates
41.      The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies,
is estimated at lei 5,689.9 million ($379.3 million). The foreign exchange
component is estimated at $93.2 million or 24.6 percent of total cost. The
cost estimates are based on unit rates of work that are prevailing in Romania
under the system of regulated prices of materials and wages. Cost of
equipment and spare parts expected to be procured from foreign suppliers, has
been calculated at the international prices likely to prevail at the end of
1980 and is estimated at $4.0 million net of duties and taxes. Because
detailed designing has already been carried out, physical contingencies have
been provided at 7.5 percent of irrigation, drainage, soil erosion control
works and other minor items. Price contingencies on foreign costs are
compounded annually at 9 percent (1981), 8.5 percent (1982), and 7.5 percent
(1983-85). Price contingencies on local costs are compounded at 2 percent
per annum. In the past the Romanian domestic prices have increased less than
one percent per annum. However, since there are signs that there may be some
minor price adjustments during the project implementation, local price
contingencies have been raised from the usual one percent to two percent.
This corresponds to the Romanian assumption on the rise of the retail price
index for the 1981 annual plan.
Financing
42.      The proposed Bank Loan of $80.0 million, representing about 21
percent of total project cost, net of taxes, and about 86 percent of foreign
exchange costs would be made to BAFI for fifteen years including three years
grace. The Government of Romania would bear the foreign exchange risk. The
State budget would contribute about lei 3,849.2 million ($256.6 million) or
68 percent of total project costs through budgetary allocations to the
General Economic Directorate for Land Reclamation and Agricultural
Construction, Central for Exploitation of Land Reclamation Works, and
agricultural mechanization stations (SMAs), for which funds would be
channelled through BAFI. BAFI credits of lei 479.7 million ($32.0 million)
to CAPs would contribute about 8 percent of total costs, with the remaining 3
percent or lei 161.0 million ($10.7 million) contributed from subborrowers'
own resources. The Government has, in principle, agreed to seek cofinancing
of up to $100 million for this proposed project. Judging by the response of
cofinanciers to other Bank-financed projects in Romania it is expected that
offers of cofinancing will be obtained. The amount and timing of cofinancing
will depend on market conditions and amounts being raised by Romania on other
Bank-financed projects. It is likely that for this project cofinancing will
be in the range of US$50-100 million equivalent.
43.      About 25 percent of the costs for buried pipeline, on-farm sprinkler
and furrow equipment and small secondary open drainage canals serving
CAP-owned lands would come from CAPs' own funds with the remaining 75 percent
financed through BAFI loans. These loans would be recovered in accordance
with BAFI's standard on-lending terms. For on-farm buried pipelines, the
loans would be for 25 years including 5 years grace, and for on-farm
irrigation equipment, 12 years including 3 years grace. The interest rate



- 16 -
would be 3 percent with a penalty rate of an additional 3 percent for late
payments. As in earlier projects, these rates result in a positive spread
over BAFI's financial and administrative costs in providing the loans. As a
result of Government controls on domestic prices, Romania is expected to
maintain its domestic inflation rate at less than 2 percent per annum during
the project implementation, and no significant further increase is expected
in the future. Thus BAFI loans under the project would be made at positive
real interest rates, on the same terms and conditions as are extended to
other borrowers in the agricultural sector. Investments in IASs subprojects
would be made directly by the State budget and channelled through BAFI and
the Directorate for Exploration and Land Reclamation Works.
Audit
44.      BAFI would keep separate accounts for all project expenditures and
its transactions are subject to continuous control by internal auditors and
an annual audit by inspectors appointed by the Ministry of Finance and from
the Court of Superior Control which reports directly to the Council of
Ministers and the President. BAFI's accounting system and the audit of its
transactions are satisfactory and BAFI's audited operating and financing
results would be sent to the Bank not later than six months after the end of
BAFI's fiscal year.
Recovery of Costs
45.      The project investment and annual operations and maintenance (O&M)
costs would be recovered through both direct and indirect mechanisms. The
direct mechanism consists of water charges levied on all CAPs and IASs using
the irrigation water. The resulting recovery from this direct mechanism
would amount to about 7 percent of total project costs (including OEM)
discounted at 9 percent. The State also recovers a part of the project costs
from IASs and CAPs through the compulsory portions of income paid into
various funds and through the recovery of BAFI loans, to ensure future
investments. The cost of farm machinery would be recovered by the State
through unit rates paid by CAPs and IASs to SMAs for mechanization services
and through contributions to the Depreciation Fund for machinery. In
addition, profits made by the State from the purchase of tradeable
commodities at administered low farmgate prices and subsequent export at
higher world prices are also indirect cost recoveries. Since the State is
the main beneficiary, the revenues accruing to the State from these various
cost recoveries are very high and could result in the combined direct and
indirect cost recovery index of 100 percent or more.
Markets
46.      Market prospects for internal consumption and export of project
output indicate that no marketing problems need be expected. It is expected
that Romania will remain a net exporter of grains (wheat, maize) and
sunflower oil, and a net importer of soybean, feed concentrates, and sugar.
The incremental production from the implementation of the project for major



- 1 7 -
crops would be: maize 387.4 thousand tons, wheat 28.1 thousand tons,
vegetables 107.5 thousand tons, sugar beet 243.9 thousand tons and soybeans
16.3 thousand tons. These represent increases of 300 percent, 35 percent,
1500 percent, 150 percent and 300 percent respectively of the present
production in the project area. An estimated 80 percent of maize, the major
commodity under the project, would be used as animal feed, with the remainder
used for human consumption, industrial purposes, and export. Maize and
sunflower by-products would be purchased by paper and housing material
factories, used as combustibles, or turned back into the soil as fertilizer.
Exports of maize amounted to 2 million tons during 1976-1979. Despite
increases in incremental domestic feedgrain requirements, the grain balance
is expected to remain positive, and prospects for continued exports are
favorable. Areas under alfalfa, and double crop (maize silage) would also
serve the growing feed demand. Most of the sunflower production would be
processed into oil, for which demand is increasing, with cake used for feed.
Imports of soybean have averaged 100,000 tons per year, and project output
would contribute to the goal of self-sufficiency in this product. The
incremental output of sugar and vegetables under the project are intended to
contribute to planned increases in domestic per capita consumption, and a
portion of vegetable production could also be exported. Incremental project
output would be handled by the appropriate marketing Centrals and their
enterprises and collection centers in the project areas.
Procurement Arrangements
47.      Equipment and materials equivalent in cost to the proposed Bank Loan
($80.0 million) would be procured following international competitive bidding
procedures in accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits - March 1977". Romanian manufacturers would be
allowed a preference of 15 percent or the applicable customs duty, whichever
is lower. With a few exceptions, the application of the preference has not
affected so far the outcome of bidding on previous irrigation projects, and
is not expected to significantly affect the result of bidding on the proposed
project. It is expected that foreign suppliers would win contracts estimated
to cost about $4.0 million for some of the construction and maintenance
equipment (mobile concrete pumps, truck cranes, and canal trimming and lining
machines). Other items to be procured through international competitive
bidding (about $76.0 million) are available domestically and, based on
experience with previous Bank-financed irrigation projects, it is expected
that the Romanian manufacturers would be successful in bidding for most of
these items. Cost estimates are based on the conversion rate of US$l-lei
15. The remaining equipment and materials, all domestically produced, would
be procured under Romanian procedures and would not be eligible for
disbursement under the proposed Bank loan. The Bank would not be financing
construction works under the project which would be carried out by the
Romanian Construction Trusts which are familiar with local conditions,
methods and regulations.



- 18 -
Disbursements
48.      The proposed Bank loan of $80.0 million would be disbursed for 100
percent of foreign expenditures and 100 percent of the ex-factory price of
equipment, spare parts and materials procured through international
competitive bidding.
International Water Rights
49.      During the irrigation season, the contribution by the Olt river
which is a tributary of the Danube is less than 100 m3/sec for about 50
percent of the time. The Danube minimum flow being about 2,000 m3/sec,
complete diversion of flow for irrigation would mean a reduction of less than
5 percent which will not affect navigation. However, for the proposed
project, the Government has furnished a letter of representation to the Bank,
assuring that withdrawals from the Olt river would not cause problems with
other riparian countries. Although the Arges river is also a tributary of
the Danube, taking water for irrigation would have little effect on the
Danube and therefore the Government was not required to furnish a letter of
representation on the Arges river.
Environment and Health
50.      The project area is free of endemic diseases such as malaria and
bilharzia. The project would not adversely affect the environment or public
health. Construction of irrigation works, with variable water flows in lined
canals, a storage lake and a piped distribution network would not promote
mosquito breeding and spread of malaria. Drainage of several areas and
training of 55 km of stream courses would promote healthier conditions.
Benefits and Risks
51.      The quantifiable benefits from the proposed project derive mainly
from the increase in the value of production. This would be mainly achieved
through increases in the yields of main crops ranging from 35 percent to over
300 percent and through an increase in cropping intensity of about 17 percent
made possible by irrigation. Benefits from the crop production in the
project areas would increase from a fluctuating annual average of about
$341.7 million to a relatively stable annual average of about $692.9 million,
based on the same input and output prices as used for the economic rate of
return calculations. The project would more than double labor productivity,
and is expected to create about 5,000 new jobs during construction and 1,200
thereafter. About 73,700 cooperative workers and about 4,300 State farm
employees would participate in the project.. The return from the project is
mainly to the economy as a whole but some indirectly goes to beneficiaries
through general wage increases, better public services and better
availability of goods. In addition, there would be benefits derived from
private plots in CAPs and bonuses. Foreign exchange earnings are expected to
accrue to the economy mainly from grain exports, while increased
self-sufficiency in crops like soybean will help to save foreign exchange.
The project would also result in general linkage benefits to the economy by
ensuring increased and stable raw material supplies to processing and
marketing channels. The overall economic rate of return for the whole



- 19 -
project is estimated to be about 20 percent. The economic rates of return for
Caracal and Titu subprojects whose costs are $234.8 million and $144.5
million, are 20 percent and 18 percent, respectively.
52.      The risk of not attaining project objectives due to construction
delays, cost overruns, or inadequate supply of inputs or services is
considered low. Experience with other Bank-financed irrigation projects to
date confirms this assumption. The design institutes and construction trusts
have experience with similar successful schemes. Project costs are based on
officially regulated prices which are relatively stable. Assurances have
been obtained that MAFI and competent electric power enterprises would
respectively operate and maintain all project irrigation and drainage and
electric power facilities and that the supply of adequate agricultural inputs
and services would be secured (Loan Agreement, Section 4.01(a), (b) and (c)
and Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.03). Projected yields and their
development are based on applied research and experience in comparable areas
and are considered reasonable. Sensitivity analysis using switching values
shows that the project is moderately sensitive to adverse variations in
benetits, but is not sensitive to other variables. A decrease of 40 percent
in benefits will, other things remaining as expected, make the net present
value zero at 9 percent discount rate. Since both ecological and soil
factors are favorable, and the proposed technologies are relatively simple,
aggregate output should not go below its crossover value, even with some bad
agricultural years.
PART V. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Bank for
Agriculture and Food Industry of Romania, the draft Guarantee Agreement
between the Socialist Republic of Romania and the Bank, and the report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
54.      Features of the project of special interest are listed in Section
III of Annex III.
55.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
56.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve this proposed Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By Ernest Stern
Attachments
April 1, 1981.
Washington, D.C.



- 20 -                                                ANW I 
Page 1 Of 5 Paes
TABLE 3A
ROMANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RCBIANLA                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVF.ES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                 -  MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)t
TOTAL              237.5                                  MOST RECENT             CENTRALLY PLANNED           INDUSTRIA'L12ED
AGR:CULTLRAL       149.6              1960  /b    1970 ib ESTIMATE /b                  ECONOMIES                  COUNTRIES
GNP PER CAPITA (US$1                       ..           ..    1900.0                                                9499. 2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    1342.0         3013.0    4042.0                        2116.2                    7021. 1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       18.4         20.4       21.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 34. 1          40. 8      46.5                         35. 5                     76.0
POP'LAT1ON PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          26.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            30.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         77.0         85. 0      92.0                         83.6                     142. P
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    126.0          135.0      146.0                        22F.0                     523.3
POP'JLATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           28.2         25.9       25.9                         30.8                      23.5
15-64 YRS.                           65. 1        65.5       64.1                         62.1                      65.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     6. 7         8.6       10.0                          7. 1                     11.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.2          1.0        0.9                          1.4                       0.7
URBAN                                3.8          2.8        2.5                          2.9                       1.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       20.0         20.0       19.0                         18.2                      13. 8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        9.0         10.0        9.0                          7. 1                      9. 1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 1.2          1.3       1. 2                         1. 3                      0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            89.0         89.0      152.0                        1O8.5                     110.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMEN1TS)                   108.0        115.0      130.0                        113. 7                    131. 6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            86.0         90.0      103.0                         75. 1                     98.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         30.0         34.0       43.0                         28.6                      62.1
CHILI (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        3.0          2.4        1.0                          1. 1                      0.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    66.0           68.0       70.0                         70. 1                     73. 5
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             75.7         49.4       31.0                         22.4                      13.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
UREAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
POPILATION PER PHYSICIAN             780. 0/c     840. 0/d   734.0                       2070. 8                    624.e
POPCLATION PER NURSING PERSON        620. 0/c        ..      638.0                        240. 1                    218. 9
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              130. 0/c     120.0      109.0                         96. 7                    121.2
URBAN                               50. /c       50. 0      60.0
RURAL                              620. 0/c     770.0      730. 0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         23.0         ..                           ..                      17.0
HOUS INC
AVERAGE SLZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..          3. 2/e
URBAN                                 ..          2.8/e
RBRAL                                 ..          3. 4/e
AVERACE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                             1. 4/c
URBAN                                 ..          1. 3/e
RURAL                                 ..          1. 4/e      ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLlNGS)
TO.AL                                 ..         49.0/e
URBAN                                 ..         86. /e       .
RURAL                                 ..         27.0/e



- 21 -                                          ANM  1
Page 2 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
ROMANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ROMANIA                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVER4ES
-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE).
HOST RECENT            CENTRALLY PLANNED        INDUSTRIAL4ZEI
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b              ECONOMIES                COUNTRIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                98.0       113.0    102.0                        118.7                  100.1
MALE                101.0       112.0    102.0                       117.5                   102.2
FEMALE               95.0       114.0    101.0                       120.0                  102.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                24.0        45.0       77.0                     100.2                    87.1
MALE                 27.0        51.0      81.0                      101.9                    84.4
FEMALE               22.0       38.0       73.0                       97.8                   84.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (S OF SECONDARY) 54.0        58.0       70.0                       47.4                    19.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          25.0        21.0      21.0                       16.2                    21.3
SECONDARY                         16.0       18.0      19.0                       13.0                    16.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        ..          ..       98.0                        ..                     98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         ..         2.2        ..                         ..                   339. 9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPUIATION                       120.0      152.0    146.0                       403.5                   932.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        3.0        73.0    139.0                       200.5                   354.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND PUPULATION                147.0       169.0    129.0                      354.3                   327.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  9.0        9.8       8.7                       14.4                     3.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAIDS)    10509.5    114C8.2   1201.e
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 41.9        1*.5       45.0                      40.7                    36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             65.3       49.1        32.5                     50.2                      7.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                15.1       23.1       3`.5                      30.8                    38.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               57.1       56.0       55.9                       47.3                   44.6
MALE                                64.5        63.3      62.8                       57.1                    58.1
FEMALE                             50.1        49.0      49.1                       37.0                    31.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             0.7         0.7       0. 7                       0.7                     0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
H.IGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USO PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..
RURAL                              ..
ESTTLlATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              * -                 394.0
RURAL                              ..          ..      394.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..
RURAL                              ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the Indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c  1962; Ld WHO estimates; /e 1966.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
January 28, 1981



-22-                                                          hElIX~~~AM  1.
22                                                      ~~~~~~~~~Page 3 of 5 pages
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes: Although the  aaar   ro  Erssucsgnrlyjde   he most tuh                          -ta eed reliable, it should also he toted that they may eon be tit-
nainlrcmoai1erueo1h   ako,tadrIe    eiiin   and-boncepts use  hr different oIu..   tnItoenig the data.  The dat  r,  eons-..
ch.elen.  -.fetu  in da-Ihbe orseo-anitude, todiosne trandu  en  chrneteonri  ur   Ifeecshnneca is
ho re er-ne group  are (1)1   nb  sam  t..r...     gruof the subJern coun.try  nd (2)aour'gopothms.hehihEarrsittshnteretygop
u  holo-cultuna     fi itie).  Er the eafesnu  grouP date theavrse repruetet1 weighted  -rtb-a... e..rs fot  -ah  tdiaonad ches  u-ly  bsa
ofte  riatrt   ties eeg the th..r  ed.  ..frsteI  gud pa
Total -Tonal  ortateorsa r~niste  ladaraad  nsd  oer.sIrssqulfed .IJ,t,9true a1 m                                 tle  ethot. at  nif rit  le'n
lerliitoro  - Etimat  of ericueoralansa  sed  eeporrolyor pemanenly   prulatort cr Suelna  ereo  - Pualarin diidedfy iummr etprautcta
fo dce    asue,ncle   e   ttbngren   rh  i  fto;177ft.                                mleadlmtegautTure,patia    uss,adasstn   usa
M  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~uolio   e   tsta   ed-ttl   re,edEtaa      euaio    st
lOP  ER CnTO   ll))- IS  ienaiasaiae   ntretmre   rtn   c-                            ura,adnrl   iue   yterrpriesabre  bthgsel bad
cuan   ysaect ta         thmru   0wol   aiAta   t7-9  mij 16,tvtal  i   otrsdIrvtReerledeerete    opte   n   e
1970, aud  lOIndata.                                                             hebilI.ot Or.teeters,odosPi1tals are        O stbitbment  peePm...ntly. staffe
friEt<f CehtNfTIO9Pt! 17PET  - dotol  oesoapnie  of  omeerlaleergy   rea         rareieeeen tubude.  toal hopitas,1hoever_isctdeybaleb  mA mdiea
trnlcf I  klogam  ufcol eotalst  er opea   1960.-  f19ff-a  1976  -                nurse ..dwae   e.  ebt   ffrl-paile -er.ynedate   aedJ eet dst
GNE  ER Ca I    i,! o- INP P-  -pialtioud  SgN  piti'lgeealan  aeoeisd   eeitl.  ademe
Total Pooltid        rid-ea  -Ihdline -. .Is  f  ul  7;160 970  and  19796                 msln   eefeniltd      oa   shr  famein  to.P or dtbare
dec0  79 d-ise  190,170  ad196daa.Aera  tire of  lituobd Vrnoe  a Iesod -ttlIubn.edeel
ENERGYCONSUMPTneIlONgP APT                                                                  hbicetbold c--tee   Nof aigrou  of. individuls-a, sbaee lnn    -utad
Pocolatoc to yar lODE- Curren  popula-tion pjofetIte    1 seebasdgr  -199         and  heir- main mea-ts.A  oede  00  od irdayor may a ipn1ha            _teuai
tria  kooto  b   c   n  set_  l ar   d.. ther .nrtl-t  and frhtrjs.-                the  ouseoldhoe  tatisttalpuope
meters foe fertility  eats else bone these levels- eseumfioslit,d.tFllee in  unortupied parts.i
cecliyatrigt   n~   eeladps   aiypene    efroee-taeoIetbttlers  of deeTllinos) -W rurl, rbn.ad h-p                                                    eal  -.
Eah Muid-steY sige-      n   f  hs   m   oeidle  o    otlt                     Cnetoa  drlig   wt   lorriyl  iin    urseaspgeig
and feeridry  secede  en Projari    A.n porposas                                of!P rena.1u.Iso   n   ua   oig    epciey
salts coestoet'  Ibis is arbieved ooly at 60 i970r teet19iny rates--d-d-I. delnot  i)utd  nolan  dtc
ofoeooplretsl  saey    hesabne  pop-eEan  lsenefseollese  of eliladsse  the pImary o ef                                                  ia  perbsgcofdepesn
Porultion leteu- EeducerOo fNreor"                                                                                 tlsr'eryaso  aeoe   rmryrsrei
Pe"n,    x       r-ee  ouaeuprsureklmtr100bntrnIt                                           rndtgeea,rcnos.o   ideocdher  tranig                      jjsicitin   for ptp
t-rl area.                                                                               usually ofh12tnob17.e.re of age; corrhspondeie courses are generall
lotine; 1960, 1970, sod 1976 data.                                       puru~~~~~~~~I  A l--- eacb I r.a. -   .rIar ed Erconarb- Tota  -tde1 ened1
yetr populaeOooa for 1950-50, 1960-70. and 1970-PS.                         coereepandleg i.le....pels.I :_ l:%
int-on  toe 195-60  16-t, and  90-b78.                                                    ass77peeyeorage of total adult po ato  aged1 10pl yeas tadoen
rorolaton;-191, 197,.:od  978 dae.                                                  o-nwdyzmo
Gra Isroalu   1t-erge. orihs of t. dagher -aio,oeil heatt-o                         elf p ElahJire-e.tt..   b
he feea. sroacvepeedI  heepniee  PemtEg-pe  fictr                                   tdeheehrsle  tosndrntair  -61rye   f  snue.forrd
rIlId  ptele; usuall   f.Ive-rea  avrgsat      igi   96,17,_r   97                      broancaute no genera    ith l.pe thosn   fpeuain   noae   nt
S"Il  Plaaniea        n ArcIp.oA. futoli(thosands  -. fovual oube  nfI.I a   Jete          eedrrtor   conee                    in, yee   bergsesino   a                s
ofhiehrerldureudeasie   fotua   etrpaoe.rge.                                            oei befP'11 tern;  odat  o   eetyaemyntb               prhsac   e
FaIyPauu-leans      l  tohreo  of.I manted eummd -. Prethg   fmre                   tutieaEiao    ceig
--eofcidbeIgaet            50   er)seuehrbcoto    sler                             Otcioefretase   uuaie      O  eevr     nhodstt
al  srio   tmn it Esas   -hiSOo.=                                                 IATInealPbipecouodppatr;srdsant adercivs
-t-tt   ti::Ih   -Iet",                     irolttnCoe hosadoeultini-theme the svdegmciouit
lodn o  Fod  eodatan  seCares  199..lmte)- ldn  ofpe  tairsoeaal   itE1 of       - "dail  geesea  iterest PIEnspape"  deie  as a     opnte .n. pab-
Isro  aedrya-at,Cndeecerprmr   ed   eg   usoo                                            oh   dty   If it appearst at- leas  marelse am mask.
tea ore eY-lud0d. Aggregte peoucia of         eaoihreaetr  IsI baadI0                   trbem   ol  durin-g th ppea.1    ioadn   edleta   e    n-icias
Per rria eunely  ot calories (edefenn offeeIiremgnne)o- Computed  6ea
ecergy  quivale tio oat     b- foo   sppie  yc...l  in- toute . y peers pita         ...f POliCE ~ t                  t    II-t-            ..   0       -
pe  dy.AvIlbl   supusomns   ostcpndrie-mot  tm                               Tta.ao   uo   ionoe                     tthsirll  acii.s pereans  loluis
p     Joe,mdoagef   trn    e  epls   aid   nmlfe,ses                             S- ermed           -t. -oees addumfpoya   hutCeeludtd hueis. studentS  .-0.
houaehold.icltra leel a161 d5 INFO, end INPy     1-f0 dano.                             fieleg as 1 perenag1o  total. lao ..  -pce; 1960, 1970.. en.98
Percarrasarin  f  rorie   eemaon           pen - .. Pieicnnt  of peersI pita-    Idoetly Leerse) - Labo   ofor   -ole  eiie0 tieteoto,snu te
yet1     uply    tifoodl pe'dy.Ns  supyo   od is ) det odasabn, s,g  Os-                 an.lrerr.ottadgssprmr0    ... totltho   ere   90
Outeenetsto  al9      cantus  es0 .d98dtablised.b. lit  peyd  toe  tinam                 97  sdi97hdta
IPolsProtein, ofO  1950eb  106ge  70a shud he an_mo  prti.Tes   tn-                   aotiyanerrw               a   as tresi. mal,  andfeal  labr       doef  m
Po edell areloeth   e thoeo   5gaso   oa  eroeme and23tgem-  of                          percetagesot  rtl,mae  i  feaeppliir  of aL.eaeeapci
Ifol  Pond tu Ene;16-61, 1   1970 an  1977 dsa. t                                       ag-tn.r.tleofthfpplain.m-lngrietrn.p.-nesi
PPinedtterm animal and0 euumI  rm    e  dr   919,17nd1i97fus.                         notodrlesoony  atr  -c-ere.Iof Populaeuon on.de15yI so   5  n  oe
Child.  .t Roos   -0 - orlt   oeC tho     usaad  -  feousl. .,th... d oe f per tyasoo  to NUMTrIh ONallbrfe
tries dta dspinnd teem, life tale;7 9S.  90ded197a.                                    P ..C . i - DIOTIDiOTIt
h.,IS   -                                                                                  S petodtt, richestf20hpertaut.-porest.DO pse-ne-. and poorset 60 perten
ailty hIec;l,17  end.9l      g data.                   90  17.I   9-f                    d.PP1121                                       l   I-  -    -      -f,It
lot au  Ncotaltr Ose Can  ihtmased) -  a     -oa dant . of bof ote under one year   p     ... TAhItI IE.oUPO         .,I-..   fpo~.i-                 I..-
biftage pee  1 thuad-live hienhe -Ostmatep.g-.                                          -    d  Aboutiovet  Inod LEve  flf. hee e-pita  -o urfa and rra
A  'Je to  iaeWtefsneto   eeaio)-tnl   rbo   n   ae   c.                                Aeolegevety ieeome level Is e..,t i-Yn  lovel he-en ebich.. a-i
cobrofpole(os!   nan   e  rel  5brasuhe  Pes  oef                            enoioal  ssutsde  pu)"'P.l  a-en    sata.tsi   a
witsplileU.". eae   ueoswtr  o   nrae  hut oaaeinen adedbe
Icen  asd       ospn  a .d 1-i   d-eonteve   aeo  theitday19e9Penning -henand ofeal                     1-rtreat of poplaionfod    a  en   Surl hote   as           epo"
rf human eteests and waste-estee byAcaner-bornedeyet  o  thetuse-or-OBiuhe  19t90                                                                   -.,o
pit remiss sod etmour  doan7llat.Jns



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                            Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROUS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978
Average Annual Growth (%)
US$ Mln.          1f             1961-65        1966-70         1971-75        1975-78
GNP at Market Prices                           36,040          100.0             9.0 /1         7.7 /1         11.3 /1         9.1 /1
Gross Fixed Domestic Investment                10,905           30.3           11.3            11.2           11.2            11.9
Gross National Saving                          10,126           28.1
Current National Balancse                        -779            2.2
Export of Goods, NFS                            8,639           24.0            9.0 /2 /3    10.9 /2 /3    23.6 /2 /3    11.5 /2 /3
Imports of Goods, NFS                           9,174           25.5           10.7 /2 /3    12.7 /2 /3    22.3 /2 /3    15.5 /2 /3
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE aiJ PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Net Value Added /4                Labor Force               N.V.A. Per Worker
US$ Bln.         %_              Mln.          _               US__ %
Agriculture                                       4.46          15.3             3.47          38.3          1,285            39.9
Industry                                        16.87           57.9            3.34           37.0          5,051           156.8
Construction                                     2.97           10.2            0.92           10.1          3,228           100.2
Othernl                                          4.83           16.6             1.32          14.6          3,659           113.6
Total/Average                        29.13          100.0            9.04          100.0          3,222           100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE IN 1978
Central Government
Lei Billions      % of GDP
Total Receipts                                 300.8            52.4
Total Expenditures                             299.3            52.1
Total burplus                                    1.5             0.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
(in billions of Lei, end of year)
1975           1976            1977           1978
Money Supply                                   176.4           201.4          207.5           232.5
Snort-Term Bank Credit                         170.2           194.0          194.5           212.8
Retail Prices (1975 = 100)                     103.9           104.4          105.0           107.3
Percentage Changes in Retail Prices              0.2             0.5            0.5             2.2
1/  Growth rate of national income.
2/  In current prices.
3/ Growth rates of exports and imports only.
4/ National income (SMP methodology), excluding output of the non-productive sector.
5/  Excluding net output of the non-productive sector.
EMIDD
January 28, 1981.



ANNEX 1
- 24                                               Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1977                  1978                   1979
$m      Conv.(Z)I/    $m    Conv.(%)l/   Sm           Conv.(Z)/            MERCHANDISE EXPORTS, 1979US    n 
Exports of Goods, NFS          7,357         55       8,716         52      10,094         59               Capital Goods                2,557         26
Imports of Goods, NFS          7,529         55       9,307         55      11,389         63               Consumer Goods                1,585        16
Resource Gap                    -172         75        -591        102      -1,295         99               Foodstuffs                      934        10
Interest Payments (net)          -132       108        -168        102        -358        101               Intermediate Goods            2,830        29
Balance of Current Account   -304            90        -759        103      -1,653        101               Raw Materials                 1,818        19
Industrial                (1,575)        16
HLT Borrowing                                                                                                 Agricultural                 (243)        3
Disbursements                 861         98       1,174        99        2,065        99                                             9,724        100
Amortization                 -562         99        -586         99        -809        99
Net                           299         94         588         99       1,256        99               EXTERNAL DEBT, Dec. 31, 1979
MLT Lending                                                                                                                                        US$Mln
Disoursements                 485         51         483         62         486        59               Total MLT                               5,564
Amortization                 -127         44        -137         71        -177        57                  of which convertible
Net                          -358         53        -346         58        -309        60                  currencies
Short-term Credit                 256        69         487         94       1,038         99               DEBT SERVICE RATIO, 1979                    x
Net Errors and Ommissions           -         -         -65        118        -294        100
IMF                                38       100         -13        100          24       100               All Currencies, gross 2/                    12.3
IBEC                              101         -         103          -          96          -              All Currencies, net 32                       9.8
Change of reserves                -32       100        -151        100        -158       100                Convertible Currencies, gross 4/           20.6
1977           1978            1979                            IBRD LENDING, December 31,1980V/         US$Mln
Imports of oil and oil products              875           1,218           2,052                           Outstanding and Disbursed                  810.2
Exports of oil and oil products              688             749           1,740                            Undisbursed                               663.2
Outstanding and Undisbursed            1,473.4
EXCHANGE sATES
1.    Official Rate
Before August 1971                       6.0  Leis US$l
August 1971-February 1973                5.53 Lei: US$I
February 1973-Marcn 1978                 4.97 Lei. USt
Since March 1978                        4.47 Lei: US$1
2.    Tourist Rate
before August 1971                     18.0  Lei: US$1
August 1971-February 1973              16.0  Lei: USS1
February 1973-October 1974              14.35 Lei: US$1
Since October 1972                     12.0  Lei; US$I
3.    Conversion Rate for Traded Goods
July 1973-March 1978                   20.0  Leis US$1
Since March 1978                       18.0  Lei: US51
Starting January 1981                  15.0  Lei: US$1
1/  Convertible currency as a percentage of total.
2/  uebt service payments for credits received only.
3/  Net of debt service payment receipts for export credits extended.
4/  Debt service payments due in convertible currencies as a percentage of
export receipts in convertible currency.
5/  Includes only effective loans,                                                                                         January 28, 1981
EMENA CP1D



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7 pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
Statement of Bank Loans
(As of February 27, 1981)
US $ Million
Loan       Fiscal                                                  Amount    (less cancellations)
Number      Year    Borrower             Purpose                    Bank    TW   IDA   Undisbursed
Eight loans fully disbursed                                         368.1                     -
1242-RO    1976    Investment Bank          Hydropower               50.0                     7.7
1247-RO    1976    BAFTa/                   Irrigation               60.0                     0.9
1368-RO    1977    BAFI                     Irrigation               60.0                    6.5
1436-RO    1977    Investment Bank          Bearings                 38.0                     5.7
1448-RO    1977    Investment Bank          Polyester                50.0                     9.9
1479-RO    1978    BAFI                     Agricultural Credit    71.0                      20.5
1509-RO    1978    BAFI                     Irrigation               40.5                   15.0
1536-RO    1978    Investment Bank          Tire                     85.0                   46.0
1581-RO    1978    Investment Bank          Post Earthquake          60.0                   28.2
1634-RO    1979    Investment Bank          Chemicals                40.0                   21.5
1651-RO    1979    Investment Bank          Pipe                     40.0                    38.6
1652-RO    1979    Investment Bank          Thermal Power            70.0                   44.9
1669-RO    1979    BAFI                     Livestock                75.0                   42.2
1670-RO    1979    BAFI                     Irrigation               70.0                   54.3
1764-RO    1980    BAFI                     Livestock                85.0                   67.0
1794-RO    1980    Investment Bank          Canal                   100.0                   82.7
1795-RO    1980    BAFI                     Irrigation               90.0                   90.0
1876-RO    1980    BAFI                     Orchards                 50.0                   49.2
Total                                        l,502.6c/                630.8
of which has been paid                          37.0
Total now outstanding                        1,465.6
Amount sold                 19.8
of which repaid             17.2                 2.6
Total now paid by Bank_/                     1,463.0
Total undisbursed                                                      630.8
a/ Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry.
b/ Excluding exchange adjustments.
c/ In addition, a $125 million loan for the Fourth Power Project, a $80
million loan for the Fourth Livestock Project and a $75 million loan for
the Irrigation VII Project have been approved by the Executive Directors on
December 23, 1980 but are not yet effective.



- 26 -                   Annex II
Page 2 of 7 pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION!'
Ln. No. 1020        Bacau Fertilizer Project; US$60 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: December 31, 1974; Closing
Date; September 30, 1980
After initial delays due to changes in site and project scope, and
delays in design and construction, most plant units have been commissioned
during 1978/79 except for the urea plant. The urea plant is delayed due to
slow delivery of local equipment and is now expected to be commissioned in
early 1981. The final project cost is expected to be close to the appraisal
estimate. The loan is now fully disbursed and closed.
Ln. No. 1027        Otelinox Special Steel Project; US$70 Million Loan of July
10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: April 3, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Execution of the project was delayed about one year, primarily
because of the complexity of two large bid packages, the Romanians' lack of
familiarity with international competitive bidding procedures under the Bank's
Guidelines, and lack of interest and competition among suppliers. More recent
delays have been caused by late delivery and quality problems with Romanian
manufactured equipment. The cold mill was commissioned in July 1979 and
construction on the bar mill is progressing somewhat behind contracted
schedules with commissioning expected in February 1981. Total project costs
are expected to be essentially equal to appraisal estimates. The project is
expected to be fully completed in 1981. The loan is now fully disbursed and
closed.
Ln. No. 1028       Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$60 Million Loan of July
10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: November 6, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
Delays in construction due to late delivery of equipment and skilled
labor shortages are likely to result in a delay in commissioning of generating
units. The most recent reports anticipated commercial operations by early
1981. Project execution is otherwise according to plan. Training of future
operational staff is in hand. The loan is now fully disbursed and closed.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -                        ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1083        Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit Project; US$30 Million
Loan of February 6, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 29,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
This loan is now fully disbursed and closed.
Ln. No. 1169        Flood Recovery Project (Agricultural Component); US$40
Million Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness:
December 2, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Physical works completed except for final installation of flood
warning equipment which has been procured. The loan is now fully disbursed
and closed.
Ln. No. 1242        Riul Mare Retezat Hydropower Project; US$50 Million of
April 28, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 26, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Due to shortage of manpower, tunneling works have been delayed and
mechanized excavation which began early in 1980 has experienced teething
troubles. Project execution is still about one year behind schedule. Civil
works for the dam and underground power station are well underway. 100
percent of the loan amount has been committed and 85 percent has been
disbursed.
Ln. No. 1247        Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation and Agriculture Development
Project; US$60 Million Loan of April 28, 1976; Date of
Effectiveness: November 3, 1976; Closing date; June 30,
1981
Construction of pumping stations, canals, and other project works is
progressing satisfactorily. The area irrigated in 1980 is expected to reach
44,700 ha. Out of 11 dairy farms, four farms are in operation. Procurement
contracts for all equipment have been awarded. The feedmill and silo in
Negruvoda is completed while the silo for 44,000 tons in Baneasa is delayed.
25 percent completed work on soil erosion control and the land levelling is
behind schedule.
Ln. No. 1368        Ialomita-Calmatui Irrigation Project; US$60 Million Loan of
March 2, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 23, 1977;
Closing Date; June 30, 1982
Contracts for all equipment and materials have been awarded. Some
construction equipment and about 50 percent of pipe has been delivered.
Construction of project works is underway, progress is satisfactory. In 1979
about 18,000 ha have been irrigated. Works on surface and tile drains, land
levelling and soil erosion control works are behind schedule.



- 28 -                        ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1436        Brasov Bearings Project; US$38 Million Loan of June 15,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Contracts on virtually all major packages except one, have now been
signed and implementation of the project is proceeding ahead of the original
schedule. Project costs are expected to be close to, or slightly over,
appraisal estimates. Overall economic aspects of the project look somewhat
more favorable than at appraisal due to the improved market outlook, improved
product mix, and changes in project design to achieve lower product costs.
Ln. No. 1447        Bucharest Glass Fiber Project; US$18.1 Million of June 15,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. The Bank has
reviewed the procurement of roving machines and has decided that procedures
undertaken by the Borrower were inconsistent with those required under the
Loan Agreement. Therefore the portion of the loan (US$197,080) that would
have otherwise been eligible for disbursement has been cancelled. The
procurement of equipment for Section II (Spinning) financed by the Bank is
nearly completed. Start-up of this section has been delayed about 12 months
behind appraisal estimate. This is mainly due to civil construction delays
because of severe winter conditions and also delays in imported equipment
delivery and erection. Commissioning and three-shift operation is targeted
for June 1980.
Ln. No. 1448        Cimpulung-Muscel Polyester Project; US$50 Million Loan of
June 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: October 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily with the
exception of certain equipment items ordered from the local manufacturers
supply of which has delayed completion by about one and a half years.
Production is expected to begin in August 1981. Execution of the project is
proceeding satisfactorily with production expected to begin in June 1980.
Ln. No. 1479        Pig Production and Processing Project; US$71 Million Loan
of July 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 28,
1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project represents the Bank's first participation in Romania in a
development plan on a nationwide basis. It provides for establishment and
modernization of large-scale pig breeding/fattening farms, development of
testing and selection centers, and provision of slaughtering and processing
facilities. ICB procurement is completed. Project implementation is, apart
from serious delays in the construction of new slaughterhouses, proceeding
satisfactorily. Bank disbursements are 27 percent behind schedule.



- 20 -                         ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1509        Viisoara Irrigation Project; US$40.5 Million Loan of
January 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness; May 15, 1978;
Closing Date; December 31, 1983
Bids for all procurement contracts have been awarded. Construction
of project works is proceeding satisfactorily, and about 25 percent of
irrigation works have been completed.
Ln. No. 1536        Tires Project; US$85.0 Million Loan of March 31, 1978; Date
of Effectiveness: June 9, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1981
Overall project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Plant
start-up is expected in March 1981 for the Zalau plant (truck tires), and in
May 1983 for Dobreta-Turnu Service plant (tractor and giant tires), with a
delay of 10 months and about 2.5 years respectively. The delay for the latter
plant has been attributable to difficulties in obtaining a suitable supplier
of technology and equipment for the giant tire package. However, since
conclusion of the contract with Yokohama/Mitsubishi (Japan) for this critical
package in September 1980, expeditious implementation of this sub-project has
started, and revised completion date is expected to be met.
Ln. No. 1581        Post Earthquake Construction Assistance Project; US$60.0
Million Loan of June 12, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
September 5, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Procurement is proceeding satisfactorily and contracts amounting to
$58 million have been awarded. Though disbursements still lag significantly,
the pace has picked up in recent months and is expected to be maintained. A
request for an extension of the closing date is expected. The enterprises
assisted under the loan were found to have recorded good progress as of July
31, 1980.
Ln. No. 1634        Craiova Chemical Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of January
15, 1979; Date of Effectiveness; May 2, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Initial procurement and execution of the project are proceeding
satisfactorily, and the final commissioning is expected by end 1981, as
scheduled, although partial commissioning of some units is delayed by a few
months. The final project cost is expected to be close to the appraisal
estimate.



- 30 -                        ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1651        Roman Seamless Pipe Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
February 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: July 30, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
After an initial delay of nine months procurement is proceeding
satisfactorily. The contract for the main technology package was signed in
November 1979 and other packages have been prepared for international
bidding. Site clearing started in May 1980. The project is expected to start
commercial operation in the first quarter of 1983.
Ln. No. 1652        Second Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$70.0 Million Loan
of February 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: June 29, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is expected to be delayed by about one year because of
delays in Turceni I and the necessary sequential arrangements for
implementation of both projects. Ninety-two percent of the loan funds have
been committed.
Ln. No. 1669        Second Livestock Project; US$75.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: July 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Progress in project implementation is satisfactory, although there
are serious delays in construction of new slaughterhouses. Bank disbursements
are in line with appraisal forecasts. Contracts for procurement of
construction materials have been awarded and those for slaughterhouse
equipment are expected to be awarded in early 1981.
Ln. No. 1670        Mostistea and Calmatui Irrigation and Drainage Project;
US$70 Million Loan of April 16, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness; July 16, 1979; Closing Date; June 30, 1984
About 15 percent of the works have been completed and are proceeding
satisfactorily. Bids for procurement of equipment and material, under ICB,
have been opened and almost all awards have been made.
Ln. No. 1764        Third Livestock Project; US$85.0 Million Loan of January
11,1980; Date of Effectiveness: April 15, 1980; Closing
Date; December 31, 1985
Project implementation is satisfactory with Bank disbursement 1.7
times ahead of schedule. Contracts for construction materials have been
awarded. A matter of great concern is Romania's present and expected shortage
of high protein content poultry feed.



- 31 -                      ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1794        Danube-Black Sea Canal Project; US$100 Million Loan of
April 30, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 5, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The bidding process for both equipment and materials is proceeding on
schedule. Materials are currently being procured.
Ln. No. 1795        Covurlui Irrigation Project; US$90 Million Loan of April 8,
1980; Date of Effectiveness: July 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
Bids for procurement of equipment and materials under ICB have been
opened and most awards have been made. Initial execution of the project is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1876        Orchards Project; US$50 Million Loan of June 30, 1980; Date
of Effectiveness: September 16, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This loan became effective only recently. New orchard plantings for
1980 were slightly delayed due to the early onset of winter; however, these
plantings will be completed by March 1981. The planting program and
propagation material are well in hand for 1981 and 1982. Locations of 19
fruit stores have been selected and the master design is being finalized.



- 32 -                   ANNEX III
ROMANIA
CARACAL AND TITU IRRIGATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
i)    Time taken by the country to prepare               19 months (February 1979 -
the project:                                                     August 1980)
ii)   Agency which has prepared the Project:             Ministry of Agriculture
and Food Industry
iii) Date of first presentation to the Bank,
and date of first Bank mission to                  July 1979 and
consider the project:                                February 1980
iv)   Date of departure of appraisal mission;            September 29, 1980
v)    Date of completion of negotiations:                March 6, 1981
vi)   Planned date of effectiveness:                     September 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
A.    The Government should complete;
i)   Draganesti dam on the Olt river by December 31, 1984 (para. 39).
ii)  Golesti and Riusor dams on the Arges river by December 31, 1983 and
December 31, 1984, respectively (para. 39), and
iii) The flood diversion channels to the Arges river from the adjacent
Dimbovita river by December 31, 1982 (para. 39).
B.    The Borrower shall ensure that:
i)   independent qualified experts would review the design of the dams
involved in the project and periodically inspect them upon
completion (para. 40), and
ii)  adequate agricultural input and services would be available for use
in the project area (para. 52).



S YS rEM                                    ~~~~~~~~ROMANIA                                      NcSR,
CARACAL-TITU  IRRIGATION PROJECT 
CARACAL                                                             RMNIA
sw'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~OLT  BASIN
--------  -----                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIGHT BANK IRRIGATION
N                                                                      5-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
'd. J. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~.                                                             L    reniIron
Un"der C-ner-ct-o
IRRIGATION WITNESUFC    AIS              5VZNU"rnnnSnEnVns
IRIAINWITH EXISTIN  SURFACE DRAIS-                                                                                                                                                                       reI'
ZT~EXISTlNG IRRIGATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C-I   En,Ir-
RIVALENT IRRIGATION                          ~5u.V/S/NA - STrO/-ENlECsTI \                                                                                     N                                                                 ul
---EXISTING COLLECTOR GRAINS                                                                                                                IsV 7EM-
-~ - SURFACE DRAINS TO RE IMPROVED                                        ,                                                                  --..N 
----NEW  SURFACE DRAINS                                                   /                                                                                           ~~SoeonIn 2T0 
--  VALLEY TRAINING                                                                  -J                                           ---~-              ~        -~-I~Vnonrn
sJ  PROPONGSEDDTENTIONSDM 
Z . T IL E   D R A lN A G S RE A                                 '    %     R ,14 
IPOIGEITING SURFACE DRAINS WITH TILE DRAINS                     CV'                                                                                                            -2V
--z4- EXISTING DETENTION DAMS                                                                                                                                               (L
DIKES                                                                                                                    --sonnncAlen
E~SOIL EROSION WORKS----A-d
VILLAGES 
E7FORESTI                                              ~TtSTnu
E   SANDY AREAS                                                                                                                                                                                         ,-U        0onei
RIVERSn -.                                                        - r - - n-~JE                                                                                                                             UN~O 
-MAIN  ROADS                                          o        _
JUDET BOUNDARTY__






w                                                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 1540
ROMAN IA
CARACAL-TITU IRRIGATION PROJECT
I ITU
:::[:%'t:        ARGE 'BASIN 4                          .,,
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   -<                             $>                                                          ;
S    IRRIGATIN AREA , ,e S ,\ 
tt  .  | + md D,DRAIN4GE .  ' 
E~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
sT  \:    \  u  ,        ' OPEN GRAINAGE  AALS            *                         <        h-'//              '         - ''.'>t.           CA 
t \ ., \ 9 MO~~~~~~~~~PRNKFLER IRRIATIONS   2 ^&v'
E . -   - i ,-                                                                                                             2 R
A 5    S                                                    \       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~             g          t  <                 _ ' wHs JEr- ~~~-  &j)
<  -s- =  \ Q '\ ff~~~~F U                   R O W lE iG AP  JTIO
% t 31; < \i B T S ~~~E 'XITN                IRRGAIO



