Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4091-VN
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Fourth Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated September 15, 2005 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4091-VN 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 15, 2005, between SOCIALIST REPUBLIC 
OF VIETNAM (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower (i) its 
Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy (CPRGS) adopted in May 2002 
by Decision of the Borrower’s Prime Minister, and (ii) its progress report on the CPRGS 
dated November 2004, which together described a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty 
(hereinafter called the Program); 
 
(B) 
the Association has further received from the Borrower a letter dated 
May   , 2005 reporting on the progress in the implementation of the Program, confirming 
the Borrower’s continued commitment to its execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof; 
 
(C) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 2 of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
 
(D) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit 
in one single tranche as hereinafter provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 
Page  3
2
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”; 
 
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency specified in 
Section 2.02 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that 
withdrawals in the currency of the Borrower shall be made in such currency or 
currencies as the Association shall from time to time reasonably select.”; 
 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, 
 
on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit.”; and 
 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted in its entirety and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified 
above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.  
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“EVN” means Electricity of Vietnam, a state-owned enterprise 
established pursuant to Decision No. 562/TTg of the Prime Minister of the Socialist 
Republic of Vietnam, dated October 10, 1994, operating under the EVN Charter, 
responsible for developing, operating and maintaining, directly or indirectly, facilities for 
the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity throughout the Borrower’s 
territory, and any successor thereto. 
 
Page  4
3
(b) 
“DAF” means the Development Assistance Fund, a state-owned financial 
institution established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree 50/1999/ND-CP 
of July 8, 1999 and Decree 106/2004/ND-CP of April 1, 2004, to receive and manage 
state resources allocated to development investments. 
 
(c) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
 
(d) 
“Primary Teacher Profile” means a set of criteria for evaluating 
professional levels of primary teachers on the basis of competencies. 
 
(e) 
“SBV” means State Bank of Vietnam, the Borrower’s central bank, and 
any successor thereto. 
 
(f) 
“SEDP” means the Borrower’s Socio-Economic Development Plan. 
 
(g) 
“SOCBs” means state-owned commercial banks, namely Bank of 
Investment and Development of Vietnam, Bank for Foreign Trade of Vietnam, Industrial 
and Commercial Bank of Vietnam, Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural 
Development, and Mekong Housing Bank; and “SOCB” means any of the state-owned 
commercial banks. 
 
(h) 
“SOEs” means state-owned enterprises, and “SOE” means any state-
owned enterprise. 
 
(i) 
“WTO” means the World Trade Organization. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to sixty-six million two hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 66,200,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in support of the Program. 
 
(b) 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree: (i) all withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into an account in Dollars 
designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Association; and (ii) the Borrower shall 
ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Credit into said account, an equivalent 
Page  5
4
amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner 
acceptable to the Association. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be 
used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Association determines at any time that an amount of the Credit was 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of said payment 
to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 
15 and November 15 commencing November 15, 2015 and ending May 15, 2045. Each 
Page  6
5
installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2025 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) Whenever 
(i) 
the 
Borrower
’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by the Association of 
the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Page  7
6
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including 
any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01(a) of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Association such 
information relating to the provisions of Article II of this Agreement as the Association 
may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
(b) 
Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the date of the Association’s 
request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the 
Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested. 
Page  8
7
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Effectiveness; Termination
 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Governor or any Deputy Governor of the State Bank of 
Vietnam is designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
State Bank of Vietnam 
 
49 Ly Thai To 
 Hanoi 
 
Socialist Republic of Vietnam 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
VIETBANK 
412248 
(84-4) 825 0612 
 Hanoi 
NHTWVT 
 
Page  9
8
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
By 
/s/ Le Duc Thuy 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ 
Klaus 
Rohland 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  10
9
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, loan, or grant; 
 
2. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
Page  11
10
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
 
4. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
 
5. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of 
goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
6. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
Page  12
11
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Actions Referred to in Recital (C) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
 
A.
 
Transition to a Market Economy
 
1. Trade 
Integration: 
The Borrower has made strong progress in multilateral and bilateral negotiations 
towards its WTO accession by reaching the stage for a full draft Working Party Report 
and completing bilateral negotiations with six partners. 
 
2. 
State-owned Enterprise Reform: 
(a) The 
Borrower
,
through Prime Minister’s Decision 155/2004/QD-Ttg of 
August 24, 2004, has narrowed the list of sectors in which exclusive state ownership is to 
be maintained. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through Decree 187/2004/ND-CP of November 16, 2004, 
has strengthened the mechanisms for equitization of SOEs, including by auctioning 
shares and requiring that valuations be carried out by outside agencies.  
 
3. 
Financial Sector Reform: 
(a) 
SBV has confirmed the principle of separation of its SOCBs 
management functions from its supervisory functions.  
 
(b) 
SBV has issued regulations applicable to all SOCBs requiring them to 
classify loans on the basis of international accounting standards. 
 
4. Infrastructure: 
 
The Electricity Law has been enacted which (a) allows the equitization of EVN 
subsidiaries, and (b) establishes an electricity regulatory agency. 
 
B.  Inclusive and Sustainable Development 
 
5. Education: 
The Borrower, through the Ministry of Education and Training, has completed 
the evaluation of seven percent (7%) of all teachers based on the new Primary Teacher 
Profile for career development. 
 
6. 
Land and Forests: 
The Law on Forest Protection and Development has been enacted. 
 
7. Environment: 
The draft Amended Law on Environmental Protection has been submitted to the 
National Assembly for approval, and the draft implementing decree has been submitted 
to Government. 
Page  13
12
C.  Modern Governance 
 
8. Planning 
Processes: 
 
The Borrower is integrating the CPRGS approach into the preparation of the 
Socio-Economic Development Plan 2006-2010, namely the principles of strategic 
planning, consultation, outcome orientation and monitoring. 
 
9. 
Public Financial Management: 
(a) 
The Borrower, through the Ministry of Finance, has issued regulations to 
improve financial disclosure of all state budget entities, including SOEs, requiring among 
other information, disclosure of their annual budget allocations, budget plans and final 
accounts.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower has launched an assessment of the fiscal risks associated 
with SOEs, SOCBs and DAF. 
 
10. Financial 
Accountability: 
 
The Law on State Audit has been enacted stipulating that the State Audit of 
Vietnam is an independent specialized agency established by the National Assembly.  
 
11. Anti-corruption: 
The Borrower has established a framework to increase the effectiveness of anti-
corruption actions by formulating a program of organizational and operational reforms, 
institutional capacity building and human resources development for the State 
Inspectorate, designed to increase its effectiveness and efficiency in preventing and 
combating corruption.  
 
12. Information 
Availability: 
The Borrower has strengthened the criteria for measuring poverty and targeting 
the poor by bringing them more into line with international standards.  
 
