Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1613 
Operation Name 
Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit IV 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
General public administration sector (50%);General finance sector 
(20%);General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector 
(10%);General education sector (10%);Health (10%) 
Project ID 
P086360 
Borrower(s) 
THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM 
Implementing Agency 
HE STATE BANK OF VIETNAM 
The Government of Vietnam 
Vietnam 
 
The State Bank of Vietnam 
47-49 Ly Thai To street 
Vietnam 
Tel: 84 4 9343361 
Fax: 84 4 8250612 
fdsbv@fpt.vn 
Date PID Prepared 
May 12, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
May 18, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
June 21, 2005 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
Between 1994 and 2004 Vietnam’s economy grew at 7.3 percent per annum. In the period 1992-2002, 
the poverty rate was halved from 58 percent to 29 percent. The role of the private sector in economic 
activity has risen steadily as Vietnam has progressed on its transition to a market economy. In the last 
ten years, exports have grown by 20 percent per year, and FDI approvals reached nearly 10 percent of 
GDP in 2004. 
 
Over the last two years, the performance of the Vietnamese economy has remained strong in spite of 
recurrent adverse shocks.  These shocks included SARS, a serious outbreak of avian influenza, severe 
floods and droughts, an sharp rise in the price of key imported commodities, and market barriers in 
textiles, garments and other export products.  In spite of those adverse conditions, GDP growth remained 
above seven percent for the third consecutive year, and indeed accelerated to attain 7.7 percent in 2004.  
The resulting improvement in living conditions has been widespread, and preliminary figures from the 
Vietnam Household Living Standards Survey (VHLSS) 2004 indicate a continued decline in the poverty 
headcount since 2002, the year of the last survey.  While it is still too early to report a poverty figure 
with confidence, there is a clear expectation to see sustained progress towards the attainment of the 
Vietnam Development Goals (VDGs) and other key development outcomes.   
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The proposed Credit of US$ 100 million equivalent is a Poverty 
Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) that would support the 
Page  2
implementation of Vie
tnam’s reform agenda embodied in the 
Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy (CPRGS) 
completed in May 2002, and updated in the annual Progress Reports 
of the CPRGS in 2003 and 2004. Broadly this reform agenda rests on 
three pillars (a) the transition to a market economy, including through 
greater international economic integration (b) socially inclusive and 
environmentally sustainable development and (c) building modern 
governance. The CPRGS was the outcome of broad based 
consultation, and represented a breakthrough in developing an 
evidence based, outcome focused, and monitorable policy approach. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Bank has been engaged in a wide ranging policy dialogue with the government of Vietnam for a 
number of years. The government has viewed the analytical strength of the Bank as a key factor in 
helping it refine and put into operation the main elements of its reform agenda. The objectives of the 
Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy for Vietnam have been aligned with those of the CPRGS. The 
Bank’s PRSCs are instruments that are very well suited to assist the government in successfully carrying 
out the strategic reforms articulated in the CPRGS.  Many of the reforms call for additional budget 
resources, and the PRSCs directly add resources to the government’s budget.  The reform agenda 
embodied in the CPRGS is broad, encompassing a number of sectors. Implementation of these reforms 
requires the interaction of a large number of government ministries and agencies.  The PRSC process 
provides a platform for such co-operative interaction, much more so than any sector level instrument. 
The breadth of the reform program also implies the involvement of a large number of donors. The 
PRSCs have proved to be a very useful tool for donor co-ordination across an agreed set of policy 
actions, thereby significantly reducing transaction costs in the delivery of development assistance.  
 
The proposed operation is the fourth in a series of Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs).  It builds 
on the strong performance of Vietnam over the last decade, and its commitment to further economic and 
social development, elaborated in the CPRGS, and the annual CPRGS Progress Reports in 2003 and 
2004. It reflects the engagement and support of the international community in addressing the challenges 
currently faced by Vietnam. The proposed credit further deepens the reforms supported by the first three 
PRSCs and the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) of the International Monetary Fund 
(IMF). 
 
4. Financing 
 
The proposed credit amount would be a US$ 100 million equivalent.  The credit would be disbursed in 
one tranche at effectiveness subject to the fulfillment of the conditions listed in the Policy Matrix. 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The National Steering Committee (NSC) for the implementation of the CPRGS and PRSCs was 
established in 2002.  It is chaired by the first Deputy Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung, and consists of 
heads of some 22 relevant line ministries and government agencies.  SBV is assigned as the agency 
Page  3
responsible, in close collaboration with the World Bank, for preparation and implementation of PRSCs.  
A
Deputy Governor of SBV acts as Standing Vice Chairman of NSC.  
 
An inter-ministerial working group and a secretariat to implement and monitor the CPRGS has also been 
established at MPI. Two Annual Progress Reports on the implementation of the CPRGS have been 
prepared by the CPRGS secretariat under the guidance of the inter-ministerial working group. 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
The proposed operation provides further support to Vietnam’s policy and institutional reforms to 
maintain high growth and poverty reduction.  It promotes greater internal and external competition and 
improves efficiency and resource allocation in the economy.  It enhances transparency and 
accountability in SOE operations and in the banking sector.  
 
The proposed credit also promotes human development through upgrading the quality of education 
(especially in poor zones), supporting the availability of medicines at affordable prices, and leading to 
more secure asset ownership through the implementation of a new Land Law.  The actions undertaken in 
PRSC 4 and proposed in the roadmap for future reforms tackle an underlying problem of resource 
allocation mechanisms in the social sectors to ensure a stronger pro-poor focus.  The proposed credit 
also encourages important policy measures leading to more sustainable management of forests and 
improving environmental quality. 
 
The proposed credit will increase transparency and accountability of public finances and improve legal 
transparency and accessibility.  Actions undertaken in PRSC 4 complement the ongoing public financial 
management reform initiative, including in the area of financial disclosure of state budget entities.  Also, 
the piloting of MTEFs is a key step to improve the coordination of capital and recurrent expenditures. 
Actions under PRSCs supporting anti-corruption efforts will lead to a better understanding of the causes 
of corruption and the passage of an anti-corruption law.  
 
Some of the most important risks accompanying the proposed credit relate to slippage, especially in the 
areas of trade integration and financial sector reform.  The full benefits from WTO accession will accrue 
only if complementary reforms take place in areas such as trade logistics, tax policy and administration, 
and reforms targeted at improving the investment climate.  While many of these reforms are in train, 
their pace would need to keep up with the speed and demands of international integration.  This risk is 
addressed by including some of these reforms as part of the PRSC process and by ensuring that other 
World Bank and donor operations are directing support in these areas.  
 
The ambitious reform agenda supported by the PRSC process, while improving economic efficiency, 
could also lead to increased inequality and environmental degradation.  Improvements in data 
availability and analytical work on issues arising from rural-urban disparities, included as part of the 
PRSC process, should help strengthen government policies to address these problems. Similarly, the 
Country Environmental Assessment as well as the policy actions on land, water, and environmental 
protection under the current series of PRSCs should help address threats to sustainable resource use and 
environmental quality. 
 
Finally, there is a risk that the opportunities for embezzlement created by a rapidly growing economy 
will lead to increased corruption.  But initiatives are underway to provide effective counter mechanisms.  
A
comprehensive diagnostic of corruption and its modalities is in its field stage at present, and its 
findings will be publicly disclosed. An Anti-corruption Law, to be passed by the National Assembly in 
October 2005 will introduce stronger accountability. 
Page  4
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
A
considerable amount of analytical work has been devoted in recent years to assess the social 
implications of the reform agenda supported by the PRSC process.  This work has focused on various 
aspects of such agenda, including job loss in SOEs, the development of a land market and integration 
with the global economy.  The analyses on the impact of job loss in SOEs led to the establishment of a 
well-functioning safety net for redundant workers. The operation of the safety net was evaluated in 
2004, and a new tracer survey of retrenched workers is currently going to the field.  The 2004 evaluation 
confirmed that the package had been appropriately designed, as well-being had on average been 
preserved.  The survey also revealed that female workers and older workers were the groups with the 
highest satisfaction levels. 
 
Aware of the need to supplement the international integration agenda by appropriate measures at the 
domestic level, the government has mandated the Vietnam Academy of Social Sciences (VASS) to take 
the lead in the evaluation of the economic and social impacts of WTO accession. Work on the impacts 
of WTO accession will be conducted in parallel with the preparation of the next poverty assessment, and 
in time to inform the next Socio-Economic Development Plan. The identification of policy measures 
through this work has been included as part of the PRSC process. VASS, the largest institution 
conducting policy-oriented analysis in Vietnam, already has an extensive trajectory in doing WTO-
related work.  It was also one of the key domestic counterparts in the preparation of the VDR 2004, on 
Poverty, jointly with various other government agencies and think tanks.  
 
Supporting analytical work by the Bank, including the ongoing Country Environmental Assessment, as 
well as analyses of Poverty-Environment Nexus and biodiversity, will help in identifying gaps in the 
existing institutional arrangements and incentives necessary for improved environmental governance.  
The Government has developed a regulatory framework for environmental assessment, standards and 
compliance monitoring with the overall responsibility now under MONRE.  But additional work is still 
needed to improve this framework.  Though its present field level capacity is limited, the Government of 
Vietnam appears committed to undertaking a substantive program of environmental capacity building, 
institutional strengthening, environmental and land use planning as well as physical investment projects 
addressing environmental issues.  Donor support for national environmental programs is strong and 
covers a diverse range of initiatives across many sectors. 
 
8. Contact point 
 
Contact: Martin G. Rama 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: 84 4 9346600 
Fax: 84 4 9346597 
Email: Mrama@worldbank.org 
Location: Hanoi, Vietnam (IBRD) 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Page  5
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
