Report No. PID10958
Project Name             Albania-Poverty Reduction Strategy...
Credit
Region                   Europe and Central Asia
Sector                   Social Protection Adj
Project ID               ALPE69935
Implementing Agency      Ministry of Finance
Deshmoret e Kombit Boulevard
Tirana, Albania
Tel:      (355-42) 284-05
Fax:     (355-42) 284-94
Environmental Category   Not rated.
Date of PID              January 14, 2002
Project Appraisal        February 2002
Tentative Board Date     June 2002
1.      Country and Sector Background:    The Albanian economy
has experienced four different phases since the beginning
of the transition. The early transition years (1991-92) saw
a sharp contraction of real GDP and high inflation. The
period 1993-96 was characterized by a significant economic
recovery. GDP grew by about 9 percent annually in real
terms, inflation was brought down substantially, and both
the current account balance and the fiscal deficit improved
significantly.   Economic performance has been strong in
the aftermath of the 1997 crisis, with growth averaging
about 7 percent a year and with inflation at low levels.
Structural reforms in the financial sector, in the social
sectors, in privatization, in land markets, in energy, and
in civil service reform have also made important progress
in recent years.
2.      Per capita income in Albania, at around US$1000, has
remained one of the lowest among transition economies.
This reflects Albania's difficult conditions at the outset
of the transition and the drastic recession in the early
years of the transition (of about 40 percent of 1989 GDP).
Available quantitative and qualitative information show
that poverty in Albania remains high in level and depth,
and has particularly worrying effects on large families and
children.
3.      Consolidating and deepening the implementation of key
reform measures will be needed to improve the overall
climate for growth, poverty reduction, and private sector
development. The Government intends to make Albania's
development strategy inclusive and focused on the poor with
the objective of increasing its per capita income. The aims
are to share widely the benefits of growth and to achieve



sustained poverty reduction. Basic elements of this agenda
were outlined in the Government's Interim Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper and are further developed in the
Government's program for poverty reduction as reflected in
its Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS).    The GPRS
is a comprehensive and cross cutting program, through which
the Government intends to address poverty by the following
systemic reforms: creating a growth oriented business
environment that attracts investment and creates employment
opportunities for the poor; improving human capital through
improved quality and access to social services such as
health and education; and, empowering the poor through
stronger public accountability and increased participation
in decision making.
4.      Public expenditure management reform will be a key
element of the Government program. In particular,
capacities for policy development need to be strengthened,
closer linkages between policy objectives and expenditures
and better intergovernmental fiscal relations need to be
developed. Service delivery (especially in health and
education) needs to be improved and policy monitoring and
evaluation needs to be strengthened. In addition,
accountability mechanisms need be enhanced to allow Albania
to fight corruption, encourage high levels of investment --
particularly foreign direct investment -- maintain fiscal
discipline, and ensure that resources are used efficiently
and transparently.
5.     The proposed US$20 million equivalent Credit would
assist the Government to develop and implement policies and
structural reforms that are consistent with and supportive
of the country's GPRS. The proposed PRSC is structured
around four components: (i) Promoting sustainable growth
and supporting private sector development; (ii)
Strengthening capacity to monitor and evaluate the policy
agenda; (iii) Improving service delivery and social safety
net effectiveness; and (iv) Improving core public sector
functions and institutional arrangements. These four
components aim to increase the effectiveness of the overall
strategy for poverty reduction. The first component
underscores the fundamental importance that the Government
is giving to the promotion of strong private-sector led
growth in its strategy. Components 2 and 4 aim to address
several critical weaknesses in core public sector functions
and institutional arrangements that could undermine the
successful implementation of the GPRS. Component 3 focuses
explicitly on a number of key sectoral policies that are
expected to yield measurable results within the three-year
PRSC program period.
6.      Implementation:       The proposed PRSC will be made to
the Government of Albania as represented by the Ministry of
Finance. The Credit will be released in one tranche
following Board presentation. The Credit would have a 40-
-2 -



year maturity including a 10-year grace period. The
Government will ratify the Credit before it becomes
effective. An inter-ministerial GPRS working group, chaired
by the Ministry of Finance and including sector ministries
affected by the PRSC, would be responsible for the
coordination of the activities and the implementation of
the PRSC. This will be the first of three PRSC operations.
7.      Poverty Category:        This program is designed to have a
notable beneficial impact on medium term poverty trends in
Albania by: (i) Strengthening the Government's capacity to
monitor and evaluate poverty trends in Albania, and to
formulate effective policy responses; (ii) Enhancing access
to and quality of key social services currently in crisis,
especially education and health; (iii) Improving the
sustainability and adequacy of social insurance programs;
(iv) Strengthening the prospects for private sector
development and growth; and (v) Improving the targeting
efficiency and impact of social assistance and social care
services.
8.      The primary benefits of the proposed operation are:
(i) more efficient and effective policy formulation,
monitoring and evaluation in sectors that have a major
fiscal and social impact (i.e., education, rural, health,
social protection), and that account for a large percentage
of GDP and budgetary expenditure; (ii) through the
supported public administration reforms, redeployment and
reorientation of line ministry staff to better deliver
services and implement policy; (iii) improved targeting of
programs and benefits through better policy monitoring;
(iv) improved public expenditure management and strategic
allocation of resources through MTEF mechanism; (v)through
implementation of the MTEF sector strategies, improved
quality and access of key social services (especially
education and health); (vi) meaningful involvement of civil
society and the private sector in the formulation of policy
priorities; and (vii) support for anti-corruption efforts.
9.      Risks:  The primary risks of the proposed operation
are: (i) the multi-sectoral nature of this operation
presents implementation risks, as it will require close
cooperation between the line agencies; (ii) the line
ministries are heavily burdened and have a tradition of
high turnover and weak capacity, which could further
complicate implementation; and (iii) the region remains
unstable, with low level conflicts gradually easing in
Macedonia. There has been a clear shift towards increasing
regional stability, but the potential for renewed conflict
should not be entirely ruled out.
10.     Environmental Category : In accordance with the
Bank's Operational Directives for structural adjustment
operations (OD 8.60), the proposed operation does not
require an environmental assessment.    The activities under
- 3 -



the operation's components are highly unlikely to have a
negative environmental impact.
11.     Contact Points:
Co-team leaders at the Bank:
Philip Goldman (ECSHD)
Mansour Farsad (ECSPE)
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-3835 (Goldman), 473-2963
(Farsad)
Fax:   (202) 477-3387 (Goldman); (522-2751
(Farsad)
Email: pgoldman@worldbank.org,
mfarsad@worldbank.org
12.     For information on other project related documents,
contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
activities and/or components may not be included in the
final project.
See "Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper," Republic of
Albania, May 2000.
"National Strategy for Socio-Economic Development," Republic
of Albania, November 2001.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
February 22, 2002.
-4-



