Document of
THE WORLD BANK
Report No. 2417S-ALB
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
PROGRAM DOCUMENT
FOR A
PROPOSED POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 16.0 MILLION
(US$20.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
ALBANIA
MAY 24,2002
Human Development Sector Unit
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(Exchange Rate Effective April 30, 2002)
Currency Unit = Lek
Lek 1  = US$ 0.007
US$1   = Lek 145
GOVERNMENT'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CARDS               Community Assistance for Reconstruction, Development and
Stabilization
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CSAG                Civil Society Advisory Group
ESW                 Economic and Sector Work
EU                  European Union
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
GPRS                Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy (Government PRSP designation)
IBRD                'International Bank for.Reconstruction and Development
IDA                 International Development Association
IMF                 International Monetary Fund
INSTAT              Institute of Statistics
LCS                 Living Conditions Survey
LSMS                Living Standards Measurement Survey
MOA                 Ministry of Agnculture and Food
MOES                Ministry of Education and Science
MOF                 Ministry of Finance
MOH                 Ministry of Health
MOLG                Ministry of Local Government
MOLSA               Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs
MTEF                Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NSESD               National Strategy for Economic and Social Development (aka GPRS)
PRSC                Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP                Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SAA                 Stabilization and Association Agreement
SSDP                Social Services Delivery Project
USAID               United States Agency for Intemational Development
Vice President: Johannes Linn (ECAVP)
Country Director: Christiaan Poortman (ECC04)
Sector Directors: Annette Dixon (ECSHD); Pradeep Mitra/Cheryl Gray
(ECSPE)
Sector Leaders: Maureen Lewis (ECSHD) and Kyle Peters (ECSPE)
Co-Team Leaders: Mansour Farsad (ECSPE)
_  Philip Goldman (ECSHD)



ALBANIA
POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:               Albania
Amount:                  SDR 16.0 million (about US$20.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                  IDA terms with a forty year maturity, including a grace period of
ten years
Objectives:             The Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) will develop and
implement fiscally sustainable policies within the framework of the
Government's three-year Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy
(GPRS, or National Strategy for Economic and Social
Development) that support a higher quality of life (especially for
the poor), and that are consistent with and supportive of the
country's overall growth strategy.
Benefits:               This operation will support more effective and efficient policy
formulation and implementation, improved access to social
services and better targeting of scarce fiscal resources to those
most in need, and policies conducive to sustained growth.
Risks:                  The primary risk is weak counterpart capacity to develop and
implement a comprehensive policy program.
Schedule of Disbursement: To be released in a single tranche adjustment operation of SDR
16.0 million, with effectiveness scheduled for July 2002.
Implementing Agencies:  The Ministry of Finance (overall coordination)
Six Sector Line Ministries
Department of Public Administration
The Institute for Statistics (INSTAT)
Poverty:                This is a poverty focused operation
Project ID Number:      P069935
Map:                    IBRD 28467R






ALBANIA
PROPOSED POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
Table of Contents
I. INTRODUCTION ...................................................................1
H.       THE ECONOMY ...................................................................2
A.   Transition to a Market Economy .................................................................2
B.    Commitment to Fiscal Discipline ................................................................3
C.   Macroeconomic Outlook .................................................................4
m.       MOVING TowARD A COMPREHENSIVE POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY ...............................                     6
A. The Government's Strategy for Reducing Poverty .................................................................6
B. Implementation Hurdles and Challenges .......................          ..........................................8
IV.      THE POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT ..................................................................      11
Objective 1: Promoting Sustainable Growth and Supporting Private Sector Development ......                 14
Objective 2: Strengthening Capacity to Monitor and Evaluate the Policy Agenda ....................... 20
Objective 3: Improving Service Delivery and Social Safety Net Effectiveness ............................ 23
Objective 4: Improving Core Public Sector Functions and Institutional Arrangements ............ 30
V.     THE PROPOSED CREDIT .................................................................. 43
A.    Relations to the Country Assistance Strategy ................................................................   43
B.    Coordination with the EIF ................................................................           45
C.    Coordination with Other Donors ................................................................      45
D.    Implementation and Monitoring ................................................................       46
E.    Tranching ................................................................                           48
F.    Disbursements ................................................................                       48
G.    Environmental Aspects ................................................................               48
H.   Social Impact Analyses ................................................................               49
I.   Poverty Impact ................................................................ 50
J.   Gender ................................................................ 51
K.   Benefits and Risks ................................................................ 51
L.    Schedule ................................................................                            54
TEXT BOXES
Box 1. Poverty Trends in Albania                                             .7
Box 2. Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy                                         .8



TEXT TABLES
Table 1: Macroeconomic Indicators (1991 - 2001)  ................................................2
Table 2: Budget Deficit and Financing (1996-2001) ...............................................4
Table 3: Macroeconomic Framework (2000 - 2005)  ................................................5
Table 4: Summary of Key Measures and Linkages with GPRS  .  .................................. 40
Table 5 Social Impact Assessments Completed or Underway ................................................   47
FIGURES
Figure 1: Analytical Underpinnings of the PRSC Program ............................................. 13
Figure 2: Linkages Between the Albania GPRS, MTEF, CAS and PRSC ............................ 44
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1: LETrER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
ANNEX 2: THE PROGRAM POLICY MATRIX
ANNEX 3: PRSC MONITORING PLAN
ANNEX 4: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
ANNEX 5: KEY EXPOSURE INDICATORS
ANNEX 6: ALBANIA AT A GLANCE
ANNEX 7: STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALBANIA
STATEMENT OF IFC'S COMMITED AND DISBURSED PORTFOLIO
ANNEX 8: FUND RELATIONS NOTE
ANNEX 9: TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING STEPS
The findings of this Report are based on the work of an appraisal team that is co-managed by
Philip Goldman (ECSHD) and Mansour Farsad (ECSPE), consisting of Sue Ellen Berryman
(education), Gero Carletto (monitoring and evaluation), Hermine de Soto (qualitative poverty
assessment), Christiane Frischmuth (multi-sector team learning), Juela Haxhiymeri (economist),
Lorena Kostallari (human development operations), Nicole LaBorde, Mismake Galatis (program
assistants), Maureen Lewis (human development economics), Andrew MacDonald (consultant,
auditing), Joao Oliveira (decentralization), Pierella Paci (LSMS), Gary Reid (public sector
management), Verdon Staines (social protection), Roger Sullivan (multi-sector team learning)
and Helga Treichel (economist). Substantive comments or inputs were also provided by Sanjay
Vani (financial management), Frauke Jungbluth (rural reform), Andreas Rohde (water sector),
Shaun Moss (procurement), Virginia Jackson (operations), and by the country officers, Kathryn
Funk and Luisa Masutti, as well as the entire Albania country team. The peer reviewers are Jeni
Klugmnan (PRMPR), Suhir Shetty (AFTMI), and Trina Haque (HDD). Kyle Peters (ECSPE),
Maureen Lewis (ECSHD), Daniela Gressani (ECSPE), Armin Fidler (ECSHD), Helga Muller
(ECSPE), Michal Rutkowski (ECSHD), and James A. Socknat are the Sector Leaders, Annette
Dixon (ECSHD) Pradheep Mitra and Cheryl Gray (ECSPE) are Sector Directors, Christiaan
Poortman (ECC04) is Country Director, and Johannes Linn (ECAVP) is Regional Vice President.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
PROGRAM DOCUMENT
FOR A PROPOSED POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
TO ALBANIA
I. INTRODUCTION
1.   With the collapse of the communist regime, Albania launched a major political and economic
reform program in the 1990s to transform its economy to a market-based system. Macroeconomic
stability has been achieved and significant progress has been made with structural and institutional
reforms to establish a functioning market economy. The Government now intends to build on these
achievements and to put the economy on a path of rapid and sustainable growth to improve the
economic well-being of the population. However, a number of institutional and economic problems
put this prospect at risk. The Government needs to address these problems in order to complete its
reform agenda and to bring the population's living standards closer to those of its European
neighbors.
2.   The- Government realizes that continued progress against its reform agenda is needed to
promote economic growth and to reduce poverty, and has requested assistance from IDA for the
implementation of its associated Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS, or National
Strategy for Socio-Economic Development, the Government's designation for its Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper). This strategy is scheduled to be presented to the Board on June 20, 2002. The
Government of Albania and its civil society partners put considerable effort into producing the
GPRS, which elaborates a long-term vision-EU integration-and a medium-term strategy for
2002 to 2004. The GPRS is a comprehensive program that aims to address poverty through the
following systemic reforms: creating a growth oriented business environment that attracts
investment and creates employment opportunities for the poor, improving human capital ihrough
improved quality and access to social services such as health and education, and empowering the
poor through stronger public accountability and increased participation in decision making. The
draft Joint Staff Assessment to be presented to the Board concludes that the GPRS presents a
credible poverty reduction strategy and provides a sound basis for Bank and Fund concessional
assistance. The proposed US$20 million equivalent Credit would assist the Government to develop
and implement policies and structural reforms that are consistent with and supportive of the GPRS.
Indeed, the inter-ministerial working groups that prepared the GPRS will largely also be
developing, implementing, monitoring and evaluating the proposed PRSC program.
3.   This operation is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of the World Bank
Group for Albania (Report no. 18161 ALB), dated July 8, 1998, and the CAS Progress Report of
March 31, 2000. The preparation of this operation has also been coordinated closely with the new
CAS that will be submitted for Board discussions on June 20, 2002, along with Board presentation
of this operation. In addition to the GPRS, the proposed operation complements reforms supported
under the recently completed Structural Adjustment Credit, and further reinforced under investment
and technical assistance projects in the social sectors, public administration, financial sectors, legal,
judicial and related areas. The operation also supports the policy recommendations outlined in the
April 2001 Public Expenditure Institutional Review (PEIR).



- 2 -
4.   This Program Document discusses Albania's recent economic performance and its prospects.
It then elaborates the objectives and policy measures included in the Government's poverty
reduction program and actions expected to be supported by the PRSC. Finally, the Program
Document presents an overview of the rationale, arrangements, benefits, and risks of the proposed
operation. This Program Document discusses Albania's recent economic performance and its
prospects. It then elaborates the objectives and policy measures included in the Government's
poverty reduction program and actions expected to be supported by the PRSC. Finally, the Program
Document presents an overview of the rationale, arrangements, benefits, and risks of the proposed
operation.
II. The Economy
A.    Transition to a Market Economy
5.   The Albanian economy has experienced four different phases since the beginning of the
transition. The early transition years (1991-92) saw a sharp contraction of real GDP and high
inflation. The period 1993-96 was characterized by a significant economic recovery. GDP grew by
about 9 percent annually in real terms, inflation was brought down substantially, and both the
current account balance and the fiscal deficit improved significantly (Table 1).'
Table 1: Macroeconomic Indicators, 1991-2001
(annual averages, percent)
1991-92    1993-96      1997   1998-2000     2001
Real GDP growth                 -17.6        9.3       -7.0        7.7       6.5
Inflation                       170.5       17.5       42.1        4.0       3.5
Current account deficit (%GDP)  -61.1      -15.1      -12.1       -6.8      -6.3
Fiscal deficit (%GDP)           -25.8      -11.4      -12.9      -10.3      -8.5
Source: Ministry of Finance; staff estimates.
6.   Large pyramid investment schemes, which had been building up since 1993, collapsed in
early 1997, bringing the country into a state of anarchy. Economic activity was brought to a
standstill. Real GDP contracted by 7 percent, inflation more than doubled, and the current account
deficit widened by three percentage points compared with its 1996 level. The new Government
implemented a post-crisis recovery program, which contained the fiscal and current account deficits
and helped to moderate inflation.
7.   Economic performance has been strong in the aftermath of the 1997 crisis, with growth
averaging above 7 percent a year and with inflation at low levels. This includes 1999, when the
influx of Kosovo refugees put a heavy strain on Albania's economic and administrative capacity.
The domestically financed fiscal deficit improved significantly during 1998-2000 as expenditures
were contained and revenue collection was improved. The current account deficit also improved
and foreign exchange reserves were maintained at about four months of imports. By the end of the
i For a detailed discussion of the Albanian economy during the early years of transition see "Albania Beyond the Crisis,"
Country Economic Memorandum (CEM), December 1998. The "Public Expenditure and lnstitutional Review", Apnl 2001,
elaborates on the more recent developments in the economy since the CEM, in particular fiscal developments.



- 3 -
1990s, Albania had roughly regained its end-1980's GDP level. The private sector accounted for
over 85 percent of GDP and over 80 percent of employment. Agriculture had become the dominant
sector, accounting for about 50 percent of GDP, followed by services and construction.
8.   Albania's strong macroeconomic performance continued in 2001. The current account
balance stayed around 6.3 percent of GDP. The overall fiscal deficit further declined to about 8.5
percent of GDP and domestic financing of the fiscal deficit was contained at about 3.1 percent o'f
GDP. Inflation was about 3.5 percent and output growth stood about 6.5 percent for the year as a
whole. Economic performance during the first quarter of 2002 has been mostly favorable despite
electricity outages.
9.   Structural reforms have advanced significantly since 1997. Immediately after the 1997
collapse, a new banking law was passed and a privatization strategy was developed. Since then, the
privatization of small and medium enterprises has been completed and significant progress has been
made in the privatization of strategic sectors (e.g., National Commercial Bank and Albanian Mobile
Communications). Progress has also been made in developing a land market. The financial sector
regulatory framework as well as core public sector functions have been strengthened.  A
comprehensive civil service law was adopted, legal and judicial capacities were strengthened, and
an anti-corruption action plan was developed and is being implemented. A program to improve the
energy situation was agreed upon in December 2000.
10. Although macroeconomic performance and structural reforms have been impressive, per
capita income in Albania, at around US$1100, has remained one of the lowest among transition
economies. This reflects Albania's difficult conditions at the outset of the transition and the drastic
recession in the early years of the transition (of about 40 percent of 1989 GDP). Even the sustained
annual growth of 9 percent during 1993-96 proved unable to overcome these handicaps, as the 1997
civil unrest and the resulting contraction in GDP pushed back the economic recovery by about two
years.
B.   Commitment to Fiscal Discipline
11. One of the key aspects of economic policy in Albania was the strict maintenance of fiscal
discipline in the latter part of the 1990s.2 The primary balance has been reduced significantly since
the mid-1990s. There has been a significant decline in the level of domestic financing (excluding
privatization receipts) of the budget deficit, brought about by a moderate increase in revenues and
strict limits on expenditures. Despite these improvements, a number of issues still remain.
12. Revenues have increased through tax policy measures and improvements in tax administration
since 1997. However, direct taxes still constitute a small share of total taxes, and the collection of
the VAT has fallen short of its potential (see Table 2). Total revenues as a share of GDP remain
significantly lower in Albania than in most other transition economies, despite comparable tax rates,
indicating a large untapped revenue potential. Total expenditures have increased since 1997, and
the quality of expenditures is being addressed under the public expenditure management program.
Interest payments on domestic debt, which increased significantly following the fiscal slippages
during 1996-97, still account for a significant, albeit declining, share of current expenditures. As a
2 For detailed analysis of fiscal developments during the 1990s see "Albania-Public Expenditure and Institutional
Review" World Bank, April 2001.



- 4 -
result, expenditures in key social sectors have remained compressed, as have operations and
maintenance expenditures. The impact on capital expenditures has been less damaging, as foreign
financing in recent years has accounted for a growing share of public investment.
13. Continued adherence to fiscal discipline is necessary in the coming years. Fiscal policy needs
to aim to further reduce the reliance on domestic financing with an aim to lowering the high
domestic debt burden. This will require an increased revenue effort as well as continued inflows of
foreign assistance to finance a significant share of Albania's public investment needs.
Table 2: Budget Deficit and Financing, 1996-2001 (in percent of GDP)
1996     1997     1998     1999     2000     2001
Revenues                     18.4     16.6     20.3     212      22.4     23.0
Expenditures                 31.2     29 5     30 7     32.7     31.4     31.5
Primary balance3            -11 1     -9.8     -6.2     -7.9     -5.2     -6 0
Overall balance             -12.8    -12 9     -10.4   -11.5     -9 1     -8.5
Financing                    12.8     12.9     10.4     115      9.1      8.5
Domestic financing          10 1     11.0      64      54       48       5.3
Privatization receipts     0.2      0.3      0.0      02       1.7     2.1
Treasury bills and other   9.8     10.7      6.4      5.2      3.2      3.1
Foreign financing            2.8     1.9      4.0       61      43       3.3
Projects                   2.5      1.2      26       3.2      2.8      3.1
Budget support             0.3      07       1.4      2.9      1 5      02
Source: Ministry of Finance.
14.   Strict fiscal discipline needs to be combined with better allocation and more efficiency of
public expenditures. Within the overall resource envelope, the allocation of expenditures needs to
be improved in line with strategic objectives. To this end, the Government has introduced a
Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF). The MTEF, which covers a three year time
horizon, aims to improve the strategic allocation and efficiency of expenditures, particularly social
expenditures, and to bring more transparency and contestability to the budget formulation process.
C    Macroeconomic Outlook
15. Albania's prospects for growth, development and poverty reduction are good, especially in
view of a more favorable political climate in parts of Southeastern Europe and enhanced prospects
for a closer association with the European Union, as well as the Govemrnent's intention to continue
with structural reforms. The current slowdown in major world economies is not expected is have a
significant impact on Albanian growth prospects, as the size of Albania's exports and private capital
inflows are still limited. However, there is likely to be some reduction in the interest of foreign
investors in key privatization projects, and in the flow of remittances, as the European countries,
particularly neighboring countries where Albanians are working, face a more difficult economic
situation. These, combined with political uncertainty, could put at risk balance of payments and
budget financing in 2002. In the medium term, economic growth is projected to remain strong, with
GDP growing by 6-7 percent a year (Table 3). An increase in exports and private sector activities is
3The primary balance is defined as (revenues excludmg profit transfers from the Bank of Albania) minus (expenditures
excluding interest payments).



- 5 -
expected to lead growth during this period. The implementation of structural reforms, particularly
in the enterprise and financial sectors, will be a crucial element in fostering private sector activities,
which will boost growth. Reforms in the energy sector that are expected to significantly reduce the
current gap between demand and supply are a necessary precondition for this performance.
Albania's strong growth outlook should provide the country with more resources to meet its
pressing needs in education, health and infrastructure, and should also contribute to attracting
investment, creating employment opportunities, and reducing poverty.
16. Exports and private remittances are projected to continue to play an important role in
supporting growth, given Albania's proximity to the rest of Europe and its low cost labor force.
Export growth is expected to strengthen following the transfer of key enterprises to strategic foreign
investors (e.g., copper, chromium) as well as increases in exports of shoes and textiles. The
openness of the economy has contributed to improved domestic production and is expected to lead
to increased exports. Imports are projected to grow, reflecting a higher demand for capital
equipment associated with stronger investment activities -- but at a slower pace than exports. As a
result, the current account deficit is projected to decline from relatively high rates in the 1990s to
more sustainable levels in the first half of this decade. Albania's recent accession to the WTO is
expected to strengthen its trade policy and to provide further incentives for increased investment.
Table 3: Macroeconomic Framework, 2000-2005 (percent)
2000    2001  2002  2003   2004     2005
Actual  Actual
Real GDP growth            7.8     6.5   6.0    7.0   7.0       6.5
Inflation                  4.2     3.5   3.9    3.0   3.0       3.0
Current account balance (%GDP)  -7.2  -6.3  -8.2  -7.1  -6.2   -5.4
Fiscal balance            -9.1    -8.5  -8.1   -7.2  -6.5      -6.0
Sources: Ministry of Finance and staff projections.
17. Consolidating and deepening the implementation of key reform measures will be needed to
improve the overall climate for growth and private sector development. Public expenditure
management reform has to be a key element of the Government program. In particular, capacities
for policy development need to be strengthened, while closer linkages between policy objectives
and expenditures and better intergovernmental fiscal relations need to be developed. Service
delivery needs to be improved and policy monitoring and evaluation needs to be strengthened. In
addition, accountability mechanisms need be enhanced to allow Albania to fight corruption,
encourage high levels of investment (particularly foreign direct investment), maintain fiscal
discipline, and ensure that resources are used efficiently and transparently. Attainment of these
objectives would be crucial for sustaining growth and reducing poverty, as well as facilitating
integration with the European economy.
18.  Resource Requirements   During the next several years, Albania will need substantial
financial resources to complete its economic reform program and to help assure the growth of
output and investment as well as a prudent level of intemational reserves. The preliminary
estimates indicate that between 2002-05, the external financing needs would be about US$1.8
billion to finance the non-interest current account deficit (of about US$1.3 billion), to honor debt
service payments (of US$276 million), and to maintain net intemational reserves to over 4.5 months



- 6 -
of imports. These figures are also consistent with the balance of payment financing gaps estimated
by the Government and the IMF. Although the medium term debt is expected to increase in the
next few years, external debt indicators will remain manageable, as much of the debt is expected to
be provided by bilateral and multilateral sources on concessional terms. The Government policy is
to limit external borrowing mainly to sources that offer concessional terms.
III. MOVING TOWARD A COMPREHENSIVE POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY
A. The Government's Strategyfor Reducing Poverty
19. Available quantitative and qualitative information show that poverty in Albania is high in
level and depth, and multi-dimensional (see Box 1). The Government intends to make Albania's
development strategy inclusive and focused on the poor with the objective of increasing its per
capita income. The aims are to share widely the benefits of growth and to achieve sustained poverty
reduction. Basic elements of this agenda were outlined in the Government's Interim Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper which was discussed by the Board on June 8, 2000 (IDA Document
SecM 2000-263), and have been further developed in the Government's program for poverty
reduction as reflected in the GPRS (see Box 2).
20. The GPRS is a comprehensive and cross cutting program, prepared with significant input and
participation by a broad range of civil society participants. The GPRS outlines the following
systemic reforn priorities: (i) creating a growth oriented business environment that attracts
investment and creates employment opportunities for the poor; (ii) improving human capital
through improved quality and access to social services such as health and education; and
(iii) empowering the poor through stronger public accountability and increased participation in
decision making.
21. As noted above, Albania has undergone a profound economic and social transformation over
the last decade, including internal and regional political instability, a major refugee influx generated
by the Kosovo crisis, and high levels of internal and external migration. There is a need to improve
the quality and reliability of information available to monitor and evaluate the Government's reform
agenda - no fully representative national survey has been undertaken in years, and census data to
establish a sample frame has been lacking until recently. While it makes the best available use of
current quantitative and qualitative data, the GPRS is explicit on the shortcomings of the
information available to analyze current poverty trends, and to track sector performance. At the
same time, it sets forth an ambitious plan to strengthen capacity in this area, and to establish a sound
basis for monitoring of the downstream program. A key component of that plan was completion of
a national census in mid-2001, which is serving as the basis for a wide-ranging monitoring program
over the next four to five years (including household surveys, qualitative and participative
monitoring, and program monitoring). The first Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS)
will be implemented later this year.



-7-
Box 1: Poverty Trends in Albania
Based on a 1998 Living Conditions Survey (measuring only income), income poverty in Albania is high, both in
level and depth. The results show that almost one out of every three Albanians is poor, with over 500,000
individuals (about 16 percent of the population) bemg extremely poor. Poverty is defined as having an income
below 60 percent of median income, whereas extreme poverty is defined as having an mcome below 40 percent of
median income. Similar poverty rates obtain when measures of absolute poverty (e.g. $2/day and $1/day) are used.
Rural poverty rates are significantly higher than urban poverty rates. About 80 percent of the poor live in rural
areas.
Several types of households are at an increased risk of poverty -- larger and younger households, households with
three or more children, single female-headed households, households in which the head has a low level of education,
and households in which the head works in agriculture. As households with three or more children are significantly
more likely to be poor, there are a large number of children living in poverty. Almost two-fifths of households
whose head has only primary education are poor. Among the households with an employed head, poverty is
disproportionately placed among agricultural workers, with 2 out of every 5 poor working in agriculture. Poverty
levels are also high among households living on social assistance. One out of every five poor is a pensioner.
Pensioners in urban areas are less likely to be poor compared with rural pensioners.
Income poverty is compounded by the severe lack of access to basic infrastructure, education and health services,
clean water and sanitation. Illiteracy is more common in rural areas, and the share of the population aged 50 and
under having no education or only primary education is twice as high in rural areas than in urban areas. There is a
heavy reliance on subsistence agriculture in rural areas. Similar geographical differences emerge in health outcomes.
Children in rural areas are significantly more likely to have received no immunization and are nearly twice as likely
to be severely stunted than their urban counterparts. A specially constructed index of Unmet Basic Needs (UBN) in
the study done by the Albanian statistical institute (INSTAT) confirms widespread deficiencies in other non-income
dimensions of poverty, with two households out of five lacking access to two of more of such basic needs.
A recently completed Qualitative Poverty Assessment finds that poverty in Albania is widespread and is found in
rural, urban, and peri-urban areas in all geographic regions of the country. Impoverished Albanians -- those not
getting enough to eat and having difficulty providing basic necessities for their households - perceive poverty as
having many faces: economic, social and psychological.  Unemployment, lack of public security, poor
infrastructure, and inadequate private sector organmzation play critical roles in causing poverty.



- 8 -
Box 2. Albania*s Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS)
The Albania GPRS (the Government's designation for Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper) aims to address the pressing
development challenges of Albania with a particular focus on poverty reduction. Sustainable and inclusive growth is a
fundamental objective of the strategy. Improved governance as well as growth and private sector development are the
two main pillars of the GPRS. Health, education, and infrastructure are identified as the priority fields, while the
maintenance of macroeconomic stability and adequate social protection are recognized as necessary preconditions for
the implementation of the strategy.
The main objectives of the GPRS are as follows:
*   Annual real GDP growth of about 7 percent during 2002-2004,
*   Reduction of the number of people living in poverty, in particular, the worst affected groups,
*   Tangible improvements of infrastructure and related services, such as the supply of potable water, electric power,
sewage, etc., in particular increasing the access of the poor to these services,
* Reduction of infant and mnaternal mortality rates and the incidence of infectious diseases, and
* Increase of elementary and secondary school enrollment rates as well as in the average schooling period.
The GPRS is closely linked with the MTEF, thereby orienting the Government's spending priorities towards poverty
reduction and to attracting and coordinating donor financing. The GPRS is consistent with the ongoing Stabilization
and Association (SAA) process, with European integration being specifically recognized as Albania's long-term
objective. Furthermore, the GPRS serves as an umbrella for other major policy initiatives, such as public administration
reform, an anti-corruption action plan, and the decentralization strategy.
The Government has made important progress in making the GPRS a participatory process. A framework for dialogue
with civil society, local government, and the private sector has been set up. A public information campaign aimed at
informing all stakeholders about progress under the program has also been launched. With the assistance of the Carter
Center, civil society advisory groups have been set up in the areas of education, health, labor and social affairs, and
agriculture/rural development. A National Civil Society Advisory Council has been formed. A GPRS Technical
Secretariat has been established and three local consultants were hired to coordinate inputs from line ministries, to draft
the strategy, and to conduct consultations with local governments and the private sector. A GPRS core donors' group
has met on a monthly basis to discuss the GPRS developments.
B. Implementation Hurdles and Challenges
22. The Govermment is strongly committed to the GPRS, but also is aware of the difficult
implementation bottlenecks that it will need to overcome. These include:
Policy monitoring and evaluation. As noted, at a time of rapid and profound change,
the Government lacks reliable statistical and other information to develop policy and to
evaluate policy effectiveness. Household level survey data has not been systematically
collected, and the GPRS poverty diagnostic had to rely on a collection of ad hoc or
outdated sources. Information gaps are not ,the only problem: the organization of
policy monitoring and evaluation responsibilities is unclear, technical knowledge levels
are low, and persistent crises complicate the identification and development of a
medium term agenda. Moreover, the final intended beneficiaries of government
policies and programs need to play a significant role in the monitoring of the
implementation and impacts of those policies and programs.



- 9 -
*    Policy formulation process. Related to the above, the policy process, while having most
of the basic elements required for effective strategic prioritization, fails in practice to
achieve that ideal. Key challenges include: (i) focusing the policy proposal preparation
process more squarely on policy issues, rather than on legal issues; and (ii) making the
policy deliberation process more contestable - i.e., ensuring that (a) key stakeholders
are able to contribute to policy deliberations which affect them, and (b) the informnation
required to inform such deliberations is available and effectively incorporated in those
deliberations.  Unless these needs are addressed, recent reforms to the budget
formulation process (i.e., introduction of the MTEF) are unlikely to yield their intended
impacts.
*    Governance.  While progress has been made, there is a need to ensure consistent and
transparent implementation of the law and enforcement of laws and contracts.
Problems with governance have a deleterious effect on private sector development.
Furthermore, poor governance negatively affects service delivery and effective
implementation of structural reforms and public policies.
*    Public expenditure management.   While there have been recent improvements,
weaknesses in public expenditure management and basic budget support systems
complicate the task of line ministries in designing and implementing their priorities
within a predictable overall resource envelope. Key challenges include: (i) ensuring
that recently initiated efforts to create a transparent and contestable budget decision
making process become self-sustaining; (ii) improving the usefulness, quality, and
timeliness of information upon which budget decisions are made; and (iii) enhancing
budget execution transparency and accountability mechanisms, including audit
mechanisms and procurement practices.      Weaknesses in public expenditure
management are further compounded by the recent efforts on decentralization4.
*    Human resources within the public administration. Underlying and contributing to the
problems mentioned in the areas of governance, public expenditure management
capacities and limited policy development capacities is the limited ability of Albania's
public administration to attract, motivate, retain and effectively manage the human
capital skills required to meet its ambitious GPRS objectives.
*    Quality of and access to social services: In part as a result of the above, education,
health and social protection services are of low quality, ineffective, unaffordable, non-
transparent, or inequitable (often benefiting the relatively well off more than the poor).
This has a direct bearing on human capital through poorer learning outcomes, lower
health status, and lesser ability to target limited public resources to the poorest. The
long term growth and development prospects of Albania are closely intertwined with
the state of human capital, and each lost year of effective education or health provision
will cost future generations.
23. There are also a number of cross-cutting issues and developments that further complicate
Albania's reform agenda. Specifically:
4For a detailed analysis of the budget process shortcommngs in Albania see "Albania- Publhc Expenditure and Institutional Review"
World Bank, April 2001.



- 10-
Migration. There has been a significant transition in the rural sector, with major
population movements out of the countryside towards urban centers. This complicates
the ability to design effective economic and social policies. It is well known that there
are large remittances to the population from seasonal work in neighboring countries, but
these are poorly understood, as are the associated internal and external seasonal
migration trends within and outside the country. There is little reliable data to measure
or monitor these trends. Sustained growth accompanied by higher returns to labor
within the country would likely reduce external migration levels (especially if the
current gap in income levels with the rest of Europe is narrowed).
Rural-urban divergence.  Recent trends in migration and developments in service
delivery have resulted in a growing gap between rural and urban areas. Poverty in rural
areas is considerably higher than in urban areas. However, poverty is also high in many
of those peri-urban areas that have received these migrants. To address these
difficulties, a comprehensive approach is needed to change the situation in rural areas,
and sectoral interventions need to be coordinated in light of the country's rural and
urban issues.
Decentralization.  Decentralization  affects delivery  of basic services  and
implementation of policies at the grass root level. The Government has approved a
National Strategy for Decentralization and Local Autonomy which aims to move a large
array of functions from the central to local levels. However, capacities at local levels
are extremely limited to take on new responsibilities. Furthermore, the ongoing
decentralization process poses questions related to revenue sharing, expenditure
assignment, and performance at the local level. There are numerous outstanding issues
with respect to how the implementation of decentralization might occur on a sectoral
basis, as the issues are quite different among sectors such as health, education, public
works, etc. The implementation of the recently adopted decentralization strategy needs
to ensure that the poor would directly benefit from those public services that will be
carried out by the local authorities. The implementation should also strive for a better
balance between central oversight and local autonomy in service delivery, and will
require data for monitoring and assessment of performance.
Informal Economy. A significant portion of economic activity in Albania takes place
outside of the formal economy. This makes an assessment of overall macroeconomic
performance, e.g. growth and employment, virtually impossible. As the informal
economy is not subject to the same rules and regulations as the formal economy, there
is no level playing field for economic activity in Albania, having a negative impact on
the formal economy.  Moreover, the collections of taxes and social insurance
contributions fall short of their potential depriving the Government of the revenues that
are needed to finance priority expenditures. The informal economy has exacerbated the
problems noted below.



- 11 -
24.   While these challenges are complex, substantial progress in addressing the above areas is
needed to consolidate and deepen the ongoing structural reforms, and to put growth and poverty
reduction issues at the center of economic decision making. The Government program to be
supported under the proposed PRSC is expected to cover the above agenda by (i) identifying and
resolving cross cutting issues that affect multiple sectors, (ii) selecting a subset of primary priorities
within and between sectors, and ensuring that those priorities are ultimately achievable; (iii) linking,
where possible, priorities that require donor support for implementation; and (iv) developing and
implementing a comprehensive monitoring plan.
IV. POVERTY REDUCrION SUPPORT CREDIT
25.   Objective. The objective of the proposed PRSC is to develop and implement policies and
structural reforms that are consistent with and supportive of the Government's poverty reduction
and economic development strategy, as highlighted in the GPRS. The PRSC is structured around
four components:
*   Promoting sustainable growth and supporting private sector development;
*   Strengthening capacity to monitor and evaluate the policy agenda;
*   Improving service delivery and social safety net effectiveness; and
*    Improving core public sector functions and institutional arrangements.
26.   These four components aim to increase the effectiveness of the GPRS strategy for poverty
reduction. The first component underscores the fundamental importance that the Government is
giving to the promotion of strong private-sector led growth in its strategy. Components 2 and 4 aim
to address several critical weaknesses in core public sector functions and institutional arrangements
that could undermine the successful implementation of the GPRS.5 Component 3 focuses explicitly
on a number of key sectoral policies that are expected to yield measurable results within the three-
year GPRS/PRSC program period.
27.   The PRSC draws directly from the GPRS program (see Table 4). As mentioned before, the
GPRS intends to address poverty through a series of systemic reforms. Since the scope of the GPRS
is broad, the PRSC is necessarily selective in identifying which areas will be reflected as explicit
actions in this operation's components. During Credit preparation to date, the PRSC preparation
team, in consultation with the inter-ministerial working group, identified core GPRS areas that (i)
are priorities with respect to their likely impact on growth and poverty; and (ii) are currently
receiving support under other IDA, IMF or donor interventions. For example, improving financial
sector and energy sector reforms will be supported under separate IDA operations Other critical
areas, such as rural water, will likely be drawn into the second and third PRSC programs as further
information is collected, and as reform strategies are finalized in those sectors. The PRSC is more
explicit than the GPRS on the specific measures to be undertaken in pension reform - in particular,
while the GPRS and PRSC fiscal sustainability and social objectives are consistent with respect to
pension reform, the Government's proposed retirement age increase requires further public
information and consultations. A rural sector strategy is under preparation, and will serve as the
5 These core functions include policy formulation, human resource management, public expenditure management and
accountability while the institutional arrangements that pose a particularly significant risk to successful GPRS
implementation are the decentralization arrangements.



- 12 -
basis for the forthcoming dialogue on the priorities to be undertaken during the next stages of the
PRSC.
28.    The following paragraphs provide a more detailed description of the issues and reform
programs in each of these areas. The Government's Letter of Development Policy describes the
details of the measures to be undertaken. Table 4 highlights the key measures to be taken before
Board presentation. The specific implementation structure and details of the PRSC program were
confirmed during Credit negotiations in April 2002.
29.   The PRSC is designed to support the implementation of the GPRS. Areas where aid
partners have comparative advantage and extensive involvement have been identified to ensure the
maximum possible complementarity in our programming (see Paras. 104ff). The Credit timing
would be synchronized with the budget cycle to the extent possible. The reforms supported by the
PRSC will be properly sequenced to maximize the impact of individual policies, and will be further
grounded in a comprehensive program of economic and sector work. Each PRSC will thus build on
the progress achieved under the previous one (see Figure 1). The proposed triggers for PRSC-2
and PRSC-3 are identified (in bold) in the attached policy matrix.



-13 -
Figure 1: The Albania PRSC Program and AAA Underpinnings
- GPRS poverty diagnostic                          - LSMS (2002)                             - MTEF (2004-2006)
- Qualitative Assessment of Poverty (2001)         - Poverty Assessment (2003)               - National Water Strategy (2003)
- MTEF 2002-2004                                   - Country Gender Assessment (2003)        - Social Safety Net Review (2003)
- PEIR (04/01)                                     - Rural Development Strategy (2002)       - CEM (Competitiveness and Sources of
. CPPR (2001)                                      - MTEF (2003-2005)                        Growth, 2004)
- CFAA (5/02)                                      - Energy Reform Review                    - Rural Human Capital Development
- Education Sector Study (0512000)                 (2002/2003)                               (2004)
Analvtical                       - Health Sector Strategy (WHO, 2000)              - Participatory Monitoring Pilot           - Roma Assessment Note (2004)
Underyinnines                    -Vulnerability and Needs Assessment (2000)        (health, 2002/2003)                       - Anti-corruption TA (2004)
- PROST and other social insurance models          - Decentralization Review (2003)          - Labor Market Assessment (2005)
(ongomg)                                           - Financial Sustainabihty Note (2002)     - Public Expenditure Review (2005)
- Governance/Anti-corruption report (2001)         - Project specific sector work as         - Project specific sector work as
- Social Assessments (see Table 5)                 appropnate                                appropnate
Albania's     MTEF                                    ,                                      ____ ,_v__                                                 _
and   BudEet Cycle         [2001 MTEF/ budget]       [2002 MTEFprep   lbudgetprep]             [2003MTEFprep.     lbudgetprep]         [2004 MTEF/budeetl
I                                 I                                           Il                                               0. 
Interim       Nov.           Jan.               June                   Jan.                June                Jan.            June
PRSP          2001           2002               2002                   2003                2003                2004            2004
CAS and GiPRS            |          GPRS                                                            GPRS                                  GPRS
CASetabdle   R                    (aka                              CAS                            Progress                              Progress
Timetable                        PRSP)                                                             Report                                Report
* .                                       - \L- 
L-    1    ,    ,iM.,a                                                             _   \
Prooosed         IDA                                            ,                                                      -    -- -------------
PRSCSunport                                                        ' '         I                          *     -
1. Support Sustainable Growth and PSD         1. Continue to Implement Refonns to Support        1. Continue private sector refonrms and substantially
to improve economic well being of              Growth and Pnvate Sector Development,             implement pension reform
population                                    including second round of pension refonms          2. Continue monitoring and evaluation program,
Key    policy     and    2 Strengthen Capacity to Monitor and           2. Strengthen Capacity to Monitor and Evaluate    increased focus on data demand side, MDG's
institutional reforms    Evaluate Policy Agenda                         Policy Agenda (LSMS, MDG linkages, etc.)           3 Continue social sector reforms, focusing
3. Improve Quality and Access of Social        3. Improve Quality and Access of Social           increasingly on decentralization program
Services, Especially Education and Health,     Services, Lnking to Rural Reform Agenda           4 Reform social assistance system
focusing on MTEF prionties                    4. Enact measures to strengthen the civil service,  4 Further strengthen policy formulation process and
4. Improving Public Sector Functions and      to improve accountability, and to strengthen the   monitoring, continue public administration reform
Institutional Arrangements                     policy formulation processand procurement         program and accountability reforms



-14 -
OBJECTIVE 1: PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE GROWTH AND SUPPORTING PRIVATE SECTOR
DEVELOPMENT
Issues
30.   Strong growth is viewed as a key instrument for poverty reduction in Albania. Opportunities
for employment and income growth need to be created to improve the economic well-being of the
population. The Government wants to ensure that growth is equitable, with a wide distribution of
its benefits to the entire population, so that growth can have maximum impact on poverty reduction.
The Albanian Government has, in consultation with the IMF and the Bank, elaborated a medium-
term macroeconomic framework. This growth framework is underpinned by continued
macroeconomic and fiscal stability and a comprehensive set of structural reforms. The objectives
are to improve the overall climate for growth and private sector activities, and to reduce the risks of
social tensions and economic disruptions stemming from the poor economic condition of the
population.
31.   Albania has been successful in maintaining overall macroeconomic stability in recent years,
but further efforts are needed with respect to fiscal consolidation. Albania needs to reduce its level
of domestic debt in terms of GDP as well as increase expenditures in a number of priority sectors
(e.g. health, education, operations and maintenance). Expenditures in these categories remain
compressed despite a relatively high budget deficit (around 8.5 percent of GDP). In addition,
Albania is relying on sizeable inflows of foreign capital (mainly grants and concessional loans) to
finance the majority of public investment. This concessional assistance will decrease over the
medium term. Increased domestic revenues will have to be the primary basis for sustaining an
adequate level of public investment and for increasing spending on priority areas. Revenue efforts
will have to focus on improvements in tax and customs administration to bring Albania closer to its
revenue potential. Such an expansion of the revenue base will also create a more level playing field
for all economic actors.
32.   A pension reform that aims to reduce the reliance of the pension system on budgetary
transfers, while promoting adequate incomes, should be a key aspect of fiscal consolidation. The
pension system has distinct schemes for employees, urban self-employed workers, and rural self-
employed workers (farrners). The overall pension system deficit is effectively financed through the
state budget. In pensions, five key issues need to be addressed in identifying an appropriate
medium to long term pension strategy. First, the pension system's deficit amounts to about one
percent of GDP, and projections suggest that this deficit will worsen over time without reform.
Second, although rural pensions (which are extensively cross-subsidized) account for one-fifth of
the pension system deficit, they also play an important role in poverty alleviation and as a social
safety net for the elderly in rural areas. Third, compliance is low, and high social insurance
contribution rates discourage willing participation in the pension scheme and in formal
employment. Fourth, there seems little prospect of creating either supplementary private pension
funds for higher-income employees or a second-pillar fund for rural farmers within a medium-term
framework.  This is because of the lack of satisfactory regulatory capacity to oversee the
accumulation of assets and the paying out of pensions by institutions managing such funds. Fifth,
the share of the retired population covered by the pension system will drop substantially in the
longer term (30-40 years), raising a longer term issue with respect to protection of future elderly.
This is because work prior to 1993 was deemed to be contributory but a large part of the current
workforce does not contribute.



- 15 -
33.   Poor governance was identified as the most important problem facing private investors in
Albania in a recently completed Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) report. Specifically,
the report notes a lack of consistent and transparent implementation of laws and significant gaps in
the enforcement of laws and contracts. Furthermore, many business regulations remain tedious -
thereby increasing barriers to entry and the potential for corruption. These obstacles, together with
the lack of adequate infrastructure, cause investors to view investments in Albania as more costly
and risky than in other transition economies.
34.   Improvements are also needed in the financial sector to create a better climate for private
investment. At present, the level of credit to the private sector is low, capital markets are
underdeveloped, and the regulatory framework for non-bank financial institutions remains
incomplete. The privatization of the National Commercial Bank in 2000 was an important step.
The privatization of the banking sector needs to be completed by the privatization of the Savings
Bank, and the continued involvement of the state in the insurance sector (INSIG) needs to be
addressed. The privatization of the few remaining state-owned enterprises in the service sector
needs to be completed. The Government has already privatized all small and medium size
enterprises and only a few strategic enterprises need to be privatized in utilities, telecommunication,
and other services. Following the sale of Albanian Mobile Communications (AMC) in 2000, a
second phone license was sold to a joint Anglo-Greek company in 2001. Elbasan water supply has
also been privatized.
35.   Intensified efforts are needed to accelerate the development of the rural economy.
Agriculture, which is composed of about 400,000 smallholder farms, has been a major force behind
Albania's growth since transition and has become the dominant sector - accounting for about 50
percent of GDP. Over the next few years, the rural sector will likely continue to be the main source
of employment and income growth for the poor. It is expected that non farm rural activities will be
closely linked to agriculture in the near future. Increased productivity and employment
opportunities in rural areas, as well as improved access to and quality of social services and finance
institutions, are critical for poverty reduction. The strong growth performance in agriculture in the
early transition period was the result of intensive resource utilization, mainly labor and land, on the
thousands of newly created private farms, as these farmers adapted to the changing situation and
modified their structure of agricultural production. Since these initial benefits have been reaped,
more drastic and more targeted improvements will be needed in the future. The Government has
helped to foster a conducive environment for the development of the sector through its ongoing land
reform program, key investments in rehabilitating the rural infrastructure, notably irrigation, the
reform of the banking sector, and liberalization of trade and pricing of rural products. Continued
implementation of these initiatives should foster further growth, but further efforts are likely to be
needed.6 However, to ensure rural productivity gains and poverty reduction objectives, productivity
and employment opportunities in the rural sector need also to focus on policies and programs aimed
at the development of the non-farm rural economy.
36.   In the area of infrastructure, the energy sector which is critical to fostering growth is facing a
serious crisis with a severe electricity shortage necessitating extensive load-shedding. The crisis,
which has intensified rapidly and has wide-ranging economic and social implications, is the result
of a combination of several factors including: (i) excessive demand caused by chronic failure to
6 A rural sector strategy is being prepared and will be discussed in the context of the upcoming CAS.



- 16-
curb illegal use and non-payment; (ii) impact of a dry year on the largely hydropower-based system;
and (iii) transmission capacity constraints limiting electricity imports. The increasing burden of low
revenue collection and high cost of imports has put KESH, the power enterprise, in a state of
financial crisis, and has resulted in unsustainable budgetary implications. The significant electricity
shortages are not only causing hardship for the people but are also adversely affecting industrial
output and the overall investment climate.
Reform Program
37.   The Governnent intends to maintain macroeconomic stability, which is the backbone of its
growth and poverty reduction objectives. For this purpose, it has recently agreed with the IMF on a
three-year PRGF program (see Annex 8). The objectives of this program are to keep the annual rate
of inflation at around 3 percent, to maintain the momentum of growth at around 7 percent a year,
and to keep the foreign exchange reserves at about 4.5 months of imports. These objectives are
expected to be achieved through continued prudent fiscal and monetary policies and through efforts
to contain the current account deficit.
38.   As part of its fiscal consolidation, the Government is focusing on developing a
comprehensive pension reform program. The objectives of the reform program are to: (a) introduce
marginal parametric changes to the system; (b) develop and introduce, on the basis of reliable
analysis, a second-round package of comprehensive pension reforms that address the overall,
longer-term problems of coverage, affordability, equity, and adequacy; (c) improve the
effectiveness and efficiency of operations within the Social Insurance Institute (SII), including
improving performance in collecting mandated contributions; and (d) reassess the structure of rural
pensions and income support for the rural elderly and introduce appropriate changes in the short-to-
medium term. The PRSC-1 program accordingly aims at: (i) increasing the retirement age for men
and women by five years, to 65 and 60 respectively, phased in over a ten year period commencing
in July 2002, and reaching agreement on the possible structure of a parallel early retirement option;
(ii) reducing the contribution rates for employees' pensions and other social insurance benefits;
(iii) changing the base for assessing contributions designed to increase collections for employees'
pensions by raising the ceiling on contributions from 3 times to 5 times the minimum contribution
wage; (iv) improving performance in collecting pension contributions owed to SnI through
legislative changes and more aggressive enforcement; (v) narrowing the gap in pension levels for
self-employed rural and urban workers, as well as increasing their levels in real terms; and
(vi) raising contribution rates for self-employed rural workers, which are currently extremely low.
39.   The Government's program to promote private sector development focuses on improving
the legal and institutional framework related to the business environment. The Government has
prepared a new bankruptcy law and is awaiting its ratification. As part of the PRSC-1, the
Government has adopted amendments to the relevant laws to ensure harmonization of the
bankruptcy framework and to protect creditors' rights. This will be followed in subsequent PRSCs
by: (i) measures to enhance the legal infrastructure related to resolution of debt and commercial
disputes to provide businesses with the opportunity to settle commercial disputes more efficiently;
(ii) establishment of an investment promotion agency; and (iii) study of administrative barriers to
investors entry and streamlining administrative procedures relating to investment.
40.   As part of these measures, emphasis will also be put on the implementation of laws and
regulations that would strengthen property rights. Poorly defined property rights and uncertainty



- 17 -
regarding ownership or lack of ownership of titles are major obstacles for business as they prevent
access to financing on competitive terms, which is secured through collateral. The Government
intends to improve the immovable property registration system and improve security of property
titles. It also plans to complete the first time registration of land and put measures in place to solve
registration disputes in a standardized way. It aims to reduce the costs and fees associated with land
transactions as well as the information flows, which are serving as a deterrent to formal land
transactions.
41.    Improving community-based initiatives that would provide essential services in the rural
areas and would support small scale innovative and adapted ideas in rural areas is another focus of
the Govermuent's program. In addition, the Government intends to strengthen agriculture research
and extension activities to be more responsive to farmers' needs and to improve the transfer of
adapted technologies to small holder farms. These programs, combined with programs to improve
the access and quality of rural health and education services, are expected to contribute to
employment and income growth in the rural areas.
42.    To underpin business competitiveness, the Government will continue efforts to develop
financial markets, particularly the banking system, to facilitate intermediation of savings to private
investment activities and to improve the enabling environment for facilitating increased credit by
financial institutions. Key elements of the Government program include: privatizing the Savings
Bank, the only remaining state-owned bank; strengthening supervisory framework; and introducing
a new chart of accounts for banks to help ensure transparent financial reporting consistent with
international audit standards.
43.    Privatization of the few remaining strategic enterprises in the service sector (Albtelecom,
INSIC, Savings Bank) will also promote growth and support private sector development.
Privatization of these enterprises not only would attract foreign investors to large scale public
enterprises, but in many cases also would improve the condition of infrastructure services, which
are crucial for attracting foreign as well as domestic private investors. Although Albania has
several advantages in attracting foreign investment, including low cost labor combined with an
educated labor force and proximity to the EU market, the Government needs to improve the
institutional climate to attract more foreign direct investment, which has shown a declining trend in
recent years.7
44.    In the area of infrastructure, the Government's program aims to mitigate the immediate
crisis in energy and to reduce losses due to illegal use and poor bill collection. The Government
appointed a task force that has prepared the Strategic Action Plan to reform the power sector. This
plan recommends specific actions to create a modern, efficient electricity sector that will attract
private investment and will be consistent with EU energy policy. The key recommendations cover
three areas: (i) improving collection and reducing theft; (ii) liberalizing energy prices; and
(iii) creating an independent regulatory authority. Consistent with these recommendations, the
Govermment, in collaboration with the donor community, has developed a timetable with quarterly
7Foreign direct investment as a share of GDP has declined in recent years (from 4 percent in 1996 to a little over I
percent in 1999). Foreign direct investment flows were increasing until 1996 when they reached a level of US$97 million, but
in reaction to the 1997 disturbances, they dropped significantly to US$42 million. Only a very moderate recovery had taken
place until 1998-99 with FDI around US$40 million annually. The year 2000, however, marked the first significant
improvement in this trend with sigmficantly higher flows, attributable mainly to the privatization of strategic
enterprises, such as Albanian Mobile Teleconmmunications.



- 18 -
benchmarks to remedy the current energy crisis. The Government will put emphasis on reducing
demand for electricity by reducing non-technical losses and by encouraging the utilization of other
energy sources. The plan will need to be followed by restructuring and other sector reforms, as
these will be critical for the sustainable development and for meeting the future investment needs of
the power sector. The proposed Power Rehabilitation and Restructuring project will undertake an
assessment of the environmental impact of the investments to be undertaken under the project, and
the planned energy sector study will make an assessment of the tariff structure and energy pricing
on the poor.
Expected Outcome
45.   By the end of the three-year GPRS/PRSC period, Albania expects to have:
*    Sustained satisfactory macroeconomic performance with low levels of inflation, around
3 percent, and with continued growth at around 7 percent a year.
*   Reformed the pension system to improve its long term sustainability and its income
adequacy.
*   Reduced public sector impediments to private business development as reflected in a
liberalized business environment and in reduced costs for establishing and operating
business in Albania; established an investment promotion agency; and increased the
registration of new businesses and foreign joint ventures.
*   Completed the first time registration of land, set measures in place to address property
registration disputes in a standardized way, reviewed legislation related to property
registration and addressed shortcomings where identified, and automated the
immovable registration process.
*   Restructured the agriculture research system to an applied system fulfilling the needs
and requirements of small holder farmers.
*   Addressed the lack of financial services in rural areas and put measures in place to
support business development in non-farm rural sectors.
Actions under the PRSC-I
46.   In pursuit of the above objectives, the PRSC-1 has focused on the following measures (bold
items are core measures for Board presentation):
*   Maintain   a  satisfactory  macroeconomic framework   (measures related  to
macroeconomic stability have been agreed under the IMF PRGF program).
Satisfactory implementation of pension reform  package acceptable to IDA,
including: (i) an increase in the ceiling on the contributory wage for the employee
pension scheme from 3 times Minimum Contributory Wage to 5 times Minimum
Contributory Wage; (ii) submission by MOLSA/SII of a work plan acceptable to IDA
to resolve outstanding issues in pension reform; (iii) completion of a pension policy



- 19-
model satisfactory to IDA; (iv) limiting compensation for past price increases to those
pensioners with certain categories of dependents, consistent with the European
Convention on Social Security (unemployed, children under 18, and students up to age
25 who are not in employment); and (v) initiation of an increase in the retirement age to
commence in July 2002 of 6 months every year until the retirement age has reached 65
years for men and 60 years for women, including an early retirement option.
*   Develop and adopt a strategy for improving performance in collecting social insurance
contributions.
*   Establish a formal agreement under which the Social Insurance Institute (SLI) and the
General Tax Directorate (GTD) identify and implement specific mechanisms through
which they will enhance collaboration, share information, and undertake common
actions to improve collections.
*   Adopt amendments to relevant laws to ensure harmonization of the bankruptcy
framework.
*   Submit to IDA a satisfactory study design and work program to analyze the direct
impact of urban pensions and targeted social assistance on both urban and rural poverty
and whether intemal and external migration affect this impact.



- 20 -
OBJECTIVE 2: STRENGTHENING CAPACITY TO MONITOR AND EVALUATE THE POLICY AGENDA
Issues
47.   Policymakers need reliable information on the costs and social impacts of policies in order
to inform policy deliberations. At present, the Govemment lacks information and data needed to
develop and monitor policy, and the capacity to evaluate that information in order to strengthen the
strategic orientation of its overall policy agenda. In addition, it has difficulty setting and tracking
those monitoring piiorities that are of primary interest to key stakeholders (within and outside of the
Government) as well as the broader public. The likely effectiveness of a poverty reduction and
growth strategy and related legislative agenda is therefore seriously diminished.
48.   Sustainable capacity to monitor agreed indicators is largely absent, though a number of
promising efforts to establish such capacities have recently been launched (see below). The
Govemment lacks a regular household survey, and has been relying instead on a variety of ad hoc
surveys that are inconsistent and infrequent. There are sources of administrative data available, but
they are not of uniform reliability or relevance and often cover only the people receiving services
while excluding those who miss out. Line ministries and agencies do not always fully appreciate
the importance and usefulness of statistical information to policy and program development and
implementation. When statistical information is available, there is little intemal expertise and inter-
agency coordination available to undertake the requisite analysis. Ministerial policy analysis and
development departments are now being established under the public administration reform
program, and may be promising venues for developing analytical capacity in the longer term in
view of the wealth of information being generated by the program (see also Component 4). Finally,
the ultimate intended beneficiaries of public policies and programs are rarely significantly involved
in providing feedback on the implementation and impacts of those policies and programs.
Reform Program
49.   The PRSC component objective is to support the development and implementation of new
policy initiatives through improved and policy-relevant monitoring of the impact and effectiveness
of Government programs. This will require both: (a) development of institutional arrangements and
practices that facilitate reaching agreement among key stakeholders regarding what impacts should
be monitored and how; and (b) development of the capacity to collect, analyze and disseminate
reliable, useful and timely statistical and other data to monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of the
Govemment's policy agenda. Such data could include trends in household consumption, income
and other key socio-economic indicators, as well as other aspects of economic and social activity.
The component will also support new approaches, such as data/indicator mapping instruments, that
can be used to assist central and local authorities to allocate resources more effectively. This
component has also evolved to include development of a plan to monitor the Millenium
Development Goals (MDGs) as a part of the overall monitoring strategy.
50.   One important element of strengthening policy monitoring and evaluation is developing the
executive branch's capacity to produce reliable statistical information on a regular basis to measure
and monitor poverty, inequality, and other key social indicators. As part of this effort, INSTAT
will now design and implement a regular system of household-level data collection, starting with a
first LSMS in Spring 2002. The newly formed LSMS Division, an offspring of the Living
Conditions Division of INSTAT, will be in charge of the surveys, which will be implemented with



- 21 -
technical assistance provided by DFID and the World Bank. To enhance the relevance of the
information to be collected, strengthen analytical capacity among potential users and improve
cooperation among the different institutions, a Data User Group has been formed during
preparation of the 2002 LSMS with the participation of several line ministries and research
institutions. The 2002 LSMS will be followed by annual panel surveys on a sub-sample of
households and will be repeated after three years. In order to institutionalize the effort and enhance
the sustainability of the system, INSTAT will include the proposed panel household survey in its
next 5-year Strategic Plan of Statistics. Additional work is envisaged to produce indicator and data
maps based on a combination of administrative, census and survey information. The mapping
exercise will provide an invaluable tool to support and inform the decentralization process, and to
improve the targeting and assess the impact of Government programs and budgets. A qualitative
assessment of the health sector is being prepared by the Government with assistance from a cross-
sectoral IDA team, and will be implemented over the next year or so.8
51.    Complementary to this, the Government has established as part of its GPRS process a
monitoring unit within the Ministry of Finance. The establishment of this unit sends a signal that
the Government is serious about monitoring the impact of its policies. The role and functions of this
unit will be elaborated over the course of the PRSC program, with an eye to ensuring that it
supports the fundamental objective of helping to establish sustainable capacity throughout the
public administration for policy-relevant monitoring and evaluation (see also Component 4). In
addition, many line ministries are establishing policy units that will be responsible for monitoring
and developing policies in their sectors. To strengthen its capacity to monitor and evaluate poverty,
the Government has decided to establish a technical Unit responsible for the analysis and
dissemination of information for poverty monitoring and evaluation of social programs. This Unit
is likely to be housed within MOLSA. Detailed terms of reference, specifying and delimiting the
responsibilities and legal mandate of the Unit, are under preparation. The Government is also
considering establishing regular assessments of agency performance (i.e., service 'report cards'
drawing from public surveys) to improve the accountability of Government agencies before the
public. Finally, the Government is launching efforts, with the assistance of the World Bank, to
develop more participative monitoring and feedback mechanisms at the local level.
52.   Implementation support for program. The Government will provide budgetary support to
the monitoring program (e.g., by supporting the GPRS technical secretariat, INSTAT's budget,
etc.), and will adjust INSTAT salaries in July 2002 to ensure that they are in alignment with the
civil service to facilitate the retention of key technical staff. The Social Service Delivery Project
(SSDP) will support the establishment of the proposed survey system primarily through investments
in technical assistance, training and equipment for INSTAT. Substantial additional support is to be
provided through DFID, which is providing funding for an IDA-managed grant to support the
LSMS and panel surveys. The Bank's Multi-Sectoral Team Learning Initiative is also providing
8 The Government, with IDA support, is establishing a pilot participative monitoring and evaluation (PM&E) system in
the healthcare sector, which can eventually be replicated in other sectors as its effectiveness is proven. The Healthcare
PM&E system will include working groups at the national level, regional level, and beneficiary/healthcare personnel
level. Each working group will integrate the main stakeholders in the sector to monitor implementation of the health
care reforms supported by the PRSC at their respective levels. The objective will be to establish a system of feedbacks
to the Central Government of the impact and perception of the program at the local and regional level. This activity will
include developing indicators by which the workmg groups can measure progress. A qualitative assessment team will
support each working group to ensure collection of appropriate data for indicators. A fourth working group - integrated
with the GPRS Technical Secretariat -- will coordinate this program of participatory momntormg, synthesize their work,
and advocate revisions of the GPRS to address the issues raised by the PM&E results.



- 22 -
support in the form of training and technical assistance to assist in the development of the
monitoring program, since this program cuts across agencies and sectors. Provision, primarily in
the form of technical assistance, training and equipment, has also been made in the SSDP to support
the establishment and functioning of the new poverty unit in MOLSA. IDA credits in education,
health, and social protection will be supporting the line ministries to improve their capacity to
evaluate and develop policy, and will assist them to utilize the forthcoming survey data sources --
identifying support to other ministries, such as MOF, will also be explored under the program. The
poverty mapping effort is being partly funded by both DFID and SSDP, while additional funds are
being sought to support the establishment of mapping capabilities to handle administrative and other
spatial information. The IDA team is also working with the Government on implementation of a
participatory study of the health sector, to be undertaken this year.
Expected Outcome
53.   By the end of the three-year GPRS/PRSC period, Albania expects strengthening of
executive branch policy impact monitoring arrangements and capacities, including:
*  To have successfully conducted an LSMS in 2002
*  To have successfully implemented two rounds of an annual survey on a sub-sample of
LSMS households
*  To have implemented a qualitative poverty assessment strategy, and to have finalized
a participatory assessment of the health sector
*  To have developed sufficient analytical capacity to process the survey information to
effectively feed into policy decision-making
*  To have strengthened its capacity to produce indicator and data maps using both
statistical and administrative information
*  To have conducted a pilot program of service report cards, and to have developed
recommendations on how to replicate the lessons leamed from that pilot
Actions Under the PRSC-I
54.   The Government's actions under PRSC-1 have included the following (bold items are core
conditions for Board presentation):
*  GPRS Technical Secretariat submits satisfactory plan to support policy
monitoring and evaluation of the GPRS and PRSC programs in defined sector
ministries, and covering establishment of objectives, indicators, inter- and intra-
agency responsibilities, quantitative and qualitative data sources, data uses,
schedules, and related budget and investment requirements.
* Inter-agency Data User Group for LSMS and qualitative poverty monitoring program
established



- 23 -
* Satisfactory implementation of LSMS preparation by INSTAT.
* INSTAT sufficiently funded and staffed in budget to carry out its program of
data collection.
* Key staff to be part of ministerial Policy Units identified in defined sector ministries
OBJECTIVE 3: IMPROVING SERVICE DELIVERY AND SOCIAL SAFETY NET EFFECTIVENESS
Issues
55.   Albania's ability to ensure the health and welfare of its population has been compromised by
a weak physical infrastructure, major shifts in demography including significant population
movements, intemal and regional instability, limited govemance capacity, poor resource
management and weak technical capabilities. Restructuring and reform of basic social services is
therefore a priority element of poverty reduction.
56.   Education: The primary issues in the education sector are: (a) gross enrollment rates at the
basic, but especially at the secondary, levels of education and especially in the rural areas; (b) the
management and financing of the sector; and (c) the transparency of key decisions for the sector.
Since the transition, gross enrollments rates have declined at all levels of education, except for
higher education.  Enrollment rates for upper secondary schools have declined the most
dramatically, largely due to declines in enrollment rates for vocational/technical education.
Children of poor families, rural families, and probably families living in peri-urban areas have
lower enrollment rates than children of non-poor families and urban families, especially at the upper
secondary level. Education spending has been limited to the bare essentials, at the expense of
important needs that it is assumed can be deferred such as maintenance of schools and equipment
and teacher training.  This fiscal policy degrades the value of physical assets, human capital,
educational quality, and the demand for education that is sensitive to quality. Inadequate public
spending simply increases private costs for participating in education and shifts long-run costs, such
as school rehabilitation, to future generations.
57.   To contain costs while adjusting to declining enrollments, the education sector in the 1990s
allowed teachers' salaries to deteriorate to very low levels, while reducing the number of schools,
classes and teachers. Unguided by policy or data, these reductions resulted in large disparities in
access to schools, school programs, and student/teacher ratios, depending on location.  Although
the sector needs more resources, more money for education should be contingent on better
management At present, the MOES is not structured to design, implement, and sustain
improvement. -The Ministry lacks the policy analysis, policy planning, financial management,
program planning and monitoring, and consultative processes required to construct a strategy that
will be credible to those it affects, to those who have to implement it, and to the MOF and
international parties that might fund its implementation. Social assessments show that beneficiaries
and other stakeholders at community levels distrust decisions in the education sector.  For
example, the public does not receive credible statistics and information on the performance of the
sector. The alienation of the public from the sector undermines demand for education and families'
participation in the provision and financing of education that can strengthen students' school
attendance and learning outcomes.



- 24 -
58.   Health:  The Ministry of Health has prepared a ten-year strategy which provides a
situational analysis outlining in detail the many financing, quality, efficiency, and other challenges
facing the health system. The system faces severe difficulties on all access, quality, efficiency, and
sustainability measures. Lines of managerial and financial subordination are problematic or unclear
(i.e., MoH, Health Insurance Institute, Tirana Regional Health Authority, and hospital level), and
information systems on services and health outcomes are absent or inadequate. Service provision is
highly uneven, even at the primary health care level where much international aid has been focused.
Albania embarked on the transition with a relatively healthy population, but life expectancy has
fallen and under five mortality rates and infant mortality rates remain relatively high, especially in
the rural communities. - the causality is unclear but children appear to be suffering more than
adults under the transition. At the same time, the country faces new emerging health issues - such
as the rising incidence of chronic diseases, road accidents, and potential outbreak of HIV/AIDS and
related infectious diseases - that are likely to add to the cost of care and require the development of
new public health strategies and capacities.
59.   While the ten-year strategy has articulated the overall objectives and identified the major
constraints in the system, much work remains to translate these broad goals into specific actions and
programs for implementation in the short and medium-term. The document represents a set of
health policy objectives rather than a real ten-year strategy for action and reform. Through the
PRSC programs, MOH will have the opportunity to undertake key studies and prepare more
detailed implementation plans which provide more explicit program guidelines for achieving the
strategic vision of MOH and that could serve as practical tools for achieving the strategic
objectives, with special attention to addressing and protecting the basic health needs of the most
vulnerable population during this difficult transition period.
60.   Social Assistance: Social assistance policy concerns center on cash assistance and social
care services. Concerning social assistance, the primary challenge is to overcome obstacles to
effective targeting of ndihme ekonomike, a means-tested cash benefit for the poorest families that
roughly one-fifth of all families receive. The program provides conditional grants that local
governments are to administer using nationally specified eligibility and benefit rules. However, a
recent assessment found only one-third of recipient families to be poor, even though two-thirds had
received assistance continuously since 1993. The key policy requirements here are processes (a) to
determine when the allocation of ndihme ekonomike systematically disregards intended targeting
criteria and (b) to intervene to achieve appropriate targeting practices. Those requirements sit
uneasily with the Governnent's new decentralization policy, under which it is transferring
additional responsibilities to local governments. Additional concerns with ndihme ekonomike
involve improving work incentives for recipient families, measuring family income, and
determining the program's policy response to large-scale rural-urban migration. As noted in the
pensions section above, rural pensions can be viewed as playing a cash social assistance function
for rural retirees, with SII administering the program and the budget largely financing it. How well
this arrangement contributes to social assistance objectives is a further issue for analysis. Albania
recently committed to a significant expansion of community-based services with support from the
recently approved SSDP project. Policy makers need to develop a policy framework and a
sustainable financing system for these services.



- 25 -
Reform Program
61.   The Government's program to improve service delivery is reflected in the 2002-04 MTEF.
The PRSC focused on the key social sector specific issues that have been identified as MTEF
priorities, and is supporting the line ministries in their implementation of the new framework. The
aim is to assist with the follow-through of the MTEF/sector strategies in the critical social services
sectors. For each sector, the MTEF has aimed to narrow the list of proposed expenditure areas to a
realistic subset of 2-4 key priorities for the MTEF period. The PRSC will support the Government
in implementing those priorities through the identification of related triggers for each round of the
Program.
62.   Education: The strategy of the Government for dealing with these issues during the period
of the PRSC is to:
* Improve the management of the sector by building four capacities: policy analysis,
planning, and monitoring; financial management; human resources management; and
textbook management. The main actions include establishing and properly staffing these
four functions of the Ministry and integrating them into the sector's operations so as to
improve the quality of the sector's decision making and implementation. These actions are
consistent with Albania's public administration reform and are supported through the
Education Reform Project.
* Improve thefinancing of the sector, contingent on progress on the first objective. The main
actions include preparing credible initiatives to improve the delivery of education and
realistic estimates of capital and recurrent costs of these initiatives in order to persuade the
Council of Ministers to increase funding for the sector to cover these costs. They also
include meeting targets as demonstrations of an ability to establish realistic targets and to
implement the changes to meet them. To address under-funding of the sector, Albania is
committed under the MTEF to increase expenditure allocations for education between 2002
and 2004 by about 20 percent in real terms. A general salary increase of 12 percent for
teachers was introduced in 2002, with higher relative increases applied in rural areas where
the needs are greatest.
* Increase affordabUity and quality of basic and secondary education, especially in rural
areas where educational demand appears to be significantly lower and poverty is
significantly higher. Increasing parental demand involves a multi-pronged approach. One is
to set realistic targets for increasing enrollments at the basic and secondary levels, based on
age-specific population numbers from the new census to estimate current enrollment rates at
these levels. The second is to reduce the costs of education for poor families by providing
free textbooks for students from these families in selected grades. This action depends on
other management changes within the MOES, including transparent competitive textbook
procurement. The third action is to develop and implement a strategy for attracting and
retaining qualified teachers in rural areas. This strategy may include higher average salaries
and differential salaries targeted on subjects or locations with teacher scarcities. The fourth
action is to set up a quality and market-relevant pilot for vocational/technical programs for
students, especially in the rural areas, to address the decline in secondary attendance in those
areas.



- 26 -
* Increase the transparency of decisions made in the sector. Two actions are being taken
here. One is to publish the first Annual Education Perforrnance Report, statistical analyses
of the adequacy of inputs, processes, and outcomes in the sector, and to make non-technical
versions of this report widely available through the media.  The second is to publish
annually in the newspapers the list of schools rehabilitated in the previous year, including
inter alia, information on the school's location, the amount invested, the amount invested as
a percent of the average investment per school, and financing source.
63.   Health:  The Government has harnessed the GPRS process to consolidate the priorities
identified in the earlier strategy, and intends to use the PRSC to support the most critical areas.
Those areas are as follows:
* Improving the Effectiveness of the Resource Allocation System -- Under MTEF, the
Government is committed to increase public expenditure on health to compensate for the
current low expenditure levels. Between 2002 and 2004, expenditure allocations for health
are programmed to increase from 2.8 percent of GDP to 3.2 percent of GDP. However, the
increase in budget allocation will need to be accompanied by government capacity building
to monitor and track the budget to ensure effective and efficient use of resources for the
intended outputs. The Government will introduce National Health Accounts (NHA) as a
first step forward from the current historically-based budget system towards a more output-
oriented allocation of resources.  The NHA will be used to develop a more coherent
framework for undertaking the flow of funds analysis and identify areas of inefficiencies
under the current system, and recommend changes The NHA also will need to be
accompanied by a more in-depth analysis on workforce planning and facility surveys to
inform the policy-makers on efficiency and quality of services.
* Reform of Health Financing System: One of the pillars of health sector reform in Albania
consists of the introduction of a Health Insurance Institute, whose functions will be
gradually expanded to become the foundation for a national health insurance system which
will ensure universal health coverage based on the principles of equity, efficiency and
quality of services.  At present the HII coverage is very limited (reimbursements are
available only for General Practitioner consultation and prescription drugs), and its revenue
and co-payment structures do not provide adequate protection to the poor. The current pilot
program with the Tirana Region Health Authority and Durres Hospital will develop a model
for performance based reimbursement system, respectively, for the primary care network
and the hospital system. The lessons from these pilot programs will be applied towards the
design of a more comprehensive health insurance system that will begin to replace the
current fragmented and bureaucratic budget allocation system (MoH, HII and local
government) to a coherent, performance-based and modem health financing system, with
greater managerial autonomy and responsibility accorded to the providers, and a more
flexible staff remuneration system. There is a need to articulate the new institutional and
organizational arrangements to support such a system within the ongoing decentralization
process, particularly in articulating and defining the respective roles and responsibilities of
the central government (MoH), local government (prefecture and district administration),
and the Health Insurance Institute.
* Rationalization of the Health Delivery System. Due to the rapid out-migration and
changing socio-economic conditions in the rural and urban areas, the existing health delivery



- 27 -
system no longer matches the population needs. New investment plans are needed based on
agreed services standards and benefits package, projected population movements and needs,
and expected expansion in basic infrastructure such as roads, electrification and
water/sanitation services. In parallel with the reforms in the health financing system, there
is a need to undertake a comprehensive review of the current status and utilization of health
services, including appropriate referral systems, and to develop a health investment plan that
addresses the major gaps between the normative quality standards and the existing services.
In view of the complexity of the tasks involved, the Government intends to undertake this
exercise in two selected regions, for which a detailed master plan will be prepared for
rehabilitation of selected facilities and projections of staffing, staff training and recurrent
budget requirements to ensure sustainability of these investments. This activity will be
replicated in other regions in subsequent years.
Targeted Public Health Interventions: While the above activities address the systemic
problems to improve the quality and efficiency of the health care delivery system, a number
of critical public health interventions have been identified that require special attention.
These activities will involve strengthening of critical public health programs through (a)
increased budget allocation; (b) qualitative improvements in the program; and (c) improved
monitoring and surveillance system to measure the impact of the new policies and programs
on outcomes. The priority areas identified in the GPRS to be included under the PRSC
program for close monitoring include: (i) maternal and child health programs, including
family planning and vaccination programs; (ii) health promotion and prevention programs
for HIV/AIDS, Sexually Transmitted Diseases; Tobacco Control Program; Improving Infant
and Child nutrition (e.g., breastfeeding, weaning practice); and (iii) improved health
information and surveillance system to monitor and track changes in critical health
outcomes indicators, such as child malnutrition, tuberculosis prevalence, and
STD/HIV/AIDS cases.
64.   Rural Water and Sanitation Infrastructure. A rural water strategy that has been endorsed by
the Government and donor community will be sent shortly by the Ministry of Territorial
Adjustment and Tourism to the Council of Ministers for approval.. Implementation of components
of this strategy will likely be supported under PRSC-2 and PRSC-3 given the importance of this
issue to the country's overall welfare. Less then 50 percent of the population has access to piped
water, and the quality of the service in those areas that do have piped water is low. The poor are
hardest hit both in terms of lower access to water and higher costs. The deterioration of water
supply and sanitation facilities has sparked several water born disease epidemics in the last decade
and is thought to be a major contributing factor to increased infant mortality. The strategy includes,
inter alia, measures to strengthen system sustainability and cost recovery, to empower communities
in decisions related to water supply and sanitation, and to improve the efficiency and effectiveness
of capital investments and maintenance.
65.   Social Assistance. The Government's strategy for decentralization will need to address the
issue of accountability for use of funds in nationally funded but locally administered programs
designed to accomplish nationally specified objectives. It should do so preferably across the board
but at least in the area of social protection. The choices are to introduce new evaluation and
compliance processes or to devolve responsibility for goal-setting as well as for program
administration. The choices are not clear cut, and assessing the related tradeoffs will require further
information and analysis. The PRSC program will therefore support a study of how pensions



- 28 -
(especially rural) and ndihme ekonomike affect poverty and contribute to the multiple objectives of
social assistance. The study will be used to reassess the design of both cash assistance and rural
pension programs, and to serve as the basis for downstream policy changes. An important parallel
initiative will be the development of a policy to make sustainable the financing of community-based
services (including those supported under the SSDP Project). Following the Govermment's review
of policies on accountability within a decentralized system, the delivery of effective social
assistance through cash and community-based service programs, and a framework for the
sustainable financing of those programs, the Program will assist the Government in designing a
program to strengthen the capacity of the administrative systems responsible for delivering these
programs effectively. The Government's strategy will introduce policies on support for community-
based social services that are coordinated with pension and social assistance policies and form part
of an overall strategy for reducing and ameliorating poverty.
Expected Outcome
66.   By the end of the three-year GPRS/PRSC period, Albania expects:
* Improved quality of and access to education, with specific outcomes including: (i) improved
education sector management through reforms supported under PRSC/ERP; (ii) modestly
higher gross enrollment rates; (iii) agreed strategy for providing improved access and quality
of education in rural areas under implementation; (iv) smaller gap between Albania and
OECD education spending measured as a percentage of GDP; (v) human resources
management plan implemented with appropriate teacher salary increases introduced; (vi)
increasing percentage of teachers who meet MOES qualification requirements; and (vii)
improved quality and availability of textbooks.
* Expanded health services to rural communities, improved immunization coverage, and
enhanced resource planning and allocation.  Specific expected outcomes include:
(i) Government capacity established to track and analyze flow of funds in the health sector
to monitor and evaluate policy changes, and increased transparency to enforce good
governance; (ii) articulation of strategy for expanding national health insurance system
towards a more equitable health financing system; (iii) preparation of a detailed regional
investment plan for rationalizing health delivery system in one region; (iv) health delivery
service rationalization plan prepared and ready for implementation in the most deprived
regions; (v) internal capacity developed to replicate health Masterplans in the other regions,
building local capacity and ensuring community participation in planning and support to
health services; (vi) adequate government resources made available for supporting critical
public health programs; (vii) articulation of specific investment and development needs to
improve the quality and effectiveness of health interventions in priority areas; and
(viii) improved surveillance systems for monitoring child health and nutrition status,
maternal health, and quality of water and sanitation in high risk communities and population
categories.
* Inproved targeting of social assistance and social care services, with the cash and in-kind
service reforrns closely coordinated with social insurance reform. Indicators for the ndihme
ekonomike program for which estimates will be sought through the proposed study include:
the proportion of program funds allocated to families meeting national criteria for eligibility,
the proportion of program beneficiaries who were poor, the proportion of poor people within



- 29 -
the program's target group who were beneficiaries, the proportion of program Leke flowing
to families (otherwise) below the poverty line; and whether the preceding measures were
different for families affected by in- or out-migration. Indicators for social care services will
include the number of contracts established under the Social Services Delivery Project
(SSDP) for the provision of home or community-based services, and the proportion of total
funding for social care services that is from government sources other than SSDP funds.
Actions Under the PRSC 1
67.   The PRSC 1 has included the following actions (bold items are core conditions for Board
presentation):
Education
* 2002 recurrent education budget as percent of GDP increases, consistent with MTEF.
* DoPA and MoES establish a working group to develop four MoES functions (policy
analysis, planning, and monitoring; financial management; human resources
management; textbook management), and working group specifies schedule and
outputs required to complete task (see Letter of Development Policy).
* Appoint chair and members of the textbook approval authority, and establish the
MOES textbook management unit (director and staff).
* Budget unit costs alternative schemes for providing free textbooks for students from low
income households by grade and for different assumptions about poverty definitions.
* Prepare legislative framework required to establish secondary vocational programs that
reflect regional labor market needs
Health
* 2002 health budget increases relative to 2001, consistent with MTEF, including
increases in allocation for public health, operation & maintenance, and staff salaries.
* Establishment of interagency National Health Accounts (NHA) Task Force.
*  Submission to IDA of work plan for the preparation of a Regional Health Master Plan for
Tirana.
* Maintain satisfactory level of child vaccination and female TT coverage by increasing
budget allocation to the program to compensate for phased reduction in donor
contribution. (MOH/UNICEF Agreement).
*  Submission to IDA of implementation plan to expand DOTS for TB control (MOH/WHO).
* Order issued establishing Inter-Ministerial Committee on Road Safety.



- 30 -
Social Protection
* Submission to IDA by Government of a satisfactory study design and work program to
analyze the direct impact of urban pensions, rural pensions and targeted social assistance on
both urban and rural poverty and whether internal or external migration affects this impact.
OBJECTIVE 4: IMPROVING CORE PUBLIC SECTOR FUNCTIONS AND INSTITUTIONAL
ARRANGEMENTS
Issues
68.    The promotion of growth and poverty reduction requires strong public and private sector
institutions that operate in a transparent and accountable fashion and that are accessible to all,
including the poor. During the 1990s, Albania's development and growth was constrained by weak
institutional capacity and by a lack of transparent and accountable public administration.9 These
same factors also contributed to corruption in Albania. Therefore, policy development, human
resource management, financial management and accountability, and public sector performance
measurement are among the core institutional capacities that need to be strengthened so that the
Government's programs of poverty reduction can be effectively implemented.
69.    Effective delivery of public services requires not only well designed macroeconomic and
fiscal policies, but also well functioning institutions -- rules, procedures, and organizational
arrangements that govern the budget process and shape the incentives that influence the size,
allocation, and use of budgetary resources. Albania has made substantial progress in reforming its
budget management system, including the introduction of a revised legal framework, improved
macroeconomic and fiscal management capacities, and improved budget preparation procedures.
These reforms have resulted in a budget system that has managed to control and monitor revenues,
expenditure aggregates, and the fiscal deficit, albeit with the assistance of external accountability
mechanisms (e.g., IMF programs).
70.    During most of the 1990s, efforts had focused on maintaining aggregate fiscal discipline and
less on establishing institutional arrangements to bring a more strategic focus to budgetary
processes. In 2000, the introduction of a Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) that
operates on a three-year rolling cycle was an important first step towards a more strategic and
policy-focused budget process. The MTEF began to address the significant shortcomings in the
budget management process: budget preparation was based on outdated budget norms; policy,
programming, and budgeting functions in line ministries were not fully integrated; there was little
policy debate on spending decisions; and budget monitoring paid little attention to the
9See Albania Beyond the Crisis: A Strategy for Recovery and Growth, World Bank report, December, 1998. Since the 1997
crisis, progress has been made in building a framework for improved and transparent public organizations. The Govemment
is also taking a number of actions aimed at enhancing the inclusiveness and citizen-responsiveness of Albania's public
institutions. These actions include establishing a fully functional People's Advocate (ombudsman), establishing a Civil
Service Commission, and appointing a Central Elections Commission as well as launching systematic consultations with the
citizenry as part of its recently launched Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy process. In addition, complementary
measures are being taken to improve the delivery of health, education, and social services.



- 31 -
implementation of the budget program and activities. Budget performance was also hampered by
the separate investment and recurrent budget planning processes.
71.   The MTEF process will help to overcome the poor linkage between policy objectives and
budget planning and the lack of attention to strategic allocation and efficiency of public resources.
Furthermore, it will improve strategic prioritization and the quality of public spending, which
deteriorated significantly in the 1990s. For instance, budgetary cuts have led to lower levels of
public spending on key social services. Inadequate spending on operations and maintenance has led
to rapid depreciation of existing capital assets.  Budgetary expenditures have been highly
centralized and regional distribution of expenditures has been quite uneven. There have been large
direct and indirect subsidies to water and power. In addition, the budget has provided significant
transfers to finance the pension system despite a high contribution rate. While the Government's
reform strategy is already addressing these issues, it needs time to go deep enough and encompass a
wide variety of interventions to become self-sustaining. Continued support and assistance is
important to enable the Govermment to follow through on these reforms and to complement them
with other measures such as: improved monitoring and evaluation of the outputs, outcomes and
impacts of policies and programs; improved capacities to attract, retain and motivate qualified,
professional human resources; and, strengthened mechanisms for holding the Government
accountable to citizens for meeting policy and program objectives, especially those that contribute
to economic growth and poverty reduction.
72.   To be effective, the MTEF process needs to be supported by strong and transparent financial
control mechanisms. Currently, the internal control framework in Albania comprises controls
exercised by the budget department, the treasury, internal audit units within the line ministries and
the central internal financial control department. In addition, the Supreme Audit Institution (SAI)
carries out independent external audits of the budget execution. SAI has a well-established legal
base and functional independence to perform the audits. However, its use of appropriate
international auditing standards and performance auditing has not yet been fully developed' . All
line ministries have their own internal audit units, but overall the internal audit system is not fully
functioning.
73.   The internal audit work carried out is basically in the nature of compliance testing and ex-
post. Performance audits, value for money audits, or internal control reviews that would assist the
management in improving their performance and strengthening the control framework are not
carried out. This is mainly due to the lack of technical skills on the part of the internal audit staff.
The two most recent Supreme Audit Institute reports indicate significant non-compliance with laws
and instances of fraud/corruption across a wide number of ministries. Parliament's follow up on
audit recommendations has begun, but much remains to be accomplished before effective
Parliamentary oversight can be in place. Widespread non-compliance and instances of corruption is
an evidence that the current internal control mechanisms are less than fully effective and that line
ministers have no means of detecting and resolving these issues as a regular part of their
management responsibilities.
74.   The internal audit staff in line ministries report to the head of the audit department instead of
to the minister, thus compromising the independence of the internal audit function. The intemal
' Begiinig in 2002, SIGMA and the EC plan a series of initiatives with the SAI to undertake a peer review, provide an
SAI expert advisor and mitiate training of auditors in modem audit procedures and techniques.



- 32 -
audit units in line ministries lack proper recruitment policies, and the staff do not receive any
specialized training in how to perform an internal audit. The internal audit department within the
Ministry of Finance lacks the authority to supplement the internal audit work carried out by line
ministries or to provide any oversight on the quality of their audit work. There is a need to improve
internal controls to help managers discharge their responsibilities for the efficient and legal use of
public resources. This requires tools to help the ministers maintain sound internal controls,
including a comprehensive set of control principles, systems and practices. They would include
standards for financial accounting and reporting, ex-ante conmmitment and payment controls,
effective procurement and revenue collection controls, and an effective internal audit function.
75.   Public procurement practices are also weak and lack transparency. The findings of the
Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) on Albania, indicate that, while the Law on
Public Procurement, which governs expenditures by public institutions on the acquisition of goods
and services, was fairly comprehensive, enforcement of the law was being undermined by the
absence of detailed implementing regulations, which are needed to define the specific procedures to
be followed in the application of the procurement law. A further weakness identified by the CPAR
is the absence of high-quality standard procurement documents and forms of contract, which are
needed to introduce uniformity of interpretation and application and to provide a reliable contractual
basis on which public purchasers may award contracts. The CPAR also identified a lack of
transparency in Albania's procurement system. Public officials generally have a low level of
awareness of the current legislation governing public procurement and bidders, both local and
foreign, and. complain of the difficulty they have in finding out about contract opportunities and
awards.
76.   Related to the issues of public expenditure management and fiscal transparency is the
Government's decision to implement a decentralization strategy, which requires designing
appropriate laws and regulations governing its structure. Local governments have accounted for
less than four percent of consolidated public expenditures (and less than two percent of consolidated
revenues), a share that is lower than the other European countries. The introduction of the "block
grant" in 1998, to cover operations and maintenance, led to a small increase in the fiscal autonomy
of local governments. In 2001, a number of exclusive functions of local governments continued to
be financed as conditional grants from the line ministry budgets, but in 2002, they have been
transferred to the general budget of local governments. The central government grants represent a
large share of local government revenues.
Reform Program
77.   The Government's program focuses on simultaneous reforms in four key areas: (i) policy
formulation; (ii) human resource development; (iii) public sector accountability, including
strengthening financial reporting, intemal audit, and procurement; and (iv) intergovernmental fiscal
relations. The objectives are to improve the functioning of the public sector and to improve the use
of resources to deliver public services more efficiently. These reforms will also contribute to
improved governance and increased transparency and accountability in the public sector, and will
help create an institutional environment within Albania's public sector that is less conducive to
corrupt behavior.
78. Introducing a more contestable policy formulation process.: The recent improvements in
the budget formulation process need to be reinforced by reforms of the process by which all policy



- 33 -
proposals, not just budget proposals, are prepared and, ultimately, vetted with the Council of
Ministers and Parliament. Several careful analyses of Albania's policy formulation process and
practices provide a firm basis on which the Government can begin to build a more contestable
policy formulation process." Such a process would ensure (a) systematic analysis of important
policy issues raised by proposed laws, including: alternative means of addressing the objectives of
the proposed legislation, likely impacts, tradeoffs, and implementation challenges. It would also
ensure that (b) policy proposals are subject to systematic review by a wide variety of key
stakeholders or their representatives, including the proposing agency (e.g., a line Ministry), the
Ministry of Finance (on fiscal impacts), as well as policy analysis professionals within the Council
of Ministers itself. As part of the PRSC, the Government has submitted to parliament a Law on
organization and functioning of the Council of Ministers designed to establish a legal framework
more supportive of a contestable policy formulation process.
79.   Human Resource Development. The Government began civil service reform in the late
1990s by reducing the number of employees and adopting a comprehensive Civil Service Law. The
Government has made significant progress in its implementation, including establishing the
required subsidiary legislation and implementing transparent and competitive recruitment and
selection procedures, as mandated by the Law and its subsidiary legislation. A key achievement in
this effort was the establishment of the post of Secretary General, the highest civil servant position,
and recruitment of Secretaries General in each of the line Ministries. All civil service posts in
central ministries will be defined and subsequently filled by a competitive process defined by the
Law on the Status of the Civil Servant and its subsidiary legislation. DoPA will also regularly
publish quarterly data on fraction of civil servant positions within the central administration staffed
by personnel on contract versus fraction staffed by personnel appointed through civil service
procedures for the entire central administration as well as by major budgetary institutions. To ensure
compatibility of the laws, the Government has submitted a request to the Constitutional Court to
determine whether the Law on Status of Members of Parliament (Article 22) is compatible with the
Law on the Status of Civil Servants. The Government also plans to amend the Law on Status of
Civil Servants to address the general issue of conditions under which civil servants may take leave
of absence from their positions within the civil service and rights and obligations that they could
enjoy regarding the re-entry into the civil service.
80.   To design a transparent and competitive remuneration system, the Government has
undertaken a survey of public and private sector salaries, in order to better target salary
improvements and to attract, retain and motivate the human resources required to implement its
GPRS objectives. As an initial step, the Government has issued a decree increasing salaries of civil
servants within a fiscally sustainable wage bill envelope and the new salary structure has become
effective. The Government's strategy for improving salaries throughout the public administration
was enunciated in the 2002-04 MTEF document. In order to ensure both fiscal feasibility and salary
increases sufficient to yield some impact, that strategy envisions sequenced salary increases,
targeted at particular segments of the public administration. In addition, the Government is creating
an Institute for Training in Public Administration, in order to ensure its capacity to provide the
training needed to continuously maintain and upgrade the skills and knowledge of Albania's public
administration.
l " "Guidelines for Methods and Implementation of Legislative Drafting," report submitted to the Council of Mmnisters,
Government of Albania, the Department of Public Administration and the World Bank (Gary M. Kelly, DPK
Consulting, May 2001b). SIGMA, "Review of the Organization and Functions of the Council of Ministers' Office of
the Government of Albania," (SIGMA: Paris, France, March 24, 1999).



- 34 -
81.   Public Sector Accountability  Creating an accountable public sector to improve its
performance is a major challenge for the Government. The Government's program includes several
measures to strengthen financial control and accountability mechanisms. The objectives are to
increase transparency, to control waste, and to combat corruption. The program envisages policy
actions in three key dimensions: (i) improving the budget management process and making
reporting of financial statements more transparent; (ii) strengthening intemal controls and audit
mechanisms and capacities; and (iii) establishing transparent procurement practices. The program
also requires defining the responsibilities at each level of government to enhance their
accountability.
82.   Public Expenditure Management Process. The Govemment intends to make the MTEF
framework the centerpiece of its budget formulation process to prioritize expenditures more
efficiently and to strengthen the linkages between policy objectives and budget planning. The
Government realizes that achieving sustained economic growth and poverty reduction requires a
larger allocation to health and education, as well as to operations and maintenance expenditures.
Higher levels of capital expenditures are also needed to improve the country's infrastructure in
order to support a rise in private investment. These priorities have been deliberated in the context
of the 2002-04 MTEF and will be further emphasized in the subsequent MTEFs . The Government
has closely linked the preparation of the GPRS with the preparation of the 2002-04 MTEF. As part
of the MTEF process, the involved line ministries - agriculture, education, health, labor and social
affairs, public order, public works, and transport -have incorporated growth and poverty reduction
objectives in the preparation of their sector expenditures strategies.
83.   To improve further the budget management process and increase the effectiveness of the
GPRS programs, the Ministry of Finance, as part of the PRSC-1, has submitted to IDA a report
evaluating the 2002 budget for consistency with the MTEF and has continued preparation of the
Investment Budget. Further measures to improve the public expenditure management process will
be followed in the subsequent PRSCs. These include preparing an action plan for strengthening of
budget systems and procedures (including monitoring of budget outputs) as well as training of
budget staff in MoF and line ministries. The Ministry of Finance will also establish in pilot sectors a
comprehensive database of public investment projects, both domestically and externally financed
and is planning to prepare procedures for recording disbursement and expenditures on all externally
financed projects, including those financed by grants.
84.   Financial Reporting and Auditing  A  Country  Financial Accountability  Assessment
(CFAA) for Albania was completed in May 2002. The CFAA work revealed that although basic
internal control, accounting, reporting, and auditing systems exist, there are certain major
weaknesses which needs to be addressed. These include: weak internal controls and related internal
audit policies and practices in the line ministries; significant internal control weaknesses in the
treasury system; lack of audited consolidated financial statements for the Government; the need to
streamline and automate the line ministry financial accounting systems; and, the need to strengthen
the selection process for Chairman of the Supreme Audit Institution. Some of these measures,
which relate to improvement in financial reporting and audit functions, are supported under the
PRSC-1 (see below), while the remaining measures will be undertaken under PRSC-2 and PRSC-3.
85.   The Govermment realizes that success of the MTEF process also hinges on improvements in
accounting and financial reporting systems as well as measures to strengthen auditing mechanisms.



- 35 -
Government accounting is performed in two different organizations. The line ministries (spending
units) follow a modified accrual basis of accounting and maintain their own accounting records
using double entry system of accounting. The Treasury follows a cash basis of accounting and
maintains records of all receipts and expenditures. The Government has recently established an
Accounting Department in the Ministry of Finance to. compile the financial statements prepared by
the line ministries. However, there is a lack of clarity of the role of this Department, which also
serves as the licensing authority for the private sector accountants. Proper consolidated financial
statements netting out transfers are not yet prepared nor is any reconciliation carried out between
the accounting reports and the Treasury reports. To improve financial reporting the Government as
part of the PRSC has: (i) required all district treasury offices to send daily payment data to central
treasury; (ii) required central treasury to reconcile on a daily basis the payment data received from
the district treasury offices and the reimbursement data received from Bank of Albania; and
(iii) required district tax offices to reconcile the tax receipts with the amounts transmitted to the
Bank of Albania on a daily basis.
86.   To strengthen audit functions the Government intends to establish a more structured intemal
audit regime. It has established an internal audit department in the Ministry of Finance. This
department which will be headed by the Chief Government Internal Auditor (CGIA) would
develop: intemal audit policies and standards; recruitment policy; training program; and, quality
assurance mechanisms. Each line ministry would establish an internal audit department, headed by a
director and reporting directly to the line minister. That department will be responsible for
conducting internal audit within the line ministry and submitting its reports to the line minister with
a copy to the CGIA. The CGIA would make available a pool of qualified and trained internal
auditors to the line minister. The internal audit staff, though recruited and trained by CGIA, would
report to the line minister for all operational and management issues relating to planning and
execution of internal audits within the ministry'2.
87.   To ensure accountability, each line minister would prepare an annual assurance letter to the
Minister of Finance, indicating maintenance of effective internal control within that ministry. The
Minister of Finance would prepare annually a government wide summary and analysis of key
internal audit findings and recommendations for the Council of Ministers. Each line ministry would
also establish an Audit Committee composed of senior ministry management to oversee the audit
planning, execution and to monitor implementation of audit recommendations. Thus, under the
PRSC-1, the Government has: (i) prepared the draft Law on Internal Audit; and (ii) reviewed
internal audit policies and the adequacy of the existing audit resources in line ministries. These
actions would be followed in subsequent PRSCs by measures to establish Audit Committees in all
ministries, to issue revised internal audit policies and guidelines to ministries,to develop criteria for
appointment of chairman of the Supreme Audit Institution, and to provide an intensive training
program to improve staff skills, risk analysis, and modern auditing techniques.
88.   Public Procurement The reform of procurement practices is a key factor in enhancing
public accountability and improving the use of public resources. The Public Procurement Agency
(PPA) in compliance with its legal tnandate has began publishing bimonthly procurement
announcements. This has represented an important step toward enhancing transparency and
12 The internal auditors will have a link to CGIA for the audit policies and practices used by the line audit departnents.
The CGIA covers quality assurance, expert advice and assistance when requested by line auditors. Line auditors share
their audit plans with the center, after they had been developed in the Ministry and approved by the Ministry audit
committee. Completed audits will also be shared with the center.



- 36 -
competitiveness in public tendering. Not surprisingly, however, this step has not yet proven
sufficient to curb non-competitive procurement practices. During 2002, the Government intends to
appoint international legal and technical specialists to assist with drafting of high-quality standard
procurement documents and forms of contract, which are needed to introduce uniformity of
interpretation and application these documents. The specialists will also assist the Government with
strengthening the PPA by providing advisory services.
89.   Under the PRSC-1, the PPA has been fully staffed, and its authorized personnel has
published an initial set of procurement practices indicators for 2001, providing both central and
local administration-wide averages as well as major budgetary institution-specific data. The
Government program under subsequent PRSCs emphasizes: issuing a comprehensive set of
regulations for implementation of the Law on Public Procurement; preparing standard bidding
documents and standard forms of contracts; preparing a user's manual to guide public purchase; and
conducting a comprehensive series of training courses for PPA staff and other public officials. The
PPA will also improve transparency and bidders' access to information by launching its own
website, on which all current legislation and sub-legislative enactments will be posted, all
invitations to bid for public contracts will be advertised, and notifications of contract awards will
also be listed. In addition, the PPA will publish on its website performance of the national public
procurement system and will compile and publish an Annual Report on Public Procurement, which
will give comprehensive data on expenditures made, contracts awarded and the overall performance
of the country's public procurement system.
90.   Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations. The Government, with the assistance of the USAID,
has recently approved a decentralization strategy and has taken major strides in setting up the basic
legal framework to start implementing an accountable fiscal structure. Consistent with the European
Chart of Local Self Governments, the Constitution of Albania (October 21, 1998) defines that local
government is founded upon the principle of decentralization, and establishes that the relationship
between the State, regions and local governments is based on the principles of autonomy, legality
and cooperation. The law on the organization and functioning of the local governments (July 2001)
establishes that the relationship between levels of Government will be based on the principle of
subsidiarity, which assigns public functions to lowest level of government, whenever possible. This
organic law also sets forth the local government functions, powers, rights and duties, while a basic
strategy and an institutional arrangement for decentralization implementation has been established
by the Government at the outset' . Moreover, important legislation on immovable State property
and on transfer of part of these assets to local government has already been approved.
91.   While a basic legal framework is already in place, complementary regulations for an
effective and sustainable decentralization are still lacking. The Government's program thus
envisages designing and implementing an appropriately sequenced set of policies that can complete
the basic regulatory framework. It also includes assigning expenditure responsibilities that would
take into account the peculiarities of each sector (education, health, social security, public works)
and revenue assignments that would include a system of revenue sharing and transfers, which
preserves tax effort incentives while taking into consideration equity concerns.
13 "The Strategy of Decentralization and Local Autonomy" (November 1999), prepared by the Technical Group of
Experts on Decentralization, proposed by the National Commnittee on Decentralization, and approved by the Council of
Ministries on September 9, 2000



- 37 -
92.   The Govermment realizes that an effective fiscal decentralization should take into
consideration a proper balance between the indispensable central governrment oversight and the
fundamental fiscal autonomy at local levels. The reform program would thus aim at: (i) completing
the basic legislative framework on the territorial administration and the role of the prefect;
(ii) preparing an action plan to transfer properties to local governments; (iii) assigning specific
expenditure responsibilities among levels of government; (iv) identifying and assigning autonomous
revenue to local governments; and (v) training local public officials on a uniform system of
accounting, forecasting, reporting, and management. The Government is aware that in the present
circumstances, successful implementation of a fiscal decentralization that protects the poor will
need considerable capacity building efforts.14 With this constraint in mind, as part of the PRSC-1,
the Governnent has prepared an action plan for the transfer of State properties to local
governments, and has finalized studies to reinstate the Land Tax as local taxes. It has also provided
initial funding for local government capacity building in the 2002 budget.
93.   These actions will be followed by other actions in the subsequent PRSCs to: better delineate
the powers of the Prefects vis-a-vis local governments; assign specific functions and responsibilities
(including the shared functions) and revenue sources (included shared taxes) to local governments;
and, properly identifying capacity needs and funding training programs for local and central
government staffs.
94.   The implementation of these measures is expected to lead to: (i) a harmonized and well-
coordinated regional State agencies, and autonomous local governments; (ii) a well-defined local
asset structure that allows local governments to effectively plan and implement their
responsibilities; (iii) an effective and efficient delivery of public services, without overlapping
responsibilities or "unfunded mandates"; (iv) a significant incentive-based local tax system, and
local elected officials accountable to their respective constituencies; and (v) local fiscal operations
that are transparent and efficiently executed. The agreed PRSC policy measures aiming at these
desirable outcomes are still considered only part of the first phase in the process of fiscal
decentralization in Albania. Nevertheless, the Government is conscious that the completion of this
phase of policy implementation would establish the platform for critical steps to follow in the
process of fiscal decentralization, including (a) equity concerns, by further improving the formula
for the determination of the volume and distribution of equalization grants, aiming at a system
which could provide similar standards of public services for all citizens regardless of where they
live; and later, possibly, (b) alternative financing mechanisms, by regulating the municipal capital
market so that local governments could responsibly access borrowing as an additional source of
resources for the rehabilitation and expansion of local infrastructures.
Expected Outcome
95.   By the end of the three-year GPRS/PRSC period, Albania is expected to have achieved the
following:
* A more contestable policy formulation process as demonstrated by surveys of public
officials and citizens that over time will show policy formulation and implementation
practices that take into account important policy issues and proposals made by
stakeholders.
'4 UNDP intends to launch a project aimed at capacity building at local/cornnunity levels in Albania.



- 38 -
*  A larger cadre of civil servants as measured by an increased share of civil service
positions vis-a-vis contract employees.
*  Increased transparency and accountability in the management of public resources as
reflected in improved quality and coverage of audits, enforcement of improved
public procurement practices, and enhanced transparent reporting and recording of
financial statements.
*  A budget formulation and implementation process, based on a medium term
financing plan and sector programs, which will make the budget an efficient policy
tool for the Government
*  A decentralized fiscal system with a well-defined fiscal structure which allows local
governments to plan and implement their responsibilities in a more effective,
efficient, and accountable manner.
Actions under the PRSC-1
96.   In pursuit of the above objectives, the emphasis of PRSC-1 has been on the following (bold
items are core conditions for Board presentation):
Contestable Policy Formulation
* Government submits to Parliament a Law on Organization and Functioning of
the Council of Ministers designed to establish a legal framework more
supportive of a contestable policy formulation process.
Human Resource Management
*  Department of Public Administration (DoPA) regularly publishes in the "Public
Administration Newsletter" quarterly data on fraction of civil servant positions
within the Central Administration staffed by personnel on contract versus fraction
staffed by personnel appointed through civil service procedures for entire central
administration as well as major budgetary institutions.
* Government intends to seek a determination by the Constitutional Court of the
compatibility of Article 22 on the Law on the Status of the Member of Parliament
with the Law on the Status of Civil Servants.
*  Council of Ministers issues decree increasing salaries of civil servants within a
fiscally sustainable wage bill envelope. New salary structure becomes effective.
Public Sector Accountability
* MoF to submit a report to the IDA evaluating the 2002 Budget for consistency
with the MTEF.



- 39 -
* MoF continues to prepare Investment Budget.
* MoF to require all district treasury offices to send daily payment data to central
treasury.
* MoF to require central treasury to reconcile on a daily basis the payment data
received from the district treasury offices and the reimbursement data received
from Bank of Albania.
* MoF to require district tax offices to reconcile the tax receipts with the amounts
transmitted to Bank of Albania on a daily basis.
* MoF to prepare the draft Law on Internal Audit satisfactory to IDA.
* Review existing internal audit policies and the adequacy of existing internal audit
resources in line ministries.
* Public Procurement Agency (PPA) is fully staffed to its authorized level.
* PPA publishes initial set of procurement practices indicators for 2001,
providing both central and local administration-wide averages as well as major
budgetary institution-specific data.
Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations
* Prepare an action plan for the "Agency for Inventory and Transfer of Public
Properties" to transfer State properties to local governments.
* Finalize ongoing studies to include Land Tax as local taxes.
* Secure initial funding for local governments' capacity building in 2002.



- 40 -
TABLE 4: SUMMARY OF KEY MEASURES UNDER PRSC-1 AND LINKAGE WITH GPRS'5
Key Measure                 I                Current Status
COMPONENT 1: PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE GROWTH AND SUPPORTING PRIVATE SECTOR
DEVELOPMENT
Maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic   The Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility is to be
framework (ref: GPRS chapter IVB. pp. 54ff..  considered by the IMF Board in June 2002
action plan, macro actions 1-4. p. 115 ff)
Satisfactory implementation of pension reform
package acceptable to IDA, including: (ref.: GPRS
chapter IVE , pp. 82-83. action plan. p. 122).
-- an increase in the ceiling on the contributory  Completed. The Govenmuent has increased the
wage for the employee pension scheme from 3  contributory wage ceiling.
times Minimum Contributory Wage to 5 times
Minimum Contributory Wage
-- submission by MOLSA/SII of a work plan   Completed. The pension reform work plan has been
acceptable to IDA to resolve outstanding issues in  submitted, and a satisfactory pension policy model
pension reform                             is available and in use (The SII has been receiving
assistance from a team of consultants financed
-- completion of a pension policy model     under an Italian Trust Fund arrangement).
satisfactory to IDA
-- Initiation of an increase in the retirement age to  Completed. The Government formally endorsed an
commence in July 2002 of 6 months every year  acceptable retirement age increase (March 14,
until the retirement age has reached 65 years for  2002), and Parliament passed this legislation in full
men and 60 years for women, including an early  on April 25, 2002. Passage of this legislation meets
retirement option.                         this condition (primafacie).
-- limiting compensation for past price increases  Completed.
to those pensioners with certain categories of
dependents, consistent with the European
Convention on Social Security (unemployed,
children under 18, and students up to age 25 who
are not in employment)
COMPONENT 2: STRENGTHENING CAPACITY TO MONITOR AND EVALUATE THE POLICY AGENDA
GPRS Technical Secretariat submits satisfactory  Completed.
plan to support policy monitoring and evaluation of
the GPRS and PRSC programs in defined sector
ministries, and covering establishment of objectives,
indicators, inter- and intra-agency responsibilities,
quantitative and qualitative data sources, data uses,
schedules, and related budget and investment
requirements. (ref: GPRS, chapter 5, pp. 104 ff.)
INSTAT sufficiently funded and staffed in budget  Completed. The Association received a letter
to carry out its program of data collection (ref.  dated April 22, 2002 from the Ministry of Finance
GPRS, chapter 5, pp. 104ff.).                 informing it that INSTAT salaries would be
adjusted in alignment with the civil service, with
I said policy being enacted beginning from July
15 The table also notes the cross-reference in the GPRS document. The PRSC measures have been reviewed by the
PRSC inter-ministerial working group, which is the same group that oversaw preparation of the GPRS. See "National
Strategy for Economic and Social Development - Medium Term Program of the Albanian Government 'Growth and
Poverty Reduction Strategy"' Government of Albania, November 2001.



- 41 -
Key Measure                                  Current Status
2002. The letter notes that Lek 30 million has been
set aside in the budget to finance this
conpensation. Implementation of this mneasure
will be closely monitored during the next rounds of
I the PRSC program.
COMPONENT 3: IMPROVING SERVICE DELIVERY AND SOCIAL SAFETY NET EFFECrIVENESS
2002 health budget increases relative to 2001,  Completed. The 2002 budget includes an increase
consistent with MTEF, including increases in  over 2001, with a 12 percent overall increase in
allocation for public health, operation &    salaries (with salary adjustments higher in rural
maintenance, and staff salaries (ref. GPRS, chapter  areas
IVE, pp. 77-78, action plan, pp. 118-119).
Maintain satisfactory level of child vaccination and  CoMpleted This commitment is reflected in the
female tetanus toxoid coverage by increasing budget 2002 budget and a parallel agreement between
allocation to the program to compensate for phased  MOH and UNICEF.
reduction in donor contribution. (MOH/UNICEF
Agreement) (ref. GPRS. chapter IVE. Rp. 77-78.
action plan, pp. 118-119).
2002 recurrent education budget as percent of GDP  Completed. The 2002 budget includes a significant
increases, consistent with MTEF (ref.GPRS.   increase in the education budget, with a 12 percent
chapter IVE. pp. 78 ff: action pla. p. 120).  increase in salaries (salary adjustments are higher in
rural areas).
DoPA and MoES establish a working group to   Completed.
develop four MoES functions (policy analysis,
planning, and monitoring; financial management;
human resources management; textbook
management), and working group specifies schedule
and outputs required to cornplete task. (See LDP)
(ref. GPRS. chapter IVC. pp. 60 Lf: chaRter IWE.
pg. 78 Rf: action plan. o. 120).
Appoint chair and members of the textbook    Completed.
approval authority, and establish the Ministry
textbook management unit (director and staff). (ref.
GPRS. chapter WE. pp.78 if: action plarn p. 120).
COMPONENT 4: IMPROVING CORE PUBLIC SECTOR FUNCTIONS AND INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
Government submits to Parliament a Law on    Completed. IDA has issued no objection to a TOR
Organization and Functioning of the Council of  for TA to assist Government to launch work on
Ministers designed to establish a legal framework  building a more contestable policy formulation
more supportive of a contestable policy formulation  process and is currently in process of procuring a
process (ref. GPRS. chapter IVC. pp. 60 i: action  consultant.
plan. pp. 135 fl
Govermnent has sought IDA feedback on draft Law
on the Functioning of the Council of Ministers.
Government and IDA have planned TA on building
monitoring and evaluation capacities into line
ministries.
CoM issues decree increasing salaries of civil  Completed.
servants within a fiscally sustainable wage bill
envelope. New salary structure becomes effective.
(ref. GPRS. chapter IVC. pp. 60 ff.: action plan, pp.
135 Lf. also note adjustments in wages of health and
education workers!



- 42 -
Key Measure                                   Current Status
*   MoF to submit a report to the IDA evaluating  Cornleted.
the 2002 Budget for consistency with the MTEF
(ref. GPRS, para. 27, pp. 27ff).
*   MOF to require all district treasury offices to  Completed. A Country Financial Accountability
send daily payment data to central treasury (ref.  Assessment (CFAA) for Albania was completed in
GPRS, chapter IVC, p. 66 ff.,; action plan, pp. 135  May 2002. The CFAA dialogue covers these issues.
ff.)                                          Part of these measures are supported under the
PRSC-1, as reflected in the opposite column, and
*   MoF to require central treasury to reconcile on  the remaining measures under the subsequent
a daily basis the payment data received from the  PRSCs.
district treasury offices and the reimbursement data
received from Bank of Albania. (ref. GPRS, chapter
IVC, p. 66 ff.,; action plan, pp. 135 ff.)
*   MoF to require district tax offices to reconcile
the tax receipts with the amounts transmitted to
Bank of Albania on a daily basis . (ref. GPRS,
chapter IVC, pp. 61 ff.; action plan, p. 116).
* MoF to prepare the draft Law on Internal Audit
satisfactory to IDA (ref. GPRS, chapter IVC, pp. 61  IDA team collaborated with SIGMA (EU) to
ff.; action plan, p. 116)                     review.
PPA publishes initial set of procurement practices  Completed.
indicators for 2001, providing both central and local
administration-wide averages as well as major
budgetary institution-specific data (ref GPRS, p.
xxi, pp. 59ff, action plan, p. 134 (anti-corruption))
Prepare an action plan for the "Agency for    Completed.
Inventory and Transfer of Public Properties" to
transfer State properties to local govemments (ref.
GPRS, pp. 60, 81, 96, action plan, p. 121)
Finalize ongoing studies to include Land Tax as  Completed
local tax. (ref. GPRS, pp. xxvi, action plan, p. 133) 1



- 43 -
V. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A.    Relations to the Country Assistance Strategy
97.   The proposed Credit focuses on cross-cutting issues in policy development and monitoring,
public expenditure management. and improving service delivery in social sectors. The operation is
consistent with the Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy for Albania, as outlined in the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of the World Bank Group for Albania and approved by the
Board on July 30, 1998, and the CAS Progress Report that was approved on March 21, 2000. A
new CAS is planned for Board discussions in June 2002.
98.   The Bank Group strategy presented in the CAS is geared toward strengthening governance,
institutional reform and human development so as to promote sustainable private sector growth and
the alleviation of poverty. The PRSC accordingly supports policies to enhance the capacity of the
public sector to carry out its functions more efficiently (particularly in the social sectors), to
improve the environment for private sector growth, and to maintain macroeconomic stability.
99.   The measures supported by the PRSC complement other IDA assistance programs to
Albania, particularly in the social sectors (education, health and community social services) and
basic infrastructure (transport, water supply, and sanitation). A Public Expenditure Support Credit
of US$30 million equivalent was approved in May 1999. Other credits approved in 1999 included
an Irrigation II Project, a Structural Adjustment Credit, a Micro-credit Project, a Community Works
Project, and an Emergency Road Repair Project. These were followed by new operations in 2000
supporting education reform, legal and judicial reform, public administration reform, financial
sector development, and rehabilitation of the water supply. A Social Services Delivery Project
(SSDP) supporting the provision of community based social care for those most in need was
approved by the Board in May 2001.
100. The CAS is working under a high case scenario in Albania, with a lending envelope of about
US$145 million of IDA resources. To date, the high case scenario has been justified, given the
important policy performance and the satisfactory macro stabilization record. This CAS scenario
originally envisaged two adjustment operations - a Social Protection Adjustment Credit (SPAC)
and a Structural Adjustment Credit II (SAC II). With the preparation of the GPRS, and to support
its measures, it was decided to fold the SPAC and SAC II into a single PRSC operation, and to
prepare a complementary Financial Sector Adjustment Credit. IDA allocations for Albania for
FY03 and beyond are currently under review. The SDR 16.0 million proposed for PRSC-1 will be
drawn from already allocated FY02 IDA resources, and will not displace investment lending under
the current CAS. Any adjustments under future IDA allocations will be assessed in the context of
the overall lending activities in Albania as part of the CAS process. The PRSC will contain strong
pre-Board measures consistent with the GPRS that will demonstrate the commitment of the
Government to continue the reform process, and to qualify for high case lending. The preparation
of the new CAS for 2002-2004 is drawing heavily from the Government's GPRS, and the CAS
discussions to date have confirmed the importance of an adjustment operation to support the
implementation of the GPRS and to anchor the overall lending strategy.



- 44 -
Figure 2: Linkages Between the Albania GPRS, MTEF, CAS and PRSC
A. Government's Economic Program                a 
Macro        _  Cross Cutting          S ectorral
Stabilization   Policy
Monitoring and      Health
Structural      Evaluation
Reforms,                            Education
including       Public
pensions,       Expenditure         Social
energy,         Management          Protection
private
sector, etc.     Civil Service      Private Sector
Reform
Energy
Decentralization
Rural Water
Anti-Corruption,
Transparency        Roads
and
Accountability      Other Ar eas
Rural
Development
B. Budgetary Framework for
Three Year GPRS program,
including domestic and external
resources
C. Financing and Instruments
Available to Support Reform
Program                                Domestic     DMF PRGF     IDA's          Other Donor
Revenues     Program       Country       Programs
and                        Assistance
Borrowing                  Strategy
PRSC (specific  -   Other Lending  -AAA (to
policy and          and TA            contmue to
institutional       (targeted         inform the
pnonties,           mvestments to     policy dialogue
especially cross    agreed GPRS       and reform
cutting)            pnorities)        strategy)



- 45 -
101.  Financialmanagementandfiduciaryresponsibility  The Bank completed a Country
Economic Memorandum in December 1998, which identified major areas of reform in Albania. The
Bank completed a Country Assessment Procurement Review in October 2001, which recommends a
number of measures to strengthen and modernize procurement procedures and processes. Albania's
sixth Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR, May 2001) noted that the overall portfolio has
stabilized and is in good shape, and recommends a number of measures to strengthen project
implementation in Albania. The country's CFAA was completed in May 2002, and its key findings
have been incorporated into the PRSC program. At the level of project lending, the Bank financial
management staff will ensure that the relevant agencies discharge their fiduciary responsibility in a
satisfactory manner and that the financial management system in place for each project is in
accordance with standard international practices.
102. The Government is beginning implementation of an FY01 Financial Sector Institution
Building Technical Assistance Project which supports strengthening of the country's financial
infrastructure including implementation of an inter-bank payments system; provision of technical
assistance to develop national accounting standards; revision of the chart of accounts for the
enterprise, banking, insurance sectors, and budgetary institutions to comply with the new law;
carrying out of an operational and financial audit of the loan collection agency; and establishment of
a credit information bureau. The Bank completed the analytical work on a Public Expenditure and
Institutional Review in Albania in April 2001. This analysis includes recommendations to improve
public expenditure management and budgeting planning and to increase transparency and
accountability in the fiscal process.  The analysis also includes macroeconomic and fiscal
developments during the second half of the last decade and makes recommendations to further
improve fiscal discipline.
B. Coordination with the IMF
103.  The PRSC was prepared in parallel with the IMF's new Arrangement under the three-year
Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF), which will be presented to the Board in June 2002.
The objective was to ensure the consistency of the macroeconomic and structural policy package
supported by both programs and to ensure the coordination of the contents of PRSC and PRGF.
Both institutions collaborated closely both at headquarters and in the field.
C.   Coordination with Other Donors.
104.  The work on PRSC was also coordinated with the activities of the other donors in Albania,
to minimize the overlap in our programs, to reduce the likelihood of critical gaps, and to identify
areas of comparative advantage in providing support to the Government. This coordination was
most pronounced in the areas of public sector reform, decentralization, and health and education.
The PRSC team met regularly with key donor counterparts to exchange information on our
respective programs, to identify areas where the PRSC might be more selective, and to finds ways
to support the Government in its implementation of its poverty reduction strategy.
105. Stabilization and Association Process. In parallel with the GPRS, Albania is aiming to enter
into a Stabilization and Association Process (SAP) with the European Union. Key outstanding
issues for SAP accession are macroeconomic stabilization, security, governance, and law



- 46 -
enforcement. Primary aspects of the SAP policy dialogue include provisions to support internal
and external security, regional cooperation (i.e., through enhanced trade with bordering states),
reduced barriers to trade and external investment in Albania, strengthened financial infrastructure,
and approximation of Albanian legislation to EC legislation in a wide range of areas. European
Community assistance to Albania has recently been concentrated on: (i) strengthening the state and
the rule of law (including customs, police and judiciary), democracy, and human rights; (ii) large
infrastructure (roads, water and ports, airport); (iii) agriculture and local community development;
(iv) education; and (v) humanitarian assistance. The next round of assistance under the Community
Assistance for Reconstruction, Development and Stabilization (CARDS) Program will focus on
public administration reform and the rule of law (judiciary, customs, police, and statistics), and
investments in economic development. The GPRS will be closely linked to the SAP goals of
closing Albania's development gap with other European countries, and will also focus on related
policy development issues (i.e., legislative convergence), monitoring capacity (to allow the
Government to disseminate accurate assessments on key accession indicators such as
employment/unemployment levels), and public administration reform (to support implementation
and enforcement of the agreed legislative framework).
D. Implementation and Monitoring
106. A PRSC Monitoring Plan covering indicators, targets and linkages to the Millennium
Development Goals (MDG's) has been prepared (see Annex 3). The Government has appointed the
Minister of Finance as National GPRS Coordinator to manage the overall implementation of the
PRSC. The GPRS Inter-ministerial Working Group, which was tasked with preparing the GPRS,
was chaired by the Deputy Minister of Finance, who has also been appointed to serve as the primary
liaison to the PRSC team. The specific implementation arrangements for the GPRS/PRSC
programs were finalized during the appraisal mission. The primary implementing line agencies will
be the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Trade, INSTAT, Ministry of
Education and Science, Ministry of Agriculture and Food, Ministry of Health, the Department of
Public Administration, and the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs.
107. Overall monitoring of the program will be through regular reviews, in collaboration with the
GPRS Technical Secretariat, and in the context of the preparation and supervision of the subsequent
PRSCs. A week long workshop in February 2000 served as the basis for an action plan for
finalizing principal indicators to be tracked during the program, the related data sources, and the
responsible parties.
108.   Simple input/output indicators will largely be tracked through administrative information
and program reviews. Outcome and impact indicators will largely be tracked through survey data,
especially through the forthcoming LSMS and follow on panel surveys that are an integral part of
the GPRS program.
109. Whether IDA will proceed with the PRSC-2 will be determined, inter alia, by satisfactory
progress made against the following triggers:
* Maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework
* Launching a study of administrative barriers to investors entry and initiation of
streamlining administrative procedures to investors entry



- 47 -
*  Submission to Parliament of a pension policy package acceptable to IDA addressing
overall, longer-term projected problems of coverage, affordability, equity and adequacy
in the pension system including a schedule of specific changes in such parameters as
indexation, contribution rates, urban/rural differentials, and benefit reductions for those
who retire on early pension
*  Completion of fully satisfactory Living Standards Measurement Survey and compilation
of related data set
* 2003 health budget increases in real terms relative to 2002 consistent with MTEF, and
based on a satisfactory human resources management plan and health facility recurrent
cost analysis, including an increase in targeted public health programs, operations and
maintenance, and staff salaries
* Maintaining satisfactory child vaccination, female tetanus toxoid and Rubella coverage
(target: over 90 percent) by increasing Government budget allocation to the program to
compensate for reduction in donor contribution
* 2003 recurrent education budget increases in real terms relative to 2002, consistent with
MTEF, and based on a satisfactory human resources management plan (see Letter of
Development Policy).
* Develop a textbook policy for education sector acceptable to Government and IDA (see
LDP), including a textbook rental scheme, and competitively bid procurement of
textbook publishing and printing
* Amend the Law on the Status of Civil Servants to address the conditions under which
civil servants may take extended leave of absence from their positions
*  Submit to Parliament the Law on Internal Audit and begin implementation
* Public Procurement Agency (PPA) completes a participative process for developing and
agreeing on a more adequate legislative framework for the organization and functioning
of public procurement in Albania. Key milestones to be achieved are submitting to
Parliament (i) a Law on the Organization and Functioning of the PPA, as well as (ii)
complementary amendments required to the Law on Public Procurement, both of which
are acceptable to IDA
* Submit a draft law on Prefects consistent with "The Status of the Civil Servant Law" and
the "Law on Organization and Functioning of Local Governments".



- 48 -
E.   Tranching
110. The proposed Credit of SDR 16.0 million will be released in one tranche, expected by July
2002. The Credit will be on standard IDA terms: 40 year maturity and 10 year grace period.
F. Disbursement
111.  In accordance with the Operational Directive on the Simplification of Disbursement Rules
under Structural Adjustment and Sectoral Adjustment Loans (February 8, 1996), disbursements will,
not be linked to specific purchases, and there will therefore be no procurement requirements.
Disbursements under the Credit will be subject to a standard negative list of ineligible goods and
countries of origin. Disbursements will be made through payments to a deposit account of the
Ministry of Finance in the National Bank of Albania. If after deposit in this account, the Credit
proceeds are used for ineligible purposes, the Association will require the Borrower to either (a)
return that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes; or (b) return that amount directly to
IDA, in which case IDA will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the credit. Although IDA
will not routinely require an audit of the deposit account, it reserves the right to require an audit by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA. In such a case, audit reports would be submitted to IDA no
more than six months after the date of IDA's request. The expected closing date of the proposed
PRSC is December 30, 2003.
G. Environmental Aspects
112.  The proposed operation has been rated a structural adjustment credit governed under
Operational Directive 8.60, and does not require an environmental assessment rating. The project
team has endeavored to identify any areas that may require particular attention with respect to
environmental issues.
113.  In Albania there is an increasing appreciation of the country's environmental problems. The
GPRS mentions the following as being of particular concern:
* Access to adequate quality piped water and sewerage connections, especially in rural areas.
* Insufficient availability of key natural resources among rural poor, including land, water,
pasture and fisheries.
* Affordable commercial energy for the poor.
* Inadequate infrastructure for illegal dwellings with consequent environmental degradation
and health hazards.
* Presence of environmental 'hot spots', where individuals face serious health risks from land
and water contamination.
114. These emerged from an active dialogue between the Government and NGOs, partly
facilitated by the Bank and DFID. Indeed, the discussion of environmental issues in the GPRS is
more comprehensive than one finds in the same document in most other countries. Recently the
role of the environment has received a boost by the upgrading of the former National Environmental
Agency to a Ministry of Environment, with an enhanced role in national policy making and an
increase in its budget.



- 49 -
115.  At this point, the new Ministry remains a relatively weak organization that lacks the capacity
to enforce environmental laws and formulate policy effectively. Furthermnore, its mandate vis-a-vis
other ministries with environmental responsibilities is not entirely clear and indeed its internal
organizational structure has yet to be established. Some support in setting up these institutional
arrangements will be required. Fortunately, there are a number of donors willing to provide that
support. As noted above, The Ministry will receive some external support from the British, Italian,
and Canadian governments. The Bank is also considering a project that will, inter alia, provide
assistance in areas where other donors are not active: the use of economic instruments for
environmental protection, strategic environmental assessments, improved monitoring and
compliance, environmental liability for past damage in the context of privatization and
improvements in the system of issuance of environmental licenses. This will be decided in the
context of preparing the upcoming CAS.
116.  In addition to ongoing projects in the forestry, fishery and water and biodiversity sectors the
Bank will develop programs in the following areas:
* The Government is addressing the problem of the handling and disposal of medical waste by
introducing an Environmental Management Plan and Medical Waste Management Plan into
the Master plan and Design of Tirana University Hospital, which will subsequently be
adapted as a facility standard for all future health facilities investment. This initiative is
being supported under the IDA Health System Recovery and Development Project (Cr.
30670).
* A planned Power Rehabilitation and Restructuring project will make an assessment of the
environmental impact of the investment to be undertaken by the project.
117.  The new Bank project referred to above will also provide direct support for remediation for
one of the five most urgent environmental hotspots and for mobilizing other donors to assist with
the remaining sites.
H.    Social Impact Analyses
118. As noted above, the GPRS and PRSC programs will develop much needed local capacity in
undertaking analyses of program related policy impacts on social groups through support of a 2002
LSMS and poverty assessment, a five year household survey strategy, including follow-on panel
surveys and a second LSMS, development of poverty monitoring capacity (drawing in part on the
data to be available from the LSMS), development of local data user groups, establishment of a
poverty monitoring unit, and strengthened capacity of policy and planning units in the line
ministries. A comprehensive dialogue on the link of the program to the Millenium Development
Goals (MDG's) has been initiated. Specific social impact analyses that have contributed to the
design of the PRSC with respect to sectoral diagnoses and strategies are summarized in Table 5.



- 50 -
Table 5: Albania - Social Impact Analyses C mpleted or Underway
Completed or Nearly Completed                        Planned or In Process
INSTAT Poverty Diagnosis for Albania (supported  Review of Impact of Proposed Energy Reforms on
GPRS) - 2001, based in part on Living Conditions  Households (forthcoming TA under IDA Energy Project,
Survey (1998) and Multiple Indicators Cluster Survey  RFP's issued)
(2000)_________________________
Qualitative Assessment of Poverty in Albania; Hermiine  Poverty Assessment (FY03)
De Soto, et. al; 2001. (In progress - first draft available.)
Study of Social Assistance; Harold Alderman; 1998  Five-year program for LSMS/panel survey (funded by
DFID and IDA-financed Social Service Delivery
Project)
Beneficiary Assessment for the Albanian Development Social Service  Delivery  Project - will support
Fund Rural Microcredit Component; Elena Galliano et. monitoring and evaluation of social services
al.; 1998.
Beneficiary  Assessment for the  Albanian  Rural Social assistance targeting study to be included under
Development Project Infrastructure Works Component; the PRSC
Elena Galliano, 1998.
Albania: Filling the Vulnerability Gap, ESW; Gloria La  Poverty and Admnistrative Data Mapping planned by
Cava; 1999                                       the Government (pilot administrative data mapping has
been carried out in one district)
Albania's Education Sector: Problems and Promise; Sue  Various initiatives planned under the Education Reform
Berryman; May 2000                               Project, including utilizing census mformation in
updated school mapping exercise.
School mapping database; supported by the IDA- Various initiatives planned under the Health Recovery
financed Education Reform Project                Project, including (i) a clinical access/utilization study
and a beneficiary satisfaction study; and (ii) staff survey
to evaluate the impact of personnel policy changes on
job retention, and satisfaction rates among key health
professionals.
Financing, Efficiency and Equity in Albanian Education; A participatory monitoring and evaluation study of the
Geremia Palomba and Milan Vodopivec; WB Technical health sector, to serve as a pilot for such studies in the
Paper 512; 2001                                  future (FY02, ECSSD).
Governument's Health Strategy; supported by WHO;
2000
Albania: Vulnerability and Needs Assessment; Elena
Galliano, et. al.; 2000. Used for the preparation of the
Social Service Delivery Project.
Household Welfare, the Labor Market, and Social
Programs in Albania; Rashid, et. al.; 2001
Social Assessment for the Albania Agricultural Services
Project; Hermine De Soto, 2001
Social Assessment for the Albania Municipal Water and
Sanitation Project; Hermine De Soto, et. al.; 2001
Social  Assessment  for  the  Albania   Fisheries
Development Project; De Soto; 2001.
Analysis of social insurance reforms through Callund
model, PROST. Most recently: IMF study by Instituto
per la Richerche Sociale. A consultant trust fund has
been secured to continue PROST modeling of pension
system
2001 Census (INSTAT)



- 51 -
L     Poverty Impact
119. This program is designed to have a notable beneficial impact on medium term poverty
trends in Albania by:
*  Strengthening the Govemment's capacity to monitor and evaluate poverty trends in
Albania, and to formulate effective policy responses;
* Enhancing access to and quality of key social services currently in crisis, especially
education and health;
*  Improving the sustainability and adequacy of social insurance programs;
*  Strengthening the prospects for private sector development and growth; and
* Improving the targeting efficiency and impact of social assistance and social care
services.
J. Gender
120. Gender issues will be considered carefully during PRSC preparation given their importance
to growth and poverty reduction. They will also be reviewed during the forthcoming LSMS and
planned poverty assessment (mid-2002), the latter to include a Country Gender Assessment. It is
expected that this operation will address a range of gender issues through activities such as:
* Ensuring that education and health policy provides equal access across genders.
* Improving the provision of reproductive and family health services under the health
care reform.
* Reviewing the equity of the pension system, including the gender dimension.
* Support to social services policy, in coordination with the SSDP, including ensuring
a policy framework conducive to alleviating abuse against women and children and
towards providing services to those suffering physical or other domestic abuse.
* Strengthening the participation of women's groups in the political process through
continued development of the participatory frameworks initiated under the GPRS.
K. Benefits and Risks
121.  The primary benefits of the proposed operation are:
* More efficient and effective policy formulation, monitoring and evaluation in sectors
that have a major fiscal and social impact (i.e., education, rural, health, social
protection), and that account for a large percentage of GDP and budgetary
expenditure;



- 52 -
*  Through  the supported  public administration  reforms, redeployment and
reorientation of line ministry staff to better deliver services and implement policy;
*  Improved targeting of benefits through better policy monitoring;
*  Improved public expenditure management and strategic allocation of resources
through MTEF mechanism;
*  Through implementation of the MTEF sector strategies, improved quality and access
of key social services (especially education and health);
*  Meaningful involvement of civil society and the private sector in the formulation of
policy priorities; and
*  Support for anti-corruption efforts through: (i) the transparency of GPRS preparation
and active civil society involvement in program development and monitoring; (ii)
reforms in service delivery that give greater voice to communities in decision-
making (i.e., education, social services); and (iii) public administration reform,
especially through development of a professional civil service.
122.  The primary risks of the proposed operation are:
*  The multi-sectoral nature of this operation presents implementation risks, as it will
require close cooperation between the line agencies. Care is being taken to ensure
the maximum possible ownership of the GPRS/PRSC agenda by engaging the GPRS
inter-Ministerial working group and through regular consultations with civil society
and donors.
* Failure to maintain macroeconomic stability could result in high inflation and
interest rates. Reduction in the interest of foreign investors in key privatization
projects could lead to lower budgetary resources and larger budget deficits in the
short term. Also, political economy constraints could delay the reform process of the
pension system. These could be addressed through further fiscal adjustment, and
through public information efforts coordinated by the Ministry of Labor and Social
Affairs and the Social Insurance Institute.
* Delays in reforms of the energy sector, that are expected to significantly reduce the
current gap between demand and supply, could lead to larger than expected imports.
This, together with the reduction in the flow of remittances that would result from a
slowdown in the economies of the European countries, particularly those where
Albanians are working, could put at risk the balance of payments financing. The
Bank is monitoring developments in the energy reform program closely and is
providing related implementation support through the ongoing IDA Power
Transmission and Distribution project, as well as the Power Sector Rehabilitation
and Restructuring Project to be presented to Board along with this operation. Energy
reform is also being addressed under the IMF PRGF program.



- 53 -
* The line ministries are heavily burdened and have a tradition of high turnover and
weak capacity at all levels, which could further complicate implementation. The
Program has been designed to be realistic, and to strengthen capacity in the line
ministries through targeted institutional reforms supported by a range of parallel IDA
projects (Public Administration Reform Project, Education Reform Project, etc.), as
well as through reforms in personnel management and compensation.
*  To reduce the substantial risks that corruption poses to the economic reform
program, the Government is implementing a comprehensive anti-corruption reform.
The Bank support for institution building and the civil service reform program, as
well as the substantial EU program to support anti-corruption activities such as
judicial reform, are expected to facilitate the Government's efforts. The PRSC
program on improving core public sector functions and institutional development
will also reduce opportunities for corruption (see Paragraphs 81 f)
* Policymakers may not utilize the enhanced policy development capacity - traditional
political economy considerations could outweigh sophisticated policy analyses. This
risk is not unique to Albania, and can be mitigated through effective communication
strategies (i.e., by appending convincing and clear analyses to legislative proposals
sent to Parliament as supported under this and related IDA operations) and through
continued IDA participation in the broader policy dialogue.
*  The region remains unstable, with recent low level conflicts gradually easing in FYR
Macedonia. There has been a clear shift towards increasing regional stability, but the
potential for renewed conflict should not be entirely ruled out.
* The Program will require sufficient donor support and alignment with the agreed
strategy. The Government and IDA team have worked hard to ensure close donor
coordination through the development of a GPRS donor's group and a March 2001
Consultative Group meeting.
123. To reduce these risks, the IDA would deepen the ongoing dialogue with the Government on
structural reforms necessary to increase growth and reduce poverty. Subsequent IDA operations
would sustain and deepen the reforms initiated under this operation. In addition, IDA would
continue to work closely with the other donors and the NGOs to assist the Government in
mobilizing the technical assistance needs to adopt and implement the policy measures supported by
this Credit. The technical assistance being provided under the Judicial and Public Administration
Projects would also help the Government in implementing the needed institutional reform measures.
The inter-ministerial and technical working group that was established for the preparation of the
GPRS will continue its work during the implementation of this Credit and will assist improving
coordination among the implementing agencies.



- 54-
Schedule
Identification/Discussion Mission       May 2001
ICM Discussion Draft                    July 2001
Pre-appraisal                           October 2001
OC meeting                              January 2002
Appraisal                               February 2002
Negotiations                            April 2002
Board Presentation                      June 2002



Annex 1
Page 1 of 18
GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
MAY 7,2002
The National Strategy for Economic and Social Development
I.    The Albanian National Strategy for Economic and Social Development or Growth and
Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS), which was publicly disseminated in November 2001, is a
medium-term development strategy that focuses on poverty reduction through sustainable and
inclusive economic growth. The GPRS reflects acute problems encountered in the course of
development, which are especially related to poverty. It also reflects the special importance
attached by the govemment and other stakeholders to the need to tackle these problems.
2.     The principles underlying the preparation and the implementation of the Strategy are: i)
harmonization with the country's long - term development objectives and its European
integration, ii) prioritization of policy actions, iii) the Strategy's dynamic character, iv)
"Albanian" ownership of the Strategy and cooperation with the partners involved in the
development of the country.
3.     Being a basic factor for the development, modernization of the economy, and Albania's
preparation for its European integration, growth is a fundamental objective of the Strategy.
However the need to address the most acute problems as well as time and financial constraint
necessitate the prioritization of the Strategy's objectives and its corresponding public measures.
4.     The GPRS main objectives are
Annual real per capita GDP growth of about 7 percent during 2002 to 2004;
Reduction of the number of the people living in poverty with aim of alleviating poverty, in
particular, for worst - affected social groups and areas;
* Tangible improvement of vital services to the population especially in suburban and rural
areas;
* Reduction of infantile and maternal mortality and disease levels;
* Increase of the level of 8 - year education enrollment and average schooling period.
5.     Taking into the account the multidimensional character of poverty, its worrisome level,
especially in certain areas and groups of the population, the hitherto achievements and failures in
the transition reforms and the effects of direct poverty reduction policies implemented during the
past decade, the Albanian government considers it necessary to show special attention and
commitment to the reduction of poverty. The reduction of poverty implies i) the increase of
income and employment opportunities for the poor, as well as improved access to services such
as health and education; ii) the increase of their participation and the strengthening of their voice
in governing institutions and iii) enhanced security for the poor.  In order to increase
opportunities for the poor, the government will focus on stimulating inclusive economic growth
through the promotion of private investments, continued structural reforms, continued policies for
economic openness and integration, promotion of education, improvement of public health and



Annex 1
Page 2 of 18
the development of the rural and urban areas. In order to bring public institutions closer to the
poor and to strengthen the voice of the poor, the government will continue its institutional
reforms. In order to enhance the security for the poor, the government will reform the programs
of economic assistance, social care, support for the poor, and employment promotion, and will
encourage the strengthening of the structures of the social capital.
6.     The GPRS recognizes that inclusive growth and poverty reduction require a sound
macroeconomic framework and sustainable fiscal policy. In this.regard, it aims to balance the
poverty reduction objectives against the need to ensure macroeconomic stability (see next
section). Main priorities under the GPRS in support of poverty reduction include: i) re-orienting
expenditure toward poverty-sensitive areas - in particular health and education, where indicators
have deteriorated sharply since the beginning of transition; ii) improving vital infrastructure, in
particular provision of electricity and water, which are key requirements for both the welfare of
households and supporting productive capacity; iii) strengthening governance and public
administration, including reform of the civil service; iv) deepening market institutions and
fostering private investment, in particular FDI; and v) promoting rural development, and
agriculture and agro-processing activities.
7.     There is a close relationship between GPRS and Poverty Reduction Support Credit
(PRSC) because the PRSC supports the issues raised in the GPRS that have the greatest
likelihood to reduce poverty. The promotion of sustainable growth and private sector
development (PRSC first component), improving the quality and access of social services (PRSC
third component), and improving core public sector common functions and institutional
arrangements (PRSC fourth component), are three pillars of the GPRS and the strengthening
policy monitoring and evaluation (PRSC second component) is the condition which will provide
the dynamism and the success of the program. Based on an analysis of the issues, objectives,
strategies, and outcomes of all of them, these are activities that are mutually supportive of one
another.
Our Programfor a new three-year IAF arrangement under the Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility (PRGF)
8.     Albania macroeconomic policies for 2002 - 2004 will aim to support robust GDP growth
while maintaining low inflation and ensuring financial viability. Our recently negotiated three-
year PRGF arrangement with the IMF aims for strong GDP growth around 7 percent annually
while maintaining low inflation ensuring fiscal sustainability. To sustain high GDP growth, we
intend to proceed rapidly with structural reforms, to improve governance, and to complete the
privatization of remaining strategic enterprises. We realize that achieving high growth is subject
to risks, particularly from the uncertain energy situation, but we are confident that the pursuit of
rigorous reform of the electricity sector will control these risks. Furthermore, our prudent
medium -term policy framework will mitigate the impact of external uncertainties. Monetary
policy will be aimed at maintaining inflation within a target range of 2 - 4 percent. Fiscal policy
will be cautious, with a continued strengthening of revenue collection allowing simultaneously
for increased spending in priority areas and steady decline in the deficit. The overall deficit will
be reduced from 2001 to 2004 by 3 percentage points of GDP. International reserves are
envisaged to remain at around 4.5 months of exports of goods, which is necessary given the
dependence of the balance of payments on potentially volatile workers remittances and official
transfers. The external current account is projected to narrow by about 1.5 percentage points of
GDP through the medium term. However, additional resources from the international commnunity
will be needed to ensure that the balance of payments is fully financed after 2002. The structural
reforms in support of sustainable growth and poverty reduction will focus on three key areas:



Annex 1
Page 3 of 18
completion of the remaining steps on the privatization agenda; comprehensive reform of the
electricity sector; and measures to improve the environment for private sector activity.
9.     This .etter now outlines the issues, strategies and actions related to the four PRSC
components.
Component Promoting Sustainable Growth and Private Sector Development
10.    Albania has been successful in maintaining overall macroeconomic stability in recent
years, but further efforts are needed with respect to fiscal consolidation to reduce domestic debt.
Despite a relatively high budget deficit (around 9 percent of GDP), expenditures remain
compressed and significantly below what is needed in a number of priority sectors (e.g. health,
education, operations and maintenance). Increased domestic revenues through improvements in
tax and customs administration will have to be the primary basis for sustaining an adequate level
of public investment and for increasing spending on priority areas.
IL.    The pension deficit is financed through the state budget, and improved sustainability of
the system will contribute to the Government's overall fiscal objectives. Reducing the subsidy to
the pension system will not only make it easier to protect current pension benefits and reduce the
high tax burden on current families that contribute, but it will also free up scarce resources for
other priority investments in the economy, such health, energy, education, water and sanitation.
12.    While the country has made progress, there remains a lack of consistent and transparent
implementation of laws and enforcement of laws and contracts. Furthermore, many business
regulations remain tedious - thereby increasing barriers to entry, the potential for corruption, the
lack of adequate infrastructure, cause investors to view investments in Albania as more costly
than in other transition economies.
13.    At present, the level of credit to the private sector is low, capital markets are
underdeveloped, and the regulatory framework for non-bank financial institutions remains
incomplete. The privatization of the National Commercial Bank in 2000 was an important step,
but the privatization of the banking sector needs to be completed with the sale of the Savings
Bank (SB) which is expected in 2002. The continued involvement of the state in the insurance
sector (INSIG) also needs to be addressed.
14.    The privatization of state-owned enterprises needs to be completed. Following the sale of
AMC in 2000, a second phone license was sold to a joint Anglo-Greek company earlier this year.
Concession agreements have been signed for both the chrome and copper mines - with Darfo and
a Turkish company, respectively. Elbasan water supply has been privatized.
15.   Intensified reform efforts are needed to accelerate the pace of growth in the agriculture
sector, since has been the dominant sector in the GDP growth rate. Over the next few years, the
rural sector will likely continue to be the main source of employment and income growth for the
poor. The agriculture sector still needs to tackle serious structural problems in order to improve
productivity and employment opportunities. These efforts need to be complemented by policies
and programs aimed at the development of the non-farm rural economy.
16.    The energy crisis has wide-ranging economic and social implications. The increasing
burden of low revenue collection and high cost of imports has put KESH in a state of financial
crisis, and has resulted in unsustainable budgetary implications. The significant electricitv



Annex 1
Page 4 of 18
shortages are not only causing hardship for the people but are also adversely affecting industria
output and the overall investment climate.
17.   To maintain macroeconomic stability under the PRSC the Government will adopt the
macroeconomic measures under the PRGF. In particular, the fiscal deficit is targeted to decline
from about 8.0 percent of GDP in 2002 to about 7.2 percent in the two following years. Fiscal
adjustment will be achieved primarily through higher revenues - tax revenues are expected to
increase from 16 percent of GDP in 2001 to 18 percent of GDP during 2002-2004. Expenditure
will remain roughly constant at about 32.3 percent of GDP. The government will continue to use
the MTEF process to further increase the strategic focus of public expenditures and to increase
their efficiency. As a result of the projected fiscal adjustment, public debt is expected to decline
over the medium-term.
18.   The current account deficit is expected to widen in 2002 to 8.2 percent of GDP, but to
decline thereafter to below 7 percent of GDP by 2004, reflecting a significantly improved trade
balance brought about by higher exports. Official transfers are expected to decrease, with an
increase in foreign direct investment partially compensating for this decline. Gross international
reserves are expected to be maintained at around 4.5 months of imports.
19.   Private sector development - To improve private sector development the govemment
program is focused on: (i) improving the business environment for private sector activities
through adoption and implementation of the new bankruptcy law and other laws and regulation
related to the new bankruptcy law; to better enforce the rule of law and protect property rights;
(ii) developing institutional requirements to promote investment through establishing an
investment promotion agency - with assistance from FIAS; and (iii) continuing with the
privatization program. The Govemment will also institute and publish a semi-annual business
environment survey. The government will request from the IFC's Foreign Investment Advisory
Service (FIAS) to carry out a study of administrative barriers to investment. The Govemment
will also need to complete the first time registration of the land, and set measures in place to
address property registration disputes in a standardized way, reviewed legislation related to
property registration and addressed shortcomings where identified and automated the immovable
registration process. It needs to strengthen research and extension activities to increase
productivity of private rural enterprises, complete the legal framework for the resolution of debt
and commercial disputes, finalize the "business plan" for immovable property registration system
for improving security of titles and develop measures for continued strengthening of non farm
rural business development and community based productivity innovations
20.    To carry out the energy sector crisis a two-year action plan developed in collaboration
with the donor community puts emphasis on reducing demand for electricity and improving the
financial performance of the Albanian Electroenergetic Corporation (KESH) through measures to
reduce non-technical electricity losses and improve collection of electricity bills, and by
encouraging the utilization of other energy sources. The successful implementation of the first
year of the plan has produced noticeable improvements, and the plan has been revised to cover
the succeeding two years (2002 and 2003). The impact of higher energy costs on vulnerable
household will be assessed based on the results of a household survey, and appropriate mitigation
measures will be developed. The Strategic Action Plan prepared by a task force appointed by the
government recommends reforms to strengthen the Energy Regulatory Agency, unbundle KESH
and subsequently corporatize the unbundled companies, select and realize a model for the
commercial electricity market, and prepare for privatization of the power sector and the
construction of new power plants by private investors. The Government plans to develop and
adopt a policy paper setting out in greater detail the specifics of the power sector reform program



Annex 1
Page 5 of 18
followed by implementation of the program with the assistance of the donor community. The
government plans to develop and adopt a policy statement setting out in greater detail the
specifics of the power sector reform program, including the selection of an appropriate model for
the commercial electricity market, followed by implementation of the program with the assistance
of the donor community. The govermnent intends to request additional financial support from
donors and international financial institutions, including IDA, to support its'efforts to with
critically-needed investments and to carry out sector reforms.
Pension Reform
21.    A pension reform that aims to reduce the reliance of the pension system on budgetary
transfers, while promoting adequate incomes, should be a key aspect of fiscal consolidation. The
pension system has distinct schemes for employees, urban self-employed workers, and rural self-
employed workers (farmers). The overall pension system deficit is effectively financed through
the state budget. In pensions, five key issues need to be addressed. First, the pension system's
deficit amounts to about one percent of GDP, and projections suggest that this deficit will worsen
over time if reforms are not implemented.  Second, although rural pensions (which are
extensively cross-subsidized) account for one-fifth of the pension system deficit, they also play an
important role in poverty alleviation and as a social safety net for the elderly in rural areas. Third,
compliance is low, and high social insurance contribution rates discourage willing participation in
the pension scheme and in formal employment. Fourth, there seems little prospect of creating
either supplementary private pension funds for higher-income employees or a second-pillar fund
for rural farmers within a medium-term framework. This is because of the lack of satisfactory
regulatory capacity to oversee the accumulation of assets and the paying out of pensions by
institutions managing such funds. Fifth, in the absence of reform the share of the retired
population covered by the pension system will drop substantially in the longer term (3040 years),
raising a longer term issue with respect to protection of future elderly. This is because work prior
to 1993 was deemed to be contributory but a large part of the current workforce does not
contribute.
22.    As part of our overall economic strategy, the Government is focusing on developing a
comprehensive pension reform program. The program aims: (a) to reduce the contribution rates
for employees' pensions and other social insurance benefits; (b) to change the base for assessing
contributions so as to increase collections for employees' pensions [specifically, by raising the
ceiling on contributions from 3 times the minimum contribution wage (MCW) to 5 times MCW;
(c) to improve performance in collecting pension contributions owed to SII by workers, private
employers, and state-owned enterprises through legislative changes and more aggressive
enforcement; (d) to equalize pensions for self-employed rural and urban workers over the longer
term - rural and urban participants would pay the same contributions and receive pensions based
on the same benefit calculation; (e) as a part of that process, to increase not only future rural
pensions but also currently awarded rural pensions more rapidly than urban pensions, and also to
increase their levels substantially in real terms; (f) to raise contribution rates over time for self-
employed rural workers so that they reach those for the urban self-employed, which would entail
a roughly ten-fold increase in rates; and (g) to move gradually to a system, after 2015, in which
only contributors will receive new rural pension benefits.
23.    Although some aspects of this program [especially items (a) - (c)] will clearly help move
the pension system in desirable directions, we are still concerned about the fiscal sustainability of
the system and its long-term level of coverage of the population. Our reform will aim to address
the particular concerns that are noted below.



Annex 1
Page 6 of 18
*  Retirement Age Component. The program will now include a further increase of five
years in the retirement ages for men and women, which past simulations have shown
will be necessary for long-term financial viability. Such an increase would take 10
years to phase in, and would commence in July 2002. There will be an early
retirement option, with the structure of that option to be finalized under the PRSC-2
program. The Albanian Parliament approved the related legislation on April 25,
2002.
*  Risk of Declining Rural Participation. Raising contributions for farmers to the level
for urban self-employed is likely to cause many - and perhaps most - farmers to
cease participating in the rural pension scheme.  A  significant decrease in
participation of rural contributors, if it occurred, would lower the long-run coverage
for rural pensions. The PRSC program will identify options for addressing this
potential issue.
*  Issues Related to Increasina Current Rural Pensions. We intend to examine the
extent to which the proposed equalization will benefit current retirees, who did not
pay the higher contribution rates under our program. We also intend to examine
further the fiscal impact of further real increases in rural pensions.
*  Indexation Policy. Increases in current pensions are presently enacted after an open
annual review by Government and Parliament. The PRSC program will support the
identification and implementation of a fiscally sound pension indexation policy,
likely to be based on a calculation involving price and wage adjustments.
* Need to Simulate Long-Run effects of Pronosed Package of Changes. The long-
term, combined effects of packages of significant changes in pension systems are
hard to estimate accurately without the benefit of simulations based on computerized
models of the pension system. An improved pension simulation model is in the final
stages of preparation by a team of Italian consultants and an analysis of the results
obtained from its use is expected shortly. We intend to utilize this model to assess
the long-run implications of the package of measures proposed, and alternative
variations, using this methodology before committing the Government to its
adoption.
STRATEGY FOR REFORM
24.    With support of the PRSC program the Government would undertake several measures
with the objectives to: (a) introduce marginal parametric changes to the system under PRSC 1,
including a retirement age increase in 2002; (b) develop and introduce, on the basis of reliable
analysis, a second-round package of comprehensive pension reforms that address the overall,
longer-term problems of coverage, affordability, equity, and adequacy; (c) improve the
effectiveness and efficiency of operations within the Social Insurance Institute (SII), including
improving performance in collecting mandated contributions; and (d) reassess the structure of
rural pensions and income support for the rural elderly and introduce appropriate changes in the
short-to-medium term. This work will build on recent technical analyses of the pension system.
The reforms will be designed within the constraints of an "unfunded" or "pay-as-you-go" pension
system in which, in every year, current contributions must cover current pensions. To make
retirement incomes more adequate and encourage participation in the current, unfunded "first



Annex    1
Page 7 of 18
pillar" of the pension system, the Government plans to examine the scope (and prerequisites) for
an eventual supplementary voluntary funded pillar with eligibility restricted to first-pillar
participants. In addition, the Government will conduct a study to examine the impact and
effectiveness of each of rural pensions, urban pensions, and cash economic assistance benefits
(ndihme ekonomike) as ways to channel and target income support to poor people within each
program's intended target group. More specifically, the Government will:
* Increase the ceiling on contributory wage for employee pension scheme from 3 times
Minimum Contributory Wage to 5 times Minimum Contributory Wage.
* Increase the retirement age by six months per year, commencing July 2002, for a
period of ten years until the retirement age is 60 for women and 65 for men, with an early
retirement option to be finalized under PRSC-2. The early retirement option will be
based on a full, comprehensive review of the equity, adequacy and sustainability of any
reductions in lifetime pensions to be placed on those who choose to retire early, and will
be submitted to Parliament after IDA review by December 31, 2002.
* Limit the category of pensioners eligible for compensation payments for past price
increases to those with dependents who are either unemployed, children up to age 18, or
students up to 25 who are not in employment-categories chosen because of their
consistency with the European Convention on Social Security. This measure was
adopted in January 2002.
* Submit a MOLSA/SII work plan acceptable to IDA for resolving outstanding issues
in pension reform
* Complete a pension policy model that is satisfactory to IDA. This measure has been
completed.
*  Develop and adopt a strategy for improving collections performance. The SII has
undertaken a range of measures to improve its collections, including developing new
information systems on work histories and enhancing collaboration with the state labor
inspectorate.
* Issue an agreement outlining specific mechanisms through which SII and General
Tax Directorate could enhance collaboration, share information, and undertake common
actions to improve collections. SII and the GTD have entered into ajoint contract to
enhance information exchanges, joint audits, and other collection actions.
* Submit to IDA by Government a satisfactory study design and work program to
analyze the direct impact of urban pensions, rural pensions and targeted social assistance
on both urban and rural poverty and whether internal or external migration affect this
impact.
PRSC COMPONENT 2: STRENGTHENING POLICY MONITORING AND
EVALUATION
25.    At present, the Government lacks information and data needed to develop and monitor
policy, and the capacity to evaluate that information in order to strengthen the strategic



Annex 1
Page   8 of 18
orientation of its overall policy agenda. In addition, it has difficulty setting and tracking those
monitoring priorities that are of primary interest to key stakeholders (within and outside of the
Government) as well as the broader public. The likely effectiveness of a poverty reduction and
growth strategy and related legislative agenda is therefore seriously diminished.
26.   Sustainable capacity to monitor agreed indicators is largely absent, though a number of
promising efforts to establish such capacities have recently been launched. The Government lacks
a regular household survey, and has been relying instead on a variety of ad hoc surveys that are
inconsistent and periodic. There are sources of administrative data available, but they are not of
uniform reliability or relevance and often cover only the people receiving services while
excluding those who miss out. Line ministries and agencies do not always fully appreciate the
importance and usefulness of statistical information to policy and program development and
implementation. When statistical information is available, there is little internal expertise
available to undertake the requisite analysis. Ministerial policy analysis and development
departments are now being established under the public administration reform program.
Strategy for Strengthening Poliy Montoring and Evaiuadon
27.    Our objective is to reform the development and implementation of new policy initiatives
through improved and policy-relevant monitoring of the impact and effectiveness of Government
programs. This will require both: (a) development of institutional arrangements and practices that
facilitate reaching agreement among key stakeholders regarding what impacts should be
monitored and how; and (b) development of the capacity to collect, analyze and disseminate
reliable, useful and timely statistical and other data to monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of
the Government's policy agenda. The component will also support new approaches, such as data
and indicator mapping instruments, that can be used to assist central and local authorities to
allocate resources more effectively.
28.   One important element of strengthening policy monitoring and evaluation is developing
the executive branch's capacity to produce reliable statistical information on a regular basis to
measure and monitor poverty, inequality, and other key social indicators. As part of this effort,
INSTAT will now design and implement a regular system of household-level data collection,
starting with a first LSMS in Spring 2002. The Living Conditions Division of INSTAT will be in
charge of the surveys, which will be implemented with the technical assistance provided by DFID
and the World Bank. To enhance the relevance of the information to be collected, strengthen
analytical capacity among potential users and improve cooperation among the different
institutions, a Data User Group (DUG) has been formed in preparation of the 2002 LSMS with
the participation of several line ministries and research institutions. The 2002 LSMS will be
followed by annual panel surveys on a sub-sample of households and will be repeated after three
years. In order to institutionalize the effort and enhance the sustainability of the system, INSTAT
will include the proposed panel household survey in its next 5-year Strategic Plan of Statistics.
Additional work is envisaged to produce indicator and data maps based on a combination of
administrative, census and survey information. The mapping exercise will provide an invaluable
tool to support and inform the decentralization process, and to improve the targeting and assess
the impact of Government programs and budgets. INSTAT will support this, but not manage it.
29.    The Government plans to establish as part of its GPRS process the monitoring units in
every line ministries, the Technical Secretariat of GPRS within the Ministry of Finance will be in
charge of monitoring of GPRS. The precise role of the monitoring units will be explored over the
course of preparation of the PRSC, with an eye to ensuring that it supports the fundamental



Annex 1
Page   9 of 18
objective of helping to establish sustainable capacity throughout the public administration for
policy-relevant monitoring and evaluation. The Government has also decided to establish a
poverty center in MOLSA. Finally, the Government is considering establishing regular
assessments of agency performance (i.e., service 'report cards' drawing from public surveys) to
improve the accountability of Government agencies before the public. In short, under the PRSC
supported programs the following measures will be adopted:
*    GPRS Technical Secretariat submits satisfactory three year plan to support policy
monitoring and evaluation of the GPRS and PRSC programs in defined sector ministries,
and covering objectives, indicators, inter- and intra-agency responsibilities, quantitative
and qualitative data sources, data uses, schedules, and related budget and investment
requirements.
*    Inter-agency Data User Group for LSMS and qualitative poverty monitoring
program established
Satisfactory implementation of LSMS preparation by INSTAT.
* The Government will introduce an adjustment of INSTAT salaries in July 2002 to
bring them in line with the salaries of high central institutions of the public administration,
and INSTAT salaries will continue to be maintained at levels that are fully aligned with
the rest of the civil service to facilitate the retention of high quality technical staff in
INSTAT.
* Defined sector ministries identify key staff to be part of ministerial Policy Units.
PRSC COMPONENT 3: IMPROVING QUALITY AND ACCESS OF SOCIAL
SERVICES
Subcomponent 1: Health Sector
30.    The Ministry of Health has prepared a ten-year strategy which provides a situational
analysis outlining in detail the many financing, quality, efficiency, and other challenges facing the
health system. The system faces severe difficulties on all access, quality, and sustainability
measures. Lines of managerial and financial subordination are problematic or unclear and
information systems on services and health outcomes are absent or inadequate. Service provision
is highly uneven, even at the primary health care level where much international aid has been
focused. The life expectancy has fallen and under five mortality rates and infant mortality rates
are now high - the causality is unclear but children appear to be suffering more than adults under
the transition. Through the PRSC programs, MOH will take the opportunity to undertake key
studies and prepare a more detailed implementation plans which will provide more explicit
program guidelines and which could serve as practical tools for achieving the strategic vision of
MOH with special attention to addressing and protecting the basic health needs of the most
vulnerable population during this difficult transition period.



Annex 1
Page 10 of 18
STRATEGY FOR HEALTH SECTOR
31.    The Government has harnessed the GPRS process to consolidate the priorities identified
in the earlier strategy, and intends to use the PRSC to support the most critical areas. Those areas
are as follows:
Improving the Effectiveness of Resource Allocation System
32.    The increase of public expenditure on health in budget allocation, under MTEF will need
to be accompanied by Government capacity building to monitor and track the budget to ensure
effective and efficient use of resources for the intended outputs. The GOA will introduce National
Health Accounts as a first step forward from the current historically-based budget system towards
a more output-oriented allocation of resources.
Reform of Health Financing System
33.    One of the pillars of health sector reform in Albania consists of the introduction of a
Health Insurance Institute, whose functions will be gradually expanded to become the foundation
for a national health insurance system which will ensure universal health coverage based on the
principles of equity, efficiency and quality of services.
34. - Refonn of health care financing system to support the decentralization process and
introduce performance based allocation of resources.
35.    The health insurance reform will require a long term strategy, but the improvement in the
design of the existing health insurance program to enhance the social protection aspect of the HII
is a concern that could be included within the PRSC framework.
Rationalization of the Health Delivery System
36.    New investment plans are needed based on agreed services standards and benefits
package, projected population movements and needs, and expected expansion in basic
infrastructure such as roads, electrification and water/sanitation services.
37.    Rehabilitation of selected facilities and projections of staffing, staff training and recurrent
budget requirements to ensure sustainability of these investments. This activity will be replicated
in other regions in subsequent years.
Targeted Public Health Interventions
38.    To improve the quality and efficiency of the health care delivery system, an number of
critical public health interventions have been identified that required special attention. These
activities will involve strengthening of critical public health programs through (a) increased
budget allocation; (b) qualitative improvements in the program; and (c) improved monitoring and
surveillance system to measure the impact of the new policies and programs on outcomes. The
Government measures for the health sector under the PRSC will include:
2002 budget increases relative to 2001, consistent with MTEF, including increases in
allocation for public health, operation & maintenance, and staff salaries
Establishment of interagency National Health Accounts (NHA) Task Force.



Annex 1
Page 11 of 18
Submission to IDA of a work plan for the preparation of a Regional Health master plan
for Tirana.
Maintain satisfactory level of child vaccination and female TT coverage by increasing
budget allocation to the program to compensate for phase reduction in donor
contribution. (MOH/UNICEF Agreement)
Submission to IDA of implementation plan for expanding DOTS for TB control
(MOH/WHO)
Order issued establishing Inter-Ministerial Committee on Road Safety
Maternal and child health programs, including family planning and vaccination programs
* Health Promotion and Prevention Programs for HIV/AIDS, Sexually Transmitted
Diseases; Tobacco Control Program; Improving Infant and Child nutrition (e.g.,
breastfeeding, weaning practice)
Subcomponent 2: Education Sector
39.    The primary issues in the education sector are (a) gross enrollment rates at the basic, but
especially at the secondary, levels of education and especially in the rural areas; (b) the
management and financing of the sector; and (c) the transparency of key decisions for the sector.
40.    Since the transition, gross enrollments rates have declined at all levels of education,
except for higher education where fulltime participation rates have remained relatively flat and
part-time rates have increased. Enrollment rates for upper secondary schools have declined the
most dramatically, but the change has not been the same for all types of schooling. Rural areas
have much lower enrollment rates than urban areas at the upper secondary and tertiary levels.
41.    Education spending has been limited to the bare essentials, at the expense of important
needs that have no immediate return such as maintenance of schools and equipment and teacher
training.  There is room to increase cost recovery at the tertiary level if schemes such as
scholarships are introduced to protect the access of poor students to this level of education. The
net savings to the public budget would depend on student fee levels and the costs of subsidizing
poor students. However, more money for education should be contingent on better management,
and at present the MOES is not structured to design, implement, and sustain improvement. As a
result, the Ministry has been unable to provide reform leadership for the sector.
42.    Social assessments show that beneficiaries and other stakeholders at community levels
distrust decisions in the education sector, seeing them as political and personalistic.
STRATEGY FOR EDUCATION SECTOR
43.    The strategy of the MOES for dealing with these issues during the period of the PRSC is
to: (i)improve the policy and program planning capacity of the sector; (ii)improve the financing
of the sector, contingent on progress on the first objective;(iii)increase affordability and quality of
basic and secondary education, especially in rural areas; and (iv)increase the transparency of
decisions made in the sector.



Annex I
Page 12 of 18
44.    The PRSC matrix for education has some conditionalities that require more specification
p  PRSC I has this condition: " DoPA and MoES establish a working group to
develop four MoES functions (policy analysis, planning and monitoring; financial
management; human resources management; textbook management, and the
working group specifies schedule and outputs required to complete task".
Completing this task requires:
p  Analyzing the functions of current units and positions in the Ministry in order to
generate an alternative structure and staffing for the functions of policy analysis,
planning and monitoring; financial management; human resources management;
and textbook management;
P  Writing job descriptions and performance evaluation criteria for each position
associated with these functions, and
> Estimating the recurrent and investment budgets required by these functions
45.    PRSC II has this trigger: " Complete a human resources management plan for 2003
satisfactory to MOF, DoPA, and IDA that inter alia, justifies any 2003 salary increase for
teachers and other education staff." A "human resources management plan" refers to packages of
policies designed to let a country manages its teaching labor force effectively. Such a package has
to include policies that address issues such as these:
Recruitment and selection (e.g. quality standards, transparency of the hiring
process, mechanisms for defining demand, and employment contracts);
Allocating or assigning staff or teaching position
Sustaining or improving teaching quality;
Teacher accountability (e.g. student learning assessments that links student
learning outcomes to teacher and school performance );
Mobility within the teaching force (e.g. career ladders, transfers between schools
and districts, promotion criteria);
Compensation ( e.g. standards for setting compensation for different levels of
education, teacher qualifications, subject taught);
Exit (e.g. retirement age and conditions, firing as part of downsizing); and
Use of complementary inputs (e.g. non-teaching staff, teaching materials and
facilities, distance learning).
46.    PRSC 11 has this trigger : Develop and adopt a textbook policy for education sector
acceptable to Government and IDA, including a textbook rental scheme, and competitively bid
procurement of textbook publishing and printing. A textbook policy addresses issues as these:
How the Ministry selects books to be published or reprinted,



Annex 1
Page 13 of 18
Standards for procuring textbooks services and associated bidding documents;
Specifications of quality standards for printing textbooks.
Feasibility of a textbook rental scheme for grades 12;
Textbook subsidy for poor families
47     Under the PRSC I, the following actions will be taken
2002 recurrent education budget as percent of GDP increases, consistent with
MTEF
DOPA and MOES establish a working group to develop four MOES functions
(policy analysis, planning and monitoring: financial management; human resources
management; and textbook management) and working group specifies schedule
and outputs to complete task.
Appoint chair and members of the textbook approval authority, and establish the
Ministry textbook procurement unit (director and staff)
Budget unit costs alternative schemes for providing free textbooks for students
from low income households
Prepare legislative framework required to establish secondary vocational programs
that reflect regional labor market needs
Subcomponent 3: Social Protection
48.    Social Assistance and Social Care. Social assistance policy concerns center on cash
assistance and social care services. Concerning social assistance, the primary challenge is to
overcome obstacles to effective targeting of ndihme ekonomike, a means-tested cash benefit for
the poorest families that roughly one-fifth of all families receive. For example, decentralization
of social assistance needs to be effectively managed, and we also intend to identify mechanisms
for ensuring work incentives for recipient families are maintained We recently committed to a
significant expansion of community-based services, and are developing a policy framework and a
sustainable financing system for these services under the IDA Social Services Delivery Project.
49.    Labor Market Services. Current labor market services provided through employment
offices are limited in their scope, in the infrastructure and institutional capacity that support them,
and in their geographic availability. Active labor market programs have recently been limited to
public employment programs through local governments. We intend to identify a limited set of
economically efficient and financially sustainable public policy measures to improve labor
market functioning, including: disseminating information on job-seekers and job-vacancies,
facilitating training in marketable skills and, possibly, facilitating carefully designed micro
demand-side measures that could support employment in economically effective ways.



Annex 1
Page 14 of 18
STRATEGY FOR SOCIAL PROTECTION
50.    Social Assistance and Social Care. The Government's strategy for decentralization will
need to address the issue of accountability for use of funds in nationally funded but locally
administered programs designed to accomplish nationally specified objectives.  The PRSC
program will support a study of how pensions (especially rural) and ndihma ekonomika affect
poverty and contribute to the multiple objectives of social assistance. The study will be used to
reassess the design of both cash assistance and rural pension programs, and to serve as the basis
for downstream policy changes. Following its review of policies on accountability within a
decentralized system, the delivery of effective social assistance through cash and community-
based service programs, and a framework for the sustainable financing of those programs, the
Program will assist the Government in designing a program to strengthen the capacity of the
administrative systems responsible for delivering these programs effectively.
51.    Labor Market Services. We will identify a limited set of economically efficient and
financially sustainable public policy measures to improve labor market functioning, including:
disseminating information on job-seekers and job-vacancies, facilitating training in marketable
skills and, possibly, facilitating micro demand-side measures to support employment.
Component 4: Improving Core Public Sector Functions and Institutional Arrangements
52.    Core public sector functions and institutional arrangements pose important challenges to
the Government's efforts to meet its GPRS objectives. These include policy formulation, public
expenditure management, human resource management and the institutional arrangements for
decentralized including provision of many important public services, which importantly impact
the poor. Key among these challenges are:
53.    Policy formulation process. Key challenges include: (i) focusing the policy proposal
preparation process more on policy issues, rather than legal issues; and (ii) making the policy
deliberation process more contestable.
54.    Strengthening  accountability  and the public expenditure management process
Weaknesses in public expenditure management process and basic budget support systems
complicate the task of line ministries in designing and implementing their priorities within a
predictable overall resource envelope. Key challenges include: (i) ensuring that recently initiated
efforts to create a transparent and contestable budget decision making process fully achieve their
objectives and become self-sustaining; (ii) improving the usefulness, quality, and timeliness of
information upon which budget decisions are made; and (iii) enhancing budget execution
transparency and accountability mechanisms, including accounting systems and audit practices,
as well as procurement systems and practices. Problems in public expenditure management are
further compounded by the ongoing decentralization efforts.
55.    Human resources within the public administration. While progress has been made, there
are important issues to be resolved with respect to public expenditure management and policy
development capacities that limit the ability of Albania's public administration to attract,
motivate, retain and effectively manage the human capital skills required to meet its ambitious
GPRS objectives.
56.    Decentralization. While a basic legal framework is already in place, complementary
regulation for an effective and sustainable decentralization is still a challenge. The government
will proceed with the implementation of strategic measures, by designing and implementing a
rational sequencing of policies that can complete the basic regulatory framework and break



Annex 1
Page 15 of 18
resistances that otherwise would rise and delay the implementation process of decentralizing
decision-making powers. The government is aware that in the present circumstances successful
implementation of a fiscal decentralization that protect the poor will demand considerable
capacity building effort. This requires that we proceed with a more detailed specification of
expenditure responsibilities (which takes into account the peculiarities of each sector, such as
education, health, social security, public works) and revenue assignment (including a system of
revenue sharing and transfers, which preserves tax effort incentives while respecting equity
concerns). To be our effective decentralization implementation strategy will consider a balance
between the indispensable central government oversight and the fundamental local fiscal
autonomy. The government will also assure an implementation process that can generate enough
data for monitoring and assessment of performance.
57.    Within each of these four broad areas the Government, with the support of donors, has
undertaken substantial analytic work and launched extensive reform efforts over the last several
years. On the polIcy fornulation front, SIGMA undertook a functional analysis of the policy
formulation arrangements and processes within the Council of Ministers in 1999.' That was
followed in 2001 by a diagnosis of legislative drafting capacities and preparation of a set of
recommendations on a strategy for focusing the policy deliberation process more squarely on
policy issues, rather than legal issues, and making the it more contestable.2 In addition, SIGMA
has recently undertaken further analysis and offered recommendations on how to improve the
policy formulation and coordination capacities within the Council of Ministries. Based on this
significant body of analytic work, the Government is now preparing to launch technical assistance
from both SIGMA and the World Bank to help it to prepare and implement a strategy and action
plan for building a more contestable policy formulation process. Govemment submits to
Parliament a law on Organization and Functioning of the Council of Minister designed to
establish a legal framework more supportive of a contestable policy formulation process. These
efforts will be complemented in later years by actions aimed at (a) better focusing the Council of
Minister on its core policy formulation and coordination functions and (b) building Parliamentary
policy oversight capacities.
58.    On the Public exoenditure management front, the Government introduced a Medium
Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) budget formulation process in 2000, and has made that
the centerpiece of its budget formulation reform efforts. The Ministry of Finance has assumed
responsibility for preparation of Investment Budget and will submit a report to the IDA
evaluating the 2002 Budget for consistency with the MTEF.
59.   In addition, the Ministry of Finance is now launching an effort to modernize its treasury
and accounting functions, with assistance under the IDA-financed Public Administration Reform
Project. Other important elements of the Government's public expenditure management reform
efforts include: (a) improving management controls and internal audit and strengthening
institutional capacities to provide effective advice to management, and (b) creating more
transparent, competitive and accountable procurement practices. An important initial step in this
launching of quarterly publication of a core set of procurement practices indicators. Work on
' SIGMA, "Review of the Organization and Functions of the Council of Ministers' Office of the
Government of Albania," (SIGMA: Paris, France, March 24, 1999).
2Gary M. Kelly, "Final Report: Legislative Drafting in Albania: A Needs Assessment", report submitted to
the Council of Ministers, Govermnent of Albania, the Department of Public Administration and the World
Bank (DPK Consulting, May 2001 a). Gary M. Kelly, "Guidelines for Methods and Implementation of
Legislative Drafting," report submitted to the Council of Ministers, Govermment of Albania, the
Department of Public Administration and the World Bank (DPK Consulting, May 2001 b).



Annex 1
Page 16 of 18
procurement is being informed by the recently completed Country Procurement Assessment
Report (CPAR), as well as by findings of the Supreme Audit Institute (SAI), which are reported
in its most recent audit of public finances.3
60.    On the human resource manarement front, Parliament adopted a new Law on Civil
Servants in December 1999 and has made significant progress in implementing that Law,
including establishing the required subsidiary legislation and implementing transparent and
competitive recruitment and selection procedures, as mandated by that Law and its subsidiary
legislation. A key achievement in this effort was the establishment of the post of Secretary
General, the highest civil servant position, and recruitment of Secretaries General in each of the
line Ministries. The Government regularly monitors and evaluates implementation of this law.
Recent monitoring efforts uncovered an important flaw that was introduced into the legal
framework via a Law on the Status of the Member of Parliament (Law No. 8550, November 18,
1999), which guarantees former Members of Parliament the right to a position within the upper
ranks of the civil service. Having recognized this provision as a direct contradiction with the Law
on the Status of the Civil Servant, the Government will has taken initiative to remove the
incompatibility of the Law on the Status of Members of Parliament with the Law on the Status of
the Civil Servant. We have requested from the Constitutional Court to deternine whether Article
22 of the Law on Members of Parliament is in violation of the competitive and merit-based
recruitment process under the Law on Status of Civil Servants. We will consult with IDA on the
outcome and will take immediate remedial actions. We will then amend the Law on Status of
Civil Servants to address the general issue of the conditions under which civil servants may take
extended leave of absence from their positions within the civil service, and the right and
obligations that they would enjoy 'regarding the re-entry into the Civil Service. We have also
undertaken a survey of public and private sector salaries, in order to better inform its deliberations
as to how to best target salary improvements in order to better attract, retain and motivate the
human resources required to implement its GPRS objectives. An initial step in improving salaries
has been the revision of salaries within the civil service, based on both the results of that survey
and fiscal feasibility considerations.  The Govemment's strategy for improving salaries
throughout the public administration was enunciated in the 2002-04 MTEF document.4  The
Government is also creating an Institute for Training in Public Administration, in order to ensure
its capacity to provide the training needed to continuously maintain and upgrade the skills and
knowledge of Albania's public administration.
61.    On the decentralization front, Albania has taken major strides on setting up the basic
legal framework to start implementing an accountable fiscal structure. Respecting the character
of the unitary State of Albania and consistent with the European Chart of Local Self
Governments, our Constitution (October 21, 1998) defines that local government is founded
upon the principle of decentralization (Art. 13), and establishes that the relationship between the
State, regions and local governments are based on the principles of autonomy, legality and
cooperation. The law on the organization and functioning of the local governments (Law # 8652,
July 2001) establishes that the relationship between levels of Government will be based on the
principle of subsidiarity (Art. 4.2).5 This organic law also sets forth the local government
3 Supreme Audit Institute, " Sumnmary Report of Audits for year 2000", " Bulletin of Audits for January
March 2001- 1" and "Audit of the Public Finances for year 2000 (check precise title)" (Tirana, Albania).
4Government of Albania, 2002-2004 Medium Term Expenditure Framework "Technical Note on Payroll
and Wage Bill Reform" (Tirana, Albania)..
5 Law on Administrative-Territorial Division (# 8653, 2000) consolidated the former 36 districts into 12
regions-the new second-level local govermment-and defined as first-level local governments the 65



Annex 1
Page 17 of 18
functions, powers, rights and duties, while a basic strategy and an institutional arrangement for
decentralization implementation was  established from the outset.6  Moreover, important
legislation on immovable State property and on transfer of part of these assets to local
government has already been approved (laws # 8743 and 8744, of 2001). Within each of these
four subcomponents the strategy is to build on ongoing efforts.
STRATEGY TO IMPROVE CORE PUBLIC SECTOR FUNCTIONS
62.    Within each of these four subcomponents the strategy is to build on ongoing efforts.
Given that substantial progress has been made in establishing the required legal framework for
most of these reforms, the focus is largely on implementation, rather than on establishing the
required legal framework. Actions to be undertaken have often been selected to address specific
challenges that have become clear during the process of implementing those laws.
POLICY FORMULATION
63.    The MTEF process establishes important prerequisites for a more contestable budget
formulation process. This needs to be complemented with similar adjustments to the processes
and practices governing the preparation of policy proposals falling outside the annual budget
formulation process. As noted above, several diagnostics of the functioning of the Council of
Ministers and the policy formulation processes and practices have already been undertaken.
Accordingly, the immediate task facing the Government is to use the insights provided by those
existing assessments and recommendations to tailor a strategy and action plan for creating a more
contestable policy formulation process to Albania's particular institutional challenges and
constraints. Accordingly, the approach taken under the PRSC is to focus initially on improving
the legal framework for policy formulation and coordination, while following up on that in the
outer years of the PRSC with the development and the implementation of strategy and action plan
for strengthening policy formulation and coordination.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT
64.    As noted above, the Government has already launched an MTEF budget formulation
process. Less attention has been devoted to the accountability of budget execution and to
mechanisms for generating feedback on how well budget-supported programs and policies are
achieving their agreed objectives. Accordingly, the strategy under the PRSC for addressing
public expenditure management process is to (a) reinforce the MTEF process and complement it
with (b) efforts to enhance the financial accountability of budget execution and (c) efforts to build
performance accountability mechanisms within the budget process. Budget formulation will be
reinforced both through improving the quality and detail of the information captured by the
budget (adding detail to the economic classification and introducing a functional/program
classification), as well as by sequentially introducing monitoring and evaluation requirements for
line Ministries as part of the MTEF budget submission process. Financial accountability will be
improved by undertaking measures aimed at (i) strengthening audit capacities and performance,
as well as (ii) enhancing the transparency and competitiveness of procurement policies,
procedures and practices. The Government has required all district treasury offices to send daily
municipalities (with more than 15,000 inhabitants) and the 309 communes (with more than 200
inhabitants).
6'"The Strategy of Decentralization and Local Autonomy" (November 1999), prepared by the Technical
Group of Experts on Decentralization, proposed by the National Committee on Decentralization, and
approved by Decision # 615 of the Council of Ministries on September 9, 2000



Annex I
Page 18 of 18
receipt and payment data to central treasury; and has required central treasury to reconcile on a
daily basis the receipt and payment data received from the district treasury offices and the tax
receipt and reimbursement data received from Bank of Albania. The Govemment has prepared
the draft Law on Intemal Audit. The Govemment has also ensured that the Public Procurement
Agency (PPA) is fully staffed to its authorized levels and that the PPA published initial set of
procurement practices indicators for 2001, providing both central and local administration-wide
averages as major budget institution-specific data.
HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
65.    As note above, the Government is already several years into a seriouis effort to create a
depoliticized, merit-based civil service. It has also already embarked on a medium term effort to
slowly improve the competitiveness of remuneration within the broader public administration. As
noted above, having only recently discovered a fundamental flaw in the legal framework for this
effort, the Government has set as its first priority correcting that flaw. The rest of the strategy for
strengthening human resource management under the PRSC is to (a) institute a few carefully
targeted adjustments to key processes mandated by the Law on Civil Servants, so as to address
some important vulnerabilities that have become apparent in the course of implementing that law,
and (b) set certain milestones to be achieved in its sequenced efforts to achieve more competitive
remuneration within the public administration. In addition, regular publication of key indicators
of the impacts of these reforms is intended to ensure that the Govemment is held accountable for
achieving the objectives of this reform effort.
DECENTRALIZATION
66.    On the decentralization, the strategy is to carry out pending studies, review some
legislation and complete regulation. These measures on decentralization which we have taken
under the PRSC-1, will be followed in subsequent PRSC's by the following prospective actions:
(a) Prepare an Action Plan for the "Agency for Inventory and Transfer of Public Properties to
transfer state properties to local govemment (b) submission of a draft law on Prefects consistent
with The Status of the Civil Servant Law No. 8549/99 and the Law on Organization and
Functioning of Local Government No. 8652/00; (c) submission to the Council of Ministers policy
papers identifying lines of specific responsibilities on shared functions for the local govemments;
(d) identification of sources of revenues for local govermnent, based on other local taxes, fees and
surcharges, as well as shared taxes congruent with the Strategy for Decentralization and Local
Government; (e) identification (in consultation with the local government) of capacity needs for
the implementation of decentralization, and assure the necessary funding for training both local
and central government staff in the 2003 budget. These activities would allow us to further
decentralization efforts during the next two years through: implementing transfer of property
rights according to deadlines in the law; submitting draft laws assigning specific functions and
responsibilities to the local govemments and amending the related existing laws accordingly;
submitting draft laws assigning revenue sources to local government; and implementing transfer
of Land Tax.
K    ')t ISLAMI                                          Pandeli MAJ
MINISTER OF FINANCE                                        PRIME MINISTER



Annex 2
Page I of 17
Annex 2 - Albania PRSC: Agreed Policy Matrix (items in bold - conditions of presentation to Board of PRSC-1, triggers for PRSC 2 and 3)
Objective/Issues              PRSC 1                          PRSC H                          PRSC m              IeIndicators
1. PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE GROWTH AND SUPPORTING PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Consolidate          *   Maintenance of a satisfactory  Maintenance of a satisfactory  Maintenance of a satisfactory  An appropriate
macroeconomic        macroeconomic framework          macroeconomic framework         macroeconomic framework         macroeconomnic framework
stabilization and                                                                                                     conducive to sustainable
structural reforms to                                                                                                 growth and poverty
promote growth and                                                                                                    reduction
improve living
standards of the
population.
Improve overall      *   Adopt amendments to relevant  *  Launch a study on           *  Complete first time          Increased registration of
climate for private  laws to ensure harmonization of the  administrative barriers to  registration of land.           new businesses.
sector activities    bankruptcy framework.           investors entry and begin
streamlining administrative                                     Increased foreign
procedures to investors entry   *   implement legal measures to  investment and joint
end potential disputes of first time  ventures.
*   Make preparations to establish  registration of property in a
an investmnent promotion agency.  specified timeframe.          Increased number of land
transactions in shorter
*   Complete legal framework for                                periods and with less
resolution of debt and commercial                               transaction costs.
disputes.
Laws related to property
*   Complete review of legislation                              registration improved to
related to land registration.                                   address identified
shortcomings.
*   Finalize the "business plan" for
inmnovable property registration                                Number of non farm rural
system and for improving security                               enterprises increased.
of titles.
Improved income
*   Restructure agricultural                                    generation opportunities
research to improve technology                                  and higher average inco.es
transfers to small holder farms.                                in rural areas.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 17
Outcome/Monitorable
Objective/Issues              PRSC 1                          PRSC HI                        PRSC m                       Indicators
Ensure that the      *   Implementation of a         *   Submission to Parliament of  *  Satisfactory implementation  Sustainability:
pension system is    satisfactory program of the public  a pension policy package    of agreed scheduled parametric  Current and projected
both effective and   pension system acceptable to    acceptable to IDA addressing    changes in the pension system,  deficit of the urban
financially          IDA, including:                 overall, longer-term projected  including at a minimum a phased  employees' pension scheme
sustainable over a 30-                               problems of coverage,           increase in retirement age and  as a share of GDP;
year time horizon.     -- an increase in the ceiling on the  affordability, equity and  appropriate indexation       System dependency ratio [
contributory wage for the     adequacy in the pension system  arrangements.                   (# contributors / #
employee pension scheme from 3  including a schedule of specific                              pensioners)].
times Minimum Contributory    changes in such parameters as   *   Institute a triennial report by
Wage to 5 times Minimum       indexation, contribution rates,  SIU on the past operation of the
Contributory Wage             urban/rural differentials, and  social insurance system, its
benefit reductions for those who  projected future performance, and
-- submission by MOLSA/SII of a  retire on early pension.     specific issues warranting attention
work plan acceptable to IDA to                                by policy makers.               Coverage:
resolve outstanding issues in                                                                 Social insurance
pension reform                                                                                contributors as a share of
the population between age
-- completion of a pension policy                                                              18 and the retirement age;
model satisfactory to IDA
Pension Adequacy:
-- limitmg compensation for past                                                              Poverty rate among
price increases to those                                                                      pensioner-headed families,
pensioners with certain categories                                                            by gender of head and
of dependents, consistent with the                                                            urban/rural residence.
European Convention on Social
Security (unemployed, children
under 18, and students up to age
25 who are not in employment).
-- Initiation of an increase in the
retirement age to commence in
July 2002 of 6 months every year
until the retirement age has
reached 65 years for men and 60
years for women, including an
early retirement option.
Develop and adopt a strategy for
improving performance in
collecting social insurance
contnbutions.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 17
"              ~~~~Outcome/llonitorable
Objective/Issues               PRSC l                          PRSC II                         PRSC mOu                     Indeicators
Improve the           *  Establish a formal agreement  *  Implementation of satisfactory  *  Submission to IDA of a 3-year  Claims processed per
effectiveness and     under which the Social Insurance  measures to enhance SII and GTD  work and investment program for  employee;
efficiency of         Institute (SII) and the General Tax  collaboration.              improving the ongoing performance  Error rate in claims
operations within the  Directorate (GTD) identify and                                  and the administrative efficiency  processing;
Social Insurance      implement specific mechanisms   *   Initiation of work within SU,  and effectiveness of SIL
Institute (SII).     through which they will enhance  with donor or project support: to                                 % of Claims awaiting final
collaboration, share information,  help circumvent administrative                                 decisions two months after
and undertake common actions to  problems with unsatisfactory work-                               processing initiated.
imnprove collections.            history data; and to improve the
design and management of work
flows within SU.
Satisfactory progress achieved
. towards the Social Insurance
Institute's projected 2002 goal of an
increase of its contribution base of
16 percent as compared with 2001
Measure the direct    *   Submission to IDA by        *   Submission to IDA by         *   Satisfactory implementation of  % of each program's
impact of pension     Govermnent of a satisfactory study  Government of satisfactory study  an initial package of       beneficiaries who were
and social assistance  design and work program to     analyzing the direct impact of urban  recommendations resulting from the  poor; % of poor people
programs on income    analyze the direct impact of urban  pensions, rural pensions and  poverty study.                  within each program's target
poverty.              pensions, rural pensions and    targeted social assistance on both                                group who were
targeted social assistance on both  urban and rural poverty and                                   beneficiaries;
urban and rural poverty and      whether internal or external                                     % of program Leke flowing
whether internal or external     migration affect this impact, and                                to famlhes (otherwise)
migration affect this impact.    outlning a specific package of                                   below poverty line;
reconimendations for improving                                   whether these measures
system's impact in reducing poverty                              were different for families
in a fiscally sustainable way.                                   affected by in- or out-
migration



Annex 2
Page 4 of 17
Outcome/Monitorable
Objective/Issues              PRSC                I                               I PRSC II   PRSC m                      Indicators
UI. STRENGTHENING POLICY MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Strengthen executive  *  Submission of a satisfactory  *  Completion of fully        *   Satisfactory completion of   Regular and reliable
branch policy        plan to strengthen policy       satisfactory Living Standards   first of two rounds of annual   information from survey
monitoring           monitoring and evaluation of the  Measurement Survey and        survey on subset of LSMS         and administrative sources
arrangements and     GPRS and its related programs   compilation of related data set  households                      made available to key
capacities and ensure  in defined sector ministries, and                                                              Government and non-
sufficient resources to  covering objectives, indicators,  *  First GPRS annual progress  *  INSTAT sufficiently funded  governmental agencies to
design and           inter- and intra-agency         report acceptable to IDA        and staffed in budget to carry out its  mform the policymaking
implement new        responsibilities, quantitative and  completed.                  program of data collection       process (measured by
monitoring program   qualitative data sources, data                                                                  implementation and
uses, schedules, and related                                    *   Second GPRS annual progress  dissemination of LSMS,
budget and investment                                           report acceptable to IDA        qualitative poverty
requirements.                                                   completed.                      assessments, etc.).
*   Inter-agency Data User Group
for LSMS and qualitative poverty
monitoring program established
*   Satisfactory implementation of
LSMS preparation by INSTAT.
* INSTAT sufficiently funded
and staffed in the budget to carry
out its program of data collection
Develop data                                         *   Identify government agency  Preparation of comprehensive     Thematic maps available
mapping capacity                                     and key staff responsible for small-  thematic maps of policy relevant  for planning and policy
area mapping                    indicators for Albania          purposes at central, region
and municipality levels
* Relevant data for mapping
exercise collected and of adequate
quality
Strengthen           Defined sector mimstries identify  *  Establish functioning policy  *  Satisfactory implementation of  Improved staff skills in
evaluation capacity  key staff to be part of ministerial  units in defined sector ministries  study plan by policy units.  defined sector ministries in
Policy Units.                                                                                   policy analysis
* DUG agrees with selected
sector ministries on a plan of                                  Policy study prepared by
studies drawing on LSMS and other                               defined sector ministries
sources.



Annex 2
Page 5 of 17
Objective/Issues               PRSC 1                         PRSC II                         PRSC mO                      Indicators
Strengthen non-                                       Satisfactory implementation of a  Implement plan for strengthemng
executiye branch                                     pilot GPRS participatory        parliamentary monitoring of public
policy monitoring                                    monitoring and evaluation system  policy
that will focus on the health sector.
Satisfactory implementation of a
Satisfactory development of a pilot  program for qualitative poverty
program of 'service report cards'  monitoring.
outlning the public's assessment of
the effectiveness of a range of  Satisfactory implementation of a
Government agency activities    pilot program of 'service report
cards' outlining the public's
assessment of the effectiveness of a
range of Government agency
._______________________  __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __activ ities
III. IMPROVING SERVICE DELIVERY AND SOCIAL SAFETY EFFECTIVENESS
C.]: HEALTH
Improve               *  2002 health budget increases  *  2003 health budget increases  *  2004 health budget increases  *  Health budget
Effectiveness and     relative to 2001, consistent with  in real terms relative to 2002  in real terms relative to 2003  increases, closing gap with
Efficiency in        MTEF, including increases in     consistent with MTEF and based  consistent with MTEF, including  European average; health
Resource Allocation   allocation for public health,   on a satisfactory human resources  an increase in targeted public  budget targeted towards
operation & maintenance, and    management plan and health      health programs, operations and  priority needs within
staff salaries.                 facility recurrent cost analysis,  maintenance.                 Government's health
including an increase in targeted                               strategy, including better
*   Establishment of interagency  public health programs,       *   Based on a review of first year  balance between investment
National Health Accounts (NHA)  operations and maintenance, and  implementation, Government     and recurrent budgets.
Task Force.                     staff salaries.                 decree institutionalizing the
upgraded budget tracking and    *   Capacity strengthened
Submission to IDA of a      reporting systern, including the  to track the flow of funds in
national action plan to upgrade  System of Health Accounts.     the health sector, evaluate
Government capacity to track                                    policy impact, and
budget and collect and analyze  *   Submission of a medium term  introduce transparency for
critical resource allocation and  strategy for expanding the health  greater accountability.
utilization data at national and local  insurance system, including
levels based on the System of   programs for ensuring financial  *  Strategy developed to
National Accounts.              protection and access for the   improve equity and social
vulnerable population.          protection in the health
insurance system



Annex 2
Page 6 of 17
Objective/Issues              PRSC 1                         PRSC H                        PRSC m                 OutcomeaMonitorable
Expand Access to     *  Submission to IDA of work   *   Submission to IDA of       *   Approval of a revised Contract  *  Health service
Quality Health       plan for the preparation of a  evaluation study on Health     between HII and TRHA which     rationalization plan
Services in Deprived  Regional Health Master Plan for  Insurance contracting and payment  introduces elements of  developed for one region to
Communities          Tirana.                        systems with Tirana Regional   performance-based payments to  improve quality of and
Health Authority, Durres Hospital.  improve service quality & access.  access to health services,
and local capacity
Implementation of the work                                 developed to replicate
plan for preparation of the Regional  *  Based on the Region Health  planning in other regions.
Health Master Plan, including the  Master Plan, approval of medium-
establishment of health service  term investments and budget
standards, mapping & conduct of  allocation for TRHA for 2004, and
facility surveys, and involvement of  strategy for preparng regional
local communities.             health plans in the rest of Albania.
Improve Health       *  Maintain satisfactory level of  *  Maintaining satisfactory  *  Maintaining satisfactory level Sustainability
Outcomes Through     child vaccination and female   child vaccination, female TT and  of child vaccination and female  *  Adequate government
Targeted Public     tetanus toxoid (TT) coverage by  Rubella coverage by increasing  TT and Rubella coverage by   resources made available
Health Interventions  increasing budget allocation to  Government budget allocation to  increasing Government budget  for supporting priority
the program to compensate for  the program to compensate for  allocation to the program to    public health programs, add
phased reduction in donor      reduction in donor contribution.  compensate for reduction in  expansion of intersectoral
contribution (MOH/UNICEF                                      donor contribution.             approach to public health.
Agreement)                     *   Approval of National Action
Plan for priority public health  *  Implementation of prionty  *  Increased public
*   Submission to IDA of       programs and budget commitments  public health programs identified in  knowledge and
iimplementation plan to expand  for the next 3 years, Health  the National Action Plan, mcluding  identification of risky
DOTS for TB control            Promotion, HIV/AIDS prevention,  agreed budget allocations.    behaviors contributing to
(MOHtWHO)                      TB control program, and                                        major health problems.
elimination of iodine deficiency                               chronic diseases, exposure
*   Order issued establishing Inter-  disorder.                                              to HIV/AIDS/STDS.
MMmisterial Committee on Road
Safety.



Annex 2
Page 7 of 17
PRSC H             PRSC III               ~~~~~~Outcome/Monitorable
Objective/Issues                PRSC 1                            PRSC II                          PRSC m                         Indicators
C.2: EDUCATION
Increase the           2002 recurrent education budget   2003 recurrent education budget   2004 recurrent education budget   1. Recurrent education
adequacy of            as percent of GDP increases,     increases in real terms relative to  increases in real terms relative to  budget moves toward 1998
resources contingent   consistent with MTEF             2002, consistent with MTEF, and   2003, consistent with MTEF, and   OECD average for recurrent
on evidence of                                          based on a satisfactory human     total budget proposes changes in  expenditures of 4.4 % GDP
sector's effective use                                  resources management plan (see    composition of education
of additional                                           LDP)                              financing based on analyses of    2. Teacher salaries as
resources                                                                                 student performance, as           percent of GDP per capita.22
measured by Program of
International Student Assessment  3. Vertical compression
(PISA).                           ratio23 of teacher salaries
(increases indicate
improvement)
4. Increasing % of teaching
force meets MoES
standards for "qualified"
teachers
Improve policy         DoPA and MoES establish a         1. Secure DoPA's and Prime                                          l. Reduction from 2002
formation and          working group to develop four    Minister's approval of new MoES                                     baseline in number of
management of         MoES functions (policy analysis,  organizational structure and                                        performance audit negative
sector                 planning, and monitoring;        required budget. (See LDP)                                          observations.
financial management; human
resources management; textbook    2. Annually, adequately staff and                                   2. Realistic Budget Proposal
management), and working group    finance approved organizational                                     Index: ratio of mitial MoES
specifies schedule and outputs    structure.                                                          budget proposal to actual
required to complete task. (See                                                                       budget approved by
LDP)                              3. Initiate annual performance   .                                  Parliament, by year
audits of MOES management and
finance, education (including
textbooks), and human resources,
conducted by independent,
international performance auditor
according to TOR acceptable to
__  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  ID A .
22 Improvement represents movement toward average OECD teacher salaries as % of GDP per capita. The range by level of education is the average GDP per capita for preschool teachers
to twice the average GDP per capita for university faculty. The OECD average for non-teaching staff is 0.8 the salary of teachers at same level/type of education.
23 Vertical compression ratio is the ratio of the average salary for the highest ranking teachers to the average salary for entry-level teachers. Higher compression ratios suggest greater
opportunity for salary growth over a teacher's career.



Annex 2
Page 8 of 17
Objective/Issues              PRSC 1                         PRSC II                        PRSC HII                    Indicatorsa
Policy analysis unit outlines and  Policy analysis unit publishes first
completes one chapter (education  Statistical Report Card on Albanian
finance) for Statistical Report Card  Education, with product acceptable
on Albanian Education, with    to IDA
products acceptable to IDA
Appoint chair and members of    Develop a textbook policy for  Develop detailed implementation  1. Increased fraction of
the textbook approval authority,  education sector acceptable to  plan for textbook rental scheme for  textbooks published under
and establish the Ministry      Government and IDA (see LDP),  grades 1-12                     competitive tendering (# as
textbook management unit       including a textbook rental                                     well as value).
(director and staff).           scheme, and competitively bid                                  2. Increased fraction of
procurement of textbook                                        contracts for textbooks
publishing and printing.                                       above $xx threshold
procured through
international competitive
tendering (# and value).
3. Annual, independent
survey of physical quality
of random sample of
published textbooks, using
pre-specified index of
textbook quality.
(Increasing index indicates
improvement)
4. Government textbook
subsidy as percent of MoES
budget (falling percent
indicates improvement)
Increase access and                                  Calculate gross enrollment and  Ministry annually publishes data to  Gross enrollment and
quality of education                                 completion rates for preschool,  show progress in meeting targets  completion rates for grades
for poor families by                                primary, lower secondary, upper  for gross enrollment and completion  1-4, 5-8, and 9-12 overall,
improving teacher                                   secondary, and tertiary education  rates                        for rural families, and for
quality, reducing                                    and set five year targets for grades                           children of the poorest
private costs of                                     1-4, 5-8, and 9-12                                             consumption quintile of
education, improving                                                                                                families (increases over
the quality of                                                                                                      time indicate improvement,
secondary academic                                                                                                  with achievement of
prograrns, and                                                                                                      enrollment and completion
improving market                                                                                                    rate targets by end of
relevance and supply                                                                                                PRSC).
of secondary VET.



Annex 2
Page 9 of 17
Objective/Issues               PRSC 1                          PRSC II                         PRSC m                       Indicators
Budget unit costs alternative    1. Secure MoF approval of free                                   Household survey (LSMS)
schemes for providmg free        textbook scheme, refining targeting                              of households with school-
textbooks for students from low  and subsidy cost estimates when                                  age children measures
income households by grade and for  LSMS data become available at end                             targeting efficiency of
different assumptions about poverty  of 2002.                                                    textbook subsidy (e.g., ratio
definitions.                                                                                      of household spending on
2. MoES annually budgets for and                                 textbooks per enrolled child
provides free textbooks under                                    categorized by household
accepted subsidy scheme.                                         consumption categories,
with increasing ratio
indicating effective
targeting)
Prepare legislative framework
required to establish secondary
vocational programs that reflect
regional labor market needs
Initiate EC- supported reform of
VET, with some selected pilots
being in rural areas.
Publish annually in Albanian
newspapers list of schools
rehabilitated in previous year,
including inter alia the following
information for each school:
location, the amount invested, the
amount invested as a percent of the
average investment per school, and
financing source
C.3: SOCIAL PROTECTION
Social Assistance and Community-Based Social Services
Improve the           [See poverty and benefit study in  a  Submission to IDA of a     *  Satisfactory implementation   Targeting of cash
targeting of social   pension section above]          satisfactory strategy to achieve  of recommendations on the design  assistance:
assistance cash                                       improved system targeting, as well  and operation of social assistance  Proportion of ndzhme
transfers.                                            as accountability for use of funds in  programs resulting from the  ekonomike funds allocated
nationally funded but locally    poverty study (see above).      to families meeting national
administered programs designed to                                criteria for ehglbility.
accomplish nationally specified                                  Estimates of:
______________________   _________________ ________objectives                                           Percent of each  program's



Annex 2
Page 10 of 17
Objective/Issues              PRSC 1                          PRSC I                          PRSC m              I      oIndicatorsa      |
beneficiaries who were
poor; % of poor people
within each program's target
group who were
beneficiaries; % of program
Leke flowing to families
(otherwise) below poverty
line; whether these
measures were different for
families affected by m- or
out-migration
Introduce policies on                                *   Implement a satisfactory policy  *  Adopt a satisfactory overall  Development of Social
support for                                          to make the financing of        Government strategy for reducing  Care:
community-based                                      community-based services        and ameliorating poverty that   Number of contracts
social services that                                 sustainable.                    specifies how the roles for     established under the Social
interface with                                                                       community-based social services,  Services Delivery Project
pension and social                                                                   pension programs, and cash social  (SSDP) for the provision of
assistance policies                                                                  assistance policies will be     home or community-based
and form part of an                                                                  coordinated.                    services;
overall strategy for                                                                                                 Proportion of total funding
reducing and                                                                                                         for social care services that
ameliorating poverty                                                                                                 is from government sources
other than SSDP funds.
C.4: RURAL WATER SUPPLY
Adopt and                                            Adopt nrual water strategy      Implementation progress
Implement a Strategy                                 acceptable to IDA               satisfactory to IDA of rural water
to Improve the                                                                       strategy
Supply and
Sustainability of
Rural Water Systems



Annex 2
Page 11 of 17
Objective/Issues                 PRSC 1                            PRSC II                           PRSC m                        Indicators
IV - IMPROVING CORE PUBLIC SECTOR FUNCTIONS AND INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
Enhance                *   Government submits to         *   Government prepares and        *   Implement satisfactory to IDA  Fiscal impact submission
contestability of      Parliament a Law on               launches strategy and action plan  strategy and action plan for building  ratio (FISR): Fraction of
policy formulation     Organization and Functioning of   acceptable to IDA for building a   a more contestable policy         proposals submitted to CoM
process24              the Council of Ministers designed  more contestable policy formulation  formulation process.           that included analysis of
to establish a legal framework    process.                                                             fiscal impacts acceptable to
more supportive of a contestable                                     *   Fully staff permanent technical  MoF (increases over time
policy formulation process.       *   Review "central institutions"  unit attached to the General      would indicate
within the CoM and reach           Secretariat of the Parliament     improvement).
agreement on action plan for       continues, while 2004 budget fully
eliminating or relocating those that  finances General Secretariat   Fiscal impact approval
would be better left outside the                                     ratio (FlAR): Fraction of
CoM.                               *   Implement agreed              proposals approved by CoM
recommendations of review of       that included analysis of
*   Strengthen Parliamentary      "central institutions".            fiscal impacts acceptable to
oversight capacity by satisfactorily                                 MoF (higher fraction than
implementing at least three quarters                                 FISR would indicate that
of OSCE 'Parliamentary Capacity                                      CoM gives weight to fiscal
Building Project," including but not                                 impact analysis; rising
limnited to establishing a permanent                                 fraction over time would
technical unit attached to the                                       indicate improvement in
General Secretariat of the                                           CoM's attention to fiscal
Parliamnent to provide advisory                                      mnpacts).
services. 25
Fraction of proposals
submitted to CoM not
subject to a fiscal impact
analysis.
Fraction of proposals
approved by CoM not
subject to a fiscal impact
analysis.
24 A contestablepolicyformulation process would ensure (a) systematic analysis of important Rolicy issues raised and addressed by proposed laws including but not limited to: alternative
means of addressing the objectives of the proposed legislation, likely impacts, tradeoffs, and implementation challenges. It would also ensure that (b) policy rowsals are subject to
systematic review and comment by a wide variety of key stakeholders and their representatives. includmg but not limited to the proposing party (e.g., a line Mmistry), the Ministry of
Finance (on fiscal impacts), as well as policy analysis professionals within the Council of Ministers itself
25 For details see OSCE Presence m Albania, "Parliamentary Capacity Building" project proposal, with a proposed budget of E340,000.



Annex 2
Page 12 of 17
Objective/Issues               PRSC 1                          PRSC II                         PRSC M                       IndOcators
Enhance               *  DoPA regularly publishes m   *   DoPA reviews experience and  *  DoPA reviews expenence and   Contract Employee Index:
competitiveness and  the "Public Administration       impacts of revisions to decree on  impacts of revisions to Law on  Fraction of civil service
transparency of      Newsletter" quarterly data on    recruitment within the civil service  Civil Servants and submits to CoM  positions staffed by contract
human resource        fraction of civil servant positions  and submits to CoM         recommendations acceptable to    employees (falling fraction
management           within the Central Admninistration  recommendations acceptable to  IDA for any changes that are   would mdicate
practices            staffed by personnel on contract vs.  IDA for any changes that are  warranted.                    improvement, at least until
fraction staffed by personnel    warranted.                                                      the fraction falls to about
appointed through civil service                                                                   15%).
procedures for entire central    *  Government submilts to
administration as well as by major  parliament legislation satisfactory                           Quarterly turnover rates
budgetary institutions.          to IDA for revising the Law on                                   of civil servants plotted
Civil Servants.                                                  agamst changes m political
leadership (absence of or
*   Government intends to seek a  *  Amend the Law on the Status                                 reduction in spikes
determination by the Constitutional  of Civil Servants to address the                             immediately following
Court of the compatibility of Article  conditions under which civil                              changes in leadership would
22 on the Law on the Status of the  servants may take extended leave                             indicate improvement).
Member of Parliament with the    of absence from their positions
Law on the Status of Civil Servants.                                                              Civil Service Performance
Evaluation Indicators:
Summary statistics on
personnel performance
evaluations for civil
servants within the central
administration
(commencing in 2002): (i)
fraction of Civil Service for
whom annual performance
evaluations were reported to
DoPA; (ii) fraction of
performance evaluations
falling in each rating
category.
Improve capacity to   *  CoM issues decree increasing                                                                  Qualified Civil Service
attract and retain    salaries of civil servants within a                                                              Applicants Index: Average
required human        fiscally sustainable wage bill                                                                   number of qualified
resources within the  envelope. New salary structure                                                                   applications per advertised
public                becomes effective.                                                                               civil service position (rising
admninistration.                                                                                                       number would indicate
improvement).



Annex 2
Page 13 of 17
Objective/Issues              PRSC I                         PRSC II                         PRSC m                 Outcome/Monitorable
Indicators
Salary Competitiveness
Ratio: Ratio of public to
private sector salaries by
type of position (increases
represent imnprovements)
Strengthen public    *   MoF to submit a report to the  *  2003-05 MTEF includes an  *  MoF to submit a report to the
expenditure          IDA evaluating the 2002 Budget  analysis of fiscal implications of  IDA evaluating 2004 Budget for  Realistic Budget Proposal
management process   for consistency with the MTEF.  decentralization measures to be  consistency with the GPRS and  Index: Ratio of imtial
introduced with 2003 Budget.    2004-06 MTEF.                  budget mstitution budget
*   MoF continues to prepare                                                                   proposal to actual budget
Investment Budget.              *  MoF to submit a report to the  *  MoF to finalize operations  approved by Parliament, by
IDA evaluating 2003 Budget for  and procedures manual for budg-  budget user by year
consistency with GPRS and 2003-  et management and implement   (average ratio should
05 MTEF.                       training program for budget staff  approach, but not actually
in MoF and line ministries.     reach, 1.0 over time; budget
*   MoF to prepare action plan for                             institution ratios that greatly
strengthening of budget systems  *  MoF to introduce new proced-  exceed 1.0 should signal to
and procedures (including monitor-  ures for selection, appraisal and  MoF that they should put
mg of budget outputs) and for   approval of public investment proj-  greater pressure on that
training of budget staff in MoF and  ects.                     budget mstitution to make
line ministries.                                               more realistic budget
*   Establish database on public  proposals in future years)
*   MoF to establish in pilot sect-  investment projects in all sectors.  Policy Volatility Index
ors, comprehensive database of                                 (PVI): Three-year moving
public investment projects, both  *  MoF to put systems in place for average percentage
domestically and externally financ-  ensuring that all foreign financed  devation in approved
ed.                            projects are included in 2004   budget by budgetary
Treasury accounts.             institutions. (falling PVI
*   MoF to finalize and implement                              would indicate increasingly
procedures for recording disburse-  *  2004-06 MTEF and sector  less volatile policy
ment and expendituies on all for-  strategies to specify indicators and  environment over time)
eign financed projects including  arrangements for monitoring
those financed by grants.       program activities and outputs.  Functional Budget
Deviation Index (FBDI):
Within-year average
deviation of actual budget
outturn relative to approved
budget by budgetary
institutions (falling index
26 Until the Government fully implements a functional budget classification, functions will be identified by major budget institution.



Annex 2
Page 14 of 17
Objective/Issues               PRSC 1                          PRSC II                         PRSC m                  Outcoine/Monitorable
would indicate increasing
predictability of budget
flows to budget users; i.e.,
stronger link between
budget authorization and
actual expenditures.)
Monitoring indicators
produced by Ministries.
Improve financial     *  MoF to require all district  *   Prepare pro forma (sample)   *  Prepare and publish audited  Improved Cash
reporting and        treasury offices to send daily   consolidated financial statements  consolidated financial statements  Management Indicator:
enhance managerial    payment data to central treasury.  for Government of Albania for  for the Government of Albania  revenue cash float on
accountability and                                    fiscal year 2001.                for fiscal year 2002.           receipts reduced to one day.
transparency within   *  MoF to require central
the public           treasury to reconcile on a daily  *  Submit to Parliament the     *  Fully implement internal     Improved internal
administration        basis the payment data received  Law on Internal Audit and begin  audit and internal controls in all  control:
from the district treasury offices  implementation.              ministries and government        *  Audit policies on
and the reimbursement data                                       entities                         compliance, attest and audit
received from Bank of Albania.   *  Develop criteria for                                         risk assessment updated to
appointment of Chairman of                                       international standards and
*   MoF to require district tax  Supreme Audit Institution.      *   Ministry of Finance to prepare  issued to audit units.
offices to reconcile the tax                                     annual summary of internal audit
receipts with the amounts       *   Establish intensive training  reports conducted m line ministries  *  Internal audit units with
transmitted to Bank of Albania  program to improve staff skills in  and present it to the CoM , together  qualified auditors and audit
on a daily basis.               mternal controls, risk analysis, and  with recommendations for action on  conmmittees established in
modern auditing and financial    identified key weaknesses.      all ministries
*   MoF to prepare the draft    accounting techmques.
Law on Internal Audit                                                                             *  All auditors qualified
satisfactory to IDA.                                                                              within timeframe
established in Internal Audit
*   Review existing internal audit                                                               legislation.
policies and adequacy of the
existing audit resources of line
ministries.



Annex 2
Page 15 of 17
Objective/Issues              PRSC 1                          PRSC II                         PRSC m                       Indicators
Improve              *   Public Procurement Agency    *  PPA issues internal instructions  *  PPA issues a comprehensive  Procurement Practices
competitiveness,     (PPA) is filly staffed to its   governing its internal processes  set of implementing regulations,  Indicators: Indicators
transparency and     authorized level.               approved by the CoM.             standard procurement            included in PPA's quarterly
accountability of                                                                     documents, including standard   procurement practices
procurement          *   PPA publishes initial set of  *  PPA completes a             bidding documents (whose use    reports
practices.           procurement practices indicators  participative process for      should be mandatory by all
for 2001, providing both central  developing and agreeing a more  institutions governed by the Law
and local administration-wide   adequate legislative framework  on Procurement), and user
averages as well as major       for the organization and        manuals acceptable to IDA, for
budgetary institution-specific  functioning of public           application of the Law on Public
data.                           procurement in Albania. Key     Procurement and the Law on the
milestones to be achieved are   Organization and Functioning of
submitting to Parliament of (i) a  the PPA.
Law on the Organization and
Functioning of the PPA, as well as  *  PPA continues publication of
(ii) complementary amendments   Public Procurement Bulletin and
required to the Law on Public   launches and maintains an Internet-
Procurement, both of which are  based Public Procurement website,
acceptable to IDA.              containing all calls for public
tenders, notices of awards of public
*   PPA begins regular publication  contracts, up-to-date information of
of its Annual Report, including  legislation and sub-legislative
quarterly procurement practices  enactments applicable to public
indicators, providing both central  procurement, including laws,
and local administration-wide   implementing regulations, standard
averages as well as major budget  bidding documents and forms of
institution-specific data.      contract, as well as quarterly
procurement practices indicators.
* PPA conducts training courses
mn public procurement at
introductory, intermediate and
advanced levels for officials at
central and local government levels.



Annex 2
Page 16 of 17
Objective/Issues               PRSC 1                           PRSC II                         PRSC m                  OutcomeIMoitorable
Indicators
Complement basic                                       * Submit a draft law on Prefects                                 Increased local fiscal
legislation on the                                     consistent with "The Status of the                                autonomy and
territorial                                            Civil Servant Law and the 'Law                                    accountability of local
admninistration                                        on Organization and Functioning                                   governments. (Indicator:
of Local Governments.                                             financial audit for at least
the 5 largest municipal and
3 regional Councils by end
2003)
Implement regulation  * Prepare an acdon plan for the                                   * Implement transfer of property  Asset structure compatible
on local              "Agency for Inventory and                                         rights-over assets which local   with local governments'
government's          Transfer of Public Properties" to                                 governments are responsible for  responsibilities. (Indicator:
property rights       transfer State properties to local                                maintenance-according to        the official list of properties
governments.                                                      deadlines in the law.            transferred and a feasible
time frame for
implementation)
Assign specifc                                         * Submit to the Council of       * Submit draft laws assigning    Delivery of public services
expenditure                                            Ministers policy papers identifying  specific functions and       stripped of overlappmg
responsibilities to                                    lines of specific responsibilities on  responsibilities to the local  responsibilities. (Indicator:
local governments                                      shared functions for the local   governments and amending the     2004 State and Local
governments.                     related existing laws accordingly.  Budgets reflect the legal
assignment on
responsibilities)
Assign autonomous     * Finalize ongoing studies to    * Identify sources of revenues for  * Submit draft laws assigning  Significant local tax base
revenue to local     include Land Tax as local taxes.  local governments, based on other  revenue sources to local       and no unfunded mandate.
government                                             local taxes, fees and surcharges, as  governments (including "Land  (Indicator: increased share
well as shared taxes congruent with  Tax"), and amending the related  of local tax revenue in the
the "Strategy for Decentralization  existing laws accordingly.   total domestic tax
and Local Government".          * implement transfer of Land Tax.  collection--2003 data as
the base line) 27
27 For tius purpose, "local taxes" are defined as tax, surcharges and fees that the local Councils are entitled to appropriate 100% of collection (on a derivation basis) and
may mfluence either the tax rates or bases. This concept excludes revenues from any direct transfers from the central government (based on grants or tax sharing;
conditional or unconditional, regular or extraordinary). "Total domestic tax collection" includes: central and local governments' fees and surcharges, value added tax-
VAT and excises on non-imported goods and services, personal and enterprise income taxes (CIT and PIT), property tax (on real estate assets, and land), small business
tax, and the tax on cafes, restaurants and tourism. For this particular purpose, customns duties and fees, and VAT and excises on imports, social insurance contributions,
and other non-tax revenues (including privatization receipts) are not considered.



Annex 2
Page 17 of 17
Objective/Issues               PRSC 1                         PRSC II                         PRSC m                 Outcome/Monitorabs e
Train local public   * Include initial funding for local  * Identify (in consultation with the  * Inplement the training program  Local fiscal operations
officials on a uniform  govermnents' capacity building in  local governments) capacity needs  both for the local officials and the  transparently and efficiently
system of accounting,  the 2002 budget.              for implementing decentralization,  line staffs.                 executed. (Indicator:
forecasting,                                          and secure the necessary funding                                staff/hour of training as
reporting, and                                        for training of both the local                                  determined by the capacity
management                                            government's and line staffs in                                 assessment needs)
2003.



Annex 3
Page I of 2
Annex 3: PRSC Monitoring Matrix
PRSC-1                          PRSC-2                           PRSC-3                 Related Millennium Development Goal
Objective                  June 2002                       June 2003                        June 2004                            /mG 28
I. Improve the Living  Baselme: National GDP          7% increase national GDP over   7% increase national GDP over    MDG Goal 1: Eradicate Extreme Poverty and
Standards of the                                      prior year                       pnor year                       Hunger (Target: Halve, between 1990 and
Albanian Population                                                                                                    2015, the proportion of people whose income
(outcome: higher      17.4 percent of population below  Baseline established: % population  Reduction of 10%3 since PRSC-I  is less than one dollar a day)
average incomes and  income of $1 equivalent or less - as  below income of $ I equivalent or  of population below income of $1
reduced income        reflected m GPRS poverty        less, share of poorest quintile in  equivalent or less, larger share of
poverty among the     diagnosis based on best available,  national consumption, and poverty  poorest qumtile in national
Albanian population)  but incomplete, quantitative data  gap ratio" -- based on 2002 LSMS  consumption, and Improved poverty
gap ratio, based on 2002 -2004
Baseline established:           household survey program and
Unemployment rate, labor force  other data3'
participation rate, and % women in
non-agricultural sector - based on  Unemployment rate decreases, and
2002 LSMS and other data        labor force participation rate and %
women in non-agricultural sector
increases32
2  Strengthen Human   1990 Baselines:                 Current baselines established:   Baseline established: student   MDG Goal 2: Achieve Universal Pnmary
Capital by Improving  1. GRE: 102.1 (pnmary); 102.5   1. GRE for primary and lower     performance on Program of       Education (Target Ensure that, by 2015,
the Quality and Access  (lower secondary education).  secondary (basic) by gender-based  International Student Assessment  children everywhere, boys and girls alike,
of Education          2. Ratio of girls to boys: 1 01  on new census data.            (PISA)                           will be able to complete a full course of
(outcome more         (primary), 97.5 (lower secondary);  2. Completion rates and                                      pnmary schooling).
children are attending  3. Student/teacher ratios: 22.9  teacher/student ratios-based on  Track performance: relative to
school and receiving a  (pnmary), 16 6 (lower secondary),  MoES statistics             targets for vanables measured   MDG Goal 3: Promote Gender Equality and
higher quality of     14.0 (upper secondary).         3. School attendance, percent of  annually (enrolment rates,     Empower Women (Target: Elimnate gender
education, especially at                              children without textbooks, pnvate  completion rates, teacher/student  dispanty m pnmary and secondary education
the primary level)    No baselme data available for other  expenditures as percent of total  ratios).                  by 2005 and to all levels of education no later
variables,                       xedbrsa        preto      oa                                    than 2015).
education expenditures -based on
2002 LSMS
Targets set-based on baselines
3.  Improve Quality   Child immunization rate above   Child immunization rate above    Child immnunzation rate above   MDG Goal 4. Reduce Child Mortality
and Access of Health  90%, and baseline coverage rate  90%, female TT coverage rate    90%, female TT coverage rate over  (Target: Reduce by two-thirds, between 1990
Care       (outcome   established for Rubella for women  maintained over 90% and Rubella  90% and Rubella coverage rate for  and 2015, the under-five mortality rate)
improved     system   15 - 35 years (reproductive age).  coverage rate of over 90% for  women 15 - 35 years increased
sustainability,  public                               women 15 - 35 years.             over previous year.
28 The Millenium Development Goals are outlined in the Millenium Declaration on "Development and Poverty Eradication," and were developed after consultations in the United Nations
Secretariat along with representatives of the IMF, OECD, and World Bank. Reporting on the MDG's will be undertaken by the United Nations drawing on national poverty reduction
stategies, UN Common Country Assessments, and UN National Human Development Reports, in close consultation with all relevant global and national institufions Targets for water and
sanitation (Under MDG Goal 7) will be set under PRSC-2, when the rural water strategy should be fully completed and adopted.
29 The poverty gap ratio is the incidence x depth of poverty.
30 GPRS target. Might be revised based on 2002 LSMS baseline figures.
31 Measuring this GPRS target will require the collection of full consumption data m the panel, which will require a revision in the survey plan.
32 The panel surveys in the five year INSTAT plan will track unemployment and labor force participation annually until a new Labor Force Survey supported by the EU
begins implementation.



Annex 3
Pag,e 2 of 2
PRSC-I                          PRSC-2                           PRSC-3                 Related Millennium Development Goal
Objective                  June 2002                       June 2003                        June 2004                            (MDG)2
health      programs  Baseline established: regional  Regional targets set for         Baseline data collected on %    MDG Goal 5: Improve Maternal Health
expanded to improve   distribution of health facilities,  redistnbution of health staff and  population reporting financial and  (Target: Reduce by three-quarters, between
health  outcomes  in  staffing, and operating budget   facilities by types and levels of  other barriers to access. (LSMS,  1990 and 2015, the maternal mortality ratio)
maternal  and  child  allocation, by levels of care.  care, based on agreed regional   beneficiary survey).
health,  ,  increased                                  service standards. (Regional                                     MDG Goal 6: Combat HIV/AIDS, Malana
public knowledge of   HIV/AIDS cases: 72 reported cases,  Master Plan).                Tracking of HIV/AIDS cases      and Other Diseases (Target. Have halved, by
rlsky behaviors related  20 new cases in 2002.                                         reported through expanded        2015, and begun to reverse the spread of
to HIV/AIDS, STD's,                                   Baseline data collected on key   surveillance system among high  HIV/AIDS, and the mcidence of other major
road safety, etc)                                     behavioral risk factors related to  risk population              diseases)
health (IPH Survey).
4 Strengthen the      Social Insurance (Sll data)      Social Insurance (SII data)     Social Insurance (SIJ data) -    MDG Goal I (see above).
Sustainability and    i. Pension deficit: X% GDP      i. Pension deficit: X% GDP       i. Pension deficit: X% GDP
Effectiveness of the  ii. Ratio contnbutors to         ii. Ratio contnbutors to       ii. Ratio contributors to
Social Protection     beneficianes: 1.02              beneficiaries: 1.05              beneficiaries: 1.08
System (outcome       iii. % of pension calculations still  iii. % of pension calculations still  in. % of pension calculations still
improved targeting of  outstanding after two months: 30%  outstanding after two months: 22%  outstanding after two months: 17%
scarce social assistance                               Social Assistance               Social Assistance
resources, pension                                    i. Baseline established estimate  i. % of ndahme ekonomike
deficit narrows, freeing                               from analysis of 2002 LSMS and  program's beneficianes who were
resources for other                                    GASS data of % of ndihme        poor and % of poor (including
sectors such as                                       ekonomike programs beneficiaries  children) receiving social assistance
education and health;                                 who were poor, % of poor         increases.
lower contribution                                    (including children) receivmg social
rates improve current                                  assistance
incomes, improved                                                          .           ii. Increase in number of contracts
fiscal sustainability                                 ii. Baselne established: number of  established under SSDP for the
lowers chances of                                     contracts estabhshed under SSDP33  provision of home or communtty-
payment arrears.)                                     for the provision of home or     based services; and proportion of
community-based services; and   total funding for social care services
proportion of total funding for  that is from government sources
social care services that is from  other than SSDP funds.
government sources other than
SSDP funds.
33 IDA Social Services Delivery Project (FY2002).



Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
Albania - Key Economic Indicators
Estimate                  Projected
Indicator               1999     2000     2001    2002     2003     2004     2005
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic product                    100     100      100      100     100      100      100
Agnculture                               53       51      49       47       46       44      43
Industry                                 25       26      27       28       29      29       30
Services                                 22       23      24       25       26      27       28
Total Consumption                         106     103      104      101      98       96       95
Gross domestic fixed investment            17      19       19      21       23       23       24
Government investment                     6        7       7        8        8        8       8
Private investment                       11       12      12       13       14       15      15
Exports (GNFS)b                            16      19       20       20      20       20       20
Imports (GNFS)                             39      40       44      42       40       39       38
Gross domestic savings                     -6      -3       -4       -1       2        4        5
Gross natonal savings                       9      12       13       13      15       17       18
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                  3676     3752     4114    4540     5013     5541     6097
(US$ million at current prices)
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 1993 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  7.3     7.8      6.5     6.0      7.0      7.0      6.5
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1993 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  6.6     6.9      6 0     5.5      6.5      6.5     6.0
Balance of Payments (US$ rillions)
Exports (GNFS)b                         594      705      840     892      980     1087     1208
Merchandise FOB                       275      255      305     342      391      454     529
Imports (GNFS)b                        1437     1520    1791     1893    2009     2165     2317
Merchandise FOB                      1121     1076     1332    1414     1507     1634    1758
Resource balance                        -843    -815     -951    -1001   -1029    -1078    -1109
Net current transfers                   510      439      543     510      554      598      643
Current account balance                 -270    -270     -260     -374    -355     -344     -327
Net private foreign direct investment    51      143      204      153     215      205      172
Long-term loans (net)                    72       70      165     241      193      200     212
Official                                73       70      162     236      188      196     208
Private                                 -2        0        3       5        5        4       4
Other capital (net)                     229      168       22       6       34       42        1
Change in reservesd                      -83    -111     -131      -26     -87     -103      -58
Memorandum items
Current account balance (% of GDP)       -7.3     -7.2    -6 3     -8.2     -7.1    -6.2     -5.4
(Continued)



Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
Albania - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Estimate                 Projected
Indicator               1999    2000    2001    2002    2003     2004    2005
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)'
Current revenues                      21.3     22.4    23.0    24.1     25.0    25.8    26.2
Current expenditures                  25.3     24.9    24.2    24.5     24.0    24.2    24.4
Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)  -4.0  -2.6  -1.2   -0.4      1.0     1.7     1.8
Capital expenditure                    7.4      6.5     7.3     7.7      8.2     8.3     8.3
Overall balance                      -11.4     -9.1    -8.5    -8.1     -7.2    -6.5    -6.0
Forign financing                       6.1      4.3     3.3     4.9      3.7     3.6     3.5
Domestic financing                     5.2      3.3     3.1     2.8      1.9     1.5     1.4
Privatization receipts                 0.1      1.4     2.1     0.4      1.6     1.4     1.1
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                                57.9     60.8    66.7    63.1     62.4    62.4    62.2
Growth of M2 (%)                      22.3     12.0    20.0     5.5      9.3    10.5     9.5
Price indices (YR 2001 =100)
Real exchange rate (US$/LCU)f          101     108      100   ..
Consumer price index (% change)        -1.0     4.2     3.5     3.9      3.0     3.0     3.0
GDP deflator (% change)                2.5     -1.2     2.8     5.2      3.2     3.3     3.3
a. GDP at market prices
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Consolidated central government.
f "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



Annex 5
Page 1 of 1
Albania - Key Exposure Indicators
Estimate                Projected
Indicator             1999    2000    2001    2002    2003     2004    2005
Total debt outstanding and           707     784     945     1182    1378    1579    1789
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a
Net disbursements (US$m)a            133     112     163     228      185     192     205
Total debt service (TDS)              23      27      41      65       65      67      74
(US$m)a
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGSb                          71.0     62.2    61.2    76.5    82.1     85.4    88.3
TDO/GDP                            19.2    20.9    23.0    26.0    27.5     28.5    29.4
TDS/XGS                            2.3      2.2     2.6     4.2      3.9     3.6     3.7
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS                  0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Preferred creditor DS/public      49.7     59.8    72.0    68.1     64.0    66.3    54.4
DS (%)C
IBRD DS/XGS                        0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
IBRD TDO (US$m)d                    0        0       0       0       0        0       0
Of which present value of
guarantees (US$m)
Share of IBRD portfolio (%)          ..      ..      ..      ..      ..
IDA TDO (US$m)d                    296     346     405      489     565     634      694
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the IMF, and the
Bank for International Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.
e. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments:



Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
Albania at a glance                                                              5114/02
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Central   middle-
AlbanIa -    Arla   Income      Development diamond'
2001
Population, mid-year (millions)                        3.4     - 475     2,046                Ufe expectancy
GNI per capna(Atlas method, US$)                     1,230     2,010     1.140
GNI (Atlas method, US$ bililons)                       4.2      956      2.327
Average annual growth; 199541                                    _ - -
Population (%                                          0.9       0.1       1 0     GNGrs
Labor force ()                                         1.3       0.6       1.3     GNI                             Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate(latest year avatlable, 199541)                                capita         s            enrollment
Poverty (% of popula0on-below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)               40        67        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       74        69        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               20        21        32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              8                  11           Access to Improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (% of population)    .        90        80
Illiteracy (% of populaion age 15+)                    15  -      3        15
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-age population)  110       100       114
Male                                                109       101       116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              110        99       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000      2001
Economic ratios'
GDP (U1$ bfllions)                                     1.1       3 8       41
Gross domestic investmenUGDP                35.1       7.3      18 6      19.4
Exports of goods and services/GDP           23.0      7 2       18 9      20.4                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  3686     -130       -2 9      -3.7
Gross national savinastGDP                          .-14.2      11.6      13.1
Current account balanoeGDP                          -21 6      -7.2      -6.3     Domestic        .1 
Interest payments/GDP                                 0 2        0.2       0 3     svn              j          Investment
Total deWGlIP                                        449        209       23 0     savings
Total debt serv/lcelexports                            3.9       2.1       2 7
Present value of debt/GDP                               s       12 9
Present value of debtVexports                                   38 5
Indebtedness
1981-91  1991401     2000 =    2001  -2001-05-
(average annual growth)
GDP              -                  -0.5     5 4      7.8        6.5       6.7        -     Albania
GODP per capita                    -24       46       69         5.6       6.3         ---  Lower-middle4ncome group
Exports of goods and servlces               11.7      58        24.8       55
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991      2000      2001      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                         2
Agriculture                                 32 4     39 3       51 0      491      20
Industry                                    43 0     42.7       26 3      27.3    10
Manufacturing                                       36.5      11.6      11 6                         _
SeMces                                      246       18.0      227       236   oo
Private consumption                         54 9     90 9       92.0      90 9    -10
General govemment consumpton                 8 5     22.1       10 9      12 9                   GDI        0-GDP
Imports of goods and services               21 5     27.6       40 4     43 5
(average annual growth)                  1981-91  199141       2000      2001      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agnculture                                    1.0     6.1        4.0       14 4
Industry                                    -0 5      5.0       11 4      10 7    40 
Manufacturing                                       -0 8       5 0       6.5    20_
Servces                                      -30      51        13.3      136      a
Private consumpbon                                    5.4        2 8       6 7    ..0    re   yos                     a o
General govemment consumption                         31         7.4      12.0   x4
Gross domestic investment                    -10     201        17.9      11 1                 Expots    -   -nports
Imports of goods and services                        11 0        6 5     23 5
Note 2001 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete



Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
Albania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Dome stlo prices                            1981     1991      2000      2001     Inflation I%)
(% change)                                                                        40
Consumer prices                                ..    49.4        01       31      30
Implidt GDP deflator                         -2.2    34 5       -1.2      2.8     20
Govemnment finance                                                                10
(% of GDP, includes curent grants)                                                 0      I
Current revenue                                ..    34 3       22.4     23 0     -10 -         97    9     9     00oo  o0
Current budget balance                         .     21 7       -2 4      -1.2             -   GDPdeflator  -  -CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        .     -27 8      -9 1      -8.5
TRADE
(US$ rn/IIons)                              1981     1991      2000      2001     Exp(it and Import leves (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                          419      101       256       305    1r,oo
Commodity 1                                   .        .        28              1.250
Commodity 2                                            .        14               .0
Manufactures                                  ..       .       218               .W 0
TotallImports (cif)                          384      409      1,070    1.332      75
Food                                          .        .       217         .      w
Fuel and energy                               ..      .         71               250
Capital goods                                 ..       ..      230                 0 
95  9U    97   Ue   U9   00   01
Export price Index (1995=100)                  ..
Import price Index (1995=100)                  .                   .        ..               *Expons       tieport
Terms of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1981     1991      2000     2001      Current account balance to GOP (%)
Exports of goods and servIces                431       82       705       840      0
Imports of goods and services                403      314      1,520    1,791         flU
Resource balance                              28     -232      -815      -951          *fl
NetIncome                                     11      -22       106       148                   I**
Net current transfers                          .        8       439       543
Current account balance                       45     -248      -270      -280     -10
Financing items (net)                        -19       24       381       391
Changes in net reserves                      -26      221      -111      -131     .15 -
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (US$ millions)         .        .       638       767
Conversion rate (DEC. local4US$)                .    14.4      1437     1435
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000      2001
(US$Sn milions)                                                                   Compositlon of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..     512       784       945
IBRD                                                  0         0         0                    G37
IDA                                          ..       0       348        ..               F37
Total debt service                              .       4        27        41                  A N
IBRt                                                  0         0         0
IDA                                                   0         2         3                                    B 346
E 218
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             ..      320       161
Offidal creditors                                    20        93
Private creditors                           ..       28        -1         .                 _
Foreign direct investment                             0       1431D SB
Portfolo erulty                                       0         0                                c BB
World Bank program
Commitments                                  .        0        54        20     A - IBRD                   E - EIdateral
Disbursements                                         0        64        34     B - IDA   D - Other mnulitlateral  F - Pnvate
Prindpal repayments                                   0         0         0     C - IMF                    G - Short-terrn
Net flows                                             0        84        34
Interest payments                                     0         2         3
Net transfers                                         0        62        31
Development Economics                                                                                              5/14/02



Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
Annex 7: Statement of Loans and Credits
ALBANIA
02 - MAY - 2002
Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions        and actual
disbursementsa
Project  FY      Purpose                          IBRD      IDA   Cancel.    Undisb.           Orig     Frm
ID                                                                                                     Rev'd
P069479    2002 FISHERY DEVT                         0.00   5.60     0.00     5.51              0.00   0.00
P070078    2001 TRADE & TRANS FACIL IN SE EUR        0.00   8.10     0.00     6.70              2.60   0.00
P055383    2001 SOC SERV DEVT                        0.00  10.00     0.00     9.55             -0.25   0.00
P054736    2001 AG SERVICES                          0.00   9.90     0.00     9.26              0.09   0.00
P057182    2000 LEG/J1UD REF                         0.00   9.00     0.00     7.60              3.76   0.00
P066491    2000 WS URG REHAB                         0.00  10.00     0.00     7.38              4.22   0.00
P068853    2000 EMG ROAD REPAIR                      0.00  13.65     0.00     6.65              5.13   3.45
P069079    2000 FIN SEC EBTA                         0.00   6.50     0.00     4.17              1.48   0.00
P069120    2000 EDUC REF                             0.00  12.00     0.00    10.32             -0.11   0.00
P069939    2000 PUB ADM REF                          0.00   8.50     0.00     7.46              2.40   0.00
P043178    1999 ERRIG & DRAIN II                     0.00  24.00     0.00     8.64             -1.28   0.00
P051309    1999 CONMMUNITY WORKS                     0.00   9.00     0.00     0.41             -5.27   0.00
P051310    1999 MICROCREDIT                          0.00  12.00     0.00     5.00             -0.74   0.00
P045312    1998 HEALTH RECOVERY                      0.00  17.00     0.00    12.00             13.15   0.00
P054384    1998 RCVRY PROG TA                        0.00   5.00     0.00     0.46              0.48   0.54
P051602    1998 PRIV IND REC                         0.00  10.25     0.00     5.32              5.86   0.00
P040975    1998 LAND DEVT                            0.00  10.00     0.00     6.51              5.82   0.00
P040818    1998 DURRES PORT                          0.00  16.99     0.00     8.38              8.09   0.70
P034491    1996 POWER TRNSM & DIST                   0.00  29.50     4.49    11.30             19.96   0.00
P036060    1996 NATL ROADS                           0.00  25.00     0.00     0.69              2.33   0.00
P008271    1996 FORESTRY                             0.00   8.00     0.00      1.95             2.67  -0.11
Total:  0.00 259.99     4.49    135.26            70.38   4.59



Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
ALBANIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of January 2002
In Millions US Dollars
IFC Committed               IFC Disbursed
FY Approval          Company                  Loan Equity   Quasi Partic   Loan Equity   Quasi Partic
1998/01              AAP                       0.00  28.50   0.00   0.00    0.00   9.15   0.00   0.00
2000                 NCBank                    0.00   2.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   2.00   0.00   0.00
1999                 SEF Eurotech              0.90   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.90   0.00   0.00   0.00
1999                 SEF FEFAD Bank            0.00   0.98   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.98   0.00   0.00
2001                 Seament                  15.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Total Portfolio:               15.90  31.48   0.00    0.00   0.90   12.13   0.00   0.00
Apurovals Pendina Commitment
FY Approval          Company                 Loan   Equity  Quasi Partic
1998                 Patos Marinza           30.00   28.50    0.00  50.00
2001                 Pastos Marinza In       10.00    2.00    0.00   0.00
Total Portfolio:               40.00   0.00    0.00  50.00



Annex 8
Page 1 of 2
Annex 8: Fund Relations Note
Public Information Notice (PIN) No. 01/ 74                         International Monetary Fund
700 19th Street, NW
July 27, 2001                                                      Washington, D. C. 20431 USA
Albania: Public Information Notice
On July 13, 2001, the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) concluded the Article IV
consultation with Albania.34
Background
Sound macroeconomic management, supported by structural reform, has characterized Albania's performance
under the current PRGF arrangement, although poverty and emigration remain pervasive. Policies have resulted in a
significant easing of inflationary pressures and sizable reductions in the overall and domestically financed fiscal
deficits. Strong economic activity continued in 2000, with GDP growth estimated at 73/4 percent. However,
electricity shortages disrupted activity during the winter of 2000-01 and continue to threaten growth prospects. The
external position strengthened further during 2000, reflected in higher official exchange reserves, as a worsening of
the trade balance was offset by strong inflows of remittances. The effective exchange rate, which appreciated
against the euro during most of 2000, has been stable in recent months
Fiscal policy remains on track, thanks mainly to a strong revenue performance. The overall deficit (excluding
grants) declined to 9.1 percent in 2000 and targets for the domestically financed deficit-at 3.2 percent of GDP-
and for total tax revenues were met. Fiscal performance so far in 2001 has been in line with the budget. Improved
revenue collection has largely reflected the implementation of measures agreed under the program, with reductions
in corruption and smuggling. Despite the fiscal efforts of the past three years, the domestic component of public
debt remains relatively high, although overall debt is below the average for developing countries.
Monetary policy has eased considerably since the beginning of 2000, as T-bill rates have fallen by 6-7 percentage
points since the beginning of 2000. Inflation has edged up since mid-2000, mainly on account of rising energy and
housing costs, but it is within the authorities' 2-4 percent target range. In mid-2000, the Bank of Albania switched
to indirect instruments of monetary policy, with weekly repo auctions.
34 Under Article IV of the IMF's Articles of Agreement, the IMF holds bilateral discussions with members, usually every year.
A staff team visits the country, collects economic and financial infornation, and discusses with officials the country's
economic developments and policies. On return to headquarters, the staff prepares a report, which forms the basis for
discussion by the Executive Board. At the conclusion of the discussion, the Managing Director, as Chairman of the Board,
summarizes the views of Executive Directors, and this summary is transmitted to the country's authorities. This PIN
summarizes the views of the Executive Board as expressed during the July 13, 2001 Executive Board discussion based on the
staff report.



Annex 8
Page 2 of 3
Significant progress has been made in privatization of state-owned enterprises, and much-needed reforms in the
electricity sector have been initiated. The tender for prnvatization of the Savings Bank was announced on June 29.
Privatization is moving forward in the telecommunication sector and has largely been completed in the mining
sector. In agriculture, the end-December 2000 target for land registration was met. The Law on Executive Offices
has been implemented and a registry for collateral property started operating in January 2001. On the other hand,
delays have occurred in the submission of the revised Bankruptcy Law and the establishment of a mediation center.
Executive Board Assessment
Directors commended the authorities' sound macroeconomic management and structural reforms that have
supported continued strong growth and financial stability. Directors stressed, however, the need to build on these
considerable achievements with further structural reforms and improvements in governance, in order to sustain
rapid growth and alleviate poverty.
Directors supported the fiscal policy framework for the remainder of 2001. They welcomed the ongoing
improvements in revenue collection, supported by the authorities' efforts to strengthen tax and customs
administration. They emphasized the need to broaden the tax base. Directors also underscored the need for
spending restraint, especially if revenues do not meet expectations. For the medium term, Directors considered that
raising revenues would continue to be a key objective of fiscal policy so as to permit the needed expansion in social
expenditures, while keeping the public debt within prudent limits.
Directors commended the authorities' monetary policy. Interest rates have been significantly lowered while
inflation has remained low, the exchange rate has stabilized, and official reserves have risen to a comfortable level.
However, with inflation having edged up since mid-2000, Directors considered that further monetary easing was
not warranted. They recommended swift action in case inflationary pressures intensified. Directors also noted that
the exchange rate had appreciated in real terms in recent years and advised the authorities to monitor developments
closely to forestall any adverse effects on competitiveness. Directors observed that, although progress had been
made, financial integration remains low and dollarization high. The effects of reintermediation would need to be
taken into account in any eventual shift to an inflation-targeting framework for monetary policy.
Directors emphasized the importance of financial sector reform. They encouraged the authonties to give the highest
priority to the successful and timely privatization of the Savings Bank and welcomed the recent announcement of a
tender. They also encouraged further efforts to promote financial sector competition, to develop the banking sector
in all parts of the country, to strengthen bank supervision, and to speed up implementation of the Anti-Money
Laundering Law. They encouraged the authorities to implement the recommendations of the Phase One Safeguards
Assessment.
Directors were concerned by problems in the energy sector, which are a potential constraint on growth and which,
because of the resultant need for subsidies, are a drain on the budget. They considered the rise this year in subsidies
for electricity imports only a temporary expedient, pending urgently needed and more fundamental reforms in the
energy sector, including measures to revise tariffs and improve collections.
Regarding other structural reforms, Directors encouraged the authorities to persevere with their program of legal
and institutional reforms to improve governance and the climate for business and investment. Enterprise
privatization should be completed, including in the telecommunications and energy sectors. The legal framework
for the provision of credit to the private sector should be strengthened, and a bankruptcy law adopted. Directors



Annex 8
Page 3 of 3
commended the authorities for maintaining an open trade regime and for their participation in recent initiatives
toward regional free trade.
Directors welcomed progress in preparing the authorities' Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (GPRS)
through a broad-based participatory process. They observed that, despite recent progress, Albania still faces severe
institutional and infrastructural weaknesses, requiring a bold reform agenda for the coming years to secure rapid
growth and to reduce poverty, which is especially prevalent in rural areas. Directors noted the role that support
from the intemational community could play in this regard.
Directors encouraged further improvements in economic data, including national accounts and price indices, and in
the accuracy and timeliness of data on foreign-financed capital expenditures, which affect the monitoring of the
fiscal position. They supported technical assistance in these areas.
Directors noted the progress Albania has made in regularizing relations with its creditors and encouraged all parties
to work to resolve outstanding issues as soon as possible. They urged the authorities to promptly eliminate
remaining exchange restrictions subject to Article XIV of the Fund's Articles of Agreement, and looked forward to
Albania's intended move to Article VIII status.
Directors stressed the importance of a well-designed GPRS that identifies key expenditure priorities within the
authorities Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF).
Directors looked forward to discussing a successor arrangement after the Annual Meetings and emphasized the
need for close coordination with the World Bank in this regard. They generally considered that, in view of
Albania's economic progress, and subject to discussion with the authorities, a blend of concessional and
nonconcessional resources could be appropriate under a successor arrangement.
Contact: Mr. S. Hossein Samiei, Deputy Division Chief, Southeastem II, European I Department, IMF,
ext. 36356



Annex 9
Page 1 of 1
ALBANIA
POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
ANNEX 9: TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING STEPS
Time taken to prepare:        16 months
Prepared by:                  Government and civil society (GPRS working groups), with
assistance of IDA staff, other donors, and local and foreign
consultants
Draft President's Report:     January 2002
Appraisal:                    February 2002
Negotiations Package:         March 2002
Negotiations:                 April 2002
Board:                        June 2002
Declaration of Effectiveness:  July 2002 (expected)



MAP SECTION






IBRD 28467R
1830         19,003        19-30'        2000'        2             2100'
I.     (*-_.                         /   *.  FED.     REP.         YUGOSLAVIA
C      IA                           J- .       * ,.(SERBIA / MO TENEGRO)
*    ; ALBANIA                            \>jPk     ohArzH  r
)     Jt ~~~o lSELECED CITIES         it                   1  O  ..  . 
|     | 69 ;3~AflONALCAPITAL          Leo>i * ;- rehen                MACEDONIA9 
l    '  _~~~ . .. DISTRICT BOUNDARIES      Mrurs-   ure   *.1      \
| .  \  ;N  |-  -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES !'   U E * A r  ** 
,,ELEVATIONS tN METERS,        D(RE   . < \*,  *. (.ULI
| t~~~~Adric,tic                           :~QN~'      Ioc\*    e      jo
I  ?  EP;  P  30';  PS '  P   5    -          Dk   t)-t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k 
9   Ip  Ap0 130  40     190 43 40.S<Y        A<        w  cS           v   543
KILOMETERS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -,SKOE
she  ,e,e4dnna,,n~  _ -*,_ e.idore T h      ( hSrrShe   \ aD
D~~~o.q~~~ o,y~~~dgo.Von A.I  .ofonyt.nno~~~~~~~~~~~~~y, onPuus   rr
ff   ,       >  BEtV RUSIN -r   \<<                L< \\ *Coeen  n-ode -o-
.k~ ~~WEE GEMN  1AVA  FED .  .ek                      1%        o 
ALBAN~~IA                7
4200                                                              ES4V   0-0  ,  ~4-
5~~~~~al    r  THU,  6              Mr't~*10 ,> 00%n 03'2o0' I EEN
0X SELECTED CITI BELSRUS
GEMN   DI RCTCNER                                 T
POAND04LCNiAR                             ubeh
~~ AUSTR~~jHUNDISRYCT BOUNDAR ESrre
ROMANIA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~A
ITRAI ONALBOULG ARIA ES          R
41 AL A0'   A"SAR30E 
ELEVATE AONS IN MTURKE        RE2        200                      Y.R     99









MJIROGeRPHICS
Report No.:        24175  ALB
Type:     PAD



