                                     Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                           Report No. 27546




                       IMPLEMENTATIONCOMPLETIONREPORT
                                    (Cr No. 3670)

                                        ON A

                                      CREDIT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 16.0MILLION
                            (US$20.0MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO

                                      ALBANIA


                       POVERTYREDUCTION SUPPORTCREDIT




                                 DECEMBER 22,2003




Human Development SectorUnit and
Poverty Reductionand EconomicManagement Unit
Europeand Central Asia Region

                    CURRENCYEQUIVALENT
            (ExchangeRate EffectiveDecember 22,2003)

                         CurrencyUnit =Lek
                          Lek 1=US$O.O08
                           US$1- Lek 118

                GOVERNMENT'SFISCALYEAR
                       January 1-December 31

              ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS




   GPRS        Growthand Poverty Reduction Strategy
   IDA         International Development Association
   IMF         International Monetary Fund
   INSTAT      Instituteof Statistics
   LSMS        Living StandardsMeasurement Survey
   MOES        Ministry of Education and Science
   MOF         Minister of Finance
   MOH         Minister of Health
   MTEF        Medium Term ExpenditureFramework
   NSSED       National Strategyfor Social and Economic Development
   PRSC        PovertyReduction SupportCredit




            Vice President: ShigeoKatsu
           CountryDirector: OrsaliaKalantzopoulos
           SectorDirectors: Cheryl Gray (ECSPE); Michal Rutkowslu (ECSHD)
           SectorMangers: Bernard Funck (ECSPE); Hermann von Gersdorff(ECSHD)
          Co-Team Leaders: Mansour Farsad (ECSPE); Philip Goldman (ECSHD)
I                           I                                                 I

                                             ALBANIA
                        Poverty Reduction Support Credit


                                            CONTENTS



1. Program Data .............................................................................................................. 1
2. PrincipalPerformance Ratings            ................................................................................... 2
3. Program Description     ................................................................................................... 2
4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs ....................................................................                  4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome.............................................                             4
6. Bank and BorrowerPerfonnance................................................................................ 4
7 Findings and Implications for Subsequent Operation(s)in Series .............................
 .                                                                                                                             5


                         SimplifiedImplementation Completion Report
                           For ProgrammaticAdjustmentOperations


 OperationID: PO69935                                            Operation Name: Poverty Reduction Support
                                                                 Credit
 TeamLeaders: Philip Goldman and Mansour Farsad                  TL Unit:ECSHDIECSPE
                                                                Report Date: December 8,2003


1. ProgramData
                 Name: Poverty Reduction Support Credit                    1 WCNumber: C3670
                                                                                           I
   CountryDepartment:    Albania: ECSHDIECSPE                                    Region:   I ECA
       Sector/subsector: BC (central government administration); JB (other socialservice); JA (health); and EZ
                         (general education sector)
                Theme: 24 (other economic management); 54 (social risk coping); 87(social risk mitigation); 51
                        (social risk reduction); and 56 (other socialprotection and risk management)



                                                                         Original             RevisedLActual
   PCD/PR:      2/26/2001                                   Effective:   8/7/2002             8/7/2002
  Appraisal:    2/4/2002                                        MTR:     NJA                  NJA
   Approval:    612012002                                    Closing:    6/30/2003            6/30/2003


  Borrowerflmplementing Agency:      IThe Ministry of Finance of Albania
                   Other Partners:   1Six sector line ministries, the Department of Public Administration, INSTAT


         STAFF                          Current                                         At Appraisal
VicePresident:             Katsu (ECAVP)                                ILinn (ECAVP)
CountryDirector:           Kalantzopoulos (ECCU4)                        Poortman (MNAVP)
Sector Manager:            Rutkowski (ECSHD)/Funck                       Rutkowski (ECSHD)lPeters (ECSPE)
                           (ECSPE)
TeamLeader at ICR:         Goldman (ECSHD)/Farsad,                       Goldman (ECSHD)/Farsad (ECSPE)

ICR Primay Author:         Goldman (ECSHD)/Farsad                        Goldman (ECSHD)/Farsad (ECSPE)
                           (ECSPE)

 2. Principal Performance Ratings
 focused on this operation'scontribution toward overallprogram objectives)

 (HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
 HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)


                                           Outcome: S
                                       Sustainability: L
               Institutional Development Impact: L
                                Bank Performance: S
                           Borrower Performance: S

                                                            QAG (if available)                         ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: 1 (QEAS)                           NIA
                  Operation at Risk atAny Time: No

3. ProgramDescription

        In November 2001, Albania completed its National Strategyfor Social and Economic
Development (NSSED, or its designation for its Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper), drawing on
several rounds of country-managed technical assessments and civil society consultations to
identify its economicprogram for the followingthree years. The NSSED contains a blueprint of
reformsthat aim to improve governance and public sector management, to restore growth, and to
improve human development outcomes. On June 20, 2002, the Bank Group endorsed the
NSSED as a sound basis for concessional assistance. This endorsement was reiterated on June
16,2003with the Board's review of the first NSSED Progress Report. This first PRSC for ECA
was approved by the Board on June 20, 2002 and the second in June 2003. The preparation of
the third program is underway.

        The PRSC program aims to: (i) promote sustainable growth and support private sector
development, by improving the business environment, and improving the enabling environment
for rural development; (ii) strengthen capacity to monitor and evaluate the policy agenda, by
establishing systems for regular quantitativeand qualitative surveys, and strengtheninganalytical
capacity and institutional arrangements to feed information into policy decision-making; (iii)
improve service delivery and social safety net effectiveness, by addressing chronic under-
funding of education and healthcare, improving quality of expenditures, strengtheningthe fiscal
sustainability of the pension system and social assistance targeting, and ensuring funding of
NSSED priorities such as immunizationprograms; and (iv) improve core public sector functions
and institutional arrangements, by improving policy formulation, strengthening human resource
development, improving public sector accountability, and improving intergovernmental fiscal
relations.

       This was the first PRSC for the ECA Region, and it was designed to draw on the best
available, though still limited, information on current living standards and priority needs for the
country to develop a comprehensive diagnosis for the country's development program. It also
sought to identify broad NSSED cross-cutting themes, and `drill down' to address a subset of
pressing sectoral priorities to support education and health, sustainable growth, and more


                                                            2

transparent and effective institutions. A key feature of the PRSC program was the linkage of
public expenditure management reforms (especially medium term expenditure frameworks, or
MTEF) and civil servicereforms with specific interventions in the sectors. For example, the task
team, in collaboration with the counterparts, used the MTEF process to identify priorities in
health and educationexpenditures.


(Discuss how task improved conditionsfor clients).

The ongoing Albania PRSC program is realizinga number of benefits:

       0    Capacity to implement this program has been greatly strengthened. An NSSED
            secretariat has been established at Ministry of Finance (MoF), and in response to the
           last Joint Staff Assessment, it is currently working to strengthen the prioritization,
            sequencing and costing of the NSSED program for the next Progress Report. The
           Government's ability to monitor and address poverty has been vastly upgraded under
           this program, with a 2001 census completed, a Qualitative Poverty Assessment
           implemented, a 2002 LSMS completed, and a 2003 Poverty Assessment recently
           published. IDA and DFID have partnered to support a five year household survey
           project, which will allow tracking of trends household income, consumption and
           behavior.

       0   The country has committed under the program to three years of increases in public
           spending for health and education, with the bulk of the increases targeted to the
           poorest areas. This will address the rapid deterioration of the sectors, which is
           leading to undesirable outcomes such as rapidly falling primary enrollment rates.
           Albania is also undertakingmeasures under the PRSC program to improve the quality
           of service delivery, including strengthening of immunization programs, support           .
           targeted public health programs, improved textbook distribution, curriculum
           development, gradual decentralization of education capital investments, and many
           related areas.

       0   Albania's social insurance reforms are leading to reductions in the cost of labor by
           reducing payroll contribution rates, while also supporting fiscally sustainable
           increases in benefit levels and more equitable conditions for benefit award. Under the
           reforms, budgetary transfers for pensions are projected to decline by Lek 2 billion by
           2005, even as adequacy (especiallyof rural pensions) is being protected.

       0   The PRSC program includes measures to decrease barriers to private sector
           development, which is a key pre-requisite to reducing income poverty by creating
           more opportunitiesfor the poor. The PRSC also includes implementation of measures
           to improve the contestability of the policy formulation process, human resource
           development and to strengthen financial accountability and accountability of high
          public officialsas well as increasing transparencyof public sector operations.




                                                   3

4. Achievementof Objectives and Outputs
 See attached Tables 1 and 2. The first summarizes the linkagesto the NSSED, and indicates the
 status of each measure. The secondmoves to PRSC-2, indicateshow the program was modified
from PRSC-1,and also summarizesthe status of each action.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

While performance on the first credit was strong, there are some issues that have affected
implementation of the program: (i) political change and frequent fiscal revisions, some in
consultation with the IMF, have made it very difficult for the Government to implement its
annual budget in line with priorities identified in the MTEF; (ii) while civil service procedures
have been strengthened, they are still at times bypassed and ignored by some Government
agencies; (iii) a sudden high level decision to decentralize operations and maintenance of
primary and public health care for 2003, which took place without any technical review,
consultation or capacitybuilding, led to a rapid drop in 0 and M expenditures. The PRSC-2 had
to intervene to pull 0 and M back into the conditionalgrant mechanism, as it is eventuallyto be
folded into the health insurance scheme; (iv) data constraintshave made it difficultto finalize an
Education for All strategy within the original timefkame; and (v) coordination between the
Ministry of Local Government and the line ministries on decentralization has been at times
contentious.

6. Bank and Borrower Performance

OP 4.01 does not apply to this operation. However, the operation did incorporateand reflect the
work of the Bank's environmental team. There were no safeguards issues with this operation.
The PRSC task preparation and execution was noteworthy for introducing co-management
between the Human Development Department (Philip Goldman) and the Poverty Reduction and
Economic Management Unit (Mansour Farsad), with a broad representation of the country team.
This cooperation was facilitated by the Bank's Multi-Sector Team Learning Initiative. This
required setting aside the traditional single manager model to focus on a more client-centered
approach to preparation of the credit. While at times costly, the co-management paid off in a
much more coordinated PRSC task team that was able to link public sector and social service
reform agendas effectively. The PRSC team also drew directly from the NSSED process to
ensure the fullest possible client ownership. The Albanian counterparts were the same as those
who had prepared the NSSED, in consultation with civil society. Borrower ownership and
follow through on all program activities was strong, with limited exceptions (e.g., there was
resistance to the Law on Asset Declaration). The PRSC and the CAS were identified in parallel,
which led to highly effective program coordination and minimal overlaps. Finally, Bank
management proved willing to face a number of new risks, including co-management of the
operation, cross sectoral overlaps, and new reliance on PRSP approaches to guide policy
priorities.




                                               4

7. Findings and Implications for Subsequent Operation(s)in Series
See above. In addition:

   0  More work will be needed to drill the public expenditure and civil service reforms down
      to the sectors.

   0  In coordination with the IMF, the Government is being assisted with the preparation of
      expenditure contingency plans that can protect NSSED priorities during any necessary
      fiscalrevisions


   0  Subsequent PRSCs will focus more on accountability reforms, such as Public
      ExpenditureTracking Surveys

   0  The PRSC2 and PRSC3 have strengthened interventions to support private sector
      development

   0  Co-team leadership is an effective vehicle for reaching internal consensus on difficult
      policy issues, such as decentralization, where a variety of `macro' and `micro' policy
      perspectives may appear initially to conflict. However, it also does result in transaction
      costs, as documentationrequiresjoint authorshipand signoff.




                                             5

                          Key Measure                                          CurrentStatus


    Maintenanceof a satisfactorymacroeconomic               Completed The macro frameworkwas consistent
    framework(ref.: GPRS chapterIVB, pp. 54ff.,             with the objectives of the IMF Poverty Reduction
    actionplan, macro actions 1-4,p. 115fl)                 and GrowthFacilityconsideredby the IMF Board
                                                            in June 2002
    Satisfactoryimplementationof pensionreform
    package acceptableto IDA, including: (ref.: GPRS
    chapter IVE ,pp. 82-83,actionplan, p. 122).

      -- an increase in the ceilingon the contributory
      wage for the employeepension schemefrom3              Completed. The Governmenthas increased the
      times Minimum ContributoryWage to 5 times             contributorywage ceiling.
      MinimumContributoryWage

      -- submissionby MOLSNSII of a workplan
      acceptableto IDA to resolve outstandingissuesin       Completed. The pensionreform workplan has been
      pension reform                                        submitted,and a satisfactorypension policy model
                                                            is availableand in use (The SI1has been receiving
      -- completion of a pensionpolicy model                assistancefrom a team of consultantsfinanced
      satisfactoryto IDA                                    under an ItalianTrust Fund arrangement).

      -- Initiation of an increase in the retirement age to
      commencein July 2002 of 6 months every year           Completed. The Governmentformally endorsed an
      until the retirementage has reached 65 years for      acceptableretirement age increase(March 14,
      men and 60 years for women, includingan early         2002), and Parliamentpassed this legislationin full
      retirement option.                                    on April 25,2002. Passage of this legislationmeets
                                                            this condition ('primafacie).
      -- limiting compensationfor past price increases
      to those pensionerswith certaincategoriesof           Completed.
      dependents,consistentwith the European
      Conventionon Social Security(unemployed,
      childrenunder 18,and studentsup to age 25 who
      are not in employment)


    SPRS Techcal Secretariatsubmits satisfactory            Completed.
    dan to supportpolicy monitoringand evaluationof
    he GPRS and PRSC programs in defined sector
    ninistries, and coveringestablishmentof objectives,
    mdicators, inter- and intra-agencyresponsibilities,
    quantitativeand qualitativedata sources,data uses,
    schedules,and relatedbudget and investment
    -equirements.(ref.: GPRS, chapter 5, pp. 104ff.)
    NSTAT sufficientlyfunded and staffed in budget           Completed. The Association received a letter
    o carry out its program of data collection(ref.          dated April 22,2002 fromthe Ministry of Finance
    3PRS, chapter 5, pp. 104fl)                              informingit that INSTATsalarieswould be
                                                             adjusted in alignmentwith the civil service,with
                                                             said policy being enactedbeginning from July

'The table alsonotes the cross-reference in the GPRS document. The PRSC measureshave been reviewedby the
PRSC inter-ministerialworking group, which is the same group that oversawpreparationof the GPRS. See
"NationalStrategyfor Economic and SocialDevelopment-Medium TermProgramof the AlbanianGovernment
`Growthand Poverty Reduction Strategy"'Governmentof Albania, November 2001.


                                                           6

                    Key Measure                                          Current Status
                                                      2002. The letter notes that Lek 30 million has been
                                                      set aside in the budget to financeths
                                                      compensation. Implementationof ths measure
                                                      will be closelymonitored during the next rounds of
                                                      the PRSC program.


                                                      Completed. The 2002 budget includes an increase
                                                      over 2001, with a 12percent overall increasein
                                                      salaries(with salary adjustmentshigher in rural
                                                     areas


Maintain satisfactorylevel of child vaccinationand   Completed This commitmentis reflectedin the
femaletetanus toxoid coverageby increasingbudget 2002 budget and a parallel agreementbetween
allocationto theprogramto compensate for phased      MOH and UNICEF.
reduction in donor contribution. (MOH/UNICEF
Agreement) (ref. GPRS, chapterIVE, pp. 77-78,
action plan. pp. 118-119).
2002 recurrent educationbudget as percent of GDP     Completed. The 2002 budget includes a significant
increases, consistentwith MTEF (ref. GPRS,           increase in the educationbudget, with a 12percent
chapterIVE, pp. 78-e;actionplan, p. 120).            increasein salaries(salaryadjustments are higherin
                                                     rural areas).
DOPAandMoES establisha worlung groupto               Completed.
developfour MoES functions (policy analysis,
planning, and monitoring; financial management;
human resources management; textbook
management),and working group specifies schedule
and outputsrequired to completetask. (See LDP)
(ref. GPRS, chapter IVC, PP. 60 ff; chapterIVE,
pp. 78 E;actionplan, p. 120).
Appoint chair and members of the textbook            Completed.
approvalauthority, and establishthe Ministry
textbook managementunit (directorand staff).(ref.
GPRS, chapter IVE, ~ p78.g: actionplan, p. 120).
                           .



Government submitsto Parliamenta Law on              Completed. The draftLaw on the Functioningof
Organizationand Functioning of the Council of        the Councilof Ministers was prepared, in
Ministers designed to establisha legal framework     consultationwith IDA, and submittedto Parliament
more supportiveof a contestablepolicy formulation    in May.
process (ref. GPRS, chapter IVC, pp. 60 ff ;action
plan, pp. 135K)
CoM issues decree increasing salaries of civil       Completed. The new salary scalebecame effective
servants withn a fiscally sustainablewage bill       in 2002.
envelope.New salary structurebecomes effective.
(ref. GPRS, chapterIVC, pp. 60 ff :actionplan, pp.
135ff, also note adjustments in waPes of health and
education workers)
MoF to submita report to the IDA evaluatingthe       Completed. The        Government's     report   was
2002 Budget for consistencywith the MTEF (ref.       satisfactoryto IDA.
GPRS,para. 27, pp. 27g).
MOF to require all district treasury offices to send Completed. A Country Financial Accountability
dailypayment data to centraltreasury (ref. GPRS,     Assessment (CFAA) for Albania was completed in


                                                    7

                    Key Measure                                         CurrentStatus
chapter IVC, p. 66 ff.,; actionplan,pp. 135ff.)      May 2002. Part of the CFA measures related to
                                                     reconciliation of accounts are supported under the
                                                     PRSC-1, and the remaining measures under the
                                                     subsequentPRSCs.

MoF to require central treasuryto reconcile on a     Completed.Instructionswere issued and the central
dailybasis the payment datareceived from the         treasurybegan the reconciliation.
district treasuryoffices and the reimbursementdata
received fromBank of Albania. (ref. GPRS, chapter
IVC,p. 66 ff.,; action plan, pp. 135ff.)

MoF to require district tax officesto reconcilethe   Completed The MoF issued instructionsto district
tax receipts with the amounts transmittedto Bank of  tax officeson reconciliationof tax receipt and the
Albania on a dailybasis .(ref. GPRS, chapterIVC,     BOAaccounts.
pp. 61 ff.; actionplan, p. 116).

MoF to preparethe draft Law on Internal Audit        Comuleted A draft law was prepared in
satisfactoryto IDA (ref. GPRS, chapter IVC, pp. 61   collaborationwith IDA and SIGMA (EU), and
ff.; actionplan,p. 116)                              submittedto the CoM in May.
PPApublishes initial set ofprocurementpractices      Comuleted.The PPA published the indicatorsin the
indicatorsfor 2001,providingboth central and local   Bulletin of Public ProcurementAgency dated
admmistration-wideaverages as well as major          March 30, 2002.
budgetary institution-specificdata (ref. GPRS,p.
xxi, pp. 59#, actionplan, p. 134(anti-corruption))
Prepare an actionplan for the "Agency for            Comuleted. The Governmentprepared the action
Inventory and Transfer of Public Properties"to       plan satisfactoryto IDA.
transfer Stateproperties to local governments(ref.
GPRS,pp. 60, 81, 96, action plan, p. 121)
Finalize ongoing studiesto includeLand Tax as        Comdeted
local tax. (ref. GPRS, pp. xxvi, actionplan, p. 133)




                                                    8

Table 2: Comparisonof InitiallyApproved Triggersin PRSC-1 ProgramDocumentwith Latest




    adequacy in the pension system including a schedule of
    specific changes in such parameters as indexation,




                                 plan acceptable to IDA   don


0                                                                afts submittedt  New
                                                                         t's p    strong




                                                9

                       Key Measure                                            CurrentStatus


COMPONENT3: IMPROVINGSERVICEDELIVERYANDSOCIAL SAFETY NETEFFECTIVENESS

 PRSC-2 TRIGGERSAPPROVED BY THEBOARD IN THE. TNE20,2002 PRSC-1 PROGRAM DOCUMENT
     2003 health budget increases in real terms relative to Unchanged.
     2002 consistent with MTEF, and based on a satisfactov
     human resources management plan and health facilit);
     recurrent cost analysis, including an increase in targeted
     public healthprograms, operations and maintenance, and
     staflsalaries

     Maintaining satisfactory child vaccination, female        Unchanged.
     tetanus toxoid and Rubella coverage (target: over 90
     percent) by increasing Government budget allocation to
     the program to compensate for reduction in donor
     contribution
                                                               Unchanged.
     2003 recurrent education budget increases in real terms
     relative to 2002, consistent with MTEF, and based on a
     satisfactory human resources managementplan.
                                                               Unchanged.
     Develop a textbookpolicyfor education sector acceptable
     to Government and, including a textbook rental scheme,
     and competitively bid procurement of textbook publishing
     and minting




  e                                                            measure that w




                                                               June 4,2003.



    heath care service delivery implemented, including:
                                                               Completed.

                                     asing budget allocation




                                                    10

    2003 education b       increases in real ter
    2002, consisten




                                      tory, and technical




                                          ookpublishing and




   COMPONENT 4: INIPROVING CORE PUBLIC SECTOR FUNCTIONS INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
                                                                AND

PRSC-2 TRIGGERSAPPROVED BY THEBOARD IN THEJ NE 20,2002 PRSC-1 PROGRAM DOCUMENT
   Amend the Law on the Status of Civil Servants to Address  Modified. See below.
    the conditions under which civil servants may take
    extended leave of absencefrom theirpositions.

   Public Procurement Agency completes a participative
   process for developing and agreeing upon a more           Modified. See below.
   adequate legislativeframework for the organization and
   functioning of public procurement in Albania.       Key
   milestones to be achieved are submitting to Parliament (i)
   a Law on the Organization and Functioning of the PPA,
   as well as (ii) complementary amendments required to the
   Law on Public Procurement, both of which are
   acceptable to IDA.

   Submit a draft Law on Prefects consistent with the "The   Modified. Shiftedunder civil servicereform
                                                             measures.
   Status of the Civil Servant Law" and the `Zaw on

                                                             WENTATION FOR PRSC-2
                                                             Completed.




  following:


                                                  11

                      Key Measure                                                Current Status
following:

  -- No dismissals or appointments have occurred without
  being in compliance with procedural due process
  requirements of the relevant legislation.

  -- No appointments have been made of persons who are
  (i) unqualified. (ii) a close relative of persons involved in
  their selection and appointment decision, or (iii) in
  violation of conflict of interest principles.
                                                                 The Law on Asset Declaration enacted in May
  Enact the new Law on Asset Declaration sutisfuctoty to        2003.
  IDA, and nominate the High Inspectorute General
                                                                 Completed. The Internal Audit Law was enacted in
  Enact and Implement rhe Law on Internal Audit by
  adopting internul audit standards, appointing directors 03    April 2003.

  internul airdit in line ministries, estcrblishing criteriu for
  selection of internal audit stufJ; and establishing internal
  audit committee.
                                                                Completed.
  MoF to establish procedures for reconciling, on a daily
  basis, consolidated payment data with the reimbursemenr
 data receivedjiom the Bank of .4lbaniu
                                                                Completed. The Law on Public Procurement was
                                                                enacted in May 2003.
0    Enact an amendment to the Law on Public
Procurement (LPP) to introduce the evaluation of bids for
goods and civil works based on objective and quantifiable
criteria.




                                                     12



