Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
February
1,
2002
Mr. Anastas Angjeli
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Bulevardi
“Deshmoret e Kombit”
Tirana, Albania
Re:
DFID Grant for Albania Living Standard Measurement Survey
Trust Fund Grant No
.
TF
050199
Dear Sir:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to indicate  IDA’s 
agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the Government of the United Kingdom of 
Great Britain and Northern Ireland (the Government), acting through the Department for International 
Development
(DFID), to make a grant in an amount not exceeding two hundred three thousand four 
hundred twelve pounds
(£203,412) (the Grant) to Albania (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement. The 
Recipient hereby confirms its request that IDA carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said 
purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon receipt by IDA of the 
copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective as 
of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By: /s/ Christiaan J. Poortman
Christiaan J. Poortman
Country Director and Regional Coordinator
for Southeast Europe
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
ALBANIA
By: /s/ Anastas Angjeli
Authorized Representative
Page  2
Date: February 7, 2002
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purposes of the Grant are to assist in the preparation of the Living Standard Measurement 
Survey
(the Project), which objectives are to: (i) create a reliable and sustainable system of household 
surveys for the timely production of reliable and useful statistical information to assist policy-makers 
in the design, execution and evaluation of economic and social programs; (ii) develop analytical 
capacity to utilize the information generated; and (iii) support the institution-building process by 
assigning specific institutional responsibilities and by strengthening the Recipient
’s technical and 
managerial capacity in the monitoring, targeting and evaluation of social programs (the Project). The 
activities
(the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(i)
providing technical assistance in the design, planning and execution of alternative data collection 
instruments and surveys, which is estimated to cost
£122,026
equivalent; and
(ii)
strengthening of data processing and analysis capabilities, including technical assistance and 
training in the areas of data entry and editing and panel data analysis, which is estimated to cost
£81,386 equivalent.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the Activities.
3.
IDA shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The Recipient shall cooperate with 
IDA to the extent necessary to permit IDA to carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to 
evaluate the results of the Activities. The Recipient shall indemnify IDA against any costs or 
liabilities incurred by IDA as a result of claims against IDA in connection with the Activities, except 
those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
The Activities shall be completed by not later than August 31, 2005, or such later date as IDA 
may establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date). However, payments will be made for 
expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date, provided that the appropriate requests for payment 
are received by IDA within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount of the 
Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to assist in the 
carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of IDA and shall be governed, except as 
otherwise decided by IDA, by the provisions of the Attachment to this Annex.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
Albania on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or permanent 
residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request IDA in writing to terminate the Activities. Whether or not 
the Recipient has made such a request, IDA may at any time suspend or, after consultation with the 
Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the 
following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which 
the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of Albania, to make withdrawals under any loan 
agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement with the International Development 
Association shall have been suspended. IDA may also terminate the right of the Recipient to receive 
Grant funds if: (a) IDA has decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its 
support to the Project; or (b) the Recipient has withdrawn its request for IDA’s assistance in the 
Page  3
financing of the Project.
8.
IDA is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary relationship 
with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not expended 
by IDA pursuant to this Letter Agreement.
Attachment
Consultants' Services
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the relevant provisions of Statement 
15.00 of IDA's Administrative Manual, dated November 2000 (the Administrative Manual), the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World 
Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 
1999
(the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Attachment.
2.
Services for supporting the survey design and training, and the development of data entry  shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines (Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications for firms) and paragraphs 
5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines (Selection of individual consultants).
3.
Services for training abroad on panel design and analysis may be procured on a single-source 
basis, as permitted under paragraphs
3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
