Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3670-ALB
Development Credit Agreement
(Poverty Reduction Support Credit)
between
ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 26, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3670-ALB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 2002, between Albania (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated May 7, 2002, (the Letter of 
Development Policy) from the Borrower describing a program of action, objectives and policies 
designed to eradicate poverty from the Borrower’s territory (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance 
Page  2
from the Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof;
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association; and
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit as hereinafter 
provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 1999) with the 
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Development 
Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made”;
 (b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit account specified in 
Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement 
and of these General Conditions”;
 (d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
Page  3
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and 
the Association of their respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement 
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit”; and
(f)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 and 
9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Bank of Albania” means the central bank of the Borrower;
(b)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
(c)
“FY” means the fiscal year of the Borrower beginning on January 1 and ending 
December 31 of each year;
(d)
“INSTAT” means the Institute of Statistics of the Borrower;
(e)
“GPRS” means the Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy of the Borrower;
(f)
“Letter of Development Policy” means the Borrower’s letter referred to in 
Paragraph (A) of the Preamble to this Agreement; and
(g)
“MTEF” means the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework for the state budget 
and the budget of each state extrabudgetary fund together with details of major investments and 
other projects, adopted by the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to sixteen million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 16,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in 
support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
Page  4
for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit 
account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  All withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  If the 
Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have been 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount 
of said payment, or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the 
Association.  Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the 
Credit Account for cancellation.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as  may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request ; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)   Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15 and 
October 15 commencing October 15, 2012 and ending April 15, 2042.  Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on April 15, 2022 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal 
Page  5
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by the Association of the development of the 
Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not 
yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the 
Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above 
falling six months or more after the date on which the Association notifies the 
Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such 
repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned  repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower undertakes to implement the Program with due diligence 
to ensure that actions and policies adopted under the Program are put into effect.
(b)
The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program.
Page  6
(c)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after the 
disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of 
the Program, or any action taken under the Program.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four 
months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as the representative 
Page  7
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Bulevardi “Deshmoret e Kombit”
Tirana
Albania
Facsimile:
355 42 28494
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  8
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ALBANIA
By: /s/ Z. Fatos Tarifa
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By: /s/ Christiaan J. Poortman
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not 
be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed 
to finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
-
Alcoholic beverages
Page  9
121
-
Tobacco, unmanu-
factured, tobacco
refuse
122
-
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525
-
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
-
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious
stones, unworked
or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including 
set gems)
971
-
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which 
is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower 
is a party.
Page  10
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or 
for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on account of any 
payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by 
a
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that corrupt 
or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of 
the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Program Actions Taken By the Borrower
1.
The Borrower has maintained a satisfactory macroeconomic framework.
2.
The Borrower has implemented a satisfactory program of reforms of the public pension 
system.
3.
The Borrower has submitted a satisfactory plan to strengthen policy monitoring and 
evaluation of the GPRS and its related programs in defined sector ministries covering objectives, 
indicators, inter-and intra-agency responsibilities, quantitative and qualitative data sources, data 
uses, schedules and related budget and investment requirements.
4.
The Borrower has provided INSTAT with an adequate budget and staff to carry out its 
program of data collection.
5.
The Borrower has increased its budget for public health, operations, and maintenance, 
and staff salaries for the health sector for FY2002, consistent with MTEF.
6.
The Borrower has increased its budget allocation to its program of child vaccination and 
female tetanus toxoid in order to maintain a satisfactory level of coverage.
7.
The Borrower has increased the recurrent budget for the education sector in FY2002, 
consistent with the MTEF.
8.
The working group of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Borrower has been 
established, with specific schedule and outputs specified in order to develop functions related to: 
(a) policy analysis, planning and monitoring; (b) financial management; (c) human resources 
management; and (d) textbook management.
9.
The Borrower has: (a) appointed a chair and members of the authority to approve 
textbooks; and (b) established a textbook management unit in its Ministry of Education and 
Science.
10.
The law on organization and functioning of the Council of Ministers of the Borrower has 
been submitted to the Parliament.
Page  11
11.
Satisfactory decree on increasing salaries of civil servants has been issued, and the new 
salary structure has become effective.
12.
The Borrower has submitted an evaluation report certifying that the budget in 2002 was 
consistent with MTEF.
13.
The Borrower has required: (a) all district treasury offices to send daily payment data to 
the central treasury; (b) the central treasury to reconcile on a daily basis the payment data 
received from the district treasury offices and the reimbursement data received from the Bank of 
Albania; (c) the district tax offices to reconcile the tax receipts with the amounts transmitted to 
the Bank of Albania on a daily basis.
14.
The Borrower has prepared the satisfactory draft law on internal audit.
15.
The Public Procurement Agency of the Borrower has published an initial set of 
procurement practices indicators for 2001.
16.
The Borrower has prepared a satisfactory action plan for the transfer of public properties 
to local governments.
17.
The Borrower has completed a study on inclusion of land tax in local taxes levied by the 
local authorities.
