Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13487-MAS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
HIGHER AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
MARCH 2, 1995
Population and Human Resources Division
Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Mauritius rupee (Mau. Re)
US$1 = Mau. Rs 18.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
I m. = 1.09yd.
1 sq. m. = 10.76 sq. ft.
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ACADEMIC YEAR
October 1 - June 30



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAP          Brevet d'Aptitude Professionnel
CAP          Certificat d'Aptitude Professionnel
CTO          Central Training Office
EU           European Union
EIRR         Economic Internal Rate of Return
EPZ          Export Processing Zone
ESMP         Education Sector Master Plan
FTEs         Full-time Equivalents
GER          Gross Enrollment Ratio
HSC          Cambridge Higher School Certificate
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IDP          Institutional Development Plan
ITTCs        Industrial and Trade Training Centers
IVTB         Industrial and Vocational Training Board
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
LPF          Lycee Polytechnique at Flacq
MCA          Mauritius College of the Air
MEAC         Ministry of Education, Arts and Culture
MES          Mauritius Examinations Syndicate
MGI          Mahatma Gandhi Institute
MIE          Mauritius Institute of Education
MOES         Ministry of Education and Science
MNPCU        Master Plan Coordination Unit
MTF          Management Trust Fund
NDP          National Development Plan
NIC          Newly Industrialized Country
NER          Net Enrollment Ratio
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
PSC          Public Service Commission
PSSA         Private Secondary Schools Authority
RCEA         Roman Catholic Education Authority
TEC          Tertiary Education Commission
TEDP         Tertiary Education Development Plan
TEIs         Tertiary Education Institutions
UoM          University of Mauritius
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Mauritius in June 1994. The
mission comprised Messrs./Mmes. Abdelwahed Zhiri, Mission Leader and Task Manager; Qaiser Khan,
Human Resource Economist; Eileen Murray, Implementation Specialist; Philomene Lai Cheong,
Administrative Assistant (AF3PH); Joseph Bredie, Senior Technical Educator (AFTHR); Girindre
Beeharry, Economist/Consultant; and Gerald Pillay, Vocational Educator/Consultant. Tom Eisemon
(ESP) is the Lead Adviser and Jamil Salmi (LA1HR) is the Peer Reviewer. A pre-negotiation mission
took place in October 1994. Ms. Hilda Emeruwa-Creppy and Kathy Li Tow Ngow assisted in processing
the report. Mr. Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa and Mr. David Berk are the Department Director and the
Division Chief respectively of this operation.






STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
HIGHER AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..................................................;
1. ECONOMIC POLICY ENVIRONMENT .................................................1
2. HIGHER AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION IN MAURITIUS ..................................................3
A. THE EDUCATION SECTOR ..................................................3
B. HIGHER EDUCATION AND POLYTECHNIC EDUCATION .................................................4
1. The Institutions of Higher Education ..................................................4
2. Polytechnic Education ..................................................6
3. Sectoral Issues .................................................8
4. Government Strategy ..................................................9
5. Bank Group's Role .................................................                                                                                                 11
3. THE PROJECT ................................................                                                                                                            13
A. OBJECTIVES ................................................. 13
B. SUMMARY DESCRIPTION ................................................                                                                                                    13
C. THE POLICY FRAMEWORK ................................................                                                                                                   14
D. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE COMPONENTS .................................................                                                                                14
1. S      trengthening  the  University  of Mauritius ................................................                                                                14
2. Rationalizing Polytechnic Education ................................................                                                                                19
4. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ................................................                                                                                            21
A. COSTS .................................................                                                                                                                 21
B. F INANCING PLAN .................................................                                                                                                       23
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .................................................                                                                                                24
A. STATUS OF PROJECT PREPARATION .................................................                                                                                         24
B. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .................................................                                                                                           24
C. PROJECT MONITORING AND REPORTING ................................................                                                                                        26
D. PROCUREMENT ................................................                                                                                                            27
E. DISBURSEMENTS, ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS .................................................                                                                                    30
F. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS .................................................                                                                                                  32
6. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .................................................                                                                                             33
A. BENEFITS ................................................                                                                                                               33
B. RISKS ..................................................                                                                                                                33
C. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ................................................. .                                                                                                   33



2                                                                         Contents (cont'd)
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ........................................................... 35
A. AGREEMENTrS REACHED ............................................................            35
B .  R COMM NINDATION   ..............................36.............................. ................. . . . 36
TABLE 3 - 1: PROJECTIONS OF UoM ENROLLMENTS AND GRADtJATES BY FIELD .......................................... 17
TABLE 4- 1: PROJECT C    OS    T BY COMPONENT ...................................................................2..... ...... 21
TABLE 4-2: PROJECT COST BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE .22
TABI.E4-3: FINANCING PLAN .23
TABLE 5-1: MONITORING INDICATORS TO BE USED FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .26
TABI.E 5-2: SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS .28
TABLE 5-3: D]SB31 RSE M ENI TCATEGORIES AND PERCENTAGES ................................................................... 3 1
ANNEXES.37
ANNEX    1:  LEITER   OI  DEVELOPMENT  POLICY   ..............................................3.....8.............. .. 38
ANNEX 2:  StMMNIARY DESCRIPTIION OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM ...                          40
ANNEX 3: PROJECTED FLOWS AT UNIVERSITY OF MAURITIUS .. .    45
ANNEX 4:  PROJECTEI) STUDENT FLOWS AT THE POLYTECHNICS ...                                     48
ANNEX 5: RESEARCH FUNDING ...                                                                  52
ANNEX 6: TERNIS OF REFERENCE FOR KEY PROJECT STAFF ...                                         55
ANNEX 7: COST-IRFCOVE.RY SCHEME: UNIVERSITI Y OF MAURITIUS .. .    56
ANNEX 8: METHIIODOILO(ICAL NOTES ON ESTIMATION OF EIRR .57
ANNEX 9: PROPOSED INPI.ENIENTATION SCHEDULE ...                                               75
ANNEX 10: ESTI INIATIFD SCHEDUILE OF DISBURSEMENT .                                           81
ANNEX 1 1: SUPERVISION PLAN 1995-2000 ...                                                      82
ANNEX 12: DETAI.ED COSTF TABLES .. .    84
Map: IBRD 26791



REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
HIGHER AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Mauritius
Beneficiaries:    Ministry of Education and Science
University of Mauritius
Poverty:          N/A
Loan Amount:      US$16.0 million
Terms:            Repayable in 15 years, including 5 years of grace at
the standard variable interest rate.
Project Objectives and Description: The main objective of the project is to support the
Government's education sector program for higher and polytechnic education, which aims
to produce the human resources required to support a more competitive economy. The
project will assist the Government's program by:
(a)   Strengthening the University of Mauritius through (i) upgrading the
quality of education at the University through upgrading staff and facilities,
thus making the University more attractive for Mauritian students; (ii)
increasing the number of quality graduates in all fields with particular
emphasis on science, engineering and management; (iii) improving links
with employers in order to: a) make the curriculum more relevant to
national needs and b) increase the marketability of graduates; (iv)
developing a viable post graduate education and research program to
attract and retain quality faculty and produce new knowledge in areas
strategic to Mauritius' development; and (v) enhancing the efficiency of
University of Mauritius operations; and
(b)   Rationalizing Polytechnic Education through: (i) improving the quality
of faculty, curricula and facilities; (ii) supporting the development of key
non-engineering programs such as accounting and business, and
strengthening linkages between the polytechnics and both UoM and the
private sector; and (iii) strengthening the capacity of the Management Trust
Fund which runs the polytechnics to formulate policies, monitor labor
markets and consult with employers.



ii                            Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
Benefits: The economic rate of return for the project is 20% (the benefits are the
increased earnings --representing increased productivity-- of better educated and trained
workers). By improving and expanding higher and technical education, the project would
raise the quality and skills of the labor force, making available a larger and better-educated
pool of post-secondary graduates to facilitate the transition of the Mauritian economy to a
higher level of skill and productivity. The number of annual university degree graduates
will increase from about 200 to about 700, the number of technicians graduating annually
from polytechnics will increase from 140 to 440, and the number of university faculty with
graduate degrees will increase from 120 to about 220. In addition, increased flexibility in
higher education and technical training and closer links with employers will help to meet
the changing demands of an increasingly complex and dynamic economic environment.
Finally, the project will result in a more substantial role for UoM in national research and
development and the advancement of knowledge relevant to Mauritius' economic and
social growth.
Risks: The project is subject to two main risks. The first relates to the political
willingness and ability of the Government to introduce some of the needed policy changes
in higher education at this stage. This risk has been addressed by prioritizing and securing
agreement on the key reforms needed. The second risk is that UoM may fail to improve
quality sufficiently to be competitive with overseas studies. Elements of the project
designed to minimize this risk include: (i) further twinning with reputed international
universities; (ii) accreditation visits; and (iii) developing postgraduate and research
programs.
Economic Rate of Return: The proposed project has an economic internal rate of return
(EIRR) of 20%. The EIRRs for the UoM and polytechnic components are 21% and 16%
respectively.
Environmental Aspects: The project has no related environmental issues and has
therefore been assigned to environment category C. The Government of Mauritius is
particularly sensitive to environmental concerns, as evidenced by its Environmental
Monitoring and Development Project (Ln. 3277-MAS, US$12.4 million, signed in 1991).
Construction, which has the greatest potential effect on the environment under the
proposed project, is restricted to rehabilitation and expansion of buildings at existing sites.
Moreover, the quality of construction in Mauritius is good, as is that of water supply
systems and services.



Loan and Project Summary                                                          jjj
Estimated Project Costs:
(in US$ million)
Local    Foreign    Total    % Foreign      Total %
.______  ________   ___Exchange  Base Costs
1. Strengthening the University of  3.8     15.5      19.4         80           79
Mauritius
2. Rationalizing Polytechnic      1.8        3.3       5.0         65            21
Education                                      I
Total Baseline Costs              5.6       18.8      24.4         77           100
Physical Contingencies          0.2        0.5       0.6         72            3
Price Contingencies             0.6        0.8       1.5         59            6
Total Project Costs               6.4       20.1      26.5         76           109
Financing Plan:
(in US$ million)
Source                 Local                 Foreign                 Total
IBRD                          1.0                  15.0                    16.0
Government                   5.4                    5.1                    10.5
Total                        6.4                   20.1                    26.5
Estimated IBRD Disbursements:
(in US$ million)
Year            FY96           FY97          FY98           FY99           FY00
Annual                3.8            3.9           3.2            2.9            2.2
Cumulative            3.8            7.7          10.9           13.8           16.0






STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
HIGHER AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
1. ECONOMIC POLICY ENVIRONMENT
1.1   Mauritius is at a critical stage in its economic development. Having turned the
economy from stagnation to relative prosperity over the last decade, it now has to
determine how to sustain economic growth for the 1990s and beyond, and become a
Newly Industrialized Country (NIC) at the threshold of the next century. Between 1982
and 1993, it achieved an annual GDP growth rate of about 7%, a doubling of per capita
income to US$2,700, and a reduction in the population growth rate to below 1% per
annum. This impressive economic performance was largely due to a stable political
system, a favorable macroeconomic environment, and an ample supply of literate albeit
relatively low-skilled and low-paid labor.
1.2  In the past, the impetus for growth in Mauritius came primarily from the rapid
expansion of industries in the Export Processing Zone (EPZ) -- mostly in garments and
textiles, which utilize labor-intensive technologies. Employment grew rapidly, outpacing
the number of new entrants to the labor market. During the 1980s, there was a dramatic
increase in women's participation in the labor force, which more than doubled during the
decade to 46% in 1990. Thus, in the 1980s, the Mauritian economy was able to fully
absorb surplus and new labor and achieve full employment, leaving only frictional
unemployment, currently at 2.1 %. Mauritius' rapid economic progress has helped to
reduce the proportion of the population living below the poverty line from 28% in 1981 to
10% in 1992. The poverty line has been set at one-third of the average household
expenditures calculated from the 1991-92 Household Income and Expenditure Survey
(HlES) and is equivalent to about $330 per capita per year. Between 1981 and 1992, real
incomes rose at an average annual rate of 3% and, as this growth was achieved through
labor-intensive industrialization, the Gini coefficient of income inequality improved from
0.457 to 0.370.
1.3   Since the early 1990s, however, the country's economic performance has come
under some strain. Mauritius' heavy dependence on the preferential trade arrangements
with the European Union (EU), its major market, underscores the fragility of its earlier
success. Exports are overly concentrated in garment products and in the EU markets; a
high proportion of these exports moreover is in the low end of the market, in which
Mauritius' competitiveness has been eroded due to wage increases (50% since end-1980s)
that have outpaced increases in productivity. The foremost challenge for Mauritius is
therefore to achieve the productivity increases needed to be competitive vis-a-vis other



2                             Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
trading partners of the EU. With full employment and upward pressure on wage rates,
however, future growth -- and concurrent productivity gains -- will depend on both an
economy-wide shift to more capital-intensive technologies and expanded training of the
labor force to equip workers with the sophisticated skills needed to accelerate the
adoption of new technologies. Upgrading technology and skills will enable Mauritius to
penetrate the higher-quality/higher-value segment of the market. In this market segment,
low-cost labor is not nearly as important a factor as product quality, speed of delivery and
dependability of service, and responsiveness to changing customer preferences. Factors
determining competitiveness in this market segment are the quality of the labor force, its
education level (which affects its trainability/adaptability), and the level of technology.



Chapter 2: Higher and Technical Education in Mauritius                  3
2. HIGHER AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION IN
MAURITIUS
A.   THE EDUCATION SECTOR
2.1   Mauritius' education system has not kept pace with the country's strong economic
development in either quantitative or qualitative terms, obstructing the economy's progress
towards greater technological sophistication. Today's work force has a mean educational
attainment of 7 years of schooling, compared to 9 years for workers in Taiwan, Korea,
and Hong Kong. The six-year primary education cycle, enrolling about 92% of the age
group with no gap between genders, is still the terminal point for about one-third of
Mauritian children. The secondary enrollment ratio, at about 50%, is again low when
compared with Korea (83%) or Singapore (80%), and has remained stagnant due to lack
of places for interested entrants and high repeater rates. The current situation is partly a
result of inadequate financing. Public expenditure on education declined from 5% of GDP
in 1980 to under 3.5% in 1988. The Government has taken measures to improve it and it
is now about 4.3%. Still, at 13% of total public expenditure, these outlays fall short of the
average of 15-20% expended by NICs for education. Mauritius' human resources
development efforts are guided by two basic documents: the 1991 Education Sector
Master Plan (ESMP), and the 1992 labor skills survey. Taking into consideration factors
such as the quality of education, access to education, and financial constraints, the ESMP
aims to achieve four central objectives through a comprehensive, complex and interlinked
program: (a) improve access at all levels of education, including technical and vocational
education; (b) enhance the quality of learning at all levels; (c) foster continuing education;
and (d) strengthen sector planning and programming.
2.2   Several factors adversely affect the quality of education in Mauritius. In secondary
schools, half of the teachers have inadequate teaching skills and urgently require upgrading
(the ESMP provides regular training to upgrade the teaching skills of all primary teachers).
In addition, the curriculum pays insufficient attention to the acquisition of basic thinking
skills, science and mathematics. Furthermore, a rigid examination system encourages
memorization of facts rather than the ability to analyze and solve problems. Secondary
school leavers need to pass the Cambridge University Examinations, for which the pass
rate has been only around 65% in recent years; the pass rate for higher secondary has been
even lower, at about 60%. The ongoing Education Sector Development Project (Ln. 578-
MAS) is assisting the Government in rectifying these problems at the primary and
secondary levels. At the post-secondary level, programs in mathematics, science,
engineering and technology are either insufficiently developed or not attractive to
students. Students tend to favor liberal arts programs or to study overseas.
2.3   Although Mauritius enjoys a high literacy rate and relatively skilled labor, the
quality of the labor force falls short of that needed to support the country's transition to a



4                             Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
high-technology- and skills-intensive economy and to sustain growth in an increasingly
competitive international environment. As much as half of Mauritius' labor force has no
more than primary school education. Comparable figures for Singapore and Korea are
much lower, at about 30% and 10% respectively. The Mauritian labor force is thus at a
disadvantage: with less education, it is less prepared for training in sophisticated skills and
less adaptable to changes in technology and market preferences.
2.4   To address the shortcomings in education which impede the country's economic
development, the Government produced, in June 1991, the ESMP, which guides the
sector's development to the year 2000. To further the objectives of the ESMP and
reinforce the international competitiveness of Mauritius' labor force through the
development of higher- level skills, the Tertiary Education Commission (TEC) prepared a
Tertiary Education Development Plan (TEDP) in connection with the Education Sector
Development Project (Ln. 3578-MAS). The operational plan includes proposals to
rationalize tertiary education institutions (TEIs), to make them part of a coherent and
effective system of higher education, and to increase the science, engineering, finance and
management capabilities in Mauritius.
2.5   As stated earlier, orientation and preparation towards science and engineering
studies are weak in Mauritius. The Industrial and Vocational Training Board (IVTB) has
found that many applicants for its vocational training courses are inadequately prepared,
academically, even for vocational training. The pre-training courses which IVTB has
therefore had to provide for prospective candidates underscore the need for quality
improvement in education at all levels. In short, more and better-quality education with a
stronger emphasis on science and engineering will need to be provided to a greater number
so that human capital can continue to be an asset rather than a constraint to Mauritius'
future growth. The ESMP calls for sector-wide expansion of science education; the
Education Sector Development Project is addressing this need at the primary and
secondary levels. The expansion and especially the improvement of university/higher and
polytechnic education, another objective of the ESMP, are to be supported and/or
financed largely through the proposed project.
B.    HIGHER EDUCATION AND POLYTECHNIC EDUCATION
1.    The Institutions of Higher Education
2.6   The higher education system comprises four tertiary level institutions located on
adjacent campuses at Reduit: University of Mauritius (UoM), Mauritius Institute of
Education (MIE), Mauritius College of the Air (MCA), and Mahatma Gandhi Institute
(MGI). The performance of the system as a whole has suffered from the absence of a
coherent policy framework and a well-defined strategy to coordinate and rationalize the
multiple tertiary education programs. With the completion of the TEDP and the
Institutional Development Plans for the individual institutions in December 1993 which
provide a new policy framework, it is now possible to translate these policies into a
coherent and integrated program of action addressing the priority areas in the tertiary



Chapter 2: Higher and Technical Education in Mauritius                    5
sector. Having a statutory responsibility for planning and coordination, the Tertiary
Education Commission (TEC) will assist with and coordinate the implementation of the
action program. The Government provided the Bank at negotiations a document
clarifying TEC's role and responsibilities.
2.7   The higher education institutions currently have a low image among both students
and parents and employers. One reason is that the majority of programs are certificate-
and diploma-oriented and vocational in nature. Degree-level programs represent only
50% of the courses at UoM, 35% at MIE, 15% at MGI, and less than 5% at MCA. At
UoM, diploma students represent about 35% of total enrollment and combined
diploma/degree students another 15%. In the past it was also difficult for tertiary
institutions to attract and retain experienced professionals qualified to teach graduate
programs as teachers on civil service salaries. The recent round of salary increases has
addressed this problem (though in Mauritius' full employment labor market, it is
sometimes hard to retain faculty in areas where non-academic demand is high). The
institutions therefore continue to lack the faculty, as well as programs and facilities, to
provide recognized/accreditable undergraduate and postgraduate programs. As a result,
many Mauritian students attend post-secondary institutions abroad, with a government
scholarship or at their own expense (reduced by tax rebates). The tendency and
preference to seek higher education abroad are facilitated by continued reliance on the
United Kingdom-based Cambridge Examination System and the availability of
government- or donor-sponsored scholarships for those doing well in these examinations.
The total expenditure (private and public) for higher education abroad for Maufitian
students is about US$20 million, or almost twice the Government's expenditure on
domestic tertiary education.
2.8   Science and engineering account for 44% of total enrollments at the tertiary level.
Enrollment expansion in these fields is constrained by the low proportion (30%) of
secondary students taking science subjects in Forms IV and V. While engineering attracts
good students, the same is not true for science; students entering science programs have
high failure rates. These low pass rates may also discourage others from entering degree
programs in science. The number of students taking physics, chemistry and biology as
principal subjects for the Higher School Certificate has been steadily declining, from 3,457
in 1987 to 2,702 in 1991. However, the introduction of project and "magnet" schools in
1992 is helping to reverse the trend. At the same time, the number of students choosing
economics or accounting has almost doubled.
2.9   Even though the gender distribution of enrollments in primary and secondary
education is equal, girls are under-represented in higher education (31% of total
enrollments at UoM). A relatively small proportion of girls take science subjects in
secondary education (only 20% in Forms IV and V as opposed to 40% for boys). Not
surprisingly, female students represent only 12% of enrollments in the School of
Engineering. However, industry and services offer ample opportunities for women,
particularly in computers, telecommunications and electronics, and women who graduate
in these fields are readily absorbed in well-paying jobs.



6                             Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
2.10  UoM has operated mainly as a teaching institution and its research performance
has been modest. Fewer than 75% of the faculty hold graduate degrees. It has been
difficult to recruit qualified teachers from abroad even among non-resident Mauritians
because of civil service rules and immigration restrictions. The research which is carried
out is usually undertaken on an ad-hoc basis by a few enterprising faculty members.
Another major constraint to research, and consequently to analytical work needed to
support national policy formulation, is the absence of institutional linkages between higher
education institutions and the productive sectors. An additional factor impeding research
is the scarcity of books, journals, information systems and equipment for libraries, as well
as appropriate laboratory equipment. Government spending on UoM has been insufficient,
resulting in deficiencies in libraries, laboratories, and other essential facilities; and the
proportion of tertiary level students to the total population is very low by international
standards.
2.11   There is no systematic information on the employment of University graduates
(tracer studies will be carried out under the project), but interviews with selected
employers suggest that graduates lack maturity and a broader perspective compared to
overseas trained graduates. At the same time, employers, faced with strong competition
which is forcing them to improve the technology and cost-effectiveness of production, are
veering towards a policy of recruiting more university-trained workers. Also, the
expansion of off-shore banking, computer software and the printing industry is creating a
demand for well-trained professionals, which the University could supply, with improved
quality and relevance of its programs. Finally, employers have begun to attempt to engage
University faculty in applied research and product development.
2.    Polytechnic Education
2.12  Polytechnic education is highly diversified despite its small size. A proliferation of
programs exists, ranging from four engineering technology programs at Lyc6e
Polytechnique at Flacq (LPF), to 24 specialized programs at UoM, to on-the-job programs
provided by IVTB. Coordination among the institutions, their programs, and employers is
absent. Typically, polytechnic education provides training in basic sciences, applied
sciences, and theory and practice in a particular field, rather than highly specialized
courses as in Mauritius. Specialization takes place on the job, supplemented by further
education programs. The Government has decided to rationalize the system to arrive at
more focused and cost-effective programs. It has also decided to establish industry
advisory committees for the polytechnics with some authority over curriculum planning.
2.13   There is an increase in demand for technicians caused by competitive pressures
forcing enterprises to improve the quality and diversity of their products or services.
Employers want to recruit more and better-trained technicians, recognizing the need for
technicians trained to install quality control systems, modify production to improve output
and productivity, and select and install technologies for new products or services. The
Government has embarked on a program to expand polytechnic education to respond to
the growing demand (as expressed by employers in the labor skills survey of 1992).
However, for the polytechnic education system in Mauritius to respond to this demand, it



Chapter 2: Higher and Technical Education in Mauritius                     7
will be necessary to: (a) promote recruitment of technicians to respond to the immediate
needs; (b) implement the polytechnic expansion program (proposed in this report) to
accelerate the output of technicians in the medium term; and (c) improve the quality of
polytechnic education, and improve its relevance for the needs of industry, inter alia
through strengthening linkages with employers.
2.14 An autonomous Management Trust Fund (MTF) including representatives from
Government and the private sector manages the LPF. The MTF coordinates and monitors
technician education and advises the Minister of Education on these matters. The LPF
admits about 100 students annually with at least five years of secondary education and
preferably a school certificate pass, to be trained: (a) in two years as skilled workers
(Brevet d'aptitude Professionnel); or (b) in three years as technicians (Brevet de
Technicien). About two-thirds of the total of 300 students enrolled are in skilled worker
training; the remaining third are in technician training. It is expected that skilled workers'
training will be phased out and the polytechnics will focus on technician training. This
training is available in four areas: mechanics, electromechanics, automechanics, and
construction. Annual output is small, consisting of about 60 skilled workers and 20
technicians in the four areas. Graduates seem to find work quickly. Tracer studies will be
carried out to assess the relevance of the training and levels of remuneration. The
teaching force comprises 51 language, science and technical subject teachers assisted by
11 French technical assistants, resulting in a low student-teacher ratio of 7:1.
2.15  UoM offers a large number of certificate and diploma level courses in engineering,
business, agriculture, administration and health fields. Admission requirements are (a) five
years of secondary schooling for (i) one- to two-year certificate courses and/or (ii) two-
to three- year diploma courses; and (b) seven years of secondary schooling for two-year
diploma courses. In 1993, almost 900 students were enrolled in 24 different diploma and
certificate courses (almost 40% of total UoM enrollments). Although some courses
appear similar in content to those offered by the polytechnic (e.g. building and civil,
mechanical and electrical engineering), UoM courses are generally more specialized (e.g.;
sugar technology, cooperatives, hotel management, land surveying, etc.). Course
offerings are not primarily based on market mechanisms; they are more supply- than
demand-driven. Also, coordination with the polytechnic and IVTB needs strengthening.
Systematic tracing of graduating students is minimal, although essential; it is necessary to
visit employers for information on the employment and performance of graduates. To
address these deficiencies in the system, the project will strengthen the faculty-employers
councils for curriculum development and program planning.
2.16 Some polytechnic-level training is done by the IVTB. While IVTB's primary role
should be to promote enterprise-based training, set standards, conduct trade tests and
manage apprenticeships, it has preferred to focus its resources on two to three year pre-
employment training in 11 centers for 12-14 year old primary school dropouts and one
year technical training at two centers for those who quit lower secondary school, though
none of the training is at technician level. Employers do not uniformly value these
courses, and IVTB has been urged by the Government and the Bank to revert to its
primary role, leaving formal training to the private sector, UoM and the polytechnics.



8                             Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
Recently IVTB has increased its resource allocation to enterprise-based training, though
more needs to be done. IVTB's enterprise-based programs include on-the-job training for
supervisors. The training is oriented to skills in supervision, shop floor management and
team building rather than the science and technology provided in the polytechnic and UoM
programs.
3.    Sectoral Issues
(a)   Higher Education Issues
2.17  The recently prepared TEDP provides a coherent policy framework and a
transitional development strategy to coordinate and rationalize the various tertiary
education programs. The Tertiary Education Commission is coordinating the activities of
the various higher education institutions.
2.18  Rationalization. During 1992-93, a consensus emerged on most key policy
principles and measures that will guide the expansion and improvement of higher
education institutions as laid down in the TEDP. The plan proposes a rationalization
process for tertiary education institutions. The institutions will initially remain
autonomous, but the wide range of tertiary and lower level courses with small enrollments
vill be consolidated. UoM would focus on degree programs and research, while about
half of its non-degree courses would be transferred to the polytechnics over the next four
years. The other institutions would maintain some involvement in non-degree courses as
required. The MIE will be responsible for retraining teachers in service, the MGI which
has varied faculty standards will focus on programs in Asian studies and fine arts, and the
MCA will provide distance education facilities and services. Academic integration of the
four tertiary education institutions under the coordination of TEC could meet the higher
education requirements of the country in an economic manner.
2.19  Cost-recovery has been introduced for part-time students. The receipts from this
cost-recovery scheme in 1993-94 for each course and the estimates for 1994-95 are shown
in Annex 7. A total of about Rs. 6.8 million was recovered in 1993-94, representing 6%
of the recurrent budget of UoM. Costs to be recovered in the next academic year are
estimated at Rs. 10.7 million or 8%.
(b)    Technical and Polytechnic Education Issues
2.20  Inadequate supply. Surveys of employers indicate that the present supply of
about 200 technicians annually is inadequate to meet demand. The proposed project and
other investments -- which would add on average about 80 technicians annually beginning
in 1997 increasing to 440 annually by the year 2000 -- would alleviate the problem in the
long run. In the short term, however, priorities are for the quality and relevance of
polytechnic education to be improved, and establishing better ties between the teaching
institutions and employers, to facilitate recruitment. Hiring policies and practices should
also encourage the recruitment of Mauritians who live and work abroad but have
expertise relevant to industry needs.



Chapter 2: Higher and Technical Education in Mauritius                    9
2.21   The quality and relevance of the polytechnic programs need to be improved.
Although priority is given at LPF to students with a school certificate with language,
mathematics and science subjects, almost half of those admitted have only five years of
secondary schooling. Presently, only 15% of the three-year curriculum is devoted to
science and math. Laboratory practice takes up 50% of course time, but internships and
ties to industry are lacking. Moreover, the poor quality of technical teachers in terms of
both science and industrial experience serve to produce new generations of technicians
with similar failings. In addition, LPF does not currently teach electronics, computer
science, informatics or industrial technology, for all of which demand is high (para. 2.13).
2.22  The two year diploma courses at UoM on the other hand concentrate on basic and
applied science. Theory and practice in a specialized field is acquired through a 6 to 12
months project work assignment. At twenty-four, the number of specializations offered is
high, but the time spent to acquire knowledge in these specializations is inadequate. For
many students, the diploma course is seen as a first step towards a degree program and
not as a preparation for a career as a technician.
2.23  As mentioned earlier, linkages between industry and the educational institutions
are weak. The LPF organizes a meeting with representatives from industry once a year,
but teachers and instructors have neither the aptitude nor the experience to work with
industry and undertake consultancies or joint research and development projects. More
interaction should exist between the faculty and industry. Attempts are being made by
industry to develop relationships with faculty for consulting and research projects.
Industry should have a greater role in curriculum or program development and in regular
campus recruitment. These issues are being addressed in the project (para. 3.22).
2.24  The initial plan to construct a new polytechnic at Rose Hill and establish a
polytechnic for business and computer science at Droopnath Ramphul, while maintaining
diploma courses at the UoM Faculties of Engineering, Law, and Management and Social
Studies, was reconsidered during the appraisal mission. Agreement was reached on
measures expected to benefit technician education which include: (a) phasing out the
skilled-worker Brevet d'Aptitude Professionnel courses at LPF beginning 1995; (b) raising
the normal admission requirement for the proposed polytechnic at Droopnath Ramphul to
Higher School Certificate pass for certain courses in 1995; (c) gradually transferring some
UoM diploma programs to the polytechnics over the next four years; and
(d) strengthening the coordination and management of polytechnic education by the MTF
and the consultations with employers. An expansion program which will incorporate the
foregoing will produce an adequate number of well-trained technicians in both engineering
and non-engineering fields, responding to the quantitative and qualitative demand of both
manufacturing and service industries.
4.    Government Strategy
2.25  Mauritius is now moving into its second phase of industrialization. Trained
manpower, particularly at the middle management level, will continue to be essential to
modernize existing industries and establish technology-intensive industries to accelerate



10                            Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
economic growth. The National Development Plan (NDP: 1992-1994) stressed that
economic growth would depend on the availability of a better-qualified labor force, while
competitiveness would rest on the ability of the economy to increase total factor
productivity. Growth would also require diversification of the economy, placing special
demands on the tertiary sector. Commerce, and financial and other service industries in
particular, would need workers with solid training in business-related studies, including
information technology. Information processing capability would be a key determinant of
the future comparative advantage of Mauritius. Education policy should, as an urgent
priority, seek to produce an adequate supply of technical and professional workers, and
prepare school-leavers for further education and training in advanced technologies.
2.26  The ESMP, completed in 1991, presents a comprehensive analysis of the
bottlenecks in higher education and proposes four avenues to overcome them: (a) increase
access to higher education; (b) enhance the quality of learning; (c) foster institutional
capabilities; and (d) strengthen the managerial procedures of the system as a whole. The
plan aims to establish a viable system of education and training that would produce the
human resources required to sustain and accelerate the economic and social development
envisaged for Mauritius.
2.27  It also proposes a policy framework and plan of action to rationalize tertiary
education. It not only proposes a program of expansion but also provides a framework
for the institutions to network and share staff, facilities and physical resources. The Plan
further suggests an approach for the development of campuses and facilities. The four
tertiary education institutions are expected to form a coherent and effective system of
higher education, focusing on degree programs and research. The Government is
considering full academic integration. It agreed at negotiations to prepare a plan for this
academic integration by the end of 1997 and implement it by the end of 1999. Successful
implementation of the plan will require coordinated decision-making and financial
discipline.
2.28  Under the project, the UoM will change its faculty and organization to concentrate
on degree courses at the undergraduate and graduate levels. Enrollments are projected
to increase from 2,000 currently to 3,200 by the year 2000; by that year, the output from
UoM is likely to reach approximately 600 first degrees, 100 higher degrees and 100
diplomas. Quality and relevance will be upgraded and institutional capabilities will be
strengthened.
2.29  The ESMIP proposes an upgrading and expansion of polytechnic education to offer
middle level engineering training in computer and industrial control fields and the
establishment of a new non-engineering polytechnic to train the workforce in information
technology, computer software and finance skills. With support from the project, LPF will
be upgraded, the new polytechnic at Droopnath Ramphul will open in April 1995, and an
additional computer department will be created at Rose Hill which will open in September
1996. In addition, the Management Trust Fund will be strengthened to formulate policies,
monitor labor markets, and consult with employers.



Chapter 2: Higher and Technical Education in Mauritius                11
5.    Bank Group's Role
(a)   Past and Ongoing Involvement
2.30  The World Bank has to date financed four education projects in Mauritius, with
loans totaling US$47.6 million and providing support for primary, junior secondary,
secondary and rural education and industrial training. The First Education Project
(Cr.501/Ln. 1033-MAS, US$7.0 million, signed in 1974 and completed in 1980) sought to
expand and improve the quality of secondary education and increase the access of the
urban and rural poor to secondary schools. The project was completed with a delay of
about 18 months and its objectives were only partially achieved. While new curricula and
textbooks were produced and teachers were trained in practical and science subjects,
programs in rural education were not developed and implemented because of lack of
demand. Enrollments in project institutions did not reach projections, and problems were
encountered in equipment installation.
2.31  The Second Education Project (Ln. 1543-MAS, US$15.2 million, signed in 1978
and completed in 1985) aimed at capacity building in the Ministry of Education, improving
the quality of primary teacher education, and building and equipping junior secondary
schools. The project also included a component for a new Central Training Office (CTO),
the precursor of the IVTB. The project was amended in 1983 to support primary school
rehabilitation, curriculum development, and construction of educational facilities on the
island of Rodrigues. The CTO was established but never became operational because the
Government refocussed its priorities and amended the project to concentrate on primary
education; however, the other project objectives were accomplished.
2.32  The Industrial and Vocational Training Project (Ln. 3401-MAS, US$5.4 million,
signed in 1991) is supporting the development of the IVTB as the lead agency for
industrial and vocational training in Mauritius. While the IVTB has been very active in
expanding its own provision of industrial and vocational training, this has been largely
supply-driven. Much has been done using resources provided by employers and so far
little use has been made of the Bank loan, though this should change soon as some major
EBRD-financed activities are in process. In addition, IVTB, while being quite active, has
had management problems due to decision-making being concentrated in the Director's
hands. This has now been relieved with the recruitment of a project coordinator.
2.33  The Education Sector Development Project (Ln. 3578-MAS, US$20.0 million,
signed in 1993) is designed to assist the Government in implementing the policy reforms
and investment programs of the ESMP and in strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of
Education and Science. The project has gotten off to a good start and is meeting most of
its targets on or ahead of schedule, such as increasing access to and promoting equity of
educational opportunity at the primary school level, although procurement and
disbursement of the IBRD loan have been slow.
2.34  Lessons Learned. The PPARs and PCRs of the two completed projects found
that, in order to accommodate the Government's changing education policies and satisfy



12                            Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
parental choices, extensive changes were made in project objectives and content during
implementation. The first lesson from past projects, therefore, is that a clear vision and a
policy framework for institutional changes and investments should be prerequisites for
project design. Secondly, project design should be sufficiently flexible to accommodate
the needs of a rapidly changing economic and social environment. Finally, past experience
also shows that a project should not support experimental and innovative activities for
which little conmmitment exists on the part of parents, who are the key decision-makers.
The two ongoing projects took these lessons into account by obtaining a consensus on the
policy action plan at the outset, providing a flexible financing mechanism, and including
periodic and mid-term reviews. The proposed project also incorporates these features and
will, in addition, involve employers at all stages of the project and thus improve
education's linkages with the labor market through employer- institution councils and
internships. Finally, arrangements have been made to speed up procurement and loan
disbursements.
(b)   Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.35  The Country Assistance Strategy was discussed by the Executive Directors on
May 24, 1994. It endorses Mauritius' growth strategy, which is based on diversifying
production and increasing productivity through acquisition of modern technology, while
developing the financial sector. This will require improving labor force quality with
emphasis on increasing the supply of workers with higher and technical education. The
proposed project responds to that need and thus fits squarely with Mauritius' development
strategy. It is also central to the Bank's assistance strategy for Mauritius proposed in the
CAS, which is to support the country's transition to a higher-skill and higher-technology
economy with NIC status by the start of the twenty-first century. The Bank's on-going
policy dialogue and long-standing support for education and training has placed it in a
partnership position vis-a-vis the country's education sector. The Bank has assisted with
the development of professional leadership in the sector, advised on policy issues,
conducted supporting policy analyses and helped to improve resource allocation.
Moreover, the Bank's global experience in the development of education is valued in
Mauritius. Its principal role, therefore, is to participate as a partner in the development of
Mauritius' education and, as an external agency, to help stimulate the institutional and
policy changes and reforms needed.



Chapter 3: The Project                                                13
3. THE PROJECT
A.   OBJECTIVES
3.1   The main objective of the Higher and Technical Education Project is to support the
Government's education sector program for higher and polytechnic education, which aims
to produce the human resources required to support a more competitive economy. The
project will help produce higher and middle level manpower in the sciences, engineering,
technology and management, who in turn will have the capacity to raise the quality, cost-
effectiveness and diversity of Mauritius' industrial and service sectors. In addition, the
expansion of postgraduate studies and research at the UoM, supported by the project, will
produce new knowledge necessary to develop Mauritius into the financial and
technological hub it plans to become in the Indian Ocean. The project will assist the
Government's program by: (a) strengthening the University of Mauritius; and
(b) rationalizing polytechnic education.
B.    SUMMARY DESCRIPTION
3.2   The Higher and Technical Education Project is estimated to cost 477.5 million
Mauritian Rupees (US$26.5 million equivalent, with contingencies), and is expected to be
implemented over a five-year period. The project has two major components:
(a)   Strengthening the University of Mauritius (US$19.4 million base cost)
through: (i) upgrading the quality of education at the University through
upgrading staff and facilities, thus making the University more attractive
for Mauritian students; (ii) increasing the number of quality graduates in all
fields with particular emphasis on science, engineering and management;
(iii) improving links with employers in order to: (a) make the curriculum
more relevant to national needs and (b) increase the marketability of
graduates; (iv) developing a viable post graduate education and research
program to attract and retain quality faculty and produce new knowledge in
areas strategic to Mauritius development; and (v) enhancing the efficiency
of University of Mauritius operations; and
(b)   Rationalizing Polytechnic Education (US$ 5.0 million base cost)
through: (i) improving the quality of faculty, curricula and facilities;
(ii) supporting the development of key non-engineering programs such as
accounting and business and strengthening linkages between the
polytechnics and both UoM and the private sector; and (iii) strengthening
the capacity of the Management Trust Fund which runs the polytechnics to
formulate policies, monitor labor markets and consult with employers.



14                           Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
C.    THE POLICY FRAMEWORK
3.3   Government policy in higher education is an integrated part of its Education Sector
Master Plan (ESMP) and is geared towards increasing the availability of quality human
resources with higher and technical skills to help Mauritius make the transition from a
lower-technology industrial economy (primarily textiles and garments) to a higher-
technology industrial and sciences economy. As part of this approach the Government
wants to improve the quality and increase the availability of higher and technical education
with emphasis on engineering, technical and management education. This policy
framework is presented in three separate but closely linked elements: (a) a Letter of
Higher and Technical Education Policy from the Government summarizing the essential
features of the ESMP regarding the University of Mauritius and polytechnic education
(Annex 1), (b) an implementation timetable, summarizing the implementation of agreed
measures (Annex 9), and (c) a set of performance indicators with benchmarks and dated
achievement targets to monitor implementation of the program (Table 5.1). The policy
framework confirms the understanding between the Government of Mauritius and the
Bank on the two major categories of policy objectives listed above: strengthening the
University of Mauritius and rationalizing polytechnic education. The Government agreed
at negotiations to implement the project in accordance with the Letter and the targets for
the key monitoring indicators.
D.   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE COMPONENTS
1.    Strengthening the University of Mauritius
3.4   This component is estimated to cost US$19.4 million excluding contingencies. Its
objectives are to (a) upgrade the quality of education at the University through upgrading
staff and facilities, thus making the University more attractive for Mauritian students;
(b) increase the number of quality graduates in all fields with particular emphasis on
science, engineering and management; (c) improve links with employers in order to (i)
make the curriculum more relevant to national needs and (ii) increase the marketability of
graduates; (d) develop a viable post graduate education and research program to attract
and retain quality faculty and produce new knowledge in areas strategic to Mauritius
development; and (e) enhance the efficiency of University of Mauritius operations.
(a)   Enhancing Quality
3.5   Faculty quality and access to a good library and other facilities are essential
elements of a quality education. The component will finance (i) improvement of staff
quality, (ii) links with reputable international universities followed by accreditation,
(iii) gradual introduction of a course credit system, (iv) development of the library and
other facilities and (v) changes to increase efficiency.



Chapter 3: The Project                                                      15
3.6    Staff development will be a key element supported in the project to improve
quality. Efforts towards this end will include: the upgrading of the qualifications of staff
from bachelor's degrees to master's degrees, and from master's degrees to Ph.Ds
according to the plan approved by the University Council and the Senate (Annex 3, Table
1). Staff development is a continuous process and will be based on annual plans which
will be closely monitored. While new academic staff will be recruited, not all the
recruitment will be on a permanent and pensionable basis, as has been the case in recent
years. Some staff will be recruited on a contractual basis for pre-determined periods of
time. This will provide flexibility, especially in subject areas where demand is likely to
change. As demand for a subject area declines, contract staff will not be extended, while
new contract staff will be recruited for subjects where demand is growing. In addition,
staff will be encouraged to get involved with the private sector in research, consulting and
advisory services, since qualified university faculty usually has the expertise and resources
to assist industrial development and find solutions for problems and constraints faced by
expanding or exporting firms.
3.7    Academics will be recruited from abroad, through twinning arrangements or on a
contract basis, where suitable qualified persons are not available locally, for example, in
management and economics. This will help to open up UoM more to the outside world
and provide the necessary interaction between Mauritian academics and their foreign
counterparts. Annual seminars will be organized to bring intemationally reputed
specialists and experts to the country to interact with and train national staff.
3.8    The project will support new and upgraded courses the content of which is more
relevant to Mauritius' development. These will be designed through regular consultation
with the employer-faculty councils which the Government plans to establish and activitate
in 1996 and 1997. The project will also support the introduction of the course credit
system with an appropriate accreditation program. The credit system will be introduced to
allow flexible and efficient delivery of academic programs. Existing programs will be
converted first to modular courses by 1996 and then to the credit system by the year 2000.
The system of course credits which is being proposed requires the establishment by the
year 2000 of national accreditation procedures. A credit system validated by national
accreditation could lead to intemational acceptance of courses and diplomas offered and
will contribute to mobility of students between countries and between mainstream and
distance education systems. Furthermore, an accredited standard credit system allows
mobility between various tertiary institutions within Mauritius. As a first phase, UoM has
introduced, at three faculties, a modular system' which is a hybrid of the British and U.S.
credit systems.
3.9    By the end of 1995, the following items will be included in the agenda of the
decision- making bodies at the University. First, global experience has shown that
undergraduate management degree courses have been generally ineffective and have
A modular system breaks traditional programs into standard modules. These modules are to be
given course credit values by the year 2000.



16                           Mauritius Higher and Technical Education Project
eventually been replaced by postgraduate full-time MBA programs in the more mature
business schools; the project will help UoM to eventually replace the B.Sc. (Management)
program with a full time MBA program (the part-time MBA program has been well
received). Second, in view of the need for specialist training in basic sciences and
mathematics, first degree programs will emphasize training in strictly these disciplines,
leaving interdisciplinary programs such as environmental sciences or bio-medical sciences
for the postgraduate level. Third, the UoM will also design a series of executive programs
to transfer expertise to managers and proprietors of public and private enterprises. They
will enhance the contribution of the University to the country's development. Fourth,
UoM will require a minimum score in A-level mathematics for future admissions into
science, engineering and economics programs. After the introduction of the modular
system, it will be possible to broaden the basis of first degree education by requiring
students to take modules/courses in subjects outside their fields of studies. For example,
science and engineering students could be required to take elective courses in fine arts or
humanities and vice versa. In order to achieve synergy and economies of scale across
faculties, UoM should consider merging the Economics and Management Faculties, as
well as those of Agriculture and Science; organizational arrangements concerning student
placement, training for the world of work, and public relations services should also be
formalized.
(b)   Increasing Overall Enrollments and Access to Science, Engineering, and
Management Programs
3.10 The central proposal supported by the project is the expansion of UoM
enrollments from 2,000 currently to 3,200 full-time equivalents (FTEs) by the year 2000
and 5,000 FTEs by 2006, thereby producing more and better qualified professionals for
the nation. When the project closes in the year 2000, about 1,500 of the 3,200 FTE
students would be in science, engineering and management. By 2006, 2,600 of the 5,000
students would be in science, engineering and management. The total of 5000 includes
about 150 in taught postgraduate programs excluding the MBA program. The number of
graduates by the year 2000 would be almost 600 first degrees, 40 MBAs and over 50
postgraduate degrees. The number of graduates by 2006 would be over 1,000 degree
holders annually and, in addition, about 70 MBAs and about 70 postgraduates annually.
The supply of qualifying high school students is expected to be adequate. The number of
students with Higher School Certificate (3 A-level) passes is expected to increase from
600 in 1994 to 3,200 by the year 2000. This expansion in secondary education is being
partly supported by the Education Sector Development Project (ESDP). With a growing
demand for higher technical qualifications in the labor market, a greater proportion of
HSC holders may be expected to pursue university studies.
3.11   The enrollment capacity in engineering and management would be increased by
project financed inputs while the enrollment capacity in science has just been increased
with financing in part from the ESDP (Ln. No. 3578-MAS). The proportion of
engineering graduates would rise from 11% in 1994 to about 25% in the year 2000. The
proportion of science graduates would remain the same but the numbers would double.
Projected enrollments and graduates are shown in Table 3-1 below.



Chapter 3: The Project                                                                   17
Table 3-1: Projections of UoM Enrollments and Graduates by Field
1994        1995   1  2000           2002         2004         2006
Agriculture
Enrollment in Faculty       133          153         291          370         435          500
- Diploma Graduates         25           25          25           25           25          25
- Degree Graduates          26           38          63          106          127         132
- Postgraduates              4            5          10           12           14           16
Engineering
Enrollment in Faculty      474          543        1,004        1,258        1,479       1,700
- Diploma Graduates         33           33     3    3            33           33          33
- Degree Graduates          69          77          148          240         267          337
- Postgraduates              4            5          10           12           14           16
Law and Management
Enrollment in Faculty      550          630          897         925         1,088       1,250
- Diploma Graduates        100          100           0            0            0           0
- Degree Graduates          46          46          140          204         232          221
- MBA Graduates            25           29           40          49           59           71
- Other Post               10           11           13          14           15           16
Graduates                                   I
Science
Enrollment in Faculty      270          290          434         518          609          700
- Diploma Graduates         35          35           35           35           35          35
- Degree Graduates          25           29          57           87          115         134
- Postgraduates             10           10          13           14           15           16
Soc. Sci. & Humanities                                        I
Enrollment in Faculty      306          351   J      557         629          740          850
- Diploma Graduates         60           25           13          13           13           13
-Degree Graduates           48          61   |      170          145          185         226
- Postgraduates              0            3   |      10           13           13          13
TOTAL                        _
University Total         1,733        1,967       3,183        3,700        4,351        5,000
- Diploma Graduates        253         218          106          106          106          106
- Degree Graduates         214         251          578          782          926        1,050
- MBA Graduates            25           29           40          49           59           71
- Other Post               28           34           56          65           7 1          77
Graduates          lI                       I            I            I              ll
(c)    Improving Labor Market Relevance
3.12   The project will assist UoM  to set up a system of on-going linkages between its
academic programs and the labor market, by ensuring that the statutory employer-faculty
councils are fully functional across all faculties by 1997, and by organizing regular
seminars for students at all levels involving presentations by practitioners in the field. The
proportion of students serving as interns in industry will be increased and will be



18                             Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
broadened to include students from faculties other than Engineering, Agriculture and
Management. In addition, faculty will be encouraged to organize education programs for
executives, and to provide problem solving, research and development services to
enterprises.
(d)   Developing Viable Postgraduate and Research Programs
3.13  Presently, due to staff and physical restrictions, the UoM has developed only a
restricted set of postgraduate and research activities: e.g. in sugar technology, and an
MBA (taught), and M.Phil/Ph.D. training in a few fields (entirely by research). However,
an extensive taught postgraduate and research program is essential to attracting and
retaining good faculty and to upgrading their skills continuously. To produce the needed
expertise in strategic areas, UoM will establish postgraduate programs. This will require a
larger output of qualified undergraduates. Teaching and research will be closely linked,
because curricula and course content are normally enhanced by active research which
advances the frontiers of knowledge. UoM would also develop interdisciplinary programs
to provide an opportunity for scholars from different disciplines to collaborate in teaching
and research. Postgraduate education and research by scholars and fellows, as well as by
the academic staff, would be supported through scholarships for graduate studies and the
establishment of a number of postgraduate taught courses. UoM's on-going research is
already firmly linked with the strategies and priorities of the National Research Council.
The project will help to narrow the focus of the research on new strategic areas as well as
greatly expand research activities.
3.14   The research infrastructure at the UoM will be improved through the provision of
state-of-the-art equipment, research scholarships, research fellowships, research career
development, research grants, attachments, and support for seminars in newly emerging
areas/technologies such as environmental sciences, sugar technology, and information
technology. A research fund will be created, equal to 5% of the amount spent every year
on the salaries of the academic staff A mechanism has been designed for the fund's
allocation of moneys (Annex 5).
(e)   Increasing Efficiency at the University of Mauritius
3.15  To increase internal efficiency, UoM needs to maximize output from the faculties.
In order to achieve this, it is essential to improve curricula, develop teaching standards,
analyze space and plant utilization, and implement resource-sharing among departments.
This will lead to greater efficiency and better utilization of staff and facilities. An audit
will be undertaken in 1995 which will include the utilization of facilities and faculty of
MIE, MCA and MGI.
3.16  Library hours will be extended and the University will seek assistance from facility
planners to use classroom and laboratory space more efficiently. This will mean keeping
the University open longer in the evening. The latter will be facilitated by introducing late
bus services from the campus to the main points of the island.



Chapter 3: The Project                                                19
2.    Rationalizing Polytechnic Education
3.17  This component is estimated to cost US$5.0 million excluding contingencies. This
figure does not include the French parallel financing estimated at US$4.8 million for
equipment and training, and the Mauritian Government's contribution estimated at US$4.0
million for construction, of the Rose Hill Polytechnic. The component is based on a
feasibility study prepared by the Government with assistance from the Singapore
Polytechnic and labor market studies prepared with French technical assistance. It is
designed to establish a capacity to produce middle and higher level technicians
commensurate with present and projected market demand for workers with technological
and business skills. The component will enable the phasing-out during 1996-1999 of
about half of the full-time diploma level courses currently offered at UoM. It will also
support the upgrading of the technician education programs at the existing polytechnics at
Flacq and Rose Hill and the establishment of a new polytechnic at Droopnath Ramphul.
3.18  The component will help to: (a) improve the quality of polytechnic education by
upgrading admission and curriculum standards, teaching materials and equipment
provision, and staff training programs. Quality standards will be maintained by regular
monitoring of the performance of students in training as well as in employment and by
periodic consultation with employers; (b) expand polytechnic education by establishing a
new engineering program at Rose Hill and key non-engineering programs such as
accounting and business at Droopnath Ramphul, and (c) improve management and labor
market linkages by strengthening the Management Trust Fund which runs the
polytechnics.
(a)   Improving the Quality and Relevance of Polytechnic Education
3.19  The project will support, starting in 1995: the development of admission
examinations and selection criteria; the development of new curricula with a better balance
between basic and applied science, and between subject matter theory and practice; and
annual industrial internships of six to eight weeks. Books and instructional materials to
support the new curricula will be provided. The project will also offer incentives for
teachers to take sabbaticals or internships in industry, undertake consultancies, or engage
in joint industry-polytechnic research or development projects. A monitoring and
evaluation system will be established to follow students' progress during training and in
employment. In addition, the project will support seminars and workshops, publicity
campaigns, and the training of industrial liaison officers for the existing and new
polytechnics. To maintain standards and make polytechnic education responsive to the
changing skills and technologies in industry, the Management Trust Fund will be given the
resources to develop capacity for policy analysis, improving linkages with employers and
undertaking labor market and tracer studies. At each polytechnic, industry-faculty
advisory committees will be created starting in 1996 (Flacq 1996, Droopnath Ramphul
1997 and Rose Hill 1998).



20                            Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
(b)   Euxpanding Polytechnic Education
3.20  By transforming the Droopnath Ramphul State Secondary School into a non-
engineering polytechnic and adding a computer-hardware program at the Rose Hill
polytechnic, Mauritius will have three polytechnics producing middle and higher level
technicians for the labor market. Two, Flacq and Rose Hill, will produce technicians in
engineering and industrial technology, and the third, Droopnath Ramphul, middle-level
managers in finance, accounting, management science, and computer software and
information technologies. Total enrollments at the three polytechnics will rise from about
230 to about 1,550. The polytechnics will annually graduate about 320 diploma holders
with three years of training after 0-level and about 120 diploma holders with two to three
years of training after A-level. In addition, an estimated 200 technicians already employed
will graduate from skill-upgrading courses each year.
3.21   The Government intends to open the new Droopnath Ramphul polytechnic in April
1995 and has agreed to recruit the necessary staff, including a project manager and
management and teaching staff. The rehabilitation of the polytechnic will be completed
before April 1995 so that students can begin classes at that time in line with the academic
cycle. To finance consultant recruitment and equipment procurement, the Government
has agreed to allocate the necessary budget, but it has requested retroactive financing once
the loan is effective (para. 5.26).
(c)   Improving Management and Labor Market Linkages
3.22  To achieve the quality, efficiency, and curriculum relevance improvements at the
polytechnic, the Management Trust Fund (MTF) will be strengthened and given greater
autonomy and responsibilities. The Government has changed the composition of the
Board of Trustees to provide for equal representation of Government, employers and
employees, and the frequency of Board meetings will increase. In addition, under the
newly (December 1994) amended statutes, the MTF will have a secretariat and a full-
fledged management information system to monitor the polytechnics and the employment
of graduates. Labor market links will be strengthened by semi-annual meetings with
employers starting in July 1995 to discuss the curriculum, regular consultation with
enterprises by teachers, industrial attachments for students, bi-annual tracer studies
starting in 1996, and regular labor market surveys to provide information for student
counseling and career guidance.



Chapter 4: Project Costs and Financing                                  21
4. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A.    COSTS
4.1   Total costs of the project are estimated at 477.5 million Mauritian Rupees
(US$26.5 million equivalent with contingencies). It will be implemented over a five year
period. Base costs are estimated at US$24.4 million and contingencies amount to US$2.1
million equivalent. In addition, taxes and import duties amount to US$6.4 million.
Foreign exchange costs account for US$20.1 million or 75% of total project costs.
Project costs by component are summarized in Table 4-1 below. The "Strengthening the
University of Mauritius" component accounts for 79% of base costs and the
"Rationalizing Polytechnic Education" component accounts for 21% of base costs.
However, the cost estimate for the latter excludes the estimated US$8.8 million financed
by the Government of Mauritius and France to construct a new polytechnic at Rose Hill.
Total investments in polytechnic education will be US$13.8 million equivalent.
Table 4-1: Project Cost by Component
(in US$ '000)
Local   Foreign    Total   % Foreign    Total %
Exchange   Base Costs
1. Strengthening the University of   3,831    15,555   19,386  80       79
Mauritius
2. Rationalizing Polytechnic  1,768    3,256    5,023        65         21
Education
Total Baseline Costs         5,599    18,810   24,409        77         100
Physical Contingencies      180       455      635        72           3
Price Contingencies         616       870    1,486        59           6
Total Project Costs          6,394    20,136   26,530        76         109
Figureff ay not add up due to rounding
4.2   Estimates for equipment costs, furniture, books and studies are based on actual
expenditures incurred under the two on-going IBRD-financed education projects.
Estimates for civil works were provided by the Government and reviewed by the appraisal
mission. Local salaries and travel allowances are based on current Government scales.
Estimates for university staff upgrading (training) were prepared on the assumption that
faculty with Bachelor's degrees will go abroad for a two year Master's program. Faculty
with Master's degrees are assumed to be given 4 years of training, of which two will be
spent abroad and two in Mauritius to obtain a doctorate degree. Replacement faculty will
be recruited during the period of foreign training for UoM faculty, to keep the
teacher/student ratio from exceeding 25 students per professor at any time.



22                                Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
4.3    Contingency Allowances. Physical contingencies have been calculated at 10%
for civil works, consulting services, equipment and furniture, and 5% for books. The
following price contingencies have been included: (i) on foreign exchange expenditures
2.2% per annum, and (ii) on local cost expenditures 5.9, 5.8, 5.7, 5.6, and 5.5% for the
five years beginning in 1996.
4.4    Project costs by category of expenditure are shown in Table 4-2 below.
Table 4-2: Project Cost by Category of Expenditure
(in US$ '000)
Local    Foreign    Total    % Foreign    Total %
Exchange    Base Costs
Investment Costs
Civil Works                   3,809      1,270    5,0779        25           21
Equipment & Furniture           37      4,480     4,517         99           19
Training, Studies & Research  1,286     7,923     9,209         86           38
Consultants' Services          359      3,098     3,457         90           14
Books                           107      2,040    2,147         95            9
Total Investment Costs         5,599     18,810    24,409         77          100
Recurrent costs                    -          -         -          -
Total Baseline Costs            5,599    18,810    24,409         77          100
Physical Contingencies         180        455       635         72            3
Price Contingencies            616        870      1,486        59            6
Total Project Costs            6,394     20,136    26,530         75          109
Figures may not add up due to rounding
4.5   Incremental Recurrent Costs. The investments proposed will increase the long-
run recurrent costs for the UoM by an estimated Rs. 12.6 million per year (US$0.7
million) and for MTF by Rs. 8.7 million per year (US$0.5 million). The long run
incremental recurrent costs resulting from the university component amount to 5.3% of
the resources allocated to higher education in fiscal year 1993-94, while incremental
recurrent costs for the polytechnics amount to 1.3% of the resources allocated for
secondary and technical education in 1993-94.
4.6    Sustainability. The economic internal rate of return for the project is about 20%
(para. 6.4). The incremental recurrent costs resulting from the project will be only 1.3%
of the Ministry of Education's 1993-94 budget. Mauritians studying abroad spend about
US$20 million per year on education. The improvements to the UoM, once they are
reflected in higher quality and greater acceptability of graduates to employers, should
encourage more students to stay in Mauritius, leading to significant savings for the
Mauritian economy as the average cost of education at UoM will remain much less than
the average cost abroad. Three additional factors will further contribute to sustainability.
First, total public education expenditures in Mauritius are around 4.3% of GDP, which is
low for a middle income country, and could increase to 5% if necessary without affecting
other sectors significantly. Second, the age pyramid of the population is changing.



Chapter 4: Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Mauritius, which has already achieved 100% primary education enrollment, will have
fewer and fewer primary school entrants in the future due to the effect of fertility declines
in the past two decades. There will be no need for investments to expand primary
education and most of the investment budget can be shifted to secondary and higher
education. Finally, the Government has already introduced cost recovery at institutions of
higher learning. As part of the mid-term review, the Bank and the Government will assess the
adequacy of the Govemment's action plan for sustainable financial arrangements in the higher
and technical education sub-sector.
B.    FINANCING PLAN
4.7    Of the total project costs of US$26.5 million, IBRD will finance US$16.0 million,
covering 25% of civil works, 70% of equipment and furniture, 70% of training, studies
and research, 70% of consultants' services, and 70% of books. The Government is
expected to finance US$10.5 million. The financing of each component is set out in Table
4-3. In addition, France has agreed to finance in parallel US$4.8 million for equipment
and training for the Rose Hill Polytechnic. The Government will finance US$4 million for
civil works for the Rose Hill Polytechnic.
Table 4-3: Financing Plan
(in US$ '000)
Government         IBRD              Total        Foreign    Local
Exchange   Costs
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %
1. Civil Works        4,285    75.0    1,428   25.0    5,713    21.5      1,369    4,344
2. Equip. & Furniture  1,439    30.0    3,357    70.0    4,796    18.1    4,756       40
3. Training, Studies  2,947    30.0    6,876    70.0    9,823    37.0    8,356      1,467
and Research
4. Consultants'       1,155   30.0    2,695    70.0    3,850    14.5    3,433        418
Services
5. Books                704    30.0    1,643    70.0    2,347     8.8    2,222       126
Total                10,530   39.7   16,000    60.3   26,530   100.0   20,136      6,394
Figures may not add up due to rounding



Chapter 5: Project Implementation                                      24
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    STATUS OF PROJECT PREPARATION
5.1   The project is part of the Education Sector Master Plan and was conceived during
the Plan's preparation. The Master Plan was nationally debated and is supported by a
strong commitment from the Government and the public.
5.2   The Master Plan preparation was followed by the development of the Tertiary
Education Development Plan and individual development plans for all tertiary educational
institutions (supported by the on-going project) including UoM, which would be the major
beneficiary of this loan. The component related to strengthening UoM is based on these
plans. Detailed plans for enrollments, faculty development, library development, and civil
works were discussed and agreed with the university authorities. UoM has started
implementing parts of its institutional development plan, specifically the modular course
system, faculty training, and upgrading facilities for sciences, and the proposed loan will
support further implementation of the plan.
5.3   The polytechnic component is also included in the Master Plan and was prepared
in two phases. One phase was prepared with support from the French Government and
includes upgrading the existing polytechnic at Flacq and the construction of a new
polytechnic at Rose Hill. The other part was prepared with support from the Singapore
Polytechnic and concerns the establishment of the non-engineering polytechnic at
Droopnath Ramphul. Both plans have been approved by Government and work on both
of the new polytechnics has started. Droopnath Ramphul is expected to take in the first
new batch of students in April 1995 and Rose Hill will start enrollments in September
1996.
B.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.4   The Master Plan Coordinating Unit (MPCU) will be responsible for overall
coordination. Set up in the Ministry of Education and Science in 1991 to coordinate all
donor-financed projects, the MPCU is currently responsible for the AfDB-financed
Education Project and the on-going IBRD-financed Education Sector Development
Project (Ln. 3578-MAS). It has considerable experience in project management and a
good knowledge of Bank procurement and disbursement procedures.
5.5   The MPCU is headed by an Assistant Director, who reports directly to the
Minister of Education and will be ultimately responsible for this project. Given the
MPCU's additional workload (resulting from the present project), a full-time manager will
be appointed to assist the Assistant Director with the day-to-day management of the
project. The manager will be assisted by an accountant and a procurement specialist



25                       Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
responsible only for tasks related to this project (see Annex 6 for terms of reference). The
appointment of a manager, accountant, and procurement specialist with terms of reference
and qualifications acceptable to the Bank, in MPCU frill-time for the project is a condition
of effectri'eness. The MIPCU team will work in close collaboration with UoM and the
Management Trust Fund, the two agencies that will be responsible for day-to-day
implementation of the two project components. UoM will prepare staff, equipment, and
facility development programs in collaboration with TEC. The MPCU will undertake the
following tasks: (a) consolidate annual work programs, budgets, and procurement
schedules, to be transmitted to the Bank and other concerned parties for review;
(b) prepare semi-annual progress reports; (c) prepare the annual and mid-term reviews;
(d) maintain the project accounts and prepare withdrawal applications; (e) prepare for the
annual audit, and (f) prepare bidding documents and carry out the procurement process.
In addition, the MPCU will monitor the agreed project performance indicators.
5.6   In order to facilitate project implementation, and taking into account the
specialized nature of the project's two components, clearly defined management structures
are being put in place. Thus, if one component were to suffer from implementation delays,
the whole project will not come to a standstill. For each component, a coordinator has
been appointed to oversee technical as well as implementation-related matters. The
coordinator will be assisted by a component manager for day-to-day management. This
person will be responsible for the following tasks: (a) preparation of annual work
programs, budgets, and procurement plans, (b) implementation of the agreed annual work
programs, and (c) preparation of specifications and lists for needed equipment, materials
and books. The component coordinators will be responsible for transmitting this
information to the MPCU for consolidation. Regarding procurement, equipment lists will
be transmitted to the MIPCU who will undertake the necessary procurement-related
functions. The component coordinator and manager for the UoM component have been
appointed with terms of reference and qualifications acceptable to the Bank.
5.7   For the UoM component, the component coordinator is the Vice Chancellor.
However, given his heavy work load, UoM has appointed a component manager to back
him up (see Annex 6 for terms of reference). In addition, it was agreed that the financial
specialist in the Registrar's office in charge of international procurement for the University
will be freed from his duties to coordinate the preparation of the necessary equipment lists
(including specifications) and transmit them to MPCU. A UoM accountant will also be
freed from his/her duties to manage component accounts.
5.8   For the Polytechnic component, the Government agreed that the Assistant
Director of Polytechnic and Secondary Education in MOES would be the component
coordinator. He will be assisted by a Component Manager who will be responsible for the
implementation of the polytechnics' work program. However, the managers of the three
polytechnics will be responsible for preparing the institutional work programs, budgets,
and procurement schedules, which will be consolidated by the component manager and
transmitted to the MPCU. During negotiations, the Government proposed to appoint an
executive director for the Management Trust Fund who will both serve as component
manager and establish a secretariat for the Fund. The executive director will be in charge



Chapter 5: Project Implementation                                                                                26
of the secretariat and will be assisted by a secretary/program analyst, who will be
responsible for maintaining component accounts.
C.   PROJECT MONITORING AND REPORTING
5.9    Monitoring Indicators. The agreed monitoring indicators to be used are given in
Table 5-1 below.
Table 5-1: Monitoring Indicators to be used for Project Implementation
Monitoring Indicators          1995            1996             1997             1998            1999              2000
Monitoring Indicators for University Component
Establishment of University                   Activate          Activate all
Council Sub-committees for                    Management        others
Faculty-Employer Coordination                 Engineering,
& Science
University Accreditation by                   University self-    Visits for     Intl visit for
Intemational Accrediting Body                 assessment        individual       whole
against          faculties         University
international
standards, in
preparation for
accreditation
Faculty with Doctorates                                                20%                                                  27%
Efficiency of Resource Use       Audit        Introduce                          Modular
facilities   modular system                     system for all
and staff                                      tertiary
use                                            institutions
Sustainable Financial                                           Review
Arrangements                                                    progress on
action plan
Attractiveness of IJniversity to                                Number of                         Survey of A-   Fully qualified
Mauritian Students                                              fully qualified                  level           applicants exceed
applicants at                    students       student places.
least equal to
student places
Faculty Development Training                             3                4      One per          One per        One per faculty
Seminars                                                                         faculty          faculty
Phasing Out Diploma Programs        550               490              415             315*           315*                 315*
(Total Enrollment)
University Staff Upgrading            20                40               60              80            100                   120
(Cumulative)
New University Staff                  12                24               36              48             60                   72
(Cumulative)
University Enrollment (Full-time   2000              2200             2400             2700           2900                 3200
Equivalent Degree)
University Enrollment (Taught       150                170             190              205            240                  250
Post Graduate incl. MBA)                                      I                I                I              I
Monitoring Indicators for Polytechnic Component
Polytechnic-Employer Councils                 Flacq             Droopnath        Rose Hill
Ramphul
Post O-Level Two Year
Certificate Graduates                 40               40               40              140            204                  225
Post A-Level Diploma Graduates                                                                          57                  118
'Fully employer-funded programs not available elsewhere.



27                      Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
5.10  Reporting to EBRD. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the
Government that: a semi-annual progress report will be submitted by January 31 and July
31 of each year covering (i) the status of all project indicators, including an analysis of
discrepancies between actual performance and that targeted in the annual work programs;
and (ii) the status of disbursements for each loan category. Prior to supervision missions,
the MPCU will provide an update of all procurement actions undertaken.
5.11  Annual Joint Reviews of Project Implementation. At negotiations, assurances
were given by the Government that; to provide a structure for regular reviews of project
performance and expenditures, the MPCU will organize no later than May 31 of each year
(to coordinate with the Government's budget preparation cycle), a joint Bank-Government
review of project implementation; and it will submit to the Bank for review and comment,
no later than April 30 of each year beginning in 1996, a statement of project achievements
and actual expenditures for the ongoing fiscal year and a work plan and projected
expenditures for the coming year.
5.12 Mid-Term Review. During negotiations, agreement was reached that a mid-term
review of the project will be carried out jointly by the Government and the Bank no later
than June 30, 1997. The review will assess overall progress in the implementation of the
ESMP and the project relative to plan and project objectives, and constraints and
bottlenecks related to the adequacy of policies and the regulatory framework for the
ESMP. The review will also assess: (a) the adequacy of the Borrower's action plan for
sustainable financial arrangements in the higher and technical education sub-sector; (b)
progress in the upgrading of staff and facilities; (c) the development of a viable
postgraduate education and research program; (d) the improvement of links with
employers; (e) the strengthening of the role and functioning of the Management Trust
Fund; (f) the establishment of a computer (hardware) engineering program for the Rose
Hill Polytechnic; and (g) the expansion of facilities at the new Droopnath Ramphul
Polytechnic. If required, the project would be modified on the basis of the findings and
recommendations of the mid-term review, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
5.13  Implementation Completion Report. MPCU will prepare and submit an
implementation completion report within six months of the loan's closing date. The
Government will be given the option of either preparing part II of the implementation
completion report or preparing an independent evaluation.
D.   PROCUREMEENT
5.14 Procurement arrangements for items financed by IBRD are summarized below in
Table 5-2. Procurement of goods and services for the first two years of project
implementation was reviewed and agreed upon with the Government during the appraisal
mission. Items to be procured for the remaining three years of the project will be assessed
vis ai vis the sectoral requirements for each year thereafter and will be reviewed jointly and
agreed upon prior to the start of each year by the Government and the Bank. All



Chapter 5 Project Implementation                                      28
procurement will be done according to the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits of May 1992.
5.15  Bank standard bidding documents for goods, works, books and consulting services
that were discussed during the appraisal mission will be used under the project. During
negotiations, the Government agreed that sample bidding documents for goods, works
and books will be adopted The bidding documents for the items to be procured duting
the first year are a condition of effectiveness.
Table 5-2: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Methods
Project Element                       ICB        Other          Total
1. Civil Works                         5.7                       5.7
(1.4)                     (1.4)
2. Equipment & Furniture               4.0         0.8           4.8
(2.8)       (0.6)         (3.4)
3. Training, Studies and Research                  9.8           9.8
(6.9)         (6.9)
4. Consultants' Services                           3.9            3.9
(2.7)         (2.7)
5. Books                               1.8         0.5           2.3
(1.3)       (0.3)         (1.6)
TOTAL                                 11.5        15.0          26.5
( 5.5     (10.5)         (16.0)
d     Figures between brackets represent the amount financed by IBRD.
5.16 Civil works contracts (US$5.7 million) will be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures among qualified firms and in
accordance with IBRD procurement guidelines.
5.17  Goods. Equipment and furniture -- estimated at an aggregate of US$4.8 million --
will be grouped in appropriate bid packages of US$100,000 or more and purchased by
ICB. Qualifying domestic suppliers will be given a margin of preference of 15% of the
c.i.f price or the applicable customs duty whichever is less. Contracts up to US$100,000
will be procured by shopping procedures acceptable to IBRD, with a minimum of three
price quotations, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$800,000.
5.18  Books estimated at an aggregate of US$2.3 million will be grouped into
appropriate bid packages of US$100,000 or more and purchased by ICB. Book contracts
up to US$ 100,000 for the University of Mauritius library and the polytechnics will be



29                       Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
purchased by shopping procedures acceptable to IBRD, with a minimum of three price
quotations, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$500,000.
5.19  Consultants' Services (US$3.9 million) will be contracted in accordance with the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as
Executing Agency (August 1981)". Terms of reference, qualifications, experience, and
conditions of employment will be satisfactory to the Bank. The standard form of contract
for consultants will be adopted. A large proportion of the services ($2.7 million of Bank
financing) will finance substitute faculty while national staff are on training abroad
obtaining advanced degrees. The number of substitute faculty required is provided in
Annex 3 (for UoM). US$600,000 will be used for a twinning arrangement according to
the Bank's guidelines. Discussions have been initiated with British, American and
Australian universities. A total of US$9.8 million will be allocated for training abroad as
well as local training in specialized institutions, studies and research. The Bank will
approve annually training plans prepared by the project authorities identifying persons to
be trained, nature of training, time frame, the training institution, cost of training and
appropriateness. The first year of the UoM staff training plan was agreed at negotiations.
5.20 Bank Review. During project implementation, procurement of goods, works and
services costing US$100,000 or more will be subject to the Bank's prior review. For
contracts with consulting firms under US$100,000, the documentation will be subject to
post review except for terms of reference, single source contracts, assignments of a critical
nature or contract amendments that will raise the value to US$100,000 or more.
Contracts for individual consultants costing US$50,000 or more will be subject to the
Bank's prior review procedures. Selected post-review of awarded contracts (one in five)
below the threshold will be carried out during supervision missions.
5.21  Procurement Management. The Master Plan Coordination Unit (MPCU) will be
responsible for the overall coordination of this project (see paras. 5.4 and 5.5). The
MPCU has experience with Bank requirements since it is responsible for all procurement
for the on-going Education Sector Development Project (Ln. 3578-MAS). An
experienced procurement specialist who is familiar with IBRD's procurement procedures
is in place within MPCU. In addition, a full-time procurement specialist will be employed
for the project, and a procurement specialist for each component will manage the
preparation of specifications for needed equipment, materials and books. These will be
transmitted to the MPCU for the preparation of final bidding documents and follow-up of
the bidding process.
5.22  The project implementation schedule is indicated in Annex 9. The estimated
disbursement schedule based on the implementation schedule is attached as Annex 10.
5.23  Recording of Procurement Information. Procurement information will be
collected and recorded as follows:
(a)   the MPCU will promptly inform the Bank of all contract awards and
signature;



Chapter 5: Project Implementation                                     30
(b)   the MPCU will send comprehensive annual reports to the Bank, indicating:
(i)   expected cost estimates for individual contracts and total contract
costs for the project, including best estimates of allowances for
physical and price contingencies;
(ii)   expected timing of procurement actions, including advertising,
bidding, contract award, and completion for individual contracts;
(iii)  compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of
procurement; and
(iv)   evaluations of the performance of consultants.
5.24 Each year, the MPCU will prepare a procurement plan which will include a
forecast of anticipated procurement and a detailed timetable of the major steps to be
undertaken in the coming year including estimated expenditures expected to be made
before June 30 of each year of project implementation. The annual procurement plan will
be updated semi-annually.
E.    DISBURSEMENTS, AccouNTs AND AUDITS
5.25  Disbursements. The disbursement profile for all sectors in Mauritius is six years.
However, civil works, equipment and furniture, and books procurement will be done in
the first two years of the project, and loan disbursement is expected to be completed in
five and a half years (Annex 10). All disbursements will be made in accordance with Bank
Guidelines. No special account will be necessary as the Government prefers to pre-finance
local costs. The withdrawal applications that the Borrower will submit will have a
minimum size equivalent to US$100,000 and will be fully documented. The Borrower will
be permitted to submit withdrawal application on the basis of SOE (Statement of
Expenditure) for contracts below or equivalent to US$100,000. The full documentation
will be kept at MPCU for subsequent reviews by Bank supervision missions and/or by
auditors.
5.26 Out of the proposed loan, the Government of Mauritius has proposed to use up to
US$1.0 million (or 6% of the total loan) for advance procurement and retroactive
financing of essential consulting services and equipment. Such advance procurement is
considered necessary by the Government to complete the rehabilitation and equipping of
the new Droopnath Ramphul Polytechnic before its opening in April 1995. However, all
retroactive financing will be for expenditures after December 31,1994.



31                       Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
5.27  The proposed IBRD loan of US$16 million will be disbursed as shown in Table 5-
3 below:
Table 5-3: Disbursement Categories and Percentages
(US$ million)
Category                  Amount of    % of Expenditures to
Loan Allocated      be Financed
1. Civil Works                                                25%
(a) Part A                                   0.82
(b) Part B                                   0.48
2. Equipment & Furniture                                      70%
(a) Part A                                   1.80
(b) Part B                                   1.30
3. Training, Studies and Research                             70%
(a) Part A                                   6.00
(b) Part B                                   0.20
4. Consultants' Services                                      70%
(a) Part A                                   1.90
(b) Part B                                   0.50
5. Books                                                      70%
(a) Part A                                   1.40
(b) Part B                                   0.10
Unallocated                                  1.50
Total Loan Amount                           16.00
5.28 Accounts. The finance unit of the MPCU will establish and maintain separate
accounts for this project. An accountant will be hired for the MPCU to manage and
consolidate these accounts, which the Government agreed at negotiations to establish and
maintain in accordance with sound and internationally acceptable accounting principles
and practices satisfactory to the Bank. The establishment of a computerized accounting
system for the project is a condition of effectiveness.
5.29  Audits. The MPCU will provide quarterly and annual financial statements to
reflect the financial performance and position of the project. These accounts as well as
records and accounts relating to expenditure claimed under the SOE procedure will be
audited annually by Government auditors under the supervision of the Director of Audit,
who in turn will submit the report to Parliament. This procedure is being followed in the
ongoing Education Sector Development Project. The auditor's opinion and reports will be
provided to the Bank within six months of the close of the Borrower's fiscal year. The
auditor's report will include a statement on the adequacy of the accounting system and
internal controls, and on compliance with financial covenants. These accounting, financial



Chapter 5: Project Implementation                                      32
reporting, and auditing arrangements should provide adequate and timely information to
the Bank as needed for effective supervision of the project.
F.    ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
5.30  The project has no related environmental issues and has therefore been assigned to
environment category C. The Government of Mauritius is particularly sensitive to
environmental concerns, as evidenced by its Environmental Monitoring and Development
Project (Ln. 3277-MAS, US$12.4 million, signed in 1991). Construction, which has the
greatest potential effect on the environment under the proposed project, is restricted to
rehabilitation and expansion of buildings at existing sites. Moreover, the quality of
construction in Mauritius is good, as is that of water supply systems and services.



Chapter 6: Project Benefits and Risks                                  33
6. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    BENEFITS
6.1   The economic rate of return for the project is 20% (benefits are the increased
eamings -- representing increased productivity-- of better educated and trained workers).
By improving and expanding higher and technical education, the project will raise the
quality and skills of the labor force, making available a larger and better-educated pool of
post-secondary graduates to facilitate the transition of the Mauritian economy to a higher
level of productivity. In addition, increased flexibility in higher and technical education
and closer links with employers would help to meet the changing demands of an
increasingly complex and dynamic economic environment. The project would result in a
more substantial role for UoM in national research and development and the advancement
of knowledge relevant to Mauritius' economic and social growth.
6.2   The project would finance the increase of the university faculty with doctorates
and masters degrees from the current level of 120 to about 220. The project would
support the increase in annual university degree graduates from about 200 to about 700
and increase the number of technicians graduating annually from polytechnics from 140 to
440.
B.    RISKS
6.3   The project is subject to two main risks. The first relates to the political
willingness and ability of the Government to introduce some of the needed policy changes
in higher education at this stage. This risk has been addressed by prioritizing and securing
agreement on the key reforms needed. The second risk is that UoM may fail to improve
quality sufficiently to be competitive with overseas studies. Elements of the project
designed to minimize this risk include: (i) further twinning with reputed international
universities; (ii) accreditation visits; and (iii) developing postgraduate and research
programs.
C.    ECONoMIc ANALYSIS
6.4   The proposed project has an economic inmrnal rate of return (EIRR) of 20%.
The EIRR calculations used the value of entry-level compensation packages as a proxy for
productivity and accounted for full capital and recurrent costs as well as opportunity costs.
No benefit extemalities were assumed. The private rates of return to individual full-time
students will be much higher because most of their education costs are subsidized by the
state. Risks of lower benefits, higher costs and changing labor market conditions were



34                            Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
simulated using a Monte-Carlo type risk simulation with very pessimistic assumptions
about benefits and costs. Despite these pessimistic assumptions, the results show that the
overall rate of return of the project has a 98% likelihood of being 10% or higher. The rate
of return for the University component was estimated at 21%, with a 97% likelihood of
being 10% or higher. The rate of return for the Polytechnic component was estimated to
be 16%, with a 55% likelihood of being 10% or higher. The lower rate of return for the
polytechnic component reflects the fact that, given the small number of polytechnic
graduates in the labor force, estimates of their productivity had to be based on wage data
for technicians without such rigorous formal training. However, the few polytechnic
graduates in the labor force are very well received, and it is expected that the average
wages of such graduates will be higher than those of technicians in the future. The
detailed methodology used for estimating economic rates of return is given in Annex 8.



Chapter 7: Agreements Reached and Recommendation                      35
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATION
A.  AGREEMENTS REACHED
7.1   During negotiations, the Government provided the following:
(a)   a Higher and Technical Education Policy Letter (para. 3.3 and Annex 1)
including a set of performance indicators to be used to monitor the
progress of implementation (Table 5-1 and Annex 9);
(b)   a document clarifying the role and responsibilities of the Tertiary Education
Commission (TEC) (para. 2.6);
(c)   a plan to improve the effectiveness of the faculty-employer councils for all
faculties of UoM, as well as for the establishment of industry advisory
committees for the polytechnics, including frequency of meetings and
descriptions of the authority of these councils to participate in curriculum
planning (paras. 3.8, 3.19, 3.22 and Table 5-1);
(d)   a plan for implementing the modular and, eventually, the credit system in all
faculties of UoM and other tertiary education institutions (para. 3.8);
(e)   a plan of the new composition and role of the Management Trust Fund
(para 3.22);
(f)   evidence of the appointment of a component coordinator and a component
manager for the University component with terms of reference and
qualifications acceptable to the Bank (paras. 5.6 and 5.7);
(g)   first year training plan for University faculty (para. 5.19 and Annex 3, table
1).
7.2   During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a)   it will implement the project in accordance with its Letter of Higher and
Technical Education Sector Policy (Annex 1) and the targets specified for
the key monitoring indicators (Table 5-1);
(b)   a plan for the academic integration of the UoM, Mauritius Institute of
Education (MIE), the Mahatma Gandhi Institute (MGI), and the Mauritius
College of the Air (MCA) will be prepared by December 31, 1997 and
implemented by December 31, 1999 (para. 2.27);



36                            Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
(c)   Bank sample bidding documents will be adopted for all works, goods and
services to be procured under the project (para. 5.15);
(d)   MPCU will prepare semi-annual progress reports and forward them to the
Bank by January 31 and July 31 of each year (para. 5.10);
(e)   MPCU will organize an annual joint Government-Bank review of project
implementation by May 31 each year and submit to the Bank for review
and comment, no later than April 30 of each year beginning in 1996, a
statement of project achievements and actual expenditures for the on going
fiscal year and a work plan and projected expenditures for the following
year (para. 5.11);
(f)    a mid term review will be carried out jointly by the Government and the
Bank no later than June 30, 1997 (para. 5.12); and
(g)   the proposed accounting system will be responsive to the Bank's
accounting requirements and will be computerized (para. 5.28).
7.3   The following are conditions of effectiveness of the loan:
(a)   a manager, accountant and procurement specialist, with terms of reference
and qualifications acceptable to IBRD, will be appointed in MPCU full time
for the project (para. 5.5);
(b)   first year's bidding documents (para. 5.15);
(c)   computerized accounting system (para. 5.28).
B.  RECOMMENDATION
7.4   Subject to the above terms and conditions, the project is suitable for a Bank loan
of US$16.0 million repayable in 15 years, including 5 years of grace at the standard
variable interest rate.



ANNEXES






Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy                                       38
ANNEx 1: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND SCIENCE
MAURITIUS
8 December, 1994
Mr. Francisco Aauirre-Sacasa
Director
Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department
World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Aguirre-Sacasa,
Letter of Higher andl Tech nical Edlucation Policy
The Government of Mauritius has recognized for a long time the importance of
education in accelerating and sustaining equitable economic growth. This recognition has
been the driving force behind the oreparation of the Education Sector Mvfaster Plan
(ESNMP) which is being supported by the World Bank among other donors. This master
plan includes hioher and technical education and is the cornerstone of the government
strategy to move Nfauricius to the second stage of industrial revolucion. The proposed
second stage of the industrial revolution envisages moving from a lower sk-ill, lower
technolouv industrial base to a skill-intensive, information and knowleddge based industrial
sector. This transition requires the availability of a larger pool of human resources with
higzher and technical education. Thus, the proposed project fits squarely into the country's
long-term deve!opmnent objectives.
The Government recognizes that the education system in general and the higher
and technical education system  in particular needs to be responsive to labour market
demands. To fac:iitate this, the Government has set up the NManagement Trust Fund for
Polytechnics wvhich includes representatives of employers.  The Government is also
workingz with the U'niversity to strengthen the existing faculty-emplover councils and use
them as vehicle to make the University's programs more responsive to the labour market.
Furthermore, the Government recognizes that cost recovery ir higher and technical
education is essenlial as this helps strengthen the labour market relevance of academ.c
pro-rams.
Apart from expanding the pool of manpower with higher and technical education,
the Governmene  s objectives in higher and technical education include the following
performance indicators:



39                              Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
Rationalize the country's tertiary education system including the eventual
academic integration of all higher education institutions into a restructured
and revamped University;
Improve efficiency of resource use by strengthening facility management
capacity and moving to a course credit system by 2000;
Develop and implement a cost-recovery plan;
IImorove linkages with the labour market by strengrheninc the effectiverness
of employer-educational institute councils;
I-mprove the University's and the Polytechnics image by setting up twinning
arrangements with respected international institutes; and
IImprove  recoanition  of  University  of Mauritius deCgres  through
accreditation by an international body.
We are confident that with the imrplementation of the above measures, the quality
and availabiliry of hig,her and technically trained manpower in M%auritius xill be improved
helping the country on to the second stage of its industrial revolution.
Regards.
Yours sincerelv,
(A.    SURAMEN)
.x rinis:er



Annex 2: Summary Description of Education and Training System          40
ANNEX 2: SUMMARY DESCRIPTION OF EDUCATION
AND TRAINING SYSTEM
Pre-Primary Education
I .    About 32,500 pupils, accounting for about 78 percent of the 3-to-5 age group,
attend about 950 private pre-primary schools. In addition, about 37 percent of the state
primary schools hold pre-primary classes on their premises. Increased participation of
mothers in the labor force has generated the need for the early education and socialization
of the very young. The demand for early schooling is expected to remain strong in the
foreseeable future.
Primary Education
2.    By the mid-1980s, universal primary education had been achieved. In 1993, the
gross enrollment ratio (GER) of the 6-to- II age group was 107 percent, and the net
enrollment ratio (NER) for the same age group was 98.5 percent. Participation rates of
boys and girls were comparable. Attendance in primary schools has been compulsory
since 1993. In that year, the system enrolled about 125,540 students in 281 primary
schools. About 80 percent of these schools are administered by the state, 16 percent by
the Roman Catholic Education Authority (RCEA), 2 percent by the Hindu Education
Authority, and the remaining 2 percent by private voluntary groups. About 3,930 teachers
teach in the primary schools, with an overall teacher-pupil ratio of 1:21. A better estimate
of the teacher-student ratio for the primary classroom is 1:30, calculated by excluding the
Asian language teachers. To encourage cultural diversity among its pupils, the education
system provides for the instruction of at least seven of Mauritians' ancestral Asian
languages. Among the primary teaching force, about 28 percent (1,668) are teachers of
Asian languages; they have smaller teaching loads and teach about 65 percent of the
student population. Women account for 47 percent of the teaching force but hold only
about 32 percent of the school principal positions. Since 1988, enrollments in the primary
system have started to decline because of past sharp declines in birth rates (and because of
the delayed marriages of young women participating in the labor force).
Secondary Education
3.    About 70 percent of primary school completers eventually proceed to secondary
education. In 1993, the secondary GER was about 51 percent for the 12-to-19 age group.
It has remained stable over the past five years. Currently about 87,660 students are
enrolled in 123 secondary schools. But unlike primary education, about 80 percent of the
secondary school places are in the private sector. A considerable difference in quality
exists between the state and private schools. State schools are endowed with better
facilities, better teachers, and better financing. There is intense competition among pupils
to gain admission to the better schools (both state and some private schools).



41                            Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
4.    About 4,160 teachers teach at the secondary level, about 73 percent of them in the
private sector. The overall teacher-pupil ratio is 1:21 (1:16 in state schools and 1:23 in
private schools). All teachers in the state schools are qualified, with more than half being
university graduates. In contrast, nearly 40 percent of private school teachers belong to
Category C (under qualified), this group is now getting upgraded and is expected to be
phased out by 1997. Women represent 43 percent of the teaching force, with three-
quarters teaching in private schools. Secondary enrollments have started increasing
(76,440 in 1990, 79,327 in 1991, 81,706 in 1992 and 85,522 in 1993), partly because the
participation rate has been going up.
Technical and Vocational Education
5.    Until recently, the Ministry of Education had the responsibility of providing
technical and vocational education to a relatively small number of students. Much of that
responsibility has been shifted over to the new Ministry of Human Resources and
Manpower Development. Thus, the two Industrial and Trade Training Centers which
train completers of lower secondary education as skilled workers in a one-year certificate
course have been transferred to the Industrial and Vocational Training Board operating
under the aegis of the new Ministry. At present, only one Lycee Polytechnique exists with
an enrollment of 450 students. These are in large part Form V leavers who are trained as
technicians and higher-level technicians over a three-or-four year period in a diploma
program. Another such polytechnic at Rose Hill is expected to be operational in 1996
while a non-engineering polytechnic at Droopnath Ramphul, to start in April 1995, will
offer a three-year diploma course to post-O level students. Discussions are also leading to
an early takeover of those students following courses in Pre-Vocational Centers run by the
IVTB. The modalities are being worked out to set up project secondary schools for
students who fail the primary leaving examination so that they are provided with both
remedial education and initiation into vocational education.
Tertiary Education
6.    The task of forming intellectual and professional capacity for the country has been
delegated to the institutions at tertiary education level. At the apex is the Tertiary
Education Commission (TEC). Constituted in 1988, this body is responsible for
coordinating the work of the four academic institutions: the University of Mauritius
(UoM), Mauritius Institute of Education (MIE), Mahatma Gandhi Institute (MGI), and
Mauritius College of the Air (MCA).
7.    The UoM enrolls about 2161 students and offers courses at the doctoral, post-
graduate, degree, diploma and certificate levels. It has recently produced an Institutional
Development Plan (IDP) which presents a development strategy for higher education for
1993-1997. The UoM has five Faculties in the areas of Agriculture, Engineering, Law and
Management, Science, and Social Studies and Humanities. Sixty percent of enrolled
students are pursuing full-time academic studies. About 52 percent of the students follow
, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - - -   - - --



Annex 2: Summary Description of Education and Training System            42
courses at the higher degree and degree levels, about one-third at the diploma level, and
the remainder attend certificate and shorter-duration/external award programs. The UoM
currently offers 73 different courses: 1 at the doctoral level, 1 post-graduate, 15 degree, 6
diploma/degree, 23 diploma, 1 medical/lab. technician, 24 certificate, 1 external award and
1 short course (ICSA). Overall enrollment ranges from 21 (ICSA) to 793 (degree). The
academic staff to student ratio is 1:15. The public expenditure per student is Rs 42,519
per annum and the cost per graduate Rs 123,000.
8.    While the infrastructure of teaching and research requires much improvement, and
the academic staff needs upgrading as well as augmentation in numbers, the quality of the
graduates is checked by external examiners who are mostly senior academics from British
Universities. However, between 800 and 900 HSC holders proceed abroad annually for
higher studies. In fact, it is estimated that about 3000 Mauritians are currently pursuing
studies abroad. That is because of the scholarships offered by the various countries, but
also because of the local perception that every certificate or degree obtained from an
institution abroad is superior to the same one obtained locally.
9.    The MIE, established in 1973, is responsible for pre-service and in-service training
of teachers. It offers in-service training for secondary school teachers, pre-service and in-
service programs for primary school teachers, and pre-service training for the pre-school
educators. The MIE courses vary from 18 to 27 months; one is offered at the diploma and
five at the certificate level. Of these, one is for pre-school educators, three for primary
school teachers, two for secondary teachers and one for deputy head teachers. A degree
course (B. Ed) is expected to be resumed in January 1995 in collaboration with the UoM.
The number of students has been increasing over the years, reaching 2,661 in 1993.
10.   The average annual output of teachers for the primary subsector has been 179
from 1983 to 1993 and for the secondary subsector 150 from 1977 to 1993.
11.   The MGI was established in 1969 as a center for providing the academic and
cultural basis for the promotion, consolidation and dissemination of Indian traditions, and
to contribute to a developing Mauritian culture by creating an awareness of the richness of
the Mauritian heritage and by providing a forum for a creative interaction of its diverse
components. It also runs a secondary school and a Gandhian Basic School. It cooperates
with the MIE for the in-service training of teachers of ancestral languages, and jointly with
the UoM, offers a degree, a certificate, a diploma, and awards in the arts, music and
culture.
12.   The MCA is the lead agency promoting distance education and the use of mass
media for enriching art, science and cultural programs. It has no students but acts as a
center for resource development in educational television and radio (in cooperation with
the MIE) and also serves the non-formal sector. Academic courses on distance education
were discontinued more than ten years ago.



43                           Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
Management
13.   Management of the education system is officially centralized in the Ministry of
Education and Science (MOES). Until October 1991, the Ministry included Arts and
Culture and was known as the Ministry of Education, Arts and Culture. The MOES has
two administrative layers: one at the center and one at the school level. The central
bureaucratic layer comprises five technical divisions, four of which report to the Chief
Technical Officer, and one, the Master Plan Coordination Unit/Project Implementation
Unit (MPCU/PIU), to the Permanent Secretary.
14.   In addition, three administrative divisions report directly to the Permanent
Secretary who holds overall administrative responsibility for the Ministry, under the
direction of the Minister. However, control of the different functional parts of the system
is shared with a number of autonomous institutions in both the public and private sectors.
These include, among others, the Roman Catholic Education Authority (RCEA),
administering 46 aided schools and 5 private primary schools; the Private Secondary
Schools Authority (PSSA), coordinating the development and growth of 100 secondary
schools; the Public Service Commission, for selection and recruitment of teachers in the
public sector; and the Mauritius Examinations Syndicate (MES), for research and conduct
of assessment and evaluation.
Education Finance
15.   Structure of the Budget. For FY 1995 (July 1994 to June 1995), the Government
budget allocated to the MOES is Rs 2,374 million, composed of Rs 2,063 million (87%)
for recurrent expenditures and Rs 311 million (13%) for capital investments. These
allocations represent 14.4% of the Government's total recurrent budget, and 8.9% of the
investment budget. In addition, allocations for education and training are also made to
other Ministries. Together, budget allocations for education and training in FY 1995
amount to about 14.6% of the Government's total budget. In Mauritius, recurrent
expenditures for education are thus only slightly lower than in Africa and Asia, where
governrments spend, on average, 17% of their total recurrent budget on education. The
parental contribution to education is significant in Mauritius and can be estimated at
slightly more than Rs 65 million per annum in terms of payment for private tutoring,
uniforms and transportation.
16.   The distribution of the MOES recurrent budget for FY 1995 by level of education
is as follows: primary education 32%, secondary education 40% and higher education
13%. The balance of the recurrent budget (15%) is allocated to administrative expenses
and overhead. These percentages reflect a significant shift in resource allocations over the
last few years, away from primary (where the enrollment ratio is around 100%) toward
secondary, where the pressure for admissions is increasing. These trends are expected to
continue, with increasing expenditures for secondary education as a result of the
introduction of the nine-year basic cycle, and as a consequence, increasing allocations for
tertiary-level education due to growing demand for higher education.



Annex 2: Summary Description of Education and Training System         44
17.   Private Education in Mauritius is important, representing about 18% of the
education system (18 aided schools) and 2% private primary and 80% of secondary
enrollments. More than 95% of all private schools receive Government grants to cover
salaries of teaching and administrative staff. Private schools do not all have the same
funding mechanisms: for primary schools under the RCEA, Government directly pays
teachers' salaries. For private secondary schools, Government provides grants, determined
on the basis of a comprehensive grant formula, administered by the PSSA. There is a one-
line vote in the budget for the latter institution, where 97% of funds are used for grants
and 3% are retained at the PSSA for its administrative expenses. Aided schools are not
allowed to charge tuition. Thus, while the provision of education by private schools is in
the hands of private owners, the funding is essentially public.
18.   Unit Costs as a percentage of per-capita GNP are 8.2% for primary education,
19.3% for secondary education and 82.3% for tertiary level education. These figures
compare favorably with the averages for Africa and Asia. The unit costs of private
secondary education are lower than those of public secondary schools, reflecting a lower
degree of inputs into the private schools.



Annex 3: Projected Flows at University of Mauritius                                                                                              45
ANNEX 3: PROJECTED FLOWS AT UNIVERSITY OF MAURITIUS
Annex 3, Table 1: Projected Faculty Upgrading Program for University of Mauritius
1995    1996      1997    1998      1999    2000    2001      2002    2003    2004    2005    2006
1994          _ _ _ _   _ _ _    _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __            _ _ _                     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Total Faculty Strength                          159      177      195      213      231      253      275      297      319      338      357      376      395
- Doctorate                                     39       40       47       54       61       89       81      105      125      144      163      193      216
- Masters                                       85       92       92      115      131      123      141      134      126      128      122      113      101
- Bachelors                                     35       45       56       44       39       41       53       58       68       66       72       70       78
Distribution of Faculty by Level                                               I
- Doctorate                                   25%      23%      24%      25%      26%       35%     29%      35%      39%      43%      46%      51%      55%
- Masters                                     53%      52%      47%       54%     57%      49%      51%      45%      39%      38%      34%      30%      26%
- Bachelors                                   22%      25%      29%      21%       17%      16%      19%     20%      21%      20%      20%       19%     20%
Faculty StartingTraining During Year           =                                                                                          _
- Doctorate Training                                     28       32       41       41       35       33       30       26       20        15       3        3
\ ~~~~- Masters Tramnig                                               1 4      23       20       1 0      1 7      12       2 1      1 3      2 1   I    I       6
Total Faculty on Training During Year                                            I_I
- Doctorate Trainng Overseas (Person/Yrs.)    =          14       46       73       75       69       61       56       49       39       28       11        6
- Doctorate Training In-Country (Person/Yrs)             14       14        14      39       41       41       35       33       30       26       20       15
- Masters Trainmg (Person/Years)              =          14       30       43       30       27       29       33       34       34       32        17       6
Faculty Available for Teaching                           135      105       83       87       116     144      173      203      235      271      328      368
Full Time Equivalent Students                           1,882    2,122    2,361    2,600    2,875    3,150    3,425    3,700    4,025    4,350    4,675    5,000
Faculty-Student Ratio                                    13.9    20.2      28.4    29.9    24.8    21.9        19.8     18.2    17.1      16.1     14.3    13.6
Contract Faculty Required (Person/Yrs.)        =                             12      17                                                                    =
1994 refers to academic year commencing on October 1993.



46                                                                                  Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
Annex 3, Table 2: Projected Student Flows at University of Mauritius
1994  1995       1996      1997        1998        1999         2000        2001         2002        2003         2004        2005         2006
Agriculture            133    153       173       192         212         252          291         331          370         403         435          468          500
Diploma & Cert.         50     50        50        50          50           50          50          50           50          50           50          50           50
Ist Year               59     50        62        78           70         101          117         III         140          151         146          173         184
2nd Year               40    56         47        58           74          66          96          III         106          133         143          139         164
3rd Year               27     39        55        46           57          72           65          94         109          104         130          140         136
Graduates               26     38E       53        45          56           70          63          91          106         101          127         136          132
Masters/ PhD             7      8         9        10          11           12          13           14          15           15          15           15          15
Engineering           474    543        612       680         749         876        1,004        1.131       1,258        1,369       1,479        1,590       1,700
Diploma & Cert.        100    100       100       100         100         100          100          100         100         100          100         100          100
Ist Year              127    153       164       175         200          283         302          315         340          398         421          436         460
2nd Year               90    114       138       148          157         180I         255         272         284          306         359          379         393
3rd Year               80     88       112       135          145         154          176         250         267          278         300          351         372
4th Year               70     78        86       110          132         142          151         173         245          261         272          294         344
Graduates              69      77        85       108         129          139         148          169         240         256          267         288          337
Mastees/PhD              7      9        11        13          15           17          19          21           23          25           27          29           31
Law & MgL.            550   630         710       789         869         883          897         911          925        1,006       1,088        1,169       1,250
Diplom  & Cert.       200    200        150       100
Ist Year              135    151       208       268          194         357         282          215         322          349         306          377         408
2nd Year               51    108       120       166          215         155         286          226         172          257         279          244         302
3rd Year               49     49       103       114          158         204          147         272         214          164         244          265         232
Graduates               46     46        98       109         150          194         140         258          204         155          232         252          221
Master's/PhD            20     21        22        23          24           25          26           27          28          29           30          31           32
MBA-I                   40     44        48        53          59          64           71           78          86          94          104         114          126
MBA-2                   30     28        31        34          37           41          45           50          55          60           66          73           80
MBA-3                   25    29         27        30          33           37          40          44           49           53          59          65           71
Science               270    290        320       330         350         392          434         476          518         564          609         655          700
Diploma & CerL         140    140       140       140         140          140         140          140         140         140          140         140          140
Ist Year               56     60        75        70           82         118          124         135         164          179         192          216         234
2ndYear                30     41        44        55           51          60           86          91          98          120         131          140         158
3rd Year               25    29         40        43           54          50           59          84          89           96         117          128         137
Graduates               25     29        39        42          53           49          57           83          87          95          115         126          134
Master's/PhD            19     20        21        22          23           24          25           26          27          28           29          30           31
Soc. Sci. & Hun.      306    351        396       440         485          521         557          593         629         684          740         795          850
Diplorna & Cert        120     50        50        25          25           25          25           25          25          25           25          25           25
IstYear                74    180       156       153          242         215          207         263         264          278         322          335         350
2nd Year               63     54       131       114          III         177          157         151          192         193         203          235         245
3rd Year               49     62        53       129          112         109          173         154          148         188         189          199         231
Graduates               48     61        52       126         109          107         170          151         145          184         185          195         226
MastAs/PhD                      5         5        20          20           20          20           25          25          25           25          25           25
ITota                1,733  1,966     2,209     2,432       2,665        2,924       3,183        3,441       3,700        4,025       4,350        4,675       5,000



Annex 3: Projected Flows at University of Mauritius                                                                                                                               47
Annex 3, Table 3: Projections of Graduates by Level and Faculty at University of Mauritius
1994   1995      19961    19971          19981       19991        20001        20011        20021        20031        2004         20051        2006
Agriculture
-Diploma               25       25       25         25           25          25           25           25           25           25           251
-Degree                26      38        53         45           56          70           63           91          106[ _____                127          136          132
- Post-raduate           4      5         6          7            8            9           10                       12           13           14                        16
Engineering
-Diploma               33      33        33         33           33          33           33           33           33_          33           33           33           33
-Degree                69      77        85        108          129          139          148         169          240          256          267          288          337
- Post-Graduate          4      5         6]         7            8            9           10          11           12           13           14           15           16
Law and Mangement
-Diploma              100    100         75         50            0            0            0           0            0            0            0            0            0
-Degree                46      46        98        109          150          194          140         258          204          155          232          252          221
-MBA                   25      29        27         30           33          37            40          44           49           53           59           65           71
- Other Post-
Graduate               10     11        11         12           12           13           1 3         14           L4           1 5          1 5          1 6          16
Science
Diploma          |     535     51       351        351         35m1 351                  351          351          351          351          351          351          35
Degree                25      29        391        421          53          491          571          83           87           951        15            126          134
-Post-Graduate          101    101       1II        1II          121          121          13           13_ _        14           41          151          151          16
Soc. ScL & Humanities
Diploma               60      25        25         13            0            013 13                                 13 13                                133 13       13
Degree                48      6 1       52        126          109          107         170[         151          145          184          185          195         226
Post-Graduate          0       3         3         101          10 10                    io[         13                        131          13           13           13
TOTAL
Diploma              253    218        193        156          93           93          106          1061         106          106          106          106          106
-Degree               214    250        326'       429          497          559          578         7521         781          791          926          997        1,051
-MBA                    25     29        27         30           33           37           40           44           49          53           59           65           71
- Other Post-                                                                                             I
Graduate              28      34        37         47           50           53           56          621          65           68           7 1          74           77



Annex 4: Projected Student Flows at the Polytechnics                                                                            48
ANNEX 4: PROJECTED STUDENT FLOWS AT THE POLYTECHNICS
Annex 4: Tabl 1: Poected Student Flows at the Pltcnc
Year                                   1  1994   19951  19.6   19971   1981  19991  20001  20011  20021  20031  2004   2005   2
Program                                                         LYcfCP oltechnu ue at       -2a_v
Automobile Mech. Yr. I                 |     40      40                            _
Automobile Mech. Yr.2                                38      38            =
Automobile Mech. Yr.3                                        36      38                               _
Auto. Mech. G   _raduates                          =                 32      34
Automobile Engg. Yr]                                         40      40       40      40      40      40      40        40    40      40       40
Automobile_Engg. Yr.2                                                 38      38      38      38   138        38      38      38       38      38
Automobtle Engg. Yr.3  I___36                                                         38      38       38     38      38      38      38       38
Auto. Engg. Graduates                                                                 32      34      34      34      34      34      34       34
Fabrication Mech. Yr.l |I4                           40_
Fabrication Mech. Yr.2                               38      38                                      _
Fabrication Mech. Yr.3                                0      36      38                    =
Fabrication Mech.Goraduates                                          32      34l
Diploma in Mechnical Engg. Yr. ]                             40      40       40      40      401    40       40        40    40        40     40
Diploma in Mechnical Engg. Yr. 2                                     38       38      38      38      38      38      38      38      38       38
Diplomain Mechnical Engg Yr.3                                          0      36      38      38      38      38      38      38      38       38
Diploma in Mech. Engg. Graduates                 _ _32                                        34      34      34      34      34      34       34
Electrotecluic/Electronics Yr. I       |    40       40                                                  _
Electrotechnic/Electronics Yr.2                 I    38      38   _
Electrotechnic/Electronics Yr.3                       0      36      38                                    _                             1       1
Electrotechnic/Electronics Grads.                                    32      34 
Building Yr. ]                               401    40
Building Yr.2                                        38      38
Building Yr.3                              _                 36      38   _
Building Graduates                                         _         32       34               _.
Diploma in Construction Engg. Yr. !                          40      40      40       40      40,    40       40      40       40     40      40
Diploma in Construction Engg. Yr.2                                   38l      38      38      381    38       38      38      38      38      381
Diploma in Construction Engg. Yr.3                                    0      36       38      381    38       38      38      38      38      38
Diploma in Construction Engg Graduates                                  I32 41                        341 34 1  4     34      34      34       34
Lycee Polytechnique at Rose Hill
ElectrotechnicsYr. I                            1            35      35       35      35      35      35      351     351     35      35      35
ElectrotechnicsYr.2                                                  33       33      33      33      33      331     331    33       33      33
EFlectrotechnicsYr. 3                                                 0       32      33      33      33      33      33      33      33      33
Electrotechnics Graduates                                                _ _         28       30      30      30|    30|    30        301    30
Electro-mechanics Yr.]                                        35     35       35      35      35      35      35      35      35      351    35
Electro-mechanics Yr.2                                               33       33      33      33      33      33_   33        33_   33         33
Electro-mechanics Yr. 3                                                0     32      33      331    33       33|    33       33|    33        33
Electro-mechanics Graduates                              _                            28      30      30      301     30      30      30       30
ComputerHardwareYr.l                                         12      12       12      12      12      12      12     1,2      12      12       12
Computer Hardware Graduates                                     I_I1          11 _            11          11      11      11  I      1I____ I
Advanced Electrotechnics Yr.]                   [             48      48      48      48      48       48     48      48      48       48      48
AdvancedElectrotechnics Yr.2                    [ _                   46      46      46      46      46      46      46       46      46      46
Advanced Electrotechnics Yr. 3                  1 _                    0      43      45      46      46      46       46      46      46      46
Advanced Electrotechnics Graduares                                      I _           39      41      41      41      41]      41]1    41      41
Advanced Industrial Automation Maint. Yr. 1                  24      24       24       24     24      24      24      24-    24       24      24
Advanced Industrial Automation Maint. Yr.2                           23       23      23      231    23       23      23      23      23      23
Advanced Industrial Automation Maint. Yr.3                            0       22      23      231    23       23      23      231     23      23
Advanced Industrial Automation Maint.Graduates                                        19      20       21     21      21      21      21      21
_ Polytechnic at Droopnath Ramphul
Dip. BA(Marketing) Yr.l 1                            35      35      70      70       701    70       70      70      70      70      70      70
Dip. BA(Marketing) Yr.2                          ____|_      33      33      67       67      67      67      67      67      67      67      67
Dip. BA(Marketing) Yr.3                          _       _           32      33       65J     66      66      66      66      66      66      66
Dip. BA(Marketing) Graduates                             _       ____         28      30      58      60      60      60      60      60       60
IHigher Dip. (Financial Services) Yr.]               35       35      35      35      35J     35      35      35      35       35      35      35



49                                                                 Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
Annex 4: Table 1: Projected Student Flows t the Pol ychnica (cont'd)
Year                                   |  19941  1995    1996    1997    1998f  1999   2000   2001   2002    2003   2004   2005   2006
Higher Dip. (Financial Services) Yr.2                         33      33      33      33      33      33      33      33       33      33      33
Higher Dip. (Financial Services) Yr. 3                         0      32      33      33      33      33      33       33      33      33      33
Higher Dip. (Financial Services) Graduates                                    28      30      30      30      30       30      30      30      30
Dip, BA (Accounting) Yr. I                           35      35      35       35      35      35      35      35      35      35      35       35
Dip. BA (Accounting) Yr.2                                    33      33       33      33      33      33      33      33      33      33       33
Dip. BA (Accounting) Yr.3                                            32       33      33      33      33      33      33      33      33      33
Dip. BA (Accounting) Graduates                             _                  28      30     30       30      301    30       30      30       30
Dip. in Information Technology Yr. 1                                  70      70      70      70      70      70       70      70      70      70
Dip. in Information Technology Yr 2                                           67      67      6 7     67      6 7     67      67       67      67
Dip. in Information Technology Yr. 3                                           0      63      66      66      66      66      66       66      66
Dip. in Information Technology Graduates                                 _     _              57      60      60      60      60       60      60
HigherDip.(Information Technology) Yr.l              35      351    35        35      35      35      35      35      35      35      35       35
Higher Dip.(lnfoffnation Technology) Yr.2               1    331    33        33      33      33      33      33      33      331    331    33
Higher Dip.(Information Technology) Yr. 3                     0      32       33      33      33      3 33            33      33      331    33
Higher Dip.(Information Technology) Graduates                                 281    30-  30          30      30      301    30       30       30
Total Enrollments
PostO-Level Courses                    |   160    420       5571   645      765     866      871     872     8721    872    872      872     872
Post A-Level Courses       j                 69     139     324     532     672    679       680     680    680      680    680      680     680
Total Diplomas
Secondar Level                               40      401     401    1411   2041   2251   3181   3231   3231     32           323     3231   323
PostSecondaryLevel                            0       0l      0l      01    571    1181    1211    1211    1211   1211   1211   1211    121



Annex 4: Projected Student Flows at the Polytechnics                                                             50
Annex 4: Table 2 - Flacq Polytechnic - Faculty Training Program
Department/Course                             1994      1995       1996      1997       1998      1999      2000
Automotive Engineering                            2         3         3          5         0          0         0
Mechanical Engineering                            3         2         2          1         0          0         0
Construction Engineering                          1         2         2          0         0          0         0
Drawing and Design                               2          1         0          0         0          0         0
General Subjects                                  2         3         4          2         1          0         0
Total on training                               10C        1 1       11          8         1          0         0
Annex 4: Table 3 -Rose Hill Polytechnic - Faculty Training Program
Department/Course                             1994      1995       1996      1997       1998      1999      2000
Mechanical Engineering                           2          2         1          0         0          0         0
Electro-Mechanics/Computer Hardware              3          4         5          2         0          0         0
Drawing and Design                                0         2         2          1         0          0         0
General Subjects                                  0         5          1         1         0          0         0
Total on training                                 5        13         9          4         0          0         0
Annex 4: Table 4 -Droopnath Ramphul Polytechnic - Faculty Training Program
Department/Course                             1994      1995       1996      1997       1998      1999      2000
Business Administration Department
DBA Market & Accounting                          6         1 3       19         15         8          2         2
HDBA Finance                                      5         8         8          3         0          0         0
InformationTechnology Department
DIT                                              0          0        10         1 3       13          3         3
HDIT                                              5         8         8          3         0          0         0
Heads of Departments                              2         2         2          0         0          2         0
Total on training                               18         31        47         34        21          7         5
Annex 4: Table 5 - Rose HID Polytechnic - Total Faculty Required
Department/Course                             1994      1 995      1996      1997       1998      1999       2000
Mechanical Engineering                           4          4          5         4         3          0         0
Electro-Mechanics/Computer Hardware              9         11        1 5        1 8        0          0         0
Drawing and Design                               0          2i        2i         1         0 ol       0         0
General Subjects                                 0          51         1I        1         0          0 
Total                                           13         221       231        241        3          0         0



51                                                      Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
Annex 4: Table 6   - Droo    Ramphul P    - Total Facuky Required
Department/Course                           1994      1995      1996      1997      1998      1999      2000
DBA Market & Accounting                         6        13       19        21        21        21        21
HDBA Finance                                    5         8         8         8         8         8         8
Sub total                                      1 1      21        27        29        29        29        29
DIT                                                                9        13        18        18         18
HDIT                                           5         8         9         9         9          9         9
Sub To tal                                     5         8         8        22        2 7       27        2 7
Total                                         16        29        45        51        56        56        5
Enrollments                                  140       273       504       610       705       710       710



Annex 5: Research Funding                                               52
ANNEX 5: RESEARCH FUNDING
Background
Postgraduate studies and research at a university may generally be promoted in three
ways:
(i)   by offering taught courses in Master's programs;
(ii)  through enrollment of postgraduate students for full-time or part-time research
leading to an MPhil or PhD, and
(iii)  through research work undertaken by academic staff, generally through
commissioned or sponsored research.
UoM has so far received Government funding mainly for capital or recurrent costs, but
hardly any for postgraduate courses and research. The University presently runs only one
taught Master's course - the MBA program for executives (part-time). It has enrolled a
number of students on a full-time or part-time basis for MPhil/PhD, many of whom receive
scholarships from TEC. But these students have minimal access to the funds needed for
the conduct of research, especially in the fields of agriculture, science and engineering.
This condition has adversely affected the provision of resources such as equipment,
materials, journals, etc. to support the research effort at UoM. Commissioned research is
on the upsurge in a few areas and, with funding available from the Mauritius Research
Council, this is likely to increase. But very limited funds are available to support staff
research projects for which external funding cannot be obtained. Another impediment to
research is the fact that a large proportion of the staff have had no research training. For
example, in 1994, only about 25% of the academic staff had a doctoral degree.
Remedial Steps
To improve the situation in order that the University reach a desirable situation according
to international norms over the next 5-10 year period, a number of steps have to be taken.
These are:
(i)    The qualifications of the staff must be upgraded.  A plan for funding
academic staff training is included in this project;
(ii)   A few well-planned taught Master's courses should be introduced. To
satisfy local market requirements, the UoM will add a full-time MBA
program. In addition, Master Degree level programs in economics and
engineering will be introduced.;



53                              Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
(iii)   The number of students enrolled for MPhil/PhD  should be increased
according to the agreed enrollment targets (Annex 3, table 2). Currently
the total number of postgraduate students constitutes only 5-7% of
enrollments. This figure should be increased to at least 10% by 2005;
(iv)   Funds will be made available by the project to support the research work of
the MPhil/PhD students and also to serve as pump-priming for some
research projects undertaken by staff.
It is proposed that funds be provided over a period of five years as follows:
(i)    a sum of US$0.75 million for educational inputs and faculty required for
introducing taught postgraduate courses; and
(ii)   a sum of US$1.25 million for the creation of a University Research Fund to
support research projects at UoM (see criteria below).
The Research Fund
The Fund should be regarded as seed money to attract additional funding for research
from other resources, as it would clearly be insufficient to cover all non-commissioned
research at the University. On the basis of a review of current research projects at UoM. a
research project, especially in a science-based field, would require a sum of at least
US$4,000 per year. The provision for US$1.25 million would therefore provide for only
about 300 project-years, or 60 projects per year, over the five-year-period. Yet the
enrollment of MPhiUPhD students in the year 2000 alone is expected to be about 150.
The funds allocated for research should cover expenditures for:
* equipment and materials;
*  research publications;
.  transport as well as out-station  accommodation  and meals; where justified,
transportation within the region could be included;
*  maintenance and fees for support staff, and
*  publication and dissemination of the end product.
The criteria to be used for the award of the fund should be as follows:
* the research should be relevant to the socio-economic development of Mauritius,



Annex 5: Research Funding                                              54
* the research proposal should be of high quality and have a high probability of
producing results within a 2-5 year period;
* the research should have the potential to make a significant addition to the field of
knowledge and/or of being immediately applicable;
* the University/applicant/interdisciplinary group should have the expertise to undertake
the research.
Priority should be given to those proposals receiving outside support, including support
from the private sector.
Management of Research Fund
UoM has recently set up a central Research and Consultancy Committee, which reports to
the Senate. The composition of the committee is as follows:
* Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Research and Consultancy) - Chairman
* 5 deans of faculty of UoM
* A representative of TEC
* A representative of the Mauritius Research Council
* A representative of the Ministry of Economic Planning and Development
* 3 representatives from the private sector
* The Registrar (or his representative) - Secretary
Representatives from other relevant institutions would be co-opted as and when necessary.
The objectives of the Research and Consultancy Committee are to establish research
priorities; identify research areas; encourage, monitor and evaluate research activities;
identify funding sources and administer University research funds, promote and facilitate
publication and dissemination of research fundings, and provide guidelines and review
regulations for consultancy.
It is proposed that the Research and Consultancy Committee be used for managing the
Research Fund. The Committee would be free to appoint ad hoc panels of experts as and
when required to advise on projects submitted. In addition, it will expand the existing
guidelines for research in 1995 to include the additional procedures listed below:
* Submission of proposals
* Review of proposals
* Prioritizing and rating of proposals
* Deciding on financing level and type
* Monitoring
* Payment procedures



Annex 6: Terms of References for Key Project Staff                    55
ANNEX 6: TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR KEY PROJECT STAFF
MPCU Project Manager.
The MIPCU Project Manager will work under the authority of the Assistant Director of the
MPCU. He/she will devote all of his/her time to the implementation of this project. As
such, he/she will work with both implementing agencies. An accountant and a
procurement specialist will be hired to assist this person full-time with the following tasks:
(a) consolidating annual work programs, budgets and procurement schedules that will be
transmitted to the Bank and other concerned parties; (b) preparing semi-annual progress
reports; (c) preparing the annual and mid-term reviews in collaboration with the two
implementing agencies, (d) maintaining the project accounts and liaising with the Bank on
all disbursement matters, (e) ensuring that the preparation of bidding documents and the
procurement process are proceeding as scheduled; and (f) supervising civil works as
necessary.
Component Coordinator (UoM and Polytechnic components)
The component coordinator for UoM will be the primary liaison person between the
University and the MPCU; this person will have the level of Vice Chancellor or Pro-Vice
Chancellor. The Director of Polytechnic and Secondary Education will be the component
coordinator for the polytechnic component. The component coordinator will be assisted
by a full-time component manager (appointed or recruited) to assist in the day-to-day
follow-up of the following tasks: (a) ensuring that the agreed annual work program is
being properly implemented; (b) coordinating and consolidating the annual work programs
and corresponding budgets prepared by each Dean and presenting them to the MPCU; (c)
monitoring performance indicators; (d) ensuring that the University's training program is
being followed through, (e) liaising with the MPCU on all project implementation matters;
and (f) ensuring that project accounts are properly maintained. Regarding procurement,
he/she will ensure that: (a) equipment and book lists are being prepared and submitted to
the MPCU on time; (b) these lists are consistent with the University's requirements; and
(c) additional clarifications are provided to the MPCU on equipment specifications and
other procurement-related matters as necessary.



Annex 7: Cost-Recovery Scheme: University of Mauritius                                       56
ANNEX 7: COST-RECOVERY SCHEME: UNIVERSITY OF MAURITIUS
Cost-Recovery Scheme 1993-94
Course                                                                       Fees/Year         Intake       Revenuie
MBA                                                                             24000              47       1128000
Dip. Management Studies                                                          18000             34        612000
Dip. Personal Management                                                         18000             35        630000
Dip. Sales and Marketing                                                         18000             33        594000
Dip. Public Administration and Management                                        18000             41        738000
Dip. Hotel Management                                                            12000             26        312000
Dip. Occupational Health and Safety                                              18000             29        522000
Certificate in Banking Studies                                                   18000             38        684000
B. Tech. Computer Science II                                                     18000             24        432000
Institute of Bankers Stage II                                                    18000              0              0
ACCA Certificate Stage                                     per module             9000             62       1116000
ACCA Professional Stage                                    per module             9000              0              0
Certificate in Sugar Production                                                  12000              0              0
Diploma in Quality Assurance                                                     18000              0              0
Total                                                                                                       6768000
(as % of recurrent budget)                                                                                      6.00
(as % of recurrent and capital budget)                                                                          5.09
Cost-Recovery Scheme 1994-95 Estimates
Course                                                                       Fees/Year         Intake       Revenuie
MBA                                                                              24000             47       1128000
Dip. Management Studies                                                          18000             45        810000
Dip. Personal Management                                                         18000             45        810000
Dip. Sales and Marketing                                                         18000             45        810000
Dip. Public Administration and Management                                        18000             45        810000
Dip. Hotel Management                                                            12000              0             0
Dip. Occupational Health and Safety                                              18000             45        810000
Certificate in Banking Studies                                                   18000             38        684000
B. Tech. Computer Science II                                                     18000             24        432000
Institute of Bankers Stage 11                                                    18000              0              0
ACCA Certificate Stage                                                            9000             70        1260000
ACCA Professional Stage                                                           9000              0              0
Certificate in Sugar Production                                                  12000              0              0
Certificate in Production planning and Supervision                               18000             20        360000
Dip. Quality Assurance                                                           18000             20        360000
Dip. Land Surveying                                                              18000             20        360000
Dip. Communication Studies                                                       18000             25        450000
Dip. Gender and Development                                                      18000             25        450000
Dip. Information and Library Studies                                             18000             40        720000
Dip. Social Work                                                                 18000             25        450000
TatIl                                                                                                      10704000



Annex 8: Methodological Notes on Estimation of EIRR                            57
ANNEX 8: METHODOLOGICAL NOTES ON ESTIMATION OF ECONOMIC
RATES OF RETURN
A. Introduction
I1.    The World Bank Group has been steadily increasing its lending in education on the
ground that education is the key to development. Economic history provides very strong
support for this belief Education has many externalities and the benefits to education go
beyond private returns, particularly for primary and secondary education. Even though
the benefits to higher and technical education tend to be better captured by private
beneficiaries and these levels have lesser proportions of externalities', a pool of higher and
technically educated professionals may provide the critical mass of skills needed for a
country to progress from one stage of economic development to another.
2.     To assure that Bank/ IDA resources are put to the most efficient end-uses, Bank/
IDA operational directives have long required rigorous economic analysis of projects
before Bank/ IDA resources can be approved. However, in recognition of the positive
externalities of certain activities (such as education, health and research) and the
consequent difficulties in measuring benefits, the Bank has relaxed requirements for
economic analysis for certain sectors. Bank lending to education has been justified in the
past by externalities and there has been no necessity to do benefit-cost analysis. While this
approach may be continued for primary and secondary general education, a more rigorous
economic analysis needs to be applied to higher and technical education.
3.     The Mauritius Higher and  Technical Education  Project provided  a good
opportunity to apply Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) analysis to an education
project.  The country conditions are appropriate, with hardly any unemployment and a
large private sector share of the formal labor market. These conditions imply that the
value of compensation paid to workers can be used to approximate their productivity.
4.     The exercise also  permitted  an  assessment of the resources required  for
introducing economic benefit-cost analysis into education projects.    The additional
resources required for this activity have been about 4 staff-weeks. The Monte Carlo risk
simulation carried out to verify the robustness of the economic internal rates of return
estimated required about four staff-weeks of a summer intern.
Extcrnalities are when the social benefits (or costs) of something may be higher than the private
benefit (or cost). An example of a positive externality is basic education which may make an
individual a better citizen but the full returns to this education may not be captured by the individual
in terms of higher income. It is generally accepted that the externalities are higher with basic
education than with higher and technical education. For the latter the benefits are mostly captured
in terms of increased income. An example of negative externality is industrial pollution where
polluting industry does not pay for the social costs of pollution.



58                             Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
B. Model Used to Calculate Economic Internal Rate of Return
5.    The underlying model used to calculate the economic internal rate of return on
education investments was developed by Psacharopoulos.  It assumes that, in a
functioning market economy, the compensation paid to each factor of production is equal
to the value of its contribution to output.  Therefore, the value of total employee
compensation (including fringe benefits) will be equal to the productivity of labor; profits
will reflect the productivity of capital as well as return for entrepreneurship; and rents will
reflect the return on land. The worker uses equipment, machinery, computers, etc., and
this also contributes to production. The contributions of these factors are included in the
profits of the enterprise (returns to capital). In an economy which is close to full
employment, employee compensation as a whole needs to closely reflect worker
productivity because workers would be unwilling to work if they were paid less.
Furthermore, employers cannot afford to pay compensation levels higher than the value of
production attributable to labor. When there are legally required benefits, the ratio of
wages to compensation is generally adjusted so that the total value of the compensation
package reflects the worker's productivity.
6.    The EIRR for educational investments is the discount rate at which the net present
value of increased earnings (representing increased productivity) minus costs equals
zero. The annual earnings for each year of working life after graduation are assumed to be
equal to the total value of the initial compensation package received after graduation (even
though earnings tend to rise over a person's working life). This value is assumed to
represent the contribution of the initial education throughout the life of the individual and
any further increases in earnings (productivity) are attributed to experience, training and
further formal education. Costs include the capital costs of investment, the recurrent costs
and the opportunity costs of time. Where education is publicly subsidized as in Mauritius,
the private costs are lower and the private rates of return would be higher than those
calculated here.
C. Value of Employee Compensation Packages in Mauritius
7.    Various data sources exist on wages and compensation in Mauritius (census,
survey of earnings) but they tend to either predate the upward movements in wages over
the last two years or tend to be aggregated.  Furthermore, these surveys report average
earnings which include not only the effect of education but also the effect of on-the-job
training. To remedy this situation, mission members visited over forty businesses and also
contacted job-placement firms. After discussions with personnel managers, the total
values of compensation packages for various levels of workers were established. In some
industries, such as sugar, compensation packages are determined by industry-wide
conventions while in others, such as textiles, they vary considerably among firms.  The
variance was found to be larger for workers with higher secondary and university degrees
than for lower level workers.



Annex 8: Methodological Notes on Estimation of EIRR                59
Table 1: Range of Compensation Packages in Mauritius (in Rupees)
Base Salary   Other Benefits  Total
Degree Holders (Govt.& Teaching)       120,000         80,000   200,000
Degree Holders (Sugar)                 132,000         90,000   222,000
Degree Holders (Textile High)          150,000         70,000   220,000
Degree Holders (Textile Low)            90,000         50,000   140,000
Degree Holders (Oth.Exp.Ind)           120,000         60,000   180,000
Degree Holders (Bank/Acct.)             96,000         50,000   146,000
Degree Holders (Consulting)            120,000         50,000   170,000
Degree Holders Average                 118,286         64,286   182,571
MBA (U. of Mauritius)                  240,000         60,000   300,000
MS/ PhD                                150,000         90,000   240,000
MBA (Foreign)                          300,000         60,000   360,00
HSC (A Level) High                      60,000         12,000    72,000
HSC (A Level) Low                       45,000          5,000    50,000
HSC Average                             52,500          8,500    61,000
Lower Secondary (0-Level) High          30,000          9,000    39,000
Lower Secondary (0-Level) Low           24,000          5,000    29,000
Lower Secondary (0-Level) Average       27,000          7,000    34,000
8.    The principal employers for university graduates have been the Government and
the secondary schools. Otherwise, Mauritian employers show a tendency to employ
holders of higher secondary certificates (Cambridge School Certificate Examination A-
Level) and train them on the job. This tendency is now changing as established Mauritian
firms are faced with challenges from East Asian and other foreign companies who are
setting up in the country.  They are slowly realizing the need for more open-minded
managers who have been exposed to more than one company. The more successful firms
(particularly in the export sector) are recruiting university graduates rather than A-level
management trainees and paying them more.
D. Estimates of Benefits and Opportunity Costs
9.    The value of compensation packages may rise or fall over time but, as the
economic analysis is being carried out to determine which investments are viable among a
set of investment opportunities at this point in time, current values are the most
appropriate estimates to use. Present compensation levels should closely reflect worker
productivity. Based on Table 1, expected productivity for graduates by different levels of
education and their opportunity costs while in school are given below.



60                            Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
Table 2: Expected Productivity of Graduates by Level of Education and The
Opportuni  Costs for the Graduates during School
Expected Productivity      Opportunity Costs
Level of Education            after Graduating           during School
MBA                               300,000                   180,000
Other Post Graduate               240,000                   180,000
Degree Holders                    180,000                    72,000
Post-Secondary Diploma            160,000                    72,000
Secondary Diploma                 120,000                    36,000
10.   Workers can make a productive contribution to the economy only when they are
employed in a productive activity.  The Mauritius labor market has little or no
unemployment presently though this may change with the increasing supply of university
and polytechnic graduates. Furthermore, present compensation packages reflect the high
value of fringe benefits offered by the public sector and it is likely that over time the share
of the private sector will rise, bringing down the overall value of compensation (though
base salaries would probably be higher in the private sector). Therefore, there is a risk
that compensation may be lower or that university and polytechnic graduates may not
always be employed. The effect of such risks (among others) has been simulated using
Monte-Carlo risk simulations which are described in section G.
E. Costs
11.   Costs are divided into five broad categories: (a) capital costs including costs of
buildings and equipment; (b) training costs to upgrade existing faculty and train new
faculty; (c) technical assistance costs which are primarily the costs associated with
replacement faculty while regular faculty is on training; (d) opportunity costs of students'
time while enrolled in educational programs; and (e) incremental recurrent costs including
(i) costs of additional personnel and salary increases paid to upgraded personnel and (ii)
costs of maintaining additional equipment and buildings. In all cases economic costs were
used instead of financial costs - thus the cost estimates in the EIRR analysis are higher
than those in the staff appraisal report.
12.   Amortization of existing facilties (mostly buildings) can also be included in the
costs, but they are excluded here for three reasons. First, these are sunk costs and,
whether or not the proposed investment is made, the buildings will be there. Secondly, the
proposed investment dwarfs the existing size of the University and polytechnic as it is
expected to increase University enrolment from 1700 to 5000 and polytechnic enrolment
from 229 to 1552. Thirdly, adequate provision of maintenance costs is made to keep the
investment fully functional during the twenty year period over which the EIRR is being
calculated.
13.   The opportunity costs are based on the potential productivity of the students if
they were not studying and is proxied by their potential earnings if they were in paid
employment rather than studying. Interviews with employers revealed that most higher
secondary certificate (HSC) graduates and some secondary school certificate (SSC)



Annex 8: Methodological Notes on Estimation of EIRR                                         61
graduates were initially employed as trainees. As many firms make it a practice to pay
trainees less than the market clearing wage', the reported average compensation packages
were adjusted upward to the level of the highest reported compensation package. This
upward adjustment of opportunity costs implies a bias against the feasibility of the
proposed project; therefore the EIRR for the project estimated with the bias is likely to
be lower than the EIRR estimated without the bias.
F. Benefit-Cost Analysis
14.    The EIRRs are given in Tables 3 and 4. A Monte-Carlo risk analysis described in
section G tests the robustness of the EIRR estimates. Flows of students and graduates
underlying these calculations are in Annex 3 of this SAR.
Table 3: Economic Analysis of Project Component to Support the University of Mauritius
(Figures in Thousands of Mauritius Rupees in 1994 Prices)
Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) = 21.0%
Year      Capital Elp.   Inc. Rec.Costs       Opp.Costs          Benefits      Net Benefits
1995            3,600            3,900                0                0            -7,500
1996           85,428            5,073          140,685           22,468          -208,718
1997           92,106            8,500          164,898           64,223          -201,282
1998          122,994            8,648          181,076           119,061         -193,657
1999           77,958           11,117          211,764           185,993         -114,847
2000           62,226           12,601          231,729           256,742          -49,814
2001                            12,774          252,314           360,314           95,226
2002                            12,820          272,446           470,313          185,047
2003                            12,271          297,336           582,698          273,091
2004                            12,244          322,332           720,765          386,189
2005                            12,244           322,332          720,765          386,189
2006                            12,244          322,332           720,765          386,189
2007                            12,244          322,332           720,765          386,189
2008                            12,244          322,332           720,765          386,189
2009                            12,244          322,332           720,765          386,189
2010                            12,244          322,332           720,765          386,189
2011                            12,244          322,332           720,765          386,189
2012                            12,244          322,332           720,765          386,189
2013                            12,244          322,332           720,765          386,189
2014                            12,244          322,332           720,765          386,189
2015                            12,244          322,332           720,765          386,189
Trainees accept the lower wage as they have a life-cycle view of their earnings and expect to make
up for this later.



62                                    Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
Table 4: Economic Analysis of Investment to Strengthen Polytechnic Education in Mauntius
(Figures in Thousands of Mauritius Rupees in 1994 Prices)
Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) = I 5.5%
Year      Capital Costs    Inc. Rec.Costs        Opp.Costs           Benefits      Net Benefits
1995                                                                       0                 0
1996            78,012             5,371            20,940                 0          -104,323
1997            14,184             5,908            36,159            16,891           -39,360
1998             7,794             6,499            51,256            50,482           -15,067
1999             6,804             7,149            63,278            79,480             2,248
2000               630             7,864            66,743            103,445           28,208
2001                               8,650            66,916            115,696           40,130
2002                               8,650            66,925            116,309           40,734
2003                               8,650            66,925           116,340            40,764
2004                               8,650            66,925            116,341           40,765
2005                               8,650            66,925            116,341           40,765
2006                               8,650            66,925            116,341           40,765
2007                               8,650            66,925            116,341           40,765
2008                               8,650            66,925            116,341           40,765
2009                               8,650            66,925            116,341           40,765
2010                               8,650            66,925            116,341           40,765
2011                               8,650            66,925            116,341           40,765
2012                               8,650            66,925            116,341           40,765
2013                               8,650            66,925            116,341           40,765
2014                               8,650            66,925            116,341           40,765
2015                               8,650            66,925            116,341           40,765
2016                               8,650            66,925           116,341            40,765
15.    The EIRR  for the University component is higher than that for the polytechnic
component even though the opportunity costs are lower for polytechnic graduates. This is
due to the relatively higher wages received by university graduates. The two investments
were combined and an overall rate of return was calculated for the proposed project. The
combined project was found to have an EIRR of 20.1%.
G. Risk Analysis
16.    The EIRRs presented in Tables 3 and 4 are calculated using the expected value
scenario of costs and benefits. The rates of return for both the University and the
Polytechnic components seem to justify the project. Sensitivity tests can be carried out to
test the robustness of the cost-benefit analysis. The sensitivity-test approach has a number
of limitations which are discussed in part I of Appendix A. A risk analysis using Monte-
Carlo techniques was carried out instead. The methodology is discussed in part II of
Appendix A.
17.    An important preliminary step to risk analysis consists in the choice of the level of
disaggregation. Typically, too much disaggregation leads to correlation problems and too
little leads to an unwarranted choice of probability distributions. These issues are



Annex 8: Methodological Notes on Estimation of EIRR                             63
discussed at length in part III of Appendix A. In this particular application, costs and
benefits are considered in a very aggregate fashion. While this means that the choice of
probability distributions is made difficult, it also means that correlation problems are
unlikely to occur - a trade-off that is not unsatisfactory.
18.    For the University of Mauritius, costs are disaggregated into (a) 'training costs'
which comprise the costs associated with upgrading existing and training new faculty; (b)
'technical assistance costs' which are primarily the costs of replacement faculty while
regular faculty is on training; (c) 'incremental recurrent costs' which include (i) the costs of
additional personnel and salary increases paid to upgraded teaching personnel and (ii)
costs of maintaining additional equipment and buildings; and (d) 'physical capital costs'
including building and equipment costs. Benefits are the private returns to education net of
opportunity costs and are not disaggregated any further. There is no obvious reason to
believe that any of the four cost categories and the benefits are linked together in a
systematic way. Opportunity costs and benefits are indeed closely linked; the simulations
below assume perfect correlation.
19.   For the Polytechnics component, costs are broken down into (a) technical
assistance and training costs; (b) incremental recurrent costs; and (c) physical capital costs.
Benefits, net of opportunity costs, are treated as one category and not disaggregated any
further. Again, the problem of correlation is not posed between these categories.
20.    However, when the return to the overall project is assessed, it is appropriate to
correlate benefits for the University and for the polytechnics. Cost categories of the
University component may well move together with the corresponding categories of the
polytechnics component, but the degree of correlation is hard to gauge. While this poses a
real problem in theory, in practice the polytechnics component of the project is far too
small to play a significant role in the analysis. The profile of the rate of return for the
overall project is mostly determined by that of the University component, and the pay-off
of taking into consideration weak correlation patterns is negligible. The correlation
patterns envisaged are presented in table 5 below.
Table 5: Correlations
Project Component                       Correlations Envisaged
University of Mauritius                 Benefits and Opportunity Costs correlated with
coefficient 1.0
Polytechnics                            Benefits and Opportunity Costs correlated with
coefficient 1.0
Overall Project                         Polytechnics Benefits and Opportunity Costs
correlated with coefficient 1.0
University Benefits and Opportunity Costs
correlated with coefficient 1.0
University and Polytechnics Benefits correlated
with coefficient 0.75



64                                Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
21.    The following step is to assign probability distributions to each of the cost and
benefit categories identified above. These categories are so broad that it is impossible to
come up with very convincing guesses as to the possible range of each variable and as to
the likelihood of each value within this range. The strategy that was adopted was to
examine three different scenarios, summarised in the tables below.
Table 6a: Distribution of Risks under Three Different Scenarios for the University
Item               Scenario I            Scenario II           Scenario III
Benefits - Net of     Normal                Truncated Normal      Uniform
Opportunity Costs     Std Deviation: 0.1    Std Deviation: 0.1    Range: [-20%, +10%I
Range: [-20%, +10%]
Staff Training and   Normal                Truncated Normal      Uniform
Upgrading Costs       Std Deviation: 0.0625    Std Deviation: 0.0625    Range: [0%, +25%]
Range: [0%, +25%]
Interim / Faculty     Normal                Truncated Normal      Uniform
Replacement Costs     Std Deviation: 0.06   Std Deviation: 0.06   Range: [0%, +20%]
Range: [0%, +20%]
Incremental Recurrent   Normal              Normal                Normal
Costs                 Std Deviation: 0.05   Std Deviation: 0.05   Std Deviation: 0.05
Physical Capital      Normal                Normal                Normal
Costs                 Std Deviation: 0.025  Std Deviation: 0.025  Std Deviation: 0.025
Table 6b: Distribution of Risks under Three Different Scenarios for the Polytechnics
Item               Scenario I            Scenario II           Scenario III
Benefits - Net of     Normal                Truncated Normal      Uniform
Opportunity Costs     Std Deviation: 0.1    Std Deviation: 0. 1   Range: [-10%, +10%J
Range: [-10%, +10%1
Training and Technical  Normal              Truncated Normal      Uniform
Assistance Costs      Std Deviation: 0.06   Std Deviation: 0.06   Range: [0%, +20%j
Range: [0%, +20%]
Incremental Recurrent   Normal              Normal                Normal
Costs                 Std Deviation: 0.05   Std Deviation: 0.05   Std Deviation: 0.05
Physical Capital      Normal                Normal                Normal
Costs                 Std Deviation: 0.025  Std Deviation: 0.025  Std Deviation: 0.025



Annex 8: Methodological Notes on Estimation of EIRR                          65
22.   In the first scenario, it is assumed that all costs and benefits are normally
distributed around the 'best estimate'. This indicates trust in the 'best judgement' values: it
is the most likely value and the probability of realisation decreases with distance from this
value. The standard deviation of the normal distribution is modulated to indicate various
degrees of trust. The smaller the standard deviation assumed, the greater the trust it
indicates in the 'best judgement' estimate. This is discussed in Appendix A (part II).
23.   In the second scenario, use is made of truncated normal distributions for certain
components. The standard deviations were kept the same as in the first scenario.
Truncation provides an additional instrument with which to express the appraiser's
subjective assessment of risks. The non-truncated normal distribution allows the
realisation of values infinitely distant from the point estimate, albeit with a vanishingly
small probability. The appraiser may want to limit the range of each variable to, say,
between -10% and +10% of the point estimate. In addition, the appraiser does not have to
assume that risks are symmetrically distributed around the mode: upside and downside
risks can be different. In scenario II, the appraiser wishes to consider that the project
benefits for the University can be as much as 20% lower than the point estimate but not
more than 10% higher. The appraiser can also wish to express that for some components,
the point estimate is akin to a minimum, so that only an upside risk is warranted, this is
what is assumed here for University 'staff training costs', for example.
24.   In the third scenario, the truncated normal distributions are replaced by uniform
distributions, reflecting distrust in the point estimate. The appraiser is not able to
differentiate between any two values within the range of the variable. In effect, this
corresponds to overestimating the 'tails' of the distribution.
25.   In scenarios II and III, a normal distribution was assumed for those components
for which the point estimate was believed to be accurate, namely for 'incremental recurrent
costs' and 'physical capital costs'. Note that, for both scenarios II and III, whenever it was
necessary to define a range, it was assumed that benefits have both an upside and a
downside risk whereas costs only have an upside risk. Finally, note that the downside risk
on benefits for the University component is assumed to be higher than for the Polytechnics
component because the labour market for university graduates may be saturated more
rapidly, although this does not entail any causal link between the two markets.



66                             Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
26.   For each scenario, random numbers were generated for each of the parameters
according to the chosen probability distributions first with, then without correlations, and
corresponding economic internal rates of return were computed. This procedure was
iterated 3,000 times and the observed distribution of rates of return is plotted'. The results,
for the University and the polytechics separately and for the overall project, are
summarized in tables 7a to 7c below. Figures la to 3b refer to the economic internal rate
of return of the project as a whole - University and polytechnics components combined -
under the different probability and correlations assumptions.
Table 7a: University of Mauritius
90% Confidence Interval     Without Correlations         With Correlations
Scenario I             [18.95%; 23.08%]           [19.67%; 22.12%]
Scenario II            [19.10%; 22.14%]            [19.93%; 21.29%]
Scenario III           [19.14%; 22.11%]            [19.3 1%; 20.98%]
I _______________________    Table  7b: Polytechnics
90% Confidence Interval     Without Correlations         With Correlations
Scenario I             [13.07%; 18.04%]           [13.07%; 18.21%]
Scenario II            [14.11%; 16.88%]            [14.91%; 16.02%]
Scenario III            [13.88%; 16.89%]           [14.80%; 15.96%]
| ________________________    Table  7c: Overall Project                        |
90% Confidence Interval     Without Correlations         With Correlations
Scenario I             [18.37%; 21.80%]           [19.21%; 20.92%]
Scenario II            [18.50%; 21.01%]            [19.17%; 20.35%]
Scenario III           [17.86%; 20.89%]            [19.06%; 21.21%]
27.   If the opportunity cost of capital is taken to be of the order of 10%, the project is
found to be viable in all six cases envisaged.
Use was made of an Excel add-in designed for Monte-Carlo simulations named Crystal Ball.



Annex 8: Methodological Notes on Estimation of EIRR                       67
OVERALL PROJECT
Figure la: Scenario I without Correlations
ERR: Cumulative Plot
1 .00
- .75
.~.50
.0
17.00%       18.50%        20.00%         21.50%        23.00%
90% Certainty Range is from 18.37% to 21.80%
Figure Ib: Scenario I with Correlations
ERR: Cumulative Plot
1.00
.75
05
..25
.00
18.50%       19.25%        20.00%         20.75%        21.50%
90% Certainty Range is from 19.21 % to 20.92%



68                              Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
Figure 2a: Scenario H without Correlations
ERR: Cumulative Plot
1.00
-.75
.0
~.25
.00
17.50%       18.63%         19.75%        20.88%        22.00%
90% Certainty Range is from 18.50% to 21.01 %
Figure 2b: Scenario II with Correlations
ERR: Cumulative Plot
-.75
*~.50
~.25
.00                                           S
18.75%       19.25%        19.75%         20.25%        20.75%
90% Certainty Range is from 19.17% to 20.35%



Annex 8: Methodological Notes on Estimation of EIRR                             69
Figure 3a: Scenario HI without Correlations
ERR: Cumulative Plot
1 .00
-  .75
*~.50
CL.25
.00
16.50%        17.88%         19.25%          20.63%         22.00%
90% Certainty Range is from 17.86% to 20.89%
Figure 3b: Scenario III with Correlations
ERR: Cumulative Plot
1.00
-  .75
* ~ .5 0 ................. ....
~. -
g.25
.00                       
18.00%        19.00%         20.00%          21.00%         22.00%
90% Certainty Range is from 1 9.06% to 21.21 %



70                             Mauritius: Higher and Technical L.ducatiorn PsroJct
Appendix A: the Use of Monte-Carlo Techniques in Risk Analysis
I) Why Carry Out a Risk Analysis?
The costs and benefits estimates associated with any particular project necessarily
involve some degree of uncertainty. Uncertainty therefore also affects any project worth
indicators (economic rate of return, net present value) computed from those estimates.
One way of dealing with this uncertainty is by combining values for all input variables,
chosen in such a way that they yield a conservative estimate for the result of the analysis.
One may also choose to select the best estimate value, that is the value that is most likely
to be achieved. Both these solutions imply a decision and involve a bias.
The method usually adopted to test the robustness of the result of the analysis is to
conduct so-called sensitivity tests by adjusting the values of a few key variables - typically
by 10-20%. Sensitivity analysis is useful in highlighting those parameters on which the
performance of the project hinges and which might therefore require more careful
specification. This is a relatively easy task if one isolates one or two such parameters. One
can conclude that the project is very likely to be justified if this determining variable is,
say, less than some given value x. An evaluation of the likelihood that this variable is less
than x would be enough to give one an idea of the riskiness of the project. With two
variables, one's judgment would already be harder to put in words, but a graph could still
be used showing the limits within which the project would be justified. One cannot,
however, vary more than two of these parameters at a time without the analysis being
unwieldy. One is therefore forced to keep the other variables constant and it is not at all
clear what meaning can be attached to changes in project worth in response to movements
in one or two key variables when dozens or more others must be held constant. The
problem naturally becomes more acute as the complexity of the project to be appraised
increases. One can find an infinity of combinations of the variables for which the project is
justified and an infinity of combinations for which it is not.
In a Monte-Carlo analysis, each factor is allowed to vary at random between set
limits and all factors are allowed to change simultaneously. From this one obtains a
probability distribution of the return of the project. There is thus no need to restrict
project evaluation to a single pessimistic or best estimate. The other side of the coin is that
one needs to make judgments about the possible range of each variable and on the
likelihood of each value within this range. These judgments take the form of subjective
probability distributions. The product of the analysis, in turn, is a judgment on the possible
range of the decision variable, and on the likelihood of each value within this range.
II) Monte-Carlo Simulations Applied to Risk Analysis
In a sense then, risk analysis consists of aggregating probabilities. The Monte-
Carlo simulation technique is one of the various ways in which this can be done. A great
number of projects with the characteristics of interest in are built and one sees how many
of them earn 10 percent, 15 percent, 20 percent, etc. In practice, the value of each of the
uncertain variables is chosen by random selection, and the rate of return is computed for



Annex 8: Methodological Notes on Estimation of EIRR                         71
the project defined by these values. The process is repeated many times and the results are
statistically analysed.
The first step in this risk analysis is to assign to each variable a subjective
probability distribution. Based on the information obtained from the project appraiser, one
can either choose among the classical probability distributions (beta, normal, uniform), or
construct a distribution (typically step-rectangular) which seems to best fit the case. The
latter solution is more information-intensive
Choosing probability distributions for the variables is what one might find
worrisome about risk analysis. But, this is only because one presumes it requires finding
the true distribution of each variable. Risk analysis is less ambitious: it is not a question of
finding the true distribution of each variable, but for each variable the distribution which
best expresses the judgment of the appraiser. Some even argue that the shape of the
distribution one assumes for each variable is of relatively minor importance. Clarke and
Low (1993) maintain, for instance, that the uniform distribution is a valid choice even
though it implies that the variability of a parameter falls to zero above and below a cut-off
point. The argument is that in projects in which knowledge about the distribution of the
specific parameters is likely to be limited, the shape of the distribution is probably less
important than the way in which parameters are likely to vary in combination. The major
effect captured by this analysis is the result of the combination of parameter variation,
which is revealed despite the simplifying assumption of rectangular distributions of
individual parameters.
Information requirement for the uniform distribution is minimal - it means that the
appraiser is not able to differentiate between any two values within the range of the
variable. One would therefore use the uniform distribution in the case of low sensitivity
variables or whenever one wants, to be on the safe side, to overestimate the probability of
the extremes of the variables' range. Depending upon the information available, one might
want to use or construct more appropriate distributions. Pouliquen (1970) warns against
the use of normal distributions - there is no particular a priori justification for expressing a
subjective judgement by a normal distribution since the variations one is trying to
anticipate are the result of neither statistical errors nor random disturbances. However, the
normal distribution also conveniently expresses the fact that the best estimate is thought to
be the most probable realisation and that there is a decreasing probability that the latter
will be lower or higher than the best estimate. The normal distribution can be thought of as
making claims about the reliability of the best estimate between that of a triangular and
that of a uniform distribution - something akin to a continuous version of a trapezoidal
distribution. The normal distribution can be made to vary in two dimensions to reflect the
appraiser's judgement: the narrowness (standard deviation) and the limits (by truncation)
of the distribution can both be modulated.
Once the choice has been made of the probability distributions of the various
variables, the simulation poses no further problem. One instructs the computer to generate
random values for each of the parameters varied in the analysis according to the chosen



72                             Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
distribution and to compute the corresponding rate of return. The process is repeated
several hundred or thousand times and the observed distribution of rates of return is
plotted. The results are summarized by a cumulative probability distribution. This type of
analysis therefore presents all the information necessary to check the recommendation
made to the decision-maker. If only the internal rate of return based on the best estimates
is presented, it is not possible for the decision-maker to evaluate the risk of the project.
III) The Aggregation Problem and Correlation
Risk analysis involves making a choice about the level of disaggregation of the
costs and benefits components. Technically one can choose any level of disaggregation -
and indeed, it is easier to make a judgement about the probability distribution of a single
or a smaller component than about a collection of such components. Incomplete or
inaccurate judgments often results from a lack of disaggregation. There are however
certain limits to how far one should subdivide and the question of where to stop
subdividing in order to make the best risk analysis is the aggregation problem.
There is a limit to disaggregation because of the problem raised by correlation.
When independent variables are aggregated, the effect of the variation of one may be
compensated by the variation of the others. Some of the variables, however, are likely to
vary together in a systematic way because they are linked either by engineering or by
economic considerations. Such correlations are by no means easy to detect, and are even
more difficult to measure, but experience has demonstrated that overlooking them may
lead to a completely wrong interpretation in the analysis.
The correlation problem can be solved by limiting disaggregation. If one works
with the total cost of, say, a building, one does not have to worry about the correlation
between the cost of the foundation and the cost of the walls. The distribution used for the
total cost will implicitly include this relation. There is a limit too to the level of
aggregation which is feasible in obtaining plausible probability distributions. The choice of
the level of aggregations requires a trade-off between the advantages of clarity of
judgment and of avoiding the hazards of disaggregation.
Previous analyses tend to show that the influence of correlations on the outcome
is likely to be greater than that of the shape of any particular probability distributions, so
that the trade-off is usually settled in favour of as little disaggregation as possible.
Limiting disaggregation is sometimes thought an unsatisfactory way to deal with
correlation since one advantage of risk analysis, which one may want to retain, is that it
permits disaggregation. There exists a couple of alternative solutions to this problem. The
first is to carry out the disaggregation not so much in terms of the technological
components of the project, as in terms of uncorrelated sources of uncertainty. The second
solution is to make use of the so-called pessimistic-optimistic approach. Suppose, for
instance, one suspects some correlation between two variables but cannot quantify its
magnitude or its effect on the distribution of rates of return to a project which has tended



Annex 8: Methodological Notes on Estimation of EIRR                      73
to look favourable. One can often reinforce one's confidence about the project by
examining a pessimistic view of the suspected correlation. If the project is still acceptable
in this light, then one can feel one's confidence in the project has been justified.



74                          Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Risk Analysis in Project Planning: A simple spreadsheet application using Monte-Carlo
Techniques - Roland Clarke and Allan Low, Project Appraisal Vol 8, No 3, September
1993.
Risk Analysis in Project Appraisal - L. Y Pouliquen, World Bank Staff Occasional
Popers No 11. 1970



Annex 9: Proposed Implementation Schedule                             75
ANNEx 9: PROPOSED IMLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
The implementation schedule was revised and updated during negotiations.
Regular updates will be done during implementation.



Annex 9: Table 1 - Mauritius - Higher and Technical Education Project - University of Mauritius - Implementation Schedule            76
1995       1     1996       j      1997              1998              1999             2000              2001
ID    Name                                 Duration  Q4 01  0 Q2   Q3 0 Q4 Ql Q2 Q3  Q4  Q1| Q2 |Q3 Q4 Ql Q2 Q3   4                 Q     3  04 01  Q2  03Q4  Qi  02  03
1    World Bank Key Dates                    1617d VWm
2        Appraisal Mission                      ld
3        Pre-Negotiations Mission              1 2d
4        Negotiations                           3d
5        Board Presentation                     Od
6        Loan Signing                           Od
7        Loan Effectiveness                     Od
8        Project Launch Workshop               1 4d
9        Mid-Term Review                       14d        .                                                 F
10        Project Closing                        Od
11    University Teaching Oty lmprovemt.     1391d         .
12       Introduce Modular System                Od
13        Complete Modular System                Od
14        Recruit Contract Faculty            544d         .
15        Upgrade Faculty                    1391d.
16        20% of Faculty with Doctorates         Od        .
17        30% of Faculty with Doctorates         Od        .
18        Faculty Development Seminars       11 75dc
1 9    University-Labor Market Linkages       522d .
20        Draft Mtgs Plan for Facutty-Empl.    1 31dc
21        Formalize Regular Seminars             Od        .
22        Develop Publ. Outreach Program       261 d
23   Accredit. for University, MIE and MGI   1 306d
24        Self-Assessment Visit                261dc
25        First Accreditation Visit           239d
26        Second Accreditation Visit           240d
Project:                            Critical                       Progress                       Summary
Date: 3/1/95                        Noncritical                    Milestone                      Rolled Up  C



77
Annex 9: Table 1 - Mauritius - Higher and Technical Education Project - University of Mauritius - Implementation Schedule
1996            1996            1997            1998            1999            2000            2001
ID   Name                              Duration  04 Q1  Q2 0Q3 |Q4 01 |Q2 0Q3 0Q4 Q1 Q2 |03 0Q4 01 0Q2 0Q3 |Q4 |Q1 |Q2 |Q3 |Q4 |Q1 0Q2 Q3 |04 Q1 I Q2 0Q3
27   Action Plan for Financial Sustainability  14d
28   Civil Works                           783d  _                            _
29       Engineering Facutty               783d  _                                    _
30          Architectural design           197d
31          Tender document               260d
32           Bid/Contract Award Tender      22d
33          Construction                  303d
34       Ubrary                           719d
35          Architectural design           132d
36          Tender Documents              260d
37          Tender                          23d
38          Bid Eval./Contract Award       42d
39          Construction                   197d
40   Equipment Procurement                 653d                                     I
41       Tender document                  457d
42       Tender                             23d
43       Bid Evaluation/Contract Award      42d |
44      Installation and Commissioning     86d
45   Books                                479d   m-
46       Tender documents                 326d
47       Tender                             23d
48       Bid Evaluation/Contract Award     42d
49       Delivery                          88d
Project:                         Critical                    Progress                    Summary
Date: 3/1/95                     Noncritical                 Milestone                   Rolled Up 0



78
Annex 9: Table 2 - Mauritius - Higher and Technical Education Project - Polytechnics - Implementation Schedule
1995      1      1996      1      1997      1      1998      I      1999             2000       I      2001
ID    Name                                Duration  Q4Q1 1Q2TQ31Q4Q11TQ2TQ3lQ4Q11IQ2lQ3lQ4IQ1lQ2 Q3 Q4lQl1Q2lQ3lQ4lQ1rQ21Q3IQ4Q11IQ210Q3
1    Strengthening Mgt. Trust Fund          196d
2        Start Staff Recruitment              88d
3        MIS Training                         75d
4        Amend Statute                        66d
5        Procure and Install Equipment       43d
6    Support to Flacq Polytechnic           304d
7        Equipment Procurement              304d
8            Tender Documents                43d
9            Tender                           87d
10           Bid Evaluation                   66d
1 1          Contract Award                    Od
12           Installation                     44d
13   Support to Rose Hill                    347d
14       Equipment Procurement               347d
15           Tender Documents                 65d
16           Tender                          108d
1 7          Bid Evaluation                    Od
18           Contract Award                    Od
19           Installation                      Od
20           Training of Trainers            1152d
21    Support to Droopnath Ramphul          1652d     | *              I                 I                                                  I
22       Civil Works                         118d
23           Architect. Design for Rehab.     22d
24           Tender Documents                 lid
25           Contract Award                    Od    *
26           Construction                     75d
Project:                           Critical                      Progress                      Summary
Date: 2/28/95                      Noncritical                   Milestone                     Rolled Up O



79
Annex 9: Table 2 - Mauritius - Higher and Technical Education Project - Polytechnics - Implementation Schedule
_   1995  1      1996      1     1997      ]      1998              999      1      2000             2001
ID   Name                                Duration  04 Q1|Q2J|Q3JQ4  0Q1 Q2 Q3 0Q4 |    01|2 Q3 Q4J Q1 0Q2 Q3 0Q4 0Q1 |Q2 Q3 Q4101 0Q2 103   Q401  0Q20Q3
27       Staff Recruitment and Training     847d  _                                                                      |
28           Staff Profiles                    Od
29           Advertisement                     Od
30           Reruitmnent                       Od
31           Initial Traiing 1109d
32           Initial Training 2              130d
33           Initial Training 3              131d
34           Continuing Training 1            22d
35           Contining Training 2             21d
36           Continuing Training 3            20d
37       Equipnent Procurerent Phae 1        1 52d-
38           Tender Docruments                55d
39           Tender                           29d
40           Bid Evaluation                    Od       i
41           Contract                          Od
42           Installation                     35d
43       Equipment Procurement Phase 2       327d                                                                                                          |
44           Tender Documents                 66d
45           Tender                           42d                                                                        i
46           Bid Evaluation                    Od
47           Contract                          Od
48           Installation                     65d
49       Books                               227d
50           Tender Documents                 86d
51           Tender                           40d
52           Bid Evaluation/Contract Award     Od
Project:                          Critical    '                 Progress                     Summary      _
Date: 2/28/95                      Noncritical                  Milestone                     Rolled Up   >



80
Annex 9: Table 2 - Mauritius - Higher and Technical Education Project - Polytechnics - Implementation Schedule
1995             1996             1997              1998            1999       [     2000              2001
ID    Name                                Duration  Q41  0 Q21 03  04 1  | Q2 I Q3  0 04 Q10 2 0 Q3 Q4 01 Q2 Q3 0 04 0 Q1  Q2 Q3 Q4 1 Q1 0 Q2 Q3 0 Q4 01  Q2 Q3
53           Delivery                         76d
54       Consultants' Services              1 587d
55           Start-up Services                22d
56           Labour Market Study              22d
57           Curriculum Studies             1 282d                                         _
58           Tracer Studies                   21d
59           Mid-Term Review                  14d
Project:                           Critical                      Progress                     Summary
Date: 2/28195                      Noncritical                   Milestone                    Rolled Up O



Annex 10: Estimated Schedule of Disbursement                         81
ANNEX 10: ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
Disbursements     Cumulative      Project    Country
Quarter End       During Quarter  Disbursements      Profile      Profile
US$ Million    (USS Million)      (%            %
FY1996
30-Sep-95           0.0                  0.0            0           0
31-Dec-95            1.2                  1.2           7           0
31 -Mar-96           1.3                  2.5          16            3
30-Jun-96            1.3                  3.8          24            6
FY1997
30-Sep-96            1.4                  5.2          32           10
31-Dec-96           0.9                  6.1           38           14
31 -Mar-97          0.8                   6.9          43           18
30-Jun-97           0.8                   7.7          48           22
FY1998
30-Sep-97           0.8                   8.5          53           28
31-Dec-97           0.8                   9.3          58           34
31-Mar-98           0.8                  10.1          63          40
30-Jun-98           0.8                  10.9          68          46
FY1999
30-Sep-98           0.8                  11.7          73           50
31 -Dec-98          0.7                  12.4          77           54
31 -Mar-99          0.7                  13.1          82           58
30-Jun-99           0.7                  13.8          86          62
FY2000
30-Sep-99           0.7                  14.5          90          68
31-Dec-99           0.6                  15.1          94           74
31 -Mar-00          0.6                  15.7          98          80
30-Jun-00           0.3                  16.0         100          86
FY2001
30-Sep-00                                                          90
31 -Dec-00                                                         94
31-Mar-01                                                          96
30-Jun-01                                                          98
FY2002
30-Sep-01                                                          99
31-Dec-01                                                         100



Annex 1 1: Supervision Plan 1995-2000                                              82
ANNEx 1 1: SUPERVISION PLAN 1995-2000
Missions' Objectives                           Mission Members               Period
Pre-effectiveness/Project Launch
*  Review compliance with conditions of credit    Task Manager               Jun. 1995
effectiveness.                             Technical Education Specialist
Economist/Fin. Analyst
*   Project launch seminar.                   Implementation Specialist
. Review bidding documents
*  Review work plans for 1st year of project
implementation
1st Sunervision Mission
*  Working sessions with the University and   Task Manager                   Nov. 1995
Polytechnic staff.                        Implementation Specialist
2nd Supervision Mission
Annual review                                 Task Manager                   May 1996
Economist
Education Specialist
Implementation Specialist
3rd Supervision Mission
*  In-depth review of University and Polytechnic   Task Manager              Nov. 1996
components                                 Economist
Education Specialist
Mid-term Review
*  Review of project progress with government  Task Manager                  Jun. 1997
and donors                                 Architect
Education Specialist
Economist
Implementation Specialist
4th Sunervision Mfission
*  Review of the implementation of the mid-term    Task Manager              Nov. 1997
review recommendations                     Education Specialist
5th Suvervision Mission
*  Assess project impact at all levels         Task Manager                  May 1998
Economist
*   Annual review                              Education Specialist
Implementation Specialist



83                                 Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
6th Supervision Mission
*   Overall assessment of project performance   Task Manager                   Nov. 1998
Implementation Specialist
7th Supervision Mission
*  Overall assessment of project performance    Task Manager                   May 1999
Education Specialist
*   Annual review                               Economist
_ Implementation Specialist                 l
8the Supervision Mission
*   Overall assessment of project performance   Task Manager                   Nov. 1999
Economist                                   l
9th Supervision Mission
*  Review of performance indicators             Task Manager                   May 2000
.____________________ _   Economist
10th Supervision Mission
*      Implementation completion mission        Task Manager                   Nov. 2000
Economist
*      Annual review                            Education Specialist
Implementation Specialist



Annex 12: Detailed Cost Tables                                       84
ANNEx 12: DETAILED COST TABLES



85
HW NW T_J E*gal Pi
Tom I oh  uIs.g  i.   .5yc Ofmom"
Tdlehb 1     WWo   
(U8o
Piy
Sins~~~~~~~~~Qwdn4    Cod                                                                                                                                       Cuti    FMn.    awsf
1m            lUl         _I            1m           2396           Totd       UnaCod       I1          1667         1           I            2c0o         Tdi        Rat    ExtL  T   RdI
L   W4 Cod
A. T190 OF Psady
Td.*M  A                                                                                                                                                       910.000    1.390,000    1,260.000    1.150.000    1,060000    5,790,000     00    1000        0.0
Locmi T"*5                                                                                                                                                     23,000      23,000        78,000      92.000       70,000      266.000      00      00        0.0
Fsaiy0O.Wsyo tSu*m                                                       3             3            3            3             3             15    50.000      150,000     150,000      150,000     150,000      150,000      750,000      00    1000        0 0
T* Tr*"             7 pmy                                                                                                                                      1,060,000    1,56.000    1.4,8.000    1 382 000    1 ,30,000    6.62.000
S Rsald*rw4oawu         fto*y                                                            -           12            17             -            29    X0.000                             1060000      1,530,000                 2.510.000     42    1000        0.0
C. CaIA Wod
E,l          FaAy                                                        -         2.000         2.340            --                      4.380       500                 1000000    1,190,000            -            -    2.190.000      4.2    25.0       0.0
Ll  -y                                                                             1.100         1.276            - 8                     2,378       450            -     495,000      575,10                               1,070,100     42      250       0.0
fti    Cml                                                                                  -                                                                               1,495000 1,7100                                    3.260.100
0. E*OmuV  m hr b      -sb   Stfs~
CPA  uouf-                                                                                                                                                     100,000                                                         100,000     4.2   100.0       0.0
1.14 ww    58la SW 5Qm'.w    U                                                                                                                                150.000                        -                                150,000     42    100.0       0.0
I     I I a0"I  CACICAA                                                                                                                                        240.000           -            -                               240,000      42    1000        0.0
dw.  p . & opw cm"                                                                                                                                             150,000            --                       -           -       150.000     4.2   1000        0.0
cwphsr A0r in   9o  p I m     *ad.gk                                                                                                                          4*60,000                                    .            .      440,000      42    1000        00
add ***NW* fa BIuuSW mum                                                                                                                                        1,100.000                 -                              -     1,100,000
9._*s,ui                - WAR%
CItf"tods . wi              , &&                                                                                                                               XO,OOO             - 30D.000                                    30,000      42    100         0.0
P. SOW1 9 US= LhFuY
I. _qi W 69HLm y
I'm,1 CONW~ p                                                                                      -            -             -             1   100,000                   l00               -           -            -      100.000      4.2   100.0       0 0
Cu,rp    To"*          _ &SsWs                                          -           20           20            20             -            60      8000                   160.000     160.000      160,000                   4 480.000   42    100.0       0.0
Eddc b815.8  dmb4N9   ty*nm                                            2             -             -            -             -             2     13 000     100,000           -            -           -                    100.000     4.2   100.0       0.0
Oftba8  CDROdM                                                                                                                                                54.9                          -                                 54.900     4.2   100.0       0.0
Do* top bpM" _* 9                                                      1             -                                                      1   100,000      100.000           -            -                                100.000     42    100.0       0.0
Ii.,. ciwu. _,   c.                                                                                                                                           8560000                       -           -            -        5.000      4.2   100.0       0.0
Audo    0.A 11 58 W"y                                                                                                                                         50.000           -            -                                 50.000     4.2   100 0       0.0
Lbw     I I    P      I                                                                                                                                      170000            -            -           -            -       170,        4.2   100.0       00
_s     L    b E*Ossu  kw K LkUI                                                                                                                                55.900      260.000      160,000     160000             -     1.139,900
2. odls                                                              12.000        8,000         8.000        8.000         4.000        4000          so      Go20200,000              *00,        4000                                   42    9600        0.0
hSdf       pp9tu lU  _Lhuy                                                                                                                                      1.159,900    660,000      94,000      50.000       200.000     3.139.900
6L Pod  od11_    s_m    R & ab
Po-d G58    5905 & Tndsd                                                                                                                                       100,000      100.000     200,000     200.000      150.000      75.000       00.    50.0       0.0
A   4  F4                                                                                                                                                      ao,ooo      200,000      200,000     150,000        100000    1,250,000     00     50.0       0.0
*__Pod   .*        & skun      nt                                                                                                                        700000       300.000     400,000     350.000      250,000     2,000,000
FLpsdu4  flssi
A    _U_                                                                 1             -            1             '             -             2    7n.o0        n,ooo             -      no                -           - .00o              0.0   1000        0.0
T S                                                                                                                                                               4,42 0    4,02340000       soe36     oo ---75.0,U-000    1.5.000    19.3.000



Retptc of Mauntus
H0w anend TeotrItcal Edcatbon Prodc                                                                                                 86
Table 2 R   Btouinn  Poytectnc EdJcat0
Dtaild Costs
(USS)
Parsintaram (in %)
Phy.
Quantitias                                                                 Baa. Cost                            Cont    For.    Gross
19t9        1997       199       1999     2000       Total     UnitCost    1996        1997      1996       1999     2000       Totl      Rats   Eoeh.  Ta Rate
L hn-atnt Cost.
& Mangsmnttt Trust Fund
1. Equlpmatnt NS
Coter Sy s                                                          3            -        -         -        -            3    20,000       60.000                                             60.DO     42    1000        00
cop                                                                 1            -        -         -        -            I     5,000        5,000        -         -          -        -       5.000     4 2    100.0      0.0
Subtotal Equipment Ml?                                                                                                                       65-.000                                             65.000
Z Consultnt' Services
MIS- Scrlca/T.t*i Contact                                                                                                                    3,000                                              3.000     00       00       00
Tahtri Asiance                                                      1            2        2         1        -            6    20.000       20.000    40,000    40,000    20,000     0        120,000     00      700       00
Subtotal Conaa  ntS'- Srvic.o                                                                                                                 23,000    40,000    40,000    20,000        -     123.000
Subtotal Manganmnt Tnrt Fund                                                                                                                   88,000    40,000    40,000    20.000         -     188.000
B. brNey A&tsy Co-tfta                                                 4            4        4          4                    16    20,000      80.000    80,000    80.000    80.000         -     320,000     4 2      0.0      00
C FLACO
1. Equipntnt
Fie Swvar . 10 1lrnla                                               1            -        -         -        -            1    50.000       50.000        -          -         -        -      50,000     4 2    100 0      0.0
Coters Trnig Equipne                                               20            -        -        10        -           30      8,000     160,000                           00-  -0    240.000           4 2   100.0       0 0
Hy&&t&cTrammiwEqJpmnt                                               1            --                                       1     00000       50000         -          -                         50         4.2   100.0       00
Air ctda* a&ResgwaIonTrr*iEqstonwt                                  I            -        -         -        -            I   110.000      110,000                   -                  -     110,000     42    1000        00
BAflbg Equptnet                                                     1            -        -         -        -            1   103,000      103,                      -                  -     103,000     42    1000        00
Phobcqwr                                                            1                      - -      -        -            1      5000        5000                                  -            5,OO      4 2    100 0      0 0
Subtotal Eqauipmnnt                                                                                                                          4786000                   -    80 0                558.000
2 Consultants' Srvics
CurtcsmjnOew.Seadlst                                                3            3        3         3        -           12    12.000       36,000    36,000    36,000    36,000        -     144,000      42    1000       00
Subtotl FLAC                                                                                                                                   514,000    36.000    36.O00    116,000       -     702.000
0 Rosa Hill
1. BRD financlng
Tnrtg of Tnttrs                                                                                                                             30.000        -          -         -        -      30,000    00    1000        00 
Comrew Trxft Equipment                                                                                                                     260.000        -          -         -        -     260.000     42    1000        00
Subtotal BRD financIng                                                                                                                       290.000                                            290,000
E Rampitul
I Rt_IbUton                                                                                                                                 346,000         -         -          -       -      346,000     42    25 0       00
2 EAion                                                                                                                                    1100,000   373.000                  -              1,473.000    4.2    250        00
I Equisn nt
Comnput i.b equp.  20 wourkstsl                                     4            -        -         -        -            4    87,000      348,000        -          -                        348.000     42    1000        00
1nnicrrpurattpi*rsk&L cdpn.,screen                                  1                               -        -            1   200.000     200,000         -                                   200.000     42    100 0       00
setof20copies of cwrprsoftreparkages                                2                               2        -            4    27.000       54,000        -               54,O          -     108.000     42    1000        00
soynwnj tplcs  s#nst      AL dev tots                               I                               1                     2    22,000       22,000                        22.000                  00O     4 2    100 0      0 0
LbtyCat55msystemI                                                   1            -        -         -                     1    30,000       30.000             -         -     -               300        4*2    1000       00
co,Aw-rtsamtl-me.iadaste,                                           3            -        -         -        -            3     7.000       21,000                  -                          21.000     42    1000        00
Spotgym naqtxt                                                      I            -        -         -        -            1    45,000       45,000                   -                  -      45,000     4 2   100 0       0 0
AV-st (pi ojcts.VCRs, sas)                                          3            -        -         -        -            3      3.000       9,000                   -                  -       9,000     42    1000        00
CtAbrbihyst.nwMinptn.s                                             15                                                    15     8,200      123,000                             -              123,000     42    1000        00
Phtocrs                                                             S            -        -         -        -            5     2,400       12.000                  -                          12,000     42    1000        00
PAaX Sysbrn                                                         1                     -1                                    6,000       6.000                                               6,000     42    1000       00
Color P l1cop--r                                                    1                                                     1      5,000       5,000        --0-0                                           4 2   100 0       0 0
DOWkloppi tgsysntr&nAscwvtgentelt                                   I            -        -         -        -            1    16,000       16,000        -         -          -               16,000     42    100.0       00
Set to1dmttnrcm      r                                              1 1                   - I                             1     4,000        400D-                                              4,000     42    100.0       00
Subtotal Equipma8nt986000                                                                                                                                                   76,O          -      71.000
4. Boda                                                           5,000        2,350        -         -        -        7,350        20      100.000    47,000        -                   -     147,000     42     950       00
5 Fumftur
CtotArdevitce & ds                                                100            -        -         -        -          100       200       20.000        -          -         -        -      20,000     42      700       00
Lb-wy tle" & clas                                                  75                                                    75       200       15,000                  -                          15,000     42     700       00
De"l. dr (itnary)                                                  10            -        -         -        -           10       400       4,            -         -                           4,000     4 2    70 0      0 0
Book &f#Ams                                                       250            -        -         -        -          250        76       19,0                    -                   -      19.000     42     700        00
Desks &  AWbs (tsats)                                              60            -        -                              60       400       24,000                                             24,000     4 2    70 0       0 0
DesL &dihs(drnin)                                                  10                     -         -        -           I0       500        5,000        -5000                                           4 2    700        00
Teates wsnd Mstn RooT FwnTre                                        2            -        -         -        -            2      1,000       2000                    -        -                 2,000     4 2    70 0       0 0
Slteel Fig Carts                                                   40            -        -         -        -           40       350       14,O          -                                    14,000     42     700        00
Bldckoards                                                         40            -        -         -        -           40      500        20.000                                     -       20,000     4 2    70 0       00
Subtotal Furniturs                                                                                                                           123,000                                            123,000
6 CWunts'vIces(Twint)                                                                                                                       127,500    50,000    82,500         -        -     260,000     42    1000        00
7. Teace Tinsw                                                        7           8         6         3        3           29      7,000      49,000    Y6,OO     566000    21.000   21,t0      203,000     00    1000        00
Subtotal Rtimphul                                                                                                                            2740500   526000   138500    97.000   21.000    3523,000
Total                                                                                                                                           3,712,500   682.000   294,500   313,OD    21,000    5.023,CD



87
Republic of Mauritius
Higher and Technical Education Project
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
(US$ '000)
Local
The Govemnfent        IBRD              Total        For.   (Excl.  Duties &
Amount    %      Amount    %       Amount    %        Exch.   Taxes)   Taxes
I. Investrnent Costs
A. Civil Works                        4,285    75.0    1,428    25.0    5,713    21.5    1,369   4,344           -
B. Equipment & Fumiture               1,439    30.0    3,357    70.0    4,796    18.1    4,756        40         -
C. Training, Studies & Research       2,947    30.0    6,876     70.0    9,823    37.0    8,356    1,467         -
D. Consultants' Services              1,155    30.0    2,695    70.0    3,850    14,5    3,433       418         -
E. Books                                704    30.0    1,643    70.0    2,347       8.8    2,222     126         -
Total Investment Costs                 10,530    39.7   16,000    60.3   26,530   100.0   20,136   6,394           -
II. Recurrent Costs
Total Disbursemnent                     10,530    39.7   16,000    60.3   26,530   100.0   20,136   6,394          -



88
Republic of Mauritius
Higher and Technical Education Project
Disbursement Accounts by Financiers
(USS '000)
Local
The Govemment         IBRD              Total        For.   (Excl.  Duties &
Armount    %     Amount    %       Amount    %        Exch.   Taxes)   Taxes
1. Civil Works                             4,285    75.0    1,428    25.0    5,713    21.5    1,369   4,344
2. Equipment & Fumiture                    1,439    30.0    3,357    70.0    4,796    18.1    4,756        40         -
3. Training, Studies and Research          2,947    30.0    6,876    70.0    9,823    37.0    8,356   1,467           -
4. Consuftants' Services                   1,155    30.0    2,695    70.0    3,850    14.5    3,433       418         -
5. Books                                    704    30.0    1,643    70.0    2,347        8.8    2,222     126         -
Total                                        10,530    39.7   16,000    60.3   26,530   100.0   20,136   6,394          -



89
Republic of Mauritius
Higher and Technical Education Project
Components Project Cost Sunmnary
%     % Total
(Mts Rps '000)                 (USS 000)           Foreign   Base
Local    Foreign     Total    Local   Foreign    Total  Exchange  Costs
1. Strengthening the University of Mauritius        68,959    279,989    348,948    3,831    15,555    19,386     80       79
2. Rationalizing Polytechnic Education              31,815     58,599     90,414    1,768    3,256    5,023        65      21
Total BASELINE COSTS                                  100,774    338,588    439,362    5,599    18,810    24,409     77      100
Physical Contingencies                               3,239      8,187     11,425     180      455       635       72        3
Price Contingencies                                 11,082     15,665    26,746      616      870     1,486       59        6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                   115,095    362,439   477,534    6,394    20,136   26,530       76      109



90
Republic of Mauritius
Higher and Technical Education Project
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Sumnmnary
%     % Total
(Mts Rps 000)                 (USS '000)          Foreign   Base
Local    Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total  Exchange  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                         68,568    22,856     91,424    3,809    1,270    5,079       25      21
B. Equipment& Furniture                  664    80,640    81,304       37    4,480      4,517       99      19
C. Training, Studies & Research        23,148    142,614    165,762    1,286    7,923    9,209      86      38
D. Consultants' Services               6,462     55,764    62,226     359     3,098    3,457        90      14
E. Books                                1,932    36,714    38,646      107    2,040     2,147       95       9
Total Investrment Costs                 100,774   338,588    439,362    5,599    18,810    24,409     77     100
II. Recurrent Costs
Total BASELINE COSTS                    100,774    338,588    439,362    5,599    18,810    24,409     77     100
Physical Contingencies                  3,239     8,187     11,425     180      455      635        72       3
Prce Contingencies                     11,082    15,665    26,746     616       870     1,486       59       6
Total PROJECT COSTS                     115,095   362,439   477,534    6,394    20,136    26,530       76     109



Annex 13: Documents in the Project File                               91
ANNEX 13: DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Government of Mauritius Documents
Ministry of Education, Arts, and Culture. Education Master Plan for the Year 2000. Port
Louis, Mauritius, 1991.
School of Engineering, University of Mauritius. The School of Engineering: A
Development Profile 1988 - 1992 - 2000. Reduit, Mauritius, December 1992.
Selway, P., Kalasopatan, S., & Mahadeo, S. University of Mauritius Development Plan.
1993-1997. University of Mauritius, Reduit, Mauritius, April 1993.
Tertiary Education and Teacher Education Development Plan. Special Issue, Tertiary
Education Newsletter Quarterly, Volume 1, No. 4, April 1993.
Tertiary Education Commission. Research Related Support Schemes. Port Louis,
Mauritius, November 1993.
Manrakhan, J. Varsity at Reduit: 1992-93. the Year of MBA. University of Mauritius,
17th Meeting of Court, Reduit, Mauritius, December 1993.
Ministry of Education and Science. Changes in Conditions for (i) Admission and
Promotion of Students in Secondary Schools; (ii) the State of Mauritius Scholarships.
Port Louis, Mauritius, December 1993.
Parsuramen, A. Our Children Our Future Our Hope. Education in Mauritius - A decade of
Progress - 1983 to 1993. Port Louis, Mauritius, 1993.
Tertiary Education Commission. An Integrated View of Institutional Development and A
Strategy for Implementation. Port Louis, Mauritius, January 1994.
Ministry of Education and Science. Education Progress in 1993 and 1994. Port Louis,
Mauritius, January 1994.
School of Science, University of Mauritius. School of Science Development Action Plan
1992 - 1997. Reduit, Mauritius, April 1994.
Faculty of Engineering, University of Mauritius. Proposal to run the Certificate/Diploma
Programs in Business Information Systems. Reduit, Mauritius, April 1994.



92                            Mauritius: Higher and Technical Education Project
Faculty of Agriculture, University of Mauritius. Faculty of Agriculture Development Plan
1994 - 2005. Reduit, Mauritius, May 1994.
Department of Management and Accountancy, Faculty of Law and Management,
University of Mauritius. Department of Management and Accountancy Development Plan
for the Years 1994-95 to 1998-99. Reduit, Mauritius, May 1994
University of Mauritius. Post Graduate Programme in Management and Leadership.
Reduit, Mauritius, May 1994.
University of Mauritius. University of Mauritius Library Development Plan (1994 -
1999a. Reduit, Mauritius, May 1994.
Mohamedbhai, G.T.G. Academic Staff Development Programme (1994 - 2006).
University of Mauritius, Reduit, Mauritius, May 1994.
L'Institut Polytechnique de Rose-Hill.
Le Lycee Polytechnique.
B. Related Studies and Documents
Lewin, K. Ministry of Education and Science, Mauritius, UNDP, the World Bank.
Financing Education in Mauritius - an Analysis of Costs and Internal Efficiency. Port
Louis, Mauritius, January 1993.
Hunte, K. Report on Course Credit and Accreditation System. Port Louis, Mauritius,
June 1993.
Pillay, G. Consultancy on Proposed Launching of Non-Engineering Polytechnic in
Mauritius. GFP Consultancy, Singapore, November 1993.
Mohamedbhai, G.T.G. The Emerging Role of African Universities in the Development of
Science and Technology. A Paper Prepared for the Donors to African Education Working
Group on Higher Education, Pro-Vice-Chancellor, University of Mauritius, Reduit,
Mauritius, December 1993.
Hopes, C. Draft Report on the Establishment of a National Inspectorate in Mauritius.
Deutsches Institut fur Internationale Padegogische Forschung, Frankfurt, Federal Republic
of Germany, December 1993.
Hunte K.Use and Abuse of Private Tuition. Port Louis, Mauritius, January 1994.
Hunte K. Programme for Project Schools. Port Louis, Mauritius, January 1994.



Annex 13: Documents in the Project File                              93
C. World Bank Documents
Gulhati, R. Nallari R. Successful Stabilization and Recovery in Mauritius. Economic
Development Institute, World Bank: Washington D.C., September 1990.
Woodhall, M. Financial Diversification in African Higher Education. World Bank African
Regional Higher Education Seminar, Harare, March 1992.
World Bank. Mauritius: Expanding Horizons. Report No.9685-MAS, Eastern Africa
Department, World Bank: Washington D.C., June 1992.
World Bank. Staff Appraisal Report: Mauritius: Education Sector Development Project.
Washington D.C., March 1993.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 26791
MAURITIUS
HIGHER AND TECHNICAL
EDUCATION PROJECT
ARTERIAL ROADS                               T6d
%.'*  ,*.   ^MOTORWAY
-           OTHER MAIN ROADS
BUILT-UP AREAS                                                                      R-p.
RESERVOIRS AND RIVERS
NATIONAL CAPITAL
0    OTHER TOWNS AND VILLAGES                               . I-
{ t >4 . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LOU S 9t d
Pbn                                                                                           F          lLl      G,q,
-< Lo RussieL. R-
//   ROSE  *v;; .! 31,: , 0      __~~~~~~~~~~~OLSRO
The|ondrie, r  d iomos nmT,                  - /            \ 
s im on hi mop do n) ml,o  h  ar  fTeWrdBn
endorsement or aepte of such  oundaries                                                               ARTCUREPtUS LP.p
L                                                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
K; -MITERS   2      n Al  61               _ 10                                         TANZANIA            SEYCHELLES        c   F       
tr   ,                \   X                                 Ferney~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Theoundries coor,- denmotns anayother inomto                                                                        C-\ C.  ,X
slw  on Ili m/ d\ no ipy,o  tepatofTh   ordBkMAAASA
Grup ayjdmnontelgl   sttu ofp o on  ertry  ray
enosmn or /cetoc of suhbonoreolond                                                                                     AUIIUs
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FBUR 1rne                                                995



