RESTRICTED
Report No. TO-642a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
PROPOSAL FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND ENGINEERING CREDIT
FOR HIGHWAYS
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
July 1, 1968
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit - Won
US$1             =          Won 270
Won 1            =          US$0.0037
Won 1 million    =          US$3,703
FISCAL YEAR
January 1          -        December 31
Units of Weights and Measures - Metric



KOREA
PROPOSED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND ENGINEERING
CREDIT FOR HIGHWAYS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pae
1.    Summary ......................                                      1
2. Background                          .....                              1
3. Scope of the Project                      .....                        2
4. Highway Organization                      .....                        3
5. Transport Coordination                  .    .     ...
6.   Technical Assistance for Implementing Reorganization                 5
7. Highway Feasibility Studies.                        .     .            5
8. Detailed Engineering.                         .       .                6
9. Training Program                         .        .        .7
10. Execution of the Project                     .       .      .7
11. Cost Estimates.                           .        .                  8
12. Recommendation......                                                  8
ANNEX 1 Description of Highways for which Feasibility Studies would be made
ANNEX 2 Estimate of Cost
MAP       National Highway Network
This report is based on the Bank-financed Transportation Survey Carried out
by consultants in 1966, the findings of a Bank mission to Korea in June 1967
consisting of Messrs. Baig and Morris, and on the findings of an Economic
Mission to Korea in March 1968.






KOREA
PROPOSED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND ENGiNEERING
CREDIT FOR HIGHWAYS
1. SUMMARY
1.01      The Government of Korea has requested assistance in financing
proposed highway studies and overseas training:of staff, and it is recom-
mended that the Association approve a credit orL US$3.5 million for this
purpose, with a term of 12 years including a four year period of grace.
The proposed credit would cover the estimated foreign ;exchange cost of
consulting services and overseas training; the Government of Korea would
provide local costs at an estimated value of US$1 milLion equivalent.
2. BACKGROUND
2.01      In 1965 the Bank financed a transportation survey in Korea which
was carried out by a joint venture of consultants: BCEOM (in cooperation
with SOFRERAIL) from France, and NEDECO (in cooperation with NEI) from the
Netherlands.  The report was completed in December 1966.' It drew attention
to the lack of adequate roads and recommended that the Government emphasize
road improvement in its development programs. It also stressed the need for
carrying out major changes in the organization of highway administration,
planning, construction and maintenance, and recommended setting up a na-
tional administration for public roads.  The report also called for the
setting up of an organization to coordinate transportation policy, and re-
commended highway and other transport investments over the next five years.
The report has been adopted by the Government of Korea as a guide to trans-
port policy, but more detailed studies are required for the effective imple-
mentation of the recommendations.
2.02      The Government in March 1967 requested the Bank/IDA to assist in
financing feasibility studies for 2,200 km of national highways. It was the
staff's view that about half that length would be more appropriate to the
likely financial and administrative capacity of the Government. The UNDP
was approached but informed the Bank that because of other commitments in
Korea it could not finance the proposed feasibility studies in the near
future. After reviewing the Government's proposals, the Bank/IDA suggested,
and the Government agreed, that the feasibility studies be combined with
those for highway reorganization and transport coordination into a single
project. It was subsequently proposed to, and accepted by, the Government
that detailed engineering should be carried out on selected lengths of roads.
The scope of the studies, which it is proposed to finance by a technical
assistance and engineering credit from the Association, is described below.
2.03      This report is based on the Bank-financed transportation survey
carried out by consultants in 1966, the findings of an appraisal mission
consisting of Messrs. Baig, Loan Officer, Asia Department, and Morris, Engi-
neer, Projects Department, which visited Korea in June 1967, and on the find-
ings of an Economic Mission to Korea in March 1968.



- 2 -
3. SCOPE OF THE PROJECT
3.01      A draft of the Terms of Reference for the various studies in-
cluded in the project was prepared by the Bank/IDA and agreed in principle
with the Government by a mission to Korea in June 1967. The mission recom-
mended that the feasibility studies should cover about 1,160 km of highways.
Detailed engineering will also be carried out, as part of the project, on
sections of road shown by the feasibility studies to be of highest priority.
3.02      The Project, which would be carried out using qualified consultants,
falls into six Sections:
(1) Highway Organization Study (duration about 12 months)
To review the present highway administration and to formulate
detailed recommendations for its reorganization and for estab-
lishing a national administration for public roads.
(2) Transport Coordination Study (duration about 12 months
concurrent with  1  above)
To review the present responsibilities of ministries and
agencies concerned with transport policy and to formulate
detailed recommendations for changes which should be made
and for establishing an organization for the coordination
of transport.
(3) Technical Assistance for Implementing Reorganization
(duration about 12 months, subsequent to (1) and (2) above)
To provide technical assistance to the Government in estab-
lishing the national administration for public roads and the
organization for transport coordination in accordance with
the recommendations in (1) and (2) above.
(4) Highway Feasibilit Studies (duration about 15 months,
concurrent with (1) and (2) above)
To make studies of 1,160 km of roads selected on the basis
of recommendations made by the consultants who carried out
the original transportation survey and by the Government.
The studies would be in two Phases:
Phase 1 (duration about 6 months)
Would cornsist of traffic forecasts and reconnaissance
field surveys, recommendations for design standards and
alignment selection, and an initial economic analysis
for all the roads totaling 1,160 km.



-3-
Phase 2 (duration about 9 months, subsequent to Phase 1
above)
Would consist of more detailed field surveys, of pre-
liminary engineering and a final economic analysis,
to complete the feasibility studies of about 800 km of
high priority roads, to be selected, in agreement with
the Association, on the basis of the Phase 1 report.
(5) Detailed Engineering (duration about 18 months, subsequent
to the feasibility studies)
To carry out detailed engineering and prepare bidding
documents for sections of roads of highest priority, total-
ling between 300 and 500 km, to be selected, in agreement
with tbe Association, on the basis of the feasibility
studies in (4) above.
(6) Training Program (duration aibout 3 years, subsequent to
organization studies in (1) and (2) above)
A program for overseas training of Korean staff of the
national administration for public roads and the organi-
zation for transport coordination.
3.03      The proposed studies are intended to lead to a second project
suitable for Bank or IDA financing, which would include (i) the construction
of roads engineered under the first project; (ii) a continuation of the con-
sultants' technical assistance to the Government for the establishment of
the administration for public roads, introducing improved methods of road
planning, construction and maintenance, and training of Korean staff; (iii)
detailed engineering by consultants of additional roads confirmed as being
of high priority by the feasibility studies described in para. 3.02(4); and
(iv) the provision of equipment for highway maintenance. Such a project
would, in turn, prepare the way for further projects.
4. HIGHWAY ORGANIZATION
4.01      Highway functions are at present dispersed among several ministries
and the various Provincial Governments. As a result, responsibilities and
lines of authority are confused and financial control is weak. For example,
some construction funds are channelled through the Ministry of Construction
while others are provided through the Ministry of Home Affairs. The Minis-
tries of Commerce and Industry and of Agriculture and Forestry, as well as
the Army, are also involved. The Ministry of Construction's headquarter
establishment is weak and is not organized according to its main functions,
one of which is highways. It has no central staff for undertaking design,
which has to be carried out in six branch offices, or in Provincial Govern-
ment Offices which are under the Ministry of Home Affairs; all these offices
are inadequately staffed and equipped.



- 4 -
4.02      Road maintenance is the responsibility of Provincial Governments,
under the Ministry of Home Affairs, and the Ministry of Construction has only
an ineffective advisory role. As a result, insufficient maintenance work is
done and it is of poor quiality. Responsibility for mechanical equipment lies
between the Ministry of Construction, which nominally has custody of most of
the heavier types, and the Provincial Governments, which operate it. The
repair shops of the Ministry of Construction and the Provincial Governments
are all inadequately equipped, poorly stocked with spare parts and inade-
quately staffed.
4.03      The proposed highway organization study would examine in detail
the present central, provirncial, and local government organizations dealing
with roads. It would include an analysis of their responsibilities for
legislation, finance, administration, planning, construction and maintenance,
and formulate comprehensive proposals for changes based on the establishment
of a national administration for public roads. The study would also prepare
a detailed plan for the organization of the new administration at head-
quarters and provincial mnd field levels. Estimates would be prepared of
staff, equipment and installations required. The plan would also provide
capital and recurrent cost estimates and a program for implementing the re-
organization. The Government will review, with the Association, the recom-
mendations of the consultants making the study, and will implement agreed
changes in accordance with a program acceptable to the Association.
5. T'RANSPORT COORDINATION
5.01      The Korea Transportation Survey Report proposed that a bureau
should be established to study transport coordination problems. It pointed
out that inland transport facilities have insufficient capacity to meet
present needs.  The economy has been growing rapidly in recent years. The
rise in GNP in real terms was 13.4% in 1966, and 8.4% in 1967 (the reduced
rate was caused by a severe drought); it is expected to continue at a rate
of close to 10% annually until 1971, the end of the current five year de-
velopment plan. Industrial output is increasing at about 20% annually.
As a result, the demand for goods traffic is expected to rise at 19% per
year, and for passenger traLffic at 15% per year, until 1971. This will
require a very large investment in transport facilities.
5.02      Emphasis in past transport investment has been heavily on railways,
which have a network of over 3,500 km. The Transportation Survey Report
recommended that railway irnvestment should be mainly directed to increasing
the capacity and efficiency of the present network rather than building new
lines. In conformity with this view, in December 1967 an IDA credit of
US$11 million was made to Korea to help finance the foreign exchange com-
ponent of the purchase of additional hopper cars for coal, tank cars for
oil, and consulting services.
5.03      In 1964 over 80% of freight traffic was carried by rail, only about
10% by road and 8% by coastal shipping. Even with passenger traffic, over
60% was carried by rail and only about 35% by road. The proportion of traffic
carried by road is thus extraordinarily low. This is attributable to severe



restrictions on the import of road vehicles and the bad state of the roads.
There were only about 42,000 vehicles at the end of 1965, which is one per
700 persons; this may be compared with one per 160 persons in Thailand and
one per 140 persons in Iran. However, domestic vehicle assembly facilities
are being greatly expanded to a capacity of 22,000 per year by 1969 and the
Government is liberalizing the import of motor vehicles, and especially of
components for local assembly. As a result the vehicle fleet had increased
to 61,000 by the end of 1967. It is e2pected that the vehicle fleet will
increase by about 16% per year.
5.04      The past imbalance in the development of rail and road transport,
and the scale of necessary future investment, require a competent and inde-
pendent transport coordination organization to examine critically the develop.
ment programs of the various transport modes on a regular basis. It should
advise the Government on the total allocation of resources to the transport
sector as well as on their distribution, and also on the appropriate level
of transport user charges.
5.05      The transport coordination study, to be included in the proposed
project, would examine the present organizations and agencies dealing with
transportation policy. It would analyse the present arrangements for the
formulation of policy and its implementation and recommend appropriate
changes including the establishment of a transport coordination organization,
whose budget, staffing requirements, functions and relationships with other
Government bodies would be defined. Recommendations would be made for any
legislation needed. The Government will review the recommendations of the
consultants and will implement changes agreed with the Association in accord-
ance with a program acceptable to the Association.
6. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR IMPLEMENTING REORGANIZATION
6.01      Technical assistance would be needed to esteblish the national
administration for public roads and the organization for transport coordina-
tion and to train their staffs. The project would include the provision by
consultants of six advisers for varying periods during the first year after
completion of the organization studies and reports. After the initial year
of implementation, it will be apparent whether or not it is necessary to
finance technical assistance for a further one or two years; if so, this
could be financed from any subsequent engineering or construction loans or
credits which may be made, or from any unallocated funds remaining in the
proposed credit.
7. HIGHWAY FEASIBILITY STUDIES
7.01      There are about 34,000 km of public roads in Korea, of which less
than 6% are paved. The primary highway system comprises 3,140 km, and the
secondery system 5,050 km. Although the highway network is reasonably ex-
tensive, it is in very poor condition and urgently requires improvement if
highway transport is to play its essential role. The existing roads are
narrow, poorly aligned, badly surfaced and inadequately drained. Many new



- 6 -
bridges are required to replace existing bridges which are inadequate in
size, width and load capac-ity and to replace fords which are often impassable
in wet weather. At present; there is little traffic congestion away from
large towns but the condition of most of the roads reduces operating speeds
to between 30 and 35 km/h.
7.02      The Transportation Survey Report recommended an investment program
of Won 47 billion (US$175 million) for road development in the Second Five-
Year Plan period 1967-71, including the pavement of over 3,000 km. The
Government initially alloceted only Won 30 billion (US$111 million), which
included the pavement of about 1,650 km. However, overall economic develop-
ment since the drafting of the Transportation Survey Report has been con-
siderably faster than expected and, as a result, deficiencies in the high-
way system have become a bottleneck to further economic development. To
accelerate highway improvement the Government recently decided to increase
drastically allocations for highway investment. The total amount of funds
allocated for this purpose during 1967-71 has been raised to Won 75 billion
in 1968 prices, corresponding roughly to Won 60 billion on the same price
basis as was used in the Transportation Survey Report. The economic mission
which visited Korea in M.arch feels that this increased highway program is
in line with the country's overall develo-onment. needs and should be possible
from a financial point of nriew.
7.03      The project includes feasibility studies of national highways
selected as being of high priority on the basis of the recommendations of
the consultants who carried out the Transportation Survey, the Government,
and the Bank mission to Korea. The studies would be carried out in two
phases, as indicated in para. 3.02(4). The highways proposed for the Phase 1
study are (see the description given in Annex 1, and Map):
Seoul-Kangnung                250
Samchok-.Kangnung-Sokcho      148
Pohang--Pusan-Yosu             380
Suncheon-Kwangju               94
Mokpo-Kwangju-Daejon          288
Total        1,160
Phase 2 of the studies, following immediately after Phase 1, would consist
of more detailed analysis of about 800 km of the above roads shown to have a
high priority.
8. DETAILED ENGINEERING
8.01      The project also includes the detailed engineering of sections of
road, provisionally estimated to total between :300 and 500 km, found by the
feasibility studies carried out under Phase 2 to have the highest priority.
The work would consist of field surveys, de-tailed designs, preparation of
specifications and bidding documents. This wiLl give continuity in the
engineering field work and thus prepare a future construction project for
appraisal as early as possible. The detailed engineering work may be done



-7-
by the same consultants who carried out the fetsibiliiy studies, and might
be commenced on any obviorLsly high priority sections of road before comple-
tion of the final reports on all feasibility studies.
9. TRAINING PROGRAM
9.01      An amount of US$100,000 is included in the project to finance the
foreign currency cost of academic and practical training courses overseas in
the fields of highway engineering and administration and in transport econ-
omics. This would provide for about the first three years of a proposed
Government four year program of training for which adequate facilities are
not available in Korea.
9.02      The consultants, as part of the Highway Organization and Transport
Coordination studies (see para 3.02 (1) (2) and (3) above), would be required
to advise on staffing and training, including assisting the Government in
preparing a program of overseas training on which the Association will have
an opportunity to comment. The consultants will also assist in the selec-
tion of suitable candidates and general supervision of the early stages of
the training program. The trainees would be required to undertake to serve
the Government, on completion of their training program, for a period of at
least two years.
10. EXECUTION OF THE PROJECT
10.01     In order to provide a firm base for the proposed amount of the
credit, three draft priced contIacts have already been negotiated between
the Government and selected firms of consultants on the basis of drafts pre-
pared by the Association. The Draft contracts are with (i) the French con-
sultants BCEOM jointly with the Netherlands consultants NEDECO for the
organization studies and services described in para 3.02 (1), (2) and (3);
(ii) the American consultants Amman and Whitney International jointly with
Trans-Asia Engineering Associates for studies of about 510 km of roads, des-
cribed in para 3.02 (4); and (iii) the French consultants Ingeroute for
studies of about 650 km of roads, described in para 3.02 (4). Further con-
tracts would be negotiated at a suitable time between the Government and
consultants acceptable to the Association for carrying out the detailed en-
gineering described in para 3.02 (5).
10.02     The Government has agreed to consult with the Association before
it carries out any works, other than maintenance or minor improvements, on
roads included in the project. In the past the Government has tended to
start constructing roads on which feasibility studies or engineering were
still in progress, resulting in a lack of proper planning in highway devel-
opment and sometimes in a miBdirection of resources.



-8-
11. COST ESTIMATES
11.01     The estimated costs of the project are detailed in Annex 2. The
foreign exchange costs of the consultants' staff, equipment and other items,
and of the overseas training program, are expected to total about US$3,500,000
including a provision of about 10% for contingencies, and would be provided
by the proposed credit. The Government vill provide the local funds, services
and facilities necessary to carry out the project; these are estimated at
about US$500,000 equivalent; in direct local costs, and a further US$500,000
equivalent of contributions in kind consisting of staff, including counter-.
parts, and facilities. The cost estimates for the organization and highway
feasibility studies are based on the draft priced contracts referred to in
para 10.01, and are reasonable.
12. RECOMMENDATION
12.01     The proposed project of technical assistance and engineering ser-
vices is soundly conceived. Consultants have been jointly selected by the
Government and the Association from a list of firms which submitted proposals.
Draft contracts, acceptable to the Association, between the selected consul-
tants and the Government have been negotiated and the signing of such con-
tracts would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
12.02     During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
on the following principal points: (i) consultation with the Association
on the selection of the roads for preliminary engineering under Phase 2 of
the feasibility studies, and subsequently on the selection of roads for de-
tailed engineering (para 3.02 (4) and (5)); (ii) the setting up of a national
administration for public roads (para 4.03) and an organization for trans-
port coordination (para 5.05); (iii) for refunding of the proposed credit,
if so requested by the Assocation, out of the proceeds of any future Bank
loan or IDA credit for construction of the roads to be engineered under the
proposed credit.
12.03     The proposed project is considered suitable for an Association
Credit of US$3.5 million with a term of 12 years including a 4 year period of
grace.
July 1, 1968



ANNEX 1
Page 1
KOREA
Proposed Technical Assistance and Engineering
Credit for Highways
Description of Highways for which Feasibility Studies would be made
(a)  Seoul-Kangnung (250 km)
1.        This road connects Seoul, the capital city in the northwest,
with the northeast coast, including the important Taebaeg coal and iron
ore miniing area which is in that region. Seoul had a population of 3.8
million in 1966 and it is expected to grow to 5 million within 20 years.
It accounts for much of the country's industry and is a distribution center
for imported goods and materials arriving through the port of Incheon, 40 km
to the west. Kangnung on the east coast is a town of 65,000 population,
likely to grow to 150,000 within 20 years. The existing road is unpaved,
poorly aligned, narrow, rough and slow, speeds averaging only 30 to 35 km/h.
There is a rail line from Seoul but it follows a roundabout route far to
the south and is 427 km long compared with 250 km by road.
(b) Samchok-Kangnung-Sokcho (148 km)
2.        The road runs along the east coast through a major mining area;
there is also a substantial fishing industry and some tourist areas. Samchok,
a town of 35,000 population at the southern end, is the port for an important
coal mining area and there is also a large cement plant. Mukho, with a popu-
lation of 50,000 is a port, largely for coal and cement, with a capacity of
2.5 million tons per year. From there the road passes through Kangnung and
Yangyang (15,000 population) to the fishing port of Sokeho (65,000 population).
Near Yangyang is the largest iron ore mining area in Korea and the ore is
hauled along sections of the road for shipment at Yangyang. Sokcho handled
nearly 400,000 tons of cargo and 40,000 tons of fish in 1966. The existing
road is narrow, unpaved, poorly drained, with a rough surface and is inade-
quate for the present traffic.
(c) Pohang-Pusan-Yosu (380 km)
3.        This road runs from Pohang, a port near the southern end of the
east coast, through Pusan, the largest port, and through the largest indus-
trial area of Korea, to the port of Yosu about midway along the south coast.
Pohang has a population of 66,000; it is a port handling nearly 300,000 tons
per year, a fishing port, and is to be the site of a new steel plant. The
road continues through Kyongju, population 85,000, to Ulsan, a port which is
being rapidly developed as a major industrial center; its population of
150,000 is expected to increase to 500,000 within twenty years. It has an
oil refinery and plants in operation, or being built, for the production of
fertilizers, synthetic fibers, aluminum, carbon black and a sugar refinery.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
4         Pusan is the largest port in Korea, handling over 6 million tons
of cargo per year, and the second largest city with a population of 1.5
.nilliori. From there the road passes through two more growing industrial
towns, Jiihllae, with a p-oula tion of 80,000 and having planits producing
-ertili zer and plastics, and Masan, with a population of 160,000, which
has a sma.ll steel mill an6 synthetic fiber and fish processing industries.
The ros.d conrtinues through Jinju, population 105,000 and Suncheon, popula-
t.onort 80,000, to the port of Yosu, population over 100,000, where an oil re-
fTincry is to he com.pleted bty the end of 1969.
5..       The whole road from Pusan to Yosu is unpaved, except for the
.section between Ulsan snd Pusan and a few short lengths through the towns.
It is narrow, rough, sunken, poorly drained, with rough surfaces, and poorly
aligned; it passes through many towns and villages where there is inadequate
right-of-way causing congestion and accidents. Many bridges are too small,
narrow and have insufficient load. capacity.
'd) Suncheon-Kwangju (94 km)
6.        This road links Kwangju, a provincial capital city with a popu-
lation of 400,000 and the! f'ifth largest city of Korea, with Suncheon, and
hence with the port of Yosu and with the industrial southeast area.  It also
serves a coal-producing ar.ea between Kwangju and Srncheon. The Government
p-Lsns to de-elop the triargle between Kwangju, Suncheon and Mokpo, on the
so-t-hwest cas-t. as an industrial region. The existing road passes through
a hil'y area.  It is unpaved, badly aligned, follows an unnecessarily long
and rounldabcut route and is narrow, rough and inadequately drained.
(e)  Makjo--KF'ngju-Daon (288 km)
7.       r'The road runs through the middle of the principal rice growing
area of Korea, as well as a number of large towns which have important in-
dustries. Mokpo has a population of 162,000 and is a port handling about
450,000 tons per year, including exports of rice, fertilizer and fish
Products. KwargJu, with a population of 400,000 (see para. 6) has textile
and fertilizer plants and a motor vehicle assembly plant is to be completed
by 1969; coal is produced in the area. The road then passes through Jeonju,
a provincial capital with a population of 220,000; it has textile industries
and a university. FLrther north, the road leads to Daejon, population
316,000, which is another provincial capital with textile plants and a
tobacco processing industry.
8.        The existing road is unpaved, except for a few short stretches
in or adjacent to towns.  It is inadequate even for present traffic; it is
narrow, inadequately drained and rough. Considerable lengths require re-
alignment and virtually the entire length needs reconstruction.



ANNEX 2
KOREA
PROPOSED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND ENGINEERING
CREDIT FOR HIGHWAYS
Estimate of Cost
A.   Foreigr. Currency Costs (to be financed from the Credit)
US$ Equivalent
1)   Highway Organization Study                   )         550,000
2)   Transport Coordination Study                 )
3)   Technical Assistance for the Establishment   )
of a National Administration for Public      )
Roads and an Organization for Transport      )
Coordination                                 )
4)   Highway Feasibility Studies                          1,100,000
(1,160 km in Phase 1 and 800 km in Phase 2)
5)   Detailed Engineering                                 1,400,000
(approximately 400 km)
6)   Training Program                                       100,000
(approximately 20 man years)
7)   Unallocated (Contingency)                              350,000
Total (to be financed
from Credit)         3,500,000
B.   Local Currency Costs (to be financed by the Government)
1)   Government Cash Contribution for                       500,000
subsistence and direct local currency
expenditures of the consultants
2)   Estimated value of Government contri-                  500,000
bution in kind, consisting of staff,
including counterparts, and office and
other facilities and services for
carrying out the studies and engineering
Total estimated Govern-
ment Contribution         1,000,000






REPUBLIC OF KOREA
NATIONAL      HIGHWAY     NETWORK           |                        Pri-yry (paved)
!   ~ K; R  ,~  .          coI'imary  (paved)
~~*               *~.    A     /     I¾~~~K              S--od-ry (p-vd)
t      ~       -~./'              .      *g****g  R-ad. to be ts,died
OORO~~~~~~~~~~~C 000Ev  I          -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *So&d,o~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~R   iI..y
g"owe cCrra  ,}   */   /8  /~   .\* je  O0  20  40  60  so
/1  o         ¢ # _ ~~~*  <  _,  _   /  -~ _                   6,r|Lo u E T E9s
>       Ponfnuniort  #  >  _/;~~~~ /                  Chuhongo / 0
0  I  , ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~KI O   ER
5  /     ~~~~Ch nh...
*                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 %
~,e 0  ~Kn~u
CC  I,                                 .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0t.1  01
'½                                                          --e 
- ~ ~ ~ ~ e~  /; 
C-C             2Cheonon   2  //       \      oE   12              |)  ' 2
o~. .- -' ,5
Ic~~~~~~~~~I
I!   -                  **    \n .      Soacohong 
f R U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JJ ISAN [to tOeoo
'-~ ~~~                   K .  - 1,o- \<            /i'
A~~~d-g ~ ~   /
IN -
DECESIBIiC  19v7                                                          IBRD2153R



