RESTRICTED
FILE     COPY                     Report No. P-618
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND ENGINEERING
STUDIES
FOR
HIGHWAYS
July 3, 1968



DITERNATIONAL DEVELOPNENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOWiDENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTAN4CE
AND ENGINEERING STUDIES FOR HIGHWAYS
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$3.5 million
to the depublic of Korea.
PjRT I - HISTORICAL
2.        In 1965, the Bank made a technical assistance grant for a
comprehensive survey of all modes of transportation in the Republic of
Korea. The survey report drew attention to the lack of adequate roads
and recommended that the Government devote more attention to road develop-
ment. The report also recommended major changes in the organization of
highway administration, planning, construction and maintenance, together
with provision for transport coordination.
3.        In March 1967, the Government asked IDA for assistance in
carrying out highwyay feasibility studies. Having obtained UNDP's re-
action that it could not consider assistance for the highway program
because of other commitments in Korea, an IDA mission went to Korea to
discuss the roads to be covered by the proposed studies and the prelim-
inary draft terms of reference for consultants. The Government agreed
with IDA's proposals to study a number of specific high priority roads
totalling 1,160 Km. and to provide assistance in highway organization
and transport coordination.
4.        Negotiations in connection with the proposed credit took place
in Washington between May 23 and June 13, 1968. The Government was
represented by Mr. Hak So Kim, Director, Bureau of Planning, Ministry
of Construction; Mr. Sung Yong dei of the Economic Planning Board and
Mr. Hong Wo Nam, Second Secretary, Embassy of Korea.
5.        The proposed IDA credit would be the third to Korea.   It
would be in line with the Bank Group's strategy in Korea, to help
relieve bottlenecks to economic development. One of the major
bottlenecks is the lack of adequate transport facilities, of which
highways is the most serious. This technical assistance credit is
expected to result in substantial improvement of the road network.



The following is a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA
credits to Korea as of May 31, 1968:
Loan or                                                  Amount (U.S. t million)
Credit No.   Year        Borrower          Purpose        Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
25       1962    Republic of Korea   Railroad               13.9       Nil
110       1967    Republic of Korea   Second Railway          11.0      11.0
529       1968    Korea Development
Finance Corpora-
tion (KDFC)        Industry         5-.               5 °
Total (less cancellations) now out-
standing and held by Bank and IDA                 5.0   24.9
Total undisbursed                                    5.0   11.0      16.0
There have been no major problems with the above projects. Disbursements
under Credit No. 110 have only just started as they are dependent on the
manufacture and shipment of freight cars to the borrower. WHithin this
fiscal year I expect to present for your approval a railway, an irriga-
tion and an education project.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
7.        Borrower:                 Republic of Korea.
Amount:                   The equivalent in various currencies
of $3.5 million.
Purpose:                  To cover the foreign exchange costs
of highway feasibility, organization
and detailed engineering studies and
overseas training.
Amortization:             The credit is to be repaid over a
period of 12 years including a grace
period of 4 years. Amortization will
be in 16 semi-annual instalments
commencing November 1, 1972 and ending
May 1, 1980.
Service Charge:           3/4 of 1% per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.        An appraisal report entitled "Proposal for a Technical Assistance
and Engineering Credit for Highways, Republic of Korea" (TO-642a) dated
July 1, 1968, is attached. The project consists of consultant studies
to review the present highway administration and transport coordination



agencies, and the provision of technical assistance to implement the
recommendations of the consultants; feasibility and engineering studies
on selected roads; and the provision of funds for training overseas of
selected Korean personnel.
9.        There are about 34,000 Kn. of public roads in Korea, of which
less than 6 percent are paved. The existing roads are narrow, poorly
aligned, badly surfaced and inadequately drained. They cannot meet the
needs of an economy which has been growing rapidly in recent years, with
industrial output increasing at about 20 percent annually. The project
includes feasibility studies of 1,160 Km. of national highways, selected
and agreed with the Government as being of high priority, including traffic
forecasts and reconnaissance field surveys, recommendations for design
standards and alignment selection, and an initial economic analysis for
all the roads. Of these, about 800 Km. of high priority roads would be
selected for more detailed field surveys, preliminary engineering and a
more comprehensive economic analysis. On the basis of the feasibility
studies, detailed engineering would be undertaken for sections of roads
of highest priority, totalling between 300 and 500 Km.
10.       In the past Korea has relied primarily on railways for trans-
portation. With rapid economic growth, demand for a wider range of
transport services has arisen, including the roads now being planned.
This demand for a wider range of transport services also gives rise to
the need for coordination of transport investment, and pricing and
regulatory policies to ensure that resources devoted to transport are
used efficiently. Under the project, the present responsibilities of
ministries and other agencies concerned with transportation policy would
be examined and recommendations would be made for appropriate changes
including the establishment of a transport coordination organization.
UI.       Highway functions are at present dispersed among several
ministries and the various Provincial Governments, resulting in weak
financial control and confused responsibilities and lines of authority.
Construction funds are channeled through various agencies. The Ministry
of Construction's headquarter establishment is weak and is not organized
according to its main functions, one of which is highways. Road main-
tenance, which is insufficient and of poor quality, is the responsibility
of Provincial Governments, under the Ministry of Home Affairs, while the
Ministry of Construction has only an ineffective advisory role. The
studies to be made will review the present highway administration and
formulate recommendations for improvements.
12.       On the basis of the recommendations resulting from the con-
sultants' studies a national administration for public roads and an
organization for transport coordination would be established in accord-
ance with a program agreed between the Government and the Association.
The proposed credit would provide for financial assistance in setting
up these organizations and for training overseas of Korean personnel in
highway engineering and administration and in transport economics.



13.       The project wiould be carried out with the assistance of three
consulting firms. One firm nould study and make recommendations on high-
way organization and transport coordination, and two firms would do
feasibility studies on different segments of the roads. At a later stage
in the project contracts will be negotiated for detailed engineering of
selected roads.
14.       The proposed credit would be for a term of twelve years,
including a grace period of four years. The long grace period is
required to accommodate the detailed engineering studies and the
fellowships for overseas training. The Association would have the
right to require the Government to prepay this credit out of the
proceeds of any Bank loan or IDA credit made for the purpose of con-
structing the roads to be engineered under this project.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS ANID AUTHORITY
15.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Korea and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee to be
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Airticles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The draft
Development Credit Agreement generally follows the pattern cf Development
Credit Agreements for pre-investment projects.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
16.       A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Korea" (AS-133), dated January 11, 1968, in four volumes, was distributed
to the Executive Directors:  Volume I (the Main iReport) on January 16,
1968 and Volumes II-IV are available upon request. The report noted that
Korea's recent economic performance has been impressive. GNP growth in
real terms accelerated from 7 percent per annum in 1962-64 to over 10 per-
cent in 1965-66. The rate fell to 8.4 percent in 1967 because of a severe
drought.
17.       Manufacturing is the most significant fast-growing sector,
with growth rates increasing from 12 percent per annum in 1962-64 to
over 20 percent in l965-67. Export expansion is phenomenal; at US$320
million in 1967, the level of merchandise exports was 3.7 times higher
than in 1962-64. Manufacturing exports now account for 70 percent of
total exports. The rapid development of manufacturing production and
trade is due to the ability of the Korean entrepreneurs, technicians
and workers, and the wholehearted support of the Government. The
accelerated economic growth has, however, created some bottlenecks
in power supply and transport.
18.       Gross investment has increased from 13 percent of GNP in
1962-64 to 21 percent in 1967, in an environment of relative political
stability and favorable government development policy. A major part
of this increase in investment is being financed by increased domestic
savings. Improvement in tax collection has contributed to the sharp



increase in public savings from a negligible amount in 1964 to 4 percent
of GNP in 1967. Further improvement is expected from the tax reform
introduced in late 1967 which may also help in reducing monetary expan-
sion. At the same time, private savings rose continuously to a peak of
11 percent of GNP in 1966, but fell back to slightly below 8 percent in
1967, partly because of the decline in agricultural production and partly
because of higher tax payments.
19.       Korea's excellent economic performance shows that she is able
to put capital to good use. With a still low per capita GNP of US$155
equivalent the need for importing capital from abroad is likely to con-
tinue for a long time to come despite the improved mobilization of do-
mestic resources in recent years. U.S. grant assistance,and low interest
long-term loans mainly from the U.S. and Japan, have been supplemented by
a large amount of foreign suppliers' credits. The Government gave
assurances at the last meeting of the Consultative Group in April that
short-term credits will be scrutinized more carefully in the future
through making more effective use of the existing control mechanism. However,
as the economic report pointed out, even if short-term credits are effectively
curtailed the debt service ratio would reach a peak of above 20 percent
in 1970 and continue at a level of about 15 percent thereafter.  While
the country can still stand some additional debt on conventional terms,
it is desirable in viewr of the low level from which development has
started and the long period for which the import of capital will be
needed that a large part of foreign assistance be on concessional terms.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE TITH ARTICLES OF AGREEN2GT
20.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECONNENDATION
21.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO. IDl
Approval of a Development Credit to the Republic of Korea in
an amount equivalent to US$3,500,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit to the
Republic of Korea in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to three million five hundred thousand United States dollars
(US$3,500,000) to mature on and prior to May 1, 1980, to bear



- 6 -
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum, and to be upon such other terms and
conditions as shall be substantially in accordance with the
terms and conditions set forth in the form of the Development
Credit Agreement (Technical Assistance Project - Transport)
between the Republic of Korea and the Association, which has
been presented to this meeting.
Robert S. hcNai-aara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
July 3, 1968



