RESTR I CTED
Report No. PA-128a
Tlis report is for officiai use only by the Bank Gsoup and specifically authorized orgmiZations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or ated without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibllity for the accwacy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL REPORT
MORONDAVA IRRIGATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
May 26, 1972
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   -   Franc Malgache (FMC)
US$1.00         -   FMG 255
FMG 1.00        -   US$0.0039
FMG 1 million   =   US$3,900
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)                =    2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)      2        -    0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km )      =    0.3886 square mile
1 cubic meter (m3)        3 =    35.31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (Mm )  =    810.7 acre-feet
1 kilogram (kg)               =    2.205 pounds
1 ton                         -    2,205 pounds
1 ton of paddy                =    660 kg of rice
1 ton of seed cotton                370 kg of lint cotton
ABBREVIATIONS
AMVR      - Aire de Mise en Valeur Rurale (Rural
Development Area)
BNM       - Malagasy National Development Bank
CFDT      -  Compagnie Francaise pour le Developpement des
Fibres Textiles
IRAM      -  Institut de Recherche Agronomique Malgache
GR        - Rural Engineering Department
SCMV      -  Service Central de Mise en Valeur of the
Ministry of Agriculture
SODEMO    -  Societe pour le Developpement Economique
de la Region de iMorandava
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



MALAGASY REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF THE
MORONDAVA IRRIGATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............ ..          .................  i-ii
I.    INTRODUCTION         ...............................                 1
II.    BACKGROUND ............................................              1
III.    THE PROJECT AREA ......................................              2
General           ................................                   2
Climate           ................................                   3
Soils, Topography and Drainage ................                      3
Agriculture          ................................                3
Transportation ........ ................                             4
Present Status of Project Irrigation Facilities .......              4
IV.    TIE PROJECT ...........................................    5
Project Description ....................                             5
Project Works          .............................                 6
Water Supply, Demand, and Quality ..............                     7
Engineering Design         ............................              7
Cost Estimates           ........................... .               8
Financing            .............................                   8
Procurement           .............................                  9
Disbursement          ..........................................   10
Accounts and Audit .......         .............................    10
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...........................   10
Project Authority             .....................   10
Settlement and 11ealth Control .........................   12
Civil Works       ...............           ..............    13
Agricultural Research ..............................   13
Supporting Agricultural Services ......................   14
Operation and Maintenance .............................    14
Project Charges        ................................    15
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which consisted
of Messrs. C.J.M. Le Moigne and C.G. Moret (IDA) and J. Marinet, G. Laques,
and A. Degremont (consultants).



-2 -
PaRe No.
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES, AND FARM INCOME ........   16
Production  ............................................  16
Marketing  .............................................  18
Prices  ............  ....................................  18
Income of Rice Cultivators ............................   18
Income  of  State  Farms  .................................  19
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ............................   20
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ................  21
ANNEXES
1 - Climatological Data at Morondava
2 - Soils
3 - Description of the Project
4 - Construction Schedule
5 - Water Supply, Demand, and Quality
6 - Cost Estimates
7 - Equipment
8 - Estimated Schedule of Expenditures and Disbursements
9 - Project Authority (SODEMO)
10 - Settlement and Health Control
11 - Research Station
12 - Production without and with the Project
13 - Marketing
14 - Economic Analysis
*AP
Projected Land Use and Irrigation Network



MALAGASY REPUBLIC
MORONDAVA IRRIGATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for irrigation and rural develop-
ment in the Morondava Region, for which an IDA credit of US$15.3 million is
proposed. The project is part of the Government program to accelerate region-
al development and encourage land settlement on the west coast of the
island. (It would also contribute toward the Government's major goals in the
agricultural sector, namely increasing rice production and diversification of
exports.1 Because water supply is vital for agricultural development in
this region, the Government's long term plans for the Morondava Plain call
for irrigation of some 30,000 ha.
ii.       In 1970, the Association extended a credit of US$5.0 million
equivalent (Credit 214-MAG) to assist Government in implementing the Lake
Alaotra Irrigation Project - located about 200 km north of Tananarive -
for the production of high quality rice. Progress on that project is satis-
factory and work is on schedule.
iii.      The proposed Morondava Irrigation and Rural Development Project
would provide irrigation to three operationally independent units totaling
9,300 ha. The first unit of 4,700 ha would be devoted to rice cultivation
by some 2,300 farmers of which about 1,200 are already in the area; the
second unit would be developed as a state farm specializing in tobacco and
peanut production on 2,700 ha; and the third unit would be developed as a
state farm for cotton production on 1,900 ha. About 1,000 families would be
settled as permanent laborers on the two state farms. About 2,000 ha of the
project area are presently productive while the remainder i bush. The
project would include construction of a diversion dam, irrigation and drainage
systems, farm roade, and on-farm development works; construction of 10 new
villages and expansion of 10 existing ones, together with all necessary public
facilities; introduction of a health program to control bilharzia; settlement
of about 2,100 families and an increase in the holding size of the 1,200
families already in the area; purchase of equipment; establishment of a
research station; and the creation of a project authority "Societe pour le
Developpement Economique de la Region de Morondava" (SODEMO).
iv.       Estimated total project cost ls US$27.0 million.  The proposed IDA
credit of US$15.3 million, or 57% of the total, would finance the foreign
exchange costs.  Project works would be constructed by contract following
international competitive bidding, except for up to US$1.0 million worth of
small and scattered contracts for construction of settlement and health control
facilities that would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding.
Equipment material and supplies would also be procured through international
competition; it is estimated that about US$3.8 million in foreign exchange
would be required for these items and for the cost of foreign consultants.



- ii -
v.        Overall responsibility for the project would rest with SODEMO, a
corporation to be established by Government specifically for project im-
plementation. The day-to-day operations would be directed by a General
Manager, assisted by four deputies in charge of settlement and social affairs,
administration and finance, technical matters, and research. Headquarters
would be in the town of Morondava, and three operational units would have
offices in the field to manage rice farming and the two state farms, each
functioning independently of the other. The Rural Engineering Department
(GR) of the Ministry of Agriculture would be responsible for construction
of major civil works and drainage system; it is in charge of all similar works
throughout the country. The Service Central de Mise en Valeur of the Ministry
of Agriculture (SCMV) would keep the Association informed of progress on the
project and would be responsible for carrying out feasibility studies for a
second phase irrigation project in the Morondava Plain. Consultants would
assist SCMV, SODEMO, and GR in the implementation of the project.
vi.       At full agricultural development in 1983, the net value of produc-
tion is expected to be about US$3.1 million, compared with a level of US$0.1
million without the project. The economic rate of return would be about
16%. Net annual foreign exchange earnings would amount to about US$2 million
by the end of the construction period and about US$3 million at full develop-
ment. A sensitivity analysis indicates that, under a number of adverse
conditions, the economic rate of return would still exceed 12%. Per capita
income of the project beneficiaries would increase from the present subsis-
tence level of US$45 to US$100-140 at full development. The project would
thuis assist a very poor section of Malagasy's rural population, but, even
at full development their income would still be below per capita rural income,
estimated to reach about US$140 by the mid-1980's.
vii.      The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$15.0 million.  The
borrower would be the Government of the Malagasy Republic.



MALAGASY REPUBLIC
MORONDAVA IRRIGATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Malagasy Republic has requested an IDA
credit of US$15.3 million to assist in financing the Morondava Irrigation
and Rural Development Project, which is located in the Morondava Region on the
west coast. Works would include construction of a diversion dam on the
Morondava River, irrigation and drainage systems for about 9,300 ha, farm
roads, on-farm development works, health control, housing and communal
facilities for project staff and about 3,300 families, and establishment
of two large-scale state farms.  The project would constitute the first
phase of Government's general development plan to eventually regulate the
Morondava River in its upper basin and irrigate a total of some 30,000 ha.
1.02      This would be the second IDA credit to the Malagasy Republic for
irrigation development and the third Bank Group operation in the agricultural
sector. Credit 214-MAG (1970) for US$5.0 million financed the Lake Alaotra
Irrigation Project for the production of high-quality rice. Progress on
that project is satisfactory, works are on schedule and completion is ex-
pected by 1976. Loan 585-MAG (1969) for US$2.8 million financed livestock
development. After a slow start the project is now proceeding satisfactorily.
1.03      This report is based on feasibility studies financed through a
UNDP project and prepared by the consulting firms of Agrar und Hydrotechnik
of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Societe d'Aide Technique et de
Cooperation of France (SATEC), with assistance from the FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Programme. The project was appraised in October/November 1971, by Messrs.
G.J.M. Le Moigne and C.G. Moret (IDA) and J. Marinet, G. Laques, and A.
Degremont (Consultants).
II.  BAC GROUND
2.01      The island of Madagascar, since 1960 the independent Malagasy
Republic, has a total land area of 592,000 km2 (the fourth largest island
in the world) and a population of 6.9 million growing at an annual rate of
2.2%; over 85% of the population is rural. The country's population
density of less than 12 inhabitants per km2 is very low, but the population
is unevenly distributed over the island, with some regions, particularly
in the center of the Island, soon to become overpopulated. Only 2.8 million
ha, or less than 5% of the total area, is under cultivation. These lands
lie in the more accessible parts of the country, mostly in valleys along
the east coast and on the central plateau; the other parts of the country
are largely covered with forests, mountain ranges, and eroded hills. Internal
migration to the less densely populated and potentially productive areas,
such as the western coastal plain where the Morondava project is located,
is part of the Government 's overall development strategy.
2.02      The agricultural sector i  the most important one, providing a
livelihood for more than 80% of the population, even though it accounts for



-2-
le8s than one-third of GDP. Per capita income in 1969 was about US$80 in
the rural areas compared with about US$120 for the country. During the
1960's, GDP growth at constant prices was about 4.5% per year; growth in
the agricultural sector during the same period was lower, roughly estimated
at 3.0% per year. Rice, which is the staple food in the country (per capita
annual consumption is 125 kg) and the main crop, is grown on more than 30%
of the cultivated land. Agricultural products account for over 80% of
export earnings; the main crops, together with their share in total exports
during the second half of the 1960's, are: coffee, 30%; vanilla, 9%; high-
quality rice, 7%; and sugar 7%. Total earnings from food and agricultural
exports during 1964-69 increased only moderately at 3% per year; food imports
during the same period, mainly low-quality rice, wheat flour and dairy
products, amounted to about 23% of agricultural exports. Local rice pro-
duction varies greatly from year to year due to erratic climate condition
and there are consequently large variations in the level of rice imports
in any given year; no rice imports were required in 1967 and 1968 while
the level in 1965 and 1969 was US$9.6 million and US$5.8 million, respectively.
2.03      There are five major agricultural production regions in the
country:  The "high plateau" in the central part of the island, accounting
for most of the irrigated rice grown; the east coast, where the main products
are rice, coffee, and bananas; the northern zone, which has a tropical
climate, growing mainly cash crops such as sugar cane, cocoa, and spices;
the middle west, where soil and climate conditions are ideal for livestock
development; and the west coast, where the population is scarce and food
crops (rice, cassava) and livestock are the main traditional activities.
The high fertility of some of the alluvial flood plains in the latter region
has led to the development of cotton and tobacco cultivation as well as
production of high-quality rice for export.
2.04      In spite of the population pressure on the high plateau and east
coast, agricultural development In these regions has low priority because of
the relatively limited potential of the former and unfavorable topographic
conditions in the latter. Increasing emphasis is therefore being given by
Government to the development of the less populated but highly productive
middle west and west coast regions. The proposed Morondava Irrigation
Project would thus contribute to the Government's regional development
efforts by promoting settlement and agricultural development on the west
coaist. Through the production of rice, cotton, tobacco and peanuts, the
project would also contribute toward the Government's major goals in the
agricultural sector, namely self-suffîciency in rice and diversification of
exports.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.011     The project area is located in the central part of the west coast,
in the north of Tulear province, within the Aire de Mise en Valeur Rurale



- 3 -
de Morondava (AMVR), a 120,000-ha area of mostly Government-owned land ear-
marked for land settlement and rural development. Total population ln the
AMVR is about 33,000 and the annual growth rate is a low 1.3%, due to .1 hlgh
infant mortality rate. Some 12,000 people live in Morondava, the largest
town in the region, while the rest, representing about 5,000 families, are
rural. About 7,400 ha in the AMVR are presently under cultivation; some
6,500 ha are devoted to annual crops including 4,500 ha of irrigated rice
and 500 ha of rainfed cotton. About 900 ha of citrus are cultivated under
sprinkler irrigation on a Government-owned plantation operated under a
technical assistance agreement with Israel; the orchard is now being expanded
to 2,000 ha.
3.02      The 9,300 ha to be irrigated under the project, including 2,000 ha
already under cultivation (para 3.09), lie between the Morondava and
Andranomena Rivers and can be divided into two zones: the Mahabo-Ankilivalo
zone (eastern zone), some 30 km east of Morondava, and the Analaiva zone.
(western zone), halfway between Morondava and Mahabo (see map).
Climate
3.03      Climate is tropical, with monthly temperatures ranging between
210C and 27°C; annual rainfall averages about 800 mm, of which 90% occurs
from December to March. Hours of sunshine exceed 3,500 per year, reaching
a monthly maximum of 325 in October, and evaporation is high at more than 2 m
per year. Wind velocity i moderate, with a monthly maximum below 3 m/sec,
adequate for sprinkler irrigation. A summary of climatic data is presented
ln Annex 1.
Soils, Topography, and Drainage
3.04      Project soils are of alluvial origin, either from the Andranomena
or the Morondava Rivers. In the eastern zone, most of the soils are suitable
for irrigation without restriction, but those of the Morondava, with fine
textures, low permeability, and poor drainage, are good only for rice
cultivation. In the western zone, the alluvial deposits of the Morondava
constitute the so-called "red sands", which, due to their shallow depth and
light texture, require sprinkler irrigation. Annex 2 gives further details
on soils.
3.05      Only about 2,000 ha in the project area are currently under cultiva-
tion; bush-type vegetation covers the rest and land would require clearing
before it could be used. Project lands are about 50 m above sea level in
the Mahabo-Ankilivalo zone and some 20 m lower ln Analaiva.  Average slopes
are gentle, between 0.1% and 0.3%, and provide generally good natural
surface drainage, but the micro-relief undulates and land leveling would
be required in areas to be lrrigated by gravity.
Agriculture
3.06      Under present land use, about 1,500 ha in the vicinity of Mahabo
are devoted to rice, cultivated under irrigation during the dry season
only since canals are silted up during the rainy season (para 3.09), and



-4-
iome 500 ha near Ankilivalo are used for cotton, grown under rainfed
,conditions. Rice is a subsistence crop cultivated by some 1,200 familles
on small farms (averaging about 1.2 ha) using animal power. Yields are
low, about 1.2 ton per ha, due to inadequate water supply and drainage and
lack of extension services and credit. Rainfed cotton i6 cultivated on a
pilot unit managed by the Centrale d'Equipement Agricole et de Modernisation
du Paysannat (CEAMP), a Government agency under the Ministry of Agriculture,
with technical assistance from Compagnie Francaise pour le Developpement
des Fibres Textiles (CFDT). The unit operates on a commercial basis,
using mechanical cultivation methods and employing temporary workers.
Current yields are about 1.5 ton per ha, which is quite reasonable for dry
farming.
3.07      Without additional vater, there is little opportunity for any
intensification of land use since the water resources currently available
are fully utilized and the soil quality prevents an economic extension of
.ainfed cultivation.
Transportation
:3.08     The project area has poor road connections with the rest of the
country. The Morondava-Tananarive road (700 km) is paved only for 300 km,
and cannot be used during the rainy season. Construction of a new road
:Ls now being considered by the Bank Group; if approved, work would start
:Ln 1973 and be completed by 1976. The road from Morondava to Belo sur
Tsiribihina, a harbor about 100 km to the north, is also unpaved but it
can be used all year round. To the south, the Morondava-Tulear road is
:Elooded during the rainy season. The Morondava airport can be used by
DC-4-type planes and regularly scheduled daily flights go to Tananarive
and other major cities. Although port facilities are in poor condition,
about two-thirds of the regional traffic, estimated at 30,000 tons per year,
:Ls carried by small coastal ships. A UNDP project is presently studying
possible improvement to the harbor. This improvement and construction of
the new Morondava-Tananarive road, would enhance the present adequacy of the
Itransportation network to handle the project produce.
Present Status of Project Irrigation Facilities
:3.09     The existing irrigation network consists of the Dabara intake on
ithe Morondava River. After crossing the project area, the Dabara Canal
conveys water to a rice-cultivated area (900 ha) and to the North Canal,
which branches off the Dabara Canal to irrigate some of the Ankilivalo
plain. Because of the heavy sediment load carried by the Morondava River,
winter flows silt up both the intake and the upper reaches of the canal,
preventing their use during the rainy season. Rehabilitation works would
be required to overcome these deficiencies.



- 5 -
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Description
4.01      The Morondava Irrigation and Rural Development Project is the
first phase of a region development plan that would ultimately involve
the irrigation of 30,000 ha. The overall plan would include construction
of diversion dams on the Morondava and Andranomena Rivers and a storage
reservoir on a tributary of the Morondava. The project presently under
consideration would provide irrigation to three operationally independent
units, totaling 9,300 ha. The first unit of 4,700 ha would be devoted to
rice cultivation by some 2,300 small farmers to be settled there; the
second unit would be developed as a state farm specializing in tobacco
and peanut production on 2,700 ha; and the third unit would be developed
as a state farm for cotton production on 1,900 ha. Government would
establish the Societe pour le Developpement Economique de la Region de
Morondava (SODEMO) to manage the project and the Rural Engineering Depart-
ment (GR) of the Ministry of Agriculture would be responsible for construc-
tion of major civil works. The Service Central de Mise en Valeur (SCMV) of
the Ministry of Agriculture would keep the Association informed of progress
on the project.
4.02      Project works, summarized below and described more fully in
Annex 3, would include:
(a) a diversion dam at Dabara on the Morondava River;
(b) rehabilitation of about 64 km of main canals;
(c) a gravity irrigation and drainage system on 6,600 ha
for cotton and rice cultivation;
(d) a sprinkler irrigation system on 2,700 ha for tobacco
and peanut cultivation;
(e)  on-farm development, including tertiary and quarternary
canals and drains;
(f) improvement and construction of about 90 km of roads
in the project area;
(g) construction of project buildings; and
(h) construction of 10 new villages and expansion of 10
existing ones.
About 2,100 families, in addition to the 1,200 already in the area, would be
recruited from other parts of the country and settled on the project as
rice farmers or laborers on the state farms. A health contral program would
be implemented as part of the settlement scheme to prevent the spreading
of water-borne schistosomiasis. In addition the project would provide for



- 6 -
the preparation by SCMV of a feasibility study for a second phase irrigation
project in the Morandova Region. Consultants would be engaged to assist in
the preparation of this study as vell as with the design and supervision of
construction of project works, the establishment and agricultural development
of the three project units, the settlement of farmers, and the provision of
in-service training to project personnel. The project would also include
procurement of farm machinery, vehicles, and operation and maintenance equip-
ment and establishment of a research station. Construction work would begin
in 1973 and be completed by 1979. A detailed construction schedule is pre-
sented in Annex 4.
Project Works
4.03      Dabara Diversion Dam.  The diversion dam would include an intake
structure, two gate-controlled sluiceways, a concrete overflow weir, and
an earth embankment. Construction of the dam would be carried out in two
stages - the intake structure and sluiceways in 1973/74 and the overflow
weir and earth embankment in 1977/78. A temporary embankment would be
built across the river to direct water into the Dabara canal during the
1973 to 1976 dry seasons.
4.04      Canale and Drains.  Both existing main canals, Dabara and North,
would be rehabilitated and equipped with new intakes for the secondary
canals serving the cotton and tobacco farms. The North canal would also be
extended by about 2 km. Both canals would be unlined except for short
sections where soils are pervious. Twenty-three unlined secondary canals,
with a combined length of 102 km, would be excavated to carry water to
the state farms and the rice area. Three existing natural main drains would
be widened, deepened, and equipped with check structures, while two new
main drains would be excavated in the Delta area. A secondary drainage
system would be constructed throughout the area.
4.05      Roads.  About 24 km of existing secondary rural roads would be
improved and 7 km of new rural roads would be constructed. About 12.5 km
of these roads would be paved. The existing service roads along the main
canals would be rehabilitated and a new feeder road network of about 83 km
would be constructed to serve the entire area.
4.06      On-Farm Development Works.  On-farm development works for the
6,600 ha of the rice and cotton areas would include bush clearing, deep
plowing, leveling, and construction of the tertiary and quarternary gravity
irrigation systeme, conveying water to turnouts serving lots of 3 to 25 ha.
In the 2,700 ha of the tobacco farm, works would include bush clearing and
th,e installation of a sprinkler irrigation system. The area would be
divided into 31 irrigation units, ranging from 30 to 150 ha each. Diesel-
driven portable pumping units would discharge water from the secondary
canals into buried asbestos cement pipes from which aluminum portable
pilpes, with the necessary risers, sprinkler heads, valves, and fittings,
would branch off.
4.07      Buildings and Research Station.  Eighteen farm buildings for
agricultural operations, 26 houses for SODEMO staff, and 900 tobacco drying



- 7-
barns would be constructed. In addition, a new 15-ha research station would
be established for investigations on cotton, tobacco, peanuts, and forage
crops.
4.08      Villages and Health Facilities.  Ten existing villages in the
area would be expanded and 10 new ones constructed to accommodate the
settlers. Each village would be provided with schools, marketing facilities,
public buildings, and roads. A technical training center and three new
dispensaries would be constructed and an existing hospital in the area would
be enlarged to accommodate the new settlers.
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
4.09      Water Supply and Demand.  The project water supply would be obtained
from the unregulated flows of the Morondava River at the Dabara dam intake.
This intake would also supply two other existing users, the citrus plantation
(2,000 ha) and rice growers in the delta area (900 ha). Monthly river
flows were estimated using mathematical simulation models and 14 years of  3
recorded flow.  Although more than 80% of the total annual flow of 1,500 Mm
occurs during the rainy season (December through March), recorded and
simulated flow data indicate that, even during Auguet, when the flow is lowest
relative to demand, the water requirements of all three schemes amounting to
7.1 m3/sec, as well as an additional flow of 1.5 m3/sec to meet sanitary
requirements, could be met in 66 out of 69 years. While the water supply
is therefore adequate at present to meet anticipated project needs, it could
be affected by future developments both upstream and downstream of the
project.  Assurances were obtained that, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, Government would not permit the river flows to be depleted
below the project's minimum requirements by other works.
4.10      Water Quality.  The quality of water in the Morondava River is
excellent for agricultural purposes. Sample tests show that salinity and
sodium and boron content are within safe limits. Further details of project
water supply, demand, and quality are presented in Annex 5.
EngineeringDes4tp
4.11      Preliminary designs and cost estimates based on field surveys have
been completed for the diversion dam, the irrigation and drainage system,
and on-farm development works. The available data are adequate for cost
estimate purposes and as a basis for final design. However, the final
design of the diversion dam would require additional foundation and soils
investigations and the construction of a hydraulic model to determine
the best location of various structures: intake, sluiceways, weir, and
embankment. Overall layout of the project and designation of irrigable
areas have been completed on a 1:5,000-scale map, with 0.5-meter contours.
This map is adequate for preparing the final plan. Design of both the
gravity and the sprinkler irrigation and drainage systems would be conven-
tional, and the data and criteria used in the feasïbility report are
adequate for final design. Planning and estimates for on-farm development
works are based on standard layouts for various types of treatment. Detailed



-8-
- eld surveys would be required to establish elevations for land leveling
and alignment of canals, drains, and roads within the farming area.
Cos-t Estimates
4.12      The project cost estimates of US$27.0 million include provision
for civil works, settlement, health control, equipment, consulting services,
and SODEMO operation and management costs during the construction period.
Coslt estimates for civil works are based on detailed construction quantities
and unit rates obtained in contracts for similar works in Madagascar during
1971. Since, for the purpose of this project, SCMV, GR, and SODEMO are exempt
frorn paying import duties, estimates are net of all such duties. Overall
contlingencies amount to 24% including physical contingencies ranging between
10% and 20% of the cost of individual items, and a contingency of 5% annually
for price increases for both local and foreign costs. The physical contingen-
cies reflect the advanced stage of investigation and design for the irrigation
system and the need for further investigations on the dam. The price con-
tingencies are based on experience in recent years with cost increases for
labor, materials, and supplies in the country and for goods imported, mainly
from France and the USA. The foreign exchange component of US$15.3 million
is based on a detailed breakdown of cost estimates and actual experience on
conitracts recently awarded for similar projects in the country.
4.1:3     A breakdown of project costs is presented in Annex 6 and summarize,~
in the table below:
(FMG Million)            (US$ Million)
For-                     For-            Foreign
Local   eign   Total   Local   ei_n   Total   Exchange
Civil Works                 769   2,035   2,804    3.0        8.0   11.0        73
Set tlement and Health
Control                   852      306   1,158    3.3       1.2    4.5        26
EquLpment                    12      234     246    0.1       0.9    1.0        95
Man agement and Operating
Costs                     439       23     462    1.7      0.1    1.8          5
Consultants                  86     485      571    0.3       1.9    2.2        85
Sub-total           2,158   3,083   5,241    8.4    12.1   20.5            59
Contingencies
Plhysical                 242     246      488    1.0       1.0    2.0        50
Price                     584     572   1,156    2.3        2.2    4.5        50
Total Project Cost        2,984   3,901   6,885   11.7    15.3   27.0           57
Financing
4.14      IDA financing would cover the estimated foreign exchange cost of
the project (US$15.3 million), which is about 57% of the project cost.  The
balance of costs would be provided by Government (FMG 2,044 million); loans



(FMG 840 million) from the Malagasy National Development Bank (BNM); and other
equity participation in SODEMO (FMG 100 million). The project's financing
plan would be as follows:
(FMG Million)          (US$ Million)      % of
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Total
IDA Credit                  -      3,901   3,901    -       15.3    15.3   57
Government Contribution  2,044       -     2,044   8.0        -       8.0   30
BNM Loans                   840      -       840   3.3        -       3.3   12
Other Equity                100      -       100   0.4        -       0.4    1
Total           2,984   3,901   6,885   11.7   i15.3    27.0  100
4.15      Government would make available to GR, through annual budgetary
allocations, all funds necessary to cover the construction cost of major
civil works, and the cost of GR's consultants. The remaining investments
would be carried out by SODEMO, which would receive its funds in the form
of grants, loans and capital contribution (para 5.04).
4.16      In order to expedite the preparation of final designs, it is
proposed that expenditures incurred for consulting services to GR and SODEMO
on the project prior to signing of the credit agreement, but after May 1, 1972,
would be reimbursable under the credit.  Total disbursements from the pro-
posed credit for these expenditures would not exceed US$200,000.
Procurement
4.17      The total cost, including contingencies, of works and equipment
to be put out to local and international tender would be about US$19.9 mil-
lion. Scattered contracts for construction of settlement and health control
facilities and for other small works amounting individually to less than
US$100,000 and up to a total cost of US$1.0 million, would be tendered
locally. Similarly, contracts for the purchase of off-the-shelf items for
the settlement and health control and for miscellaneous equipment costing
less than US$10,000 each and up to a total cost of US$0.4 million would also
be tendered locally. Procedures for local bidding are satisfactory and there
is sufficient local competition. All other contracts for civil works (US$17.6
million) and equipment (US$1.3 million), would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding. A 15% preference margin, or the prevailing
customs duty if lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the
evaluation of bids for equipment. The balance of the project cost, amounting
to US$6.7 million, corresponds to; consultants, US$2.8 million, and operating
cost during project construction, US$3.9 million. GR, with the assistance of
its consultants, would be responsible for the contracts for the Dabara
diversion dam and intake, the primary and secondary systems of canals and
drains, and rural roads. SODEMO, also with the assistance of its consultants,
would handle the tendering for on-farm development works, establishment of
the research station, buildings, and the purchase of equipment for operation
and maintenance, farm machinery and its own transportation vehicles. SODEMO,



- 10 -
with assistance from the Ministries of Ilealth and Education, would also
supervise the construction of settlement and health facilities. A list of
the equipment to be purchase/ under the project ls given in Annex 7.
Disbursements
4.18      Disbursements from the Credit account would be made on the
following basis: (a) c.i.f. cost of imported equipment or 75% of local
expenditures (representing the estimated foreign exchange component);
(b) foreign exchange cost of consultants' services or 82% of total expend-
itures; (c) 73% of total expenditures of civil works for the main works,
for on-farm development, and for buildings and Research Station; and (d)
30% of total expenditures for construction of facilities for settlement
and health control. The estimated schedule of expenditures and of disburse-
ments are shown in Annex 8. Undisbursed funds would be available for cancel-
lation.
Accounts and Audit
4.19      Separate project accounts would be kept by SCMV, GR and SODEMO.  In
accordance with procedures applying to all Government Ministries, SCMV and
GR, which are part of the Ministry of Agriculture, are subject to annual
audit by the Office of the Accountant General, reporting directly to the
President. SODEMO accounts would be audited annually by an independent
auditing firm to be selected by its Board of Directors and approved by
Government. Assurances were obtained that (a) SCMV, GR and SODEMO would
maintain separate accounts for the project; (b) SODEMO, with the assistance
of an independent accounting firm whose selection would be approved by the
Association, would establish an accounting system for all its project
operations; (c) SODEMO's accounts would be audited annually by the
accounting firm; and (d) a certified copy of such auditing would be sent
to the Association within four months after the close of each fiscal year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Authority
5.01      Overall responsibility for the project would rest with the
Societe pour le Developpement Economique de la Region de Morondava (SODEMO)
a corporation to be established by Government. SODEMO is expected to be
organized along the lines of SOMALAC, the authority that is implementing
successfully the Lake Alaotra project (214-MAG). It would be supervised
by a Board of Directors, comprising representatives from various Ministries,
including Agriculture and Finance, as well as from other public and private
agencies concerned with the project. The board, which would be headed by
a president to be appointed by Government, would provide SODEMO with
overall policy guidance. Assurances were obtained that (a) the board of
directors would include representatives from all Ministries concerned with
the project and from BNM; (b) the board wculd establish broad policy guideline-i
for carrying out the project and would be responsible for overall coordination



- il -
of project activities; and (c) meetings of the board would be held at least
once every three months. A final Government approval of the statutes in a
form acceptable to the Association would be a condition of effectiveness.
5.02      During project construction, SODEMO would be responsible for the
allocation of land to rice farmers, on-farm works, construction of project
buildings, purchase of operation and maintenance equipment, farm machinery,
and its own transportation vehicles, settlement of farmers and laborers,
provision of all necessary supporting agricultural services, initiation of
a health control program, creation of two state farms, and establishment and
operation of a research station. After the construction period, SODEMO would
continue to operate the two state farms, provide all the necessary supporting
agricultural services to the rice farmers, and assume responsibility for
operation and maintenance of project works. SODEMO's headquarters would be
in Morondava, with field offices at Mahabo, Ankilivalo, and Analaiva to
operate the rice farms and the cotton and tobacco farms, respectively. The
Service Central de Mise en Valeur (SCMV), a Department within the Ministry
of Agriculture,would be responsible on behalf of the Ministry for supervising
SODEMO's activities. In addition, SCMV would also be in charge of carrying
out feasibility studies for a second phase irrigation project in the Morondava
region.
5.03      A General Manager, to be appointed by the Board of Directors in
consultation with the Association, would be in charge of SODEMO's daily
operations. He would be assisted by four deputies in charge of technical
operations, finance and administration, settlement and social affairs, and
research. Three operational units, headed by directors reporting to the
Deputy Manager for technical operations, would be established to manage the
rice farming scheme and the two state farme. In addition, special units
would be established for operation and maintenance, research, accounting
and marketing.
5.04      Out of the total project cost of FMG 6,885 million, Government
would provide through annual budgetary allocation about FMG 1,910 million
for major civil works to be carried out by GR and for feasibility studies
to be carried out by SCMV for a second phase irrigation project in the
Morondava Plain. The remaining investments would be carried out by SODEMO
with funds to be provided by Government, BNM, and other investors. Government's
contribution would be in the form of loans (FMG 1,685 million) for a period of
40 years, including 10 years of grace, and at an annual interest rate of 3.5%,
the current on-lending rate applied by Government to agricultural projects;
equity participation (FMG 200 million); and grants to cover the cost of
settlement and research (FMG 1,750 million). BNM's contribution (FMG 840
million) would be in the form of a 15-year loan including a 2-year grace
period, and bearing an interest charge of 6.25%. Other investors would
contribute about FMG 100 million in the form of equity capital. It would
be a condition of effectiveness that SODEMO's financial plan, after being
approved by the Association, would be finalized. Further details of SODEMO's
organization, staffing, financial structure, and sources and application
of funds are presented in Annex 9.
5.05      A consulting firm would be engaged by SODEMO to assist it in
implementing the project. Two deputies to the General Manager, the three
directors in charge of the rice farming unit and the two state farms, as well



- 12 -
as an expert to head the operation and maintenance unit, would be provided
by these firms. The consultants would also be responsible for the preparation
of final designs and tender documents, evaluation of bids, supervision of
coDnstruction, and certification of payments to suppliers and contractors.
The employment of a consulting firm acceptable to the Association under terms
of reference approved by the Association would be a condition of loan effect-
iveness.
5.06      Positions other than those assigned to the consultants would be
filled by Malagasy nationals. Malagasy nationals would also be appointed
as counterparts to the consultants holding key positions and would replace
tlnem after variable periods of in-service training, for which the consultants
would be specifically responsible. It is estimated that all expatriates
would be replaced by local staff within 10 years. To ensure that SODEMO
could attract qualified local personnel, as in the case of SOMALAC, its
statutes would permit it to offer higher salaries and more fringe benefits
than those generally granted by Government. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that (a) the Association would be consulted in appointment of
the General Manager; (b) expatriate personnel would be replaced with local
experts when their performance justified such action and in agreement with
tlhe Association; and (c) SODEMO's salary scales and other related benefits
would be adequate to attract the qualified personnel required in the project
area.
Settlement and Health Control
5.07      There is little experience in Madagascar with Government-induced
settlement projects and Government is presently reviewing the criteria for
selecting and attracting settlers. These are as follows: (a) first priority
should be given to farm families already living in the Morondava region;
(b) families would be given priority over part-time workers, who, after some
time, would return to their areas of origin; (c) families would be chosen
from ethnic groups that are already represented in the project area; (d) all
families would be allocated sufficient land to satisfy their subsistence needs
(ithe latter is of particular importance for the workers on the cotton and
tobacco farms) and (e) farmers would be offered a lease-purchase contract
establishing terms for land acquisition. A detailed study to establish
selection criteria and other aspects of the settlement program would be
carried out under the project by SODEMO with assistance from the consultants.
5.08      SODEMO would establish a migration service unit to be in charge
of selecting potential settlers and organizing their transportation to and
their reception in the project area. The migration service unit, headed by
the Deputy Manager for Settlement and Social Affairs, would consist of a team
ait project headquarters, with a network of promotional agents. Apart from the
Morondava region, most of the promotional work would probably be done in
the southern and south-eastern regions of Madagascar with the Betsileo and
Aitandroy ethnic groups.
5.09      Bilharzia of the urinary type is presently endemic in the
project area, affecting between 10 and 20% of the inhabitants. Two factors
would affect the incidence of schistosomiasis after completion of the
project -- rehabilitation of the existing irrigation and drainage system
would slow the spread of the disease and facilitate its control, but the
increasing population density of the area would raise the chances of



- 13 -
infection and therefore the incidence. Current estimates indicate that,
unless additional measures are undertaken to curtail the disease, about
half the inhabitants will be infected by 1980.
5.10      A two-stage program to control urinary bilharzia would be introduced.
A minimum program, aimed at preventing the spread of the disease in unaffected
areas and holding the incidence of the disease to present levels in areas
already affected, would be carried out over a six-year period. The program
would include the construction of a clinic to combat endemic diseases, as
well as the expansion of an existing hospital in Mahabo. At the same time,
a more comprehensive program for total control of bilharzia, to be implemented
after the six-year period, would be studied. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that (a) Government would introduce the minimum six-year
program as well as carry out the necessary studies for the long-term program;
and (b) the results of the studies would be sent to the Association by 1976
and, after consultation with the Association, the approved recommendations
would be implemented.
5.11      Overall responsibility for the settlement and health control
program would rest with SODEMO but its educational and health aspects
would be carried out by the appropriate Ministries. Further details
of the settlement program and the proposed health control measures are
presented in Annex 10.
Civil Works
5.12      Construction of major civil works, including roads, would be the
responsibility of the Rural Engineering Department (GR) of the Ministry of
Agriculture in charge of all such works throughout the country. GR has only
a few qualified Malagasy engineers on its staff and therefore employs ex-
patriate engineers, financed in part by the French Aid and Cooperation
Fund (FAC). Even so, design and supervision of construction on major projects
is generally assigned to consultants. A similar procedure would be adopted
for the project, vith the consultants being responsible for the preparation
of final desîgns and tender documents, evaluation of bids, supervision of
construction and certification of payments to contractors. After consult-
ation with the Association, GR lnvited four consulting firms to submit
proposals for consulting services and expects to make a selection by June
1972. The employment of a consulting firm by GR, under terms of reference
to be approved by the Association would be a condition of effectiveness.
Agricultural Research
5.13      Two centers are currently carrying out experiments on cotton and
the use of red sandy soils in the Morondava region. Although they operate
satisfactorily, present facilities are too small to meet the project's needs
and a new research station would be constructed. The station would deal
with tobacco, cotton, forage crops, and peanuts as well as with the suit-
ability of red sandy soils for other crops. Details of present and proposed
research activities are presented in Annex 11. Responsibility for research
would rest with SODEMO, but the work would be carried out by the Institut de
la Recherche Agronomique Malgache (IRAM), which operates the existing centers



- 14 -
in the area with assistance from other specialized research institutes.
About US$250,000 would be provided by SODEMO to IRAM under the proposed
credit to help meet the cost of foreign experts to be engaged on the new
research station. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
Government that, within six months after signing the credit, SODEMO and IRAM
would conclude a contract for the research program to be carried out under
the project.
Supporting Agricultural Services
5.14      A supervised credit program would be carried out by the rice
farming unit, under which farmers would receive technical assistance, all
the necessary inputs in kind, and a small cash advance for subsistence.
Paddy to be produced by the farmers would be purchased by the marketing
unit, which would have a monopoly on all such purchases in the area, and
sold to the mills. Farmers would receive the proceeds of these sales after
appropriate deductions from each farmer's account to cover SODEMO's manage-
ment costs, the price of inputs, and project charges.
5.15      During the construction period (1973-78), SODEMO would need a
totial of about FMG 300 million to cover the working capital requirements of
the tobacco and cotton farms and to finance operating deficits. After
1978, the two farms would generate sufficient cash surpluses to eliminate
the need for short-term borrowing. Credit requirements of the supervised
credit program at full development would amount to FMG 70 million per year.
This amount would be made available to SODEMO by BNM at its going rate
of 6% per year and relent to the farmers at 12%; this arrangement has been
satisfactory in the Lake Alaotra Project. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations from Government that it would ensure the availability of funds
necessary to meet the project credit requirement.
5.16      About 2,500 tons of fertilizers would be required annually by the
pro;ject, and no difficulties are anticipated in purchasing such a quantity
through existing commercial channels. For the processing of produce,
SODIEMO would rely on existing facilities in the region, which could be
expanded readily to handle the increased production from the project area.
A recently completed rice mill near Mahabo, with a present capacity of
20,000 tons per year and a design capacity of 40,000 tons per year, could
handile all the paddy production in the region. t lcotton ginning factory
in the area, operated by CFDT, has a present capacity of 3,000 tons per
year and could also be expanded to absorb the additional project production.
Operation and Maintenance
5.17      At present, responsibility for operation and maintenance of the
existing irrigation facilities rests with GR. Annual expenditures are about
FMC 3.0 million, which is far below requirements. After completion of the
sysitem, responsibility for operation and maintenance would be transferred to
SODI)1M0 (para 5.02), except however, for the Delta Rice area that would remain
witlh GR. The estimated annual expenditures for operation and maintenance at
thait time would amount to FMG 57 million to be borne by the various units as
fol:Lows: SODEMO rice farmers, 20 million; Tobacco farm, 19 million; cotton



- 15 -
farm, 8 million; citrus plantation, 8 million; and Delta rice area, 2 million.
The annual operation and maintenance cost would be US$17 per ha for rice and
cotton cultivation and US$27 per ha on the tobacco farm. These costs are
reasonable. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that GR would
continue to operate and maintain irrigation and drainage facilities in the
Delta rice area. Assurances vere also obtained that the Bezezika citrus
plantation would pay to SODEMO an annual irrigation and drainage service
charge equivalent to FMG 4,000 for each cultivated and irrigated ha.
Project Charges
5.18      To determine project charges, the following costs, in FMG million,
have been considered:
-    Civil Works, excluding research station .... ....... 2,667
-    Settlement and Health Control, excluding studies .. 1,111
-    Equipuent .........................................   246
-     Msnagement . .......................................   462
-    Consultants, excluding Second phase studies and
research . .......................................   418
-    Physical contingencies .......     .....................  488
Total                                 5.392
Gosts to be recovered from each of the three project units would include
individual investments in the unit plus a share of the common work allocated
on the basis of the net area to be irrigated. The following amount would be
chargeable to each unit:
Project Cost Subject to Recovery
Unit                      Total                      Per ha
(FMG Million)  (US$ Million)      (FMG)    (US$)
Rice Farms           2,569            10          544,000   2,130
Cotton Fara          1,031             4          537,000   2,110
Tobacco Farm         1,792             7          660,000   2,590
Total         5 392           21           576 000   2 260
5.19      According to SODEMO's draft decree, project charges on rice farms
would amount to 600 kg of paddy per cropped ha per year. Collection of
project charges would start in 1979, the first year after completion of
project works, and, based on the proJected farm-gate price for rice, would
total FMG 64 million per year throughout the area. The charges would
permit full recovery of annual operation and maintenance costs (FMG 20
million) and SODEMO's administrative costs for operating the settlement
scheme (FMG 12 million), plus an annual contribution of FMG 32 million toward
recovery of capital costS.
5.20      The rate of project cost recovery on the two state farms takes
into consideration their net income and the need to pay dividends to



- 16 -
shareholders. On this basis, it is estimated that after payments of opera-
tion and maintenance costs and administrative expenses, about FMG 8,700
million could be recovered over the life of the project from the tobacco
farm and FMG 4,400 million from the cotton farm. Annual contributions
toward capital recovery would amount to FMG 66,000 per ha on the cotton farm
and FMG 100,000 per ha on the tobacco farm. By comparison, the annual level
would be FMG 8,500 per crop per ha on the rice farms. When discounted over
thle life of the project (40 years) at 10%, the present value of project capital
and operating costs is FMG 4,360 million, while that of revenues from project
charges is FMG 2,160 million. The present value of the Government subsidy
to project beneficiaries is therefore FMG 2,200 million (US$8.6 million)
over the life of the project. Revenues would cover about 50% of costs at
a 10% interest rate or 100% of the cost at 5% interest rate. Based on the
cost chargeable to each of the three units (para 5.18), recovery of capital
costs at 10% interest would amount to about 17% of the investment on the
rice farms, 94% on the cotton farm, and 91% on the tobacco farm.
5.21      The proposed level of project charges would be about 24% of the
farim income on the settlement scheme, and would leave farmers with a per
capita income of between FMG 25,000 and FMG 36,000 (para 6.08). Although
at full development this would leave farmers with a per capita income
below the projected average for the rural areas (para 7.05), it is a reason-
able charge considering that farmers are earning only about FMG 11,000 now
and that they would receive substantial secondary benefits, such as improved
education, health and social services. Assurances were obtained that project
charges would be imposed and collections made in the project area so as to
collect over the life of the project the equivalent of 600 Kg of paddy per
cropped ha per year from the rice farms; and on the cotton and tobacco farms,
all cash revenues, after deducting operating expenses and loan repayments.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES, AND FARM INCOME
Production
6.01      The main crops to be grown under the project would be rice,
cotton, tobacco, peanuts, and forage. Rice cultivation would be carried out
on about 4,700 ha, divided into 2.0-ha farms, about 40% of which would be
single cropped and the remainder double cropped. Cultivation on double
cropped farin would be carried out by traditional methods, relying on buffalo
and family labor. On single crop farms, however, land preparation would be
done with machines belonging to the cotton farm so that farmers would be
available for work on the state farm; labor requirements would amount to
about 240 mandays per 2-ha farm and would be met entirely by the family.
At full development, paddy yields are expected to reach 4.0 ton per ha
per crop; this level is already being exceeded on a 350-ha pilot settlement
scheme in the region where farmers have readily accepted new high yielding
rice varieties introduced by IRAM.
6.02      Medium staple cotton (Alcala 1-3/32") would be produced on one
staite farm in rotation vith a forage crop that would maintain soil fertility.



- 17 -
Cropping intensity would be 100%. Expected yield levels five years after
the introduction of irrigation would be 3.0 tons per ha. Burley tobacco,
to be produced on the other state farm, would be grown every third year in
rotation with peanuts and a forage crop. The forage crop would be grown
every third year exclusively to restore fertility and prevent soil infection.
Cropping intensity would be 133%. Tobacco would be dried, graded, and packed
and peanuts shelled, washed, and packed on the farm. At full development,
five years after the introduction of irrigation, yields are estimated at
1.5 tons per ha for tobacco and 1.9 tons per ha for peanuts. Experiments
with burley tobacco currently being conducted by IRAM on similar soils
yield above 3 tons per ha. Yields currently obtained for peanuts under
rainfed conditions and with little or no fertilizer application are about
1.2 tons per ha.
6.03      Details of present and proposed cropped area and agricultural
production are presented in Annex 12 and summarized below:
Cropped Area                 Production
Crop                 Present   Future    Present   Future   Increment
__---- (ha)- ---(ton)------------
Rice (paddy)               1,500      7,600    1,800       30,400    28,600
Cotton (seed)                500      1,400       750       4,200     3,450
Tobacco (burley)            -           900       -         1,350     1,350
Peanuts (unshelled)          -        1,800       -         3,420     3,420
Forage (dry)                 -        1,400       -        17,000    17,000
Total           2 000     13,100
6.04      Farms with two crops of rice per year would utilize about 80% of
the family labor force.  Two peak periods would occur during the year (March-
April and September-October), but no hired labor would be required. Farms
growing a single crop of rice would utilize about 40% of the family labor
force. Owners of these farms would also work on the state farms as casual
labor to meet seasonal requirements during peak periods (May through
September); in total, about 66% of the potential family labor force on
these farms would be used throughout the year. The cotton state farm would
permanently employ about 250 families, who would supply about 70% of the
farm's total labor requirement. The rest would be met by engaging temporary
labor from the surrounding rice farms. About 750 families would be employed
on a full-time basis by the tobacco farm and would provide nearly all of
that farm's labor requirements. Additional labor would be hired during
peak periods from among the permanent laborers on the cotton farm. On the
average, about 75% of the labor force of the 3,300 families in the project
area would be gainfully employed. Monthly labor requirements are shown
in Annex 12.
6.05      In both state farms, operations would be mechanized, except for
harvesting.  Replacement of farm machinery by labor would adversely affect
the tlming and quality of agricultural operations. In addition, such a
replacement would require the settlement of about 300 families in the
project area. Employment of this additional labor force would, however,



- 18 -
be highly seasonal and the workers' income would be inadequate to support
thieir families. In the absence of supplementary employment opportunities
in the region, this would not be a practical solution.
Marketing
6.06      Tobacco, cotton, and peanuts to be produced on the project would
be exported. They would be transported by sea from Morondava to either
Majunga or Tulear and from there to Europe.  Exports of burley tobacco from
Madagascar presently amount to about 1,200 tons per year, the bulk going to
the EEC where it is exempted from the prevailing import duties levied on
non-member countries. The 1,600 tons of lint cotton to be produced on the
project would be marketed in France by CFDT, which has a monopoly on the
purchasing, ginning, and exporting of cotton throughout the country. CFDT's
contract with Government runs through 1976, at which time it is expected
to be renewed. Exports of unshelled peanuts from Malagasy to France presently
amount to 4,000 tons per year and project produce would be channeled through
the existing commercial outlets. All three products, whose production would
be negligible in terms of quantities traded on the world market, would find
a ready market in Europe and could be sold at competitive prices.
6.07      Malagasy is presently importing low quality and exporting high-
quality rice. Since all the rice to be produced on the project would be
of low quality (42% broken), it would be consumed in the province of Tulear,
where the projected annual deficit would be around 65,000 tons of rice by th
early 1980's. Thus, there should be no difficulties in,disposing of all
adclitional rice production from the project within the country. Details
on demand projections for projeci production are discussed in Annex 13.
Prices
6.08      Rice and cotton prices are fixed by Government at the beginning of
eac:h year but there are no Government controls on the prices of tobacco and
peanuts.  At present, farm-gate prices in FMG per ton are as follows:  rice,
14,000; seed cotton, 60,000; tobacco, 248,000; and peanuts, 45,000. These
prices were used in the farm income analysis.  Based on the Bank's Economics
Department's world market price forecast for 1980, the same prices were
used in the economic analysis for rice, tobacco, and peanuts; somewhat lower
prices were adopted for cotton. No monetary value was attached to forage
since its value as a fodder crop would be about equal to its production cost.
Incaome of Rice Cultivators
6.()9     Net incomes from farming activities on the 900 single cropped
rice farms, after payment of all production costs and project charges, would
amount to FMG 70,000 per farm per year.  Earnings from additional work on
the cotton farm (para 6.04) are expected to be around FMG 28,000 per family
thus bringing the total annual famîly income to FMG 98,000 (US$400), or
about FMG 25,000 (US$100) per capita. On the 1,400 farms on which two crops
of rice would be grown each year, net incomes would be FMG 114,000 (US$560),
or about FMG 36,000 (US$140) per capita. By comparison, present income
levrels of project beneficiaries are about FMG 45,000 (US$180) per family,



- 19 -
or about FMG 11,000 (US$45) per capita. A breakdown of annual farm produc-
tion costs and earnings at full development on the two types of rice farms
is as follows:
Single Cropped Farm    Double Cropped Farm
(2 ha)                   (4 ha)
-_________----------(FMG)----------------
Gross Production Value               112,000                   224,000
Production Costs                                                46,000
Incoine before Project Charges      87,000                   178,000
Project Charges                     17,000                    34,000
Income from Non-farming
Activities                       28?°°°                      -
Net Family Income                   98,000                   144,000
Per Capita Income                   25,000                    36,000
Income of State Farms
6.10      Details of annual revenues and expenditures at full development
for the two state farms are presented in Annex 9 and summarized below:
Cotton Farm      Tobacco Farm
--------(FMC Million)------
Gross Production Value                   252               489
Production Costs:
Inputs                               il               49
Pest and weed control                40               -
Equipment                            22               30
Labor                                33               78
Staff and administration             12               27
Replacement of drying barns          -                 8
Operation and maintenance             8               31
Total Production Costs                    126              223
Net Income                                126              266
The net income to be generated by the farms would be used by SODEMO to
help repay project costs. Based on the share of total project costs charged
to each of the farms, the net income would permit the recovery at 10% interest
of about 94% of the cost on the cotton farm and 91% on the tobacco farm (see
para 5.20). Both enterprises would thus be financially viable operations.
Details of income to accrue to permanent laborers on the farms are presented
in para 7.05.



- 20 -
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The project would rehabilitate and expand an existing irrigation
scheme for the production of export crops such as tobacco, cotton and peanuts
anid provide for import substitution of rice in the sparesely populated yet
productive west coast region of the country. It would generate about 6,000
jolbs and create new villages, schools, hospitals, and other public facilitifs
for settlers from the more densely populated parts of the country where
opportunities for agricultural development are limited. The project would
also permit a more efficient use of existing underutilized processiag
facilities in the area and make a substantial contribution toward realization
of the Government's goal of developing the western region of the country,
increasing rice production, diversifying exports, creating new employnment
opportunities and upgrading the quality of life in the rural areas.
7.02      In evaluating project benefits, all farm-gate prices were derived
from the Bank's Economics Department's world market price projection for
1980. Because of the lack of alternative employment opportunities in the
region, family labor on traditional farms has not been costed, while unskilled
labor required by the state farms has been set at the estimated subsistence
requirement of FMG 75 per day, or 50% of the prevailing wages in the region.
FuLl agricultural production is assumed to be reached over a five-year per1o0
after the start of irrigation. On the cost side, the following investments
were excluded from the evaluation:  the settlement and health program since
their benefits, which would be substantial, were also excluded; a share of
15% of the common works charged to non-project beneficiaries; price
contingencies; and half the wages of unskilled labor engaged in project
construction.
7.03      At full agricultural development, 11 years after commencement of
construction, the net value of agricultural production would be about US$3.1
million. The corresponding value without the project would have been about
US$0.1 million. When discounting costs and benefits over the 40-year life
of the project, the economic rate of return would be about 16%. Net annual
foreign exchange earnings would amount to about US$2 million by the end of
the construction period and about US$3 million at full development.
7.04      A sensitivity analysis was carried out to examine the following
adverse conditions: about 20% reduction in all crop yields: 20% increase
in construction costs; two-year extension of the construction period; and
a iour-year extension of the development period.  In every case, the rate of
return would still exceed 12%.
7.05      Farmers to be settled in the area are presently at a subsistence
level, with an estimated per capita income of US$45. This is well below
the average per capita income of the rural Malagasy population, which is
about US$80. At full development, annual family income on rice farms
would range from US$400 to US$560 (per capita US$100 to US$140), while
that of permanent laborers at the two state farms would be about US$300
(per capita US$75). The latter would, however, receive free housing on the
state farms. The project would thus assist a very poor section of Malagasy's



- 21 -
rural population, but, even at full development, their income would still be
below per capita rural income estimated to reach about US$140 by 1985.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a)  Government would not permit the river flows to be depleted
below the project's minimum requirements as a result of other
works either upstream or downstream from the project, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree (para 4.09);
(b) SODEMO's Board of Directors would:
(i)  include representatives from all Ministries concerned
with the project and from BNM; and
(ii) establish broad policy guidelines for carrying out the
project and would be responsible for overall coordination
of project activities (para 5.01);
(c) SODEMO would undertake the following:
(-)  consult the Association in appointment of a General
Manager;
(ii) replace expatriate personnel with local experts when
their performance justified such action and in agree-
ment with the Association;
(iii) provide adequate salary scales and other related
benefits to attract qualified personnel (para 5.06);
(iv) introduce the minimum six-year program as well as
carry out the necessary studies for initiation of the
long-term program against bilharzia, sending the
studies to the Association by 1976, and implement its
approved recommendations in the area (para 5.10);
(d) project charges would be imposed and collections made in
the project area so as to collect, over the life of the
project, the equivalent of 600 kg of paddy per cropped
ha per year from the rice farms, and on the cotton and
tobacco farms, all cash revenues after deducting operating
expenses and loan repayments (para 5.21).



- 22 -
8.02      In addition to the customary conditions, the following has been
agreed upon as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit:
(a)  after approval by the Association, Government would finalize
SODEMO's statutes (para 5.01);
(b) a financial plan of SODEMO acceptable to the Association had
been finalized (para 5.04);
(c)  a consultant firm acceptable to the Association had been
employed by SODEMO under terms of reference approved by
the Association (para 5.05); and
(d)  a consulting firm had been employed by GR under terme
of reference approved by the Association (para 5.12).
8.03      With the indicated assurances, the proposed project constitutes a
suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$15.3 million.
May 25, 1972



MAiAGASY RkPUBLIC
MORONDAVA IRRIGATION AND RURATL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Climatological Data at Morondava
Average
Average Temperatures(1959-1968)            Rainfall (1901-1971)       ltLivU                                        Wind
Mean        Maximum        Minimum                                                   îEvaoration    Sunshir.e Velocit
-(Oç) ~ ~           ~        -                        - z                 (mrT          (hours)  (m/sec)
January      27.3            31.8         23.1           238              12           81.3             226            274         2.8
r`eî)ruary    27.4           32.3         23.0           215             il           81.5             204            267          2.3
27.0            32.3         22.1           104              7           80.1              20h            285         2.1
ÀpriÀ       25.7            31.7         19.8             13              2           78.6             165            293         2.0
22.9            30.2         16.2             9              O           76.8             l'O             304         2.0
.Juxie      20.9             28.8         13.8             4              0           76.0              105            286         1.8
j u1àl       21.0            28.7         13.8             1              0           7h.9             l'1             298         2.0
,\ugUl ,    22.1            29.0         15.3              2              O           76.h             1h2              .0        2.4
I)ept,e'1er   23.6          29.9          17.2             4              0           77.4             J7(                        2.8
(otobe]      25.3            30.1         19.9             9              0           76.8             2-16            325         2.8
flve l! ,e    26.4          31.5         21 .3           26              3           77.1             227            314          2.8
--b' r fIf3er 27.2       31.8          22.8          1142              9           8c.o             228            280         2.4
Total.                                                   767             L;                          2,1 4Li         3,539
ici1






ANNEX 2
Page 1
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
MORONDAVA IRRIGATIOe AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOILS
1.        Classification of project lands is based on a semi-detailed (scale
1:50,000) survey that covers the entire AMVR and on a detailed one (scale
1:20,000) covering certain zones. Soils in the three main areas have thus
been identified as follows:
(a) The Ankilivalo Plain
(i) Two different types of recent alluvial deposits from
the Andronomena River - soils having a light to medium
texture and good hydrodynamic characteristics, suitable
for cotton cultivation, and soils with poor drainage, due
to a pseudogley developed by a hydromorphic process.
Under present conditions, the latter are suitable only
for rice, but if the deficiency is corrected by an
adequate drainage system, they could also be used for
cotton.
(ii)  Old alluvial deposits from the Morondava River on
depressed areas - presence of hydromorphy and fine texture;
these soils are restricted to rice cultivation.
(b)  The Mahabo Area.  Recent alluvial deposits from the Morondava
River, with hydromorphy; these soils are also restricted to
rice cultivation.
(c)  The Analaiva Area.  Old alluvial deposits of the Morondava
River, consisting of tropical ferrugious soils called "red
sands", which require sprinkler irrigation and are suitable
for tobacco and peanuts.
2.        Classification of the net project area (in ha) is as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Zone         Land Use                 Class II   Class III   Class IV   Total
Ankilivalo   Cotton farm                 600       1,300           -       1,900
Rice (single cropped)       300        500         1,000    1,800
Mahabo       Rice (double cropped)       400         800         1,700    2,900
Analaiva     Tobacco farm                 -        2,700           -       2,700
Total                                  1,300       5,300         2,700    9,300
Miay 24, 1972



ANNEX 3
Page 1
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
MORONDAVA IRRIGATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Description of the Project
A. Selection and Formulation of the Project
1.        One of the Government's objectives in its five-year plan is to
develop irrigation schemes in the fertile but sparsely populated western
basins in order to increase the production of rice and high value crops
and to provide jobs for unemployed people living in more densely populated
parts of the country where opportunities for development are limited. The
Morondava Irrigation Project would be the first stage of a plan that envisages
eventual development of about 30,000 irrigated ha, using the waters of the
Morondava and Andranomena rivers.  Implementation of 8tudies for the project
were recommended by the Bank in 1966. The studies, which were financed by
the UNDP, were subsequently prepared from 1969 te 1971 by a group of German
and French Consultants (AGRAR-SATEC), with the FAO serving as the Executing
Agency. The overall plan would involve the construction of a regulating
reservoir on one of the tributaries of the Monrondava River, and two diver-
sion dams, one on the Morondava River and the other on the Andranomena River.
2.        The proposed project was selected after studies were made of
various alternatives. These studies showed that the unstable course and
the high silt load of the Morondava River would render pumping uneconomic
and that the construction of a diversion dam at Dabara would be required
before any significant future development of the area could take place.
The relatively high cost of this dam (about US$2.2 million) made it
necessary to select a large enough project (about 10,000 ha) to justify
this type of investment. In determining the size of the project, it was
also necessary to take into account:
(a) the existing irrigation facilities in the area, their present
stage of development, and their water requirements; and
(b) the availability of water during the dry season.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
B. Description of Proiect Works
Diversion Dam and Appurtenant Structures
3.        A diversion dam would be built on the Monrondava River approximately
10-m downstream from the existing intake structure. It and its appurtenant
structures would include:
(a) an intake structure with five openings, each, 1.70m x 1.15
m, and equipped with sliding gates on the right bank;
(b)  two gate-controlled sluiceways, 3.00 m x 1.20 m, adjacent to
the intake structure;
(c) a concrete overflow weir 250 m long; and
(d)  an earth embankment approximately 60 m long on the left bank.
4.        Construction would be carried out in two stages:  the intake
structure and sluiceways would be built in 1973 and 1974 and the overflow
weir and the earth embankment in 1977 and 1978. This staged construction
would require that a temporary embankment be built across the river during
the 1973 to 1976 dry seasons to direct water into the Dabara canal, but the
additional cost of about US$35,000 is justified by the postponement of
approximately US$2.0 million of the investments for 4 years. Furthermore,
the proposed development of the project does not require that the permanent
overflow weir and earth embankment be completed before 1978 since, after
the destruction of the temporary embankment by floods, the water level in
the river would be sufficiently high to ensure diversion of the water
required for the project at the Dabara intake.
5.     - Final design of the dam would require additional foundation and
soils investigations since preliminary studies have indicated the presence
of sandy alluvial materials up to 40 m in depth deposited in a valley
excavated by the river in an eocene formation. A hydraulic model would also
be built to determine the best location for the various structures, which
would be desiqned to meet the following two criteria: (a) divert flows
of up to 25 m /sec into the Dabara Canal; and (b) allow passage of a 100-year
flood (approximately 7,000 m3/sec) without raising the water level at the
Dabara bridge (about 100 m upstream of dam) above elevation 85.00.
6.        Estimated construction quantities for the major items are
summarized below:



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Sheet Piling   Excavation  Earth and Rock  Concrete
(m2)           (m3)      Fill (m )         (mn)
Intake Structure
Sluiceways            1,600         14,000        30,000           1,300
Overflow Weir and
Earth Embankment      6,600         31,000        21,000          13,000
Total         8,200        45,000        51,000           14,300
Main Canals
7.        Dabara Canal.  Rehabilitation works along this 52-km canal would
be divided into three sections:
(a) From the Dabara intake to the settling basin (km 0 to km 5.0)
Along the first 3 km of this section, the slope would be
steepened to 0.5% and a new concrete lining installed to
increase the silt load carrying capacity. The three drainage
culverts would also be rebulit and an earth embankment, with
gabions on the river side slope, would be constructed to
protect the canal against the 50-year flood of the Morondava
River. The remaining part, including the settling basin struc-
ture, would require only minor rehabilitation.
(b)  From the settling basin to the Morondava siphon (km 5.0 to
km 49.0). This section would remain unlined and require
only minor rehabilitation such as cleaning and regrading.
Two new intakes would be constructed for the secondary canals
of the tobacco farm near Analaiva and the wasteway structure
towards Lake Tsivalaka vould be equipped with sliding gates.
Three drainage culverts would be built at 11.2 km (where
the canal crosses the Mande River), 33.9 km and 43.8 km.
(c)  From the siphon to the Delta distributor (km 49.0 to km 52.1).
Although it is only about 3 km long, this section is badly
damaged and would require major repairs. The first 1.5 km
would be lined with a clay blanker to reduce losses, and a
500-m earth enbankment, with gabions on the river side, would
be constructed on the left bank of the Morondava River upstream
of the siphon to protect the canal against the floods.
8.        North Canal.  This canal has its intake on the Dabara Canal at
12.9 km.  It would require cleaning and remodeling and would also be
extended by 1.80 km after crossing the Tsivavy River. An intercepting
drain would be constructed on the esst aide of the canal between km 0.5 and
km 3.7 ane the water thus collected would be conveyed to Lake Tsivalaka
by means of a culvert and a drain. Five new intakes would be built for
secondary canals serving the cotton farm (Ankilivalo).



ANNEX 3
Page 4
9.        Analamitsivalana Canal.  This new unlined canal, 11.7 km long,
would be bullt to irrigate 1,900 ha (gross) east of the North Canal and
would have its lntake on that canal. Three siphons would be constructed
for crossing the Tandila, Tsivavy, and Andranomena Rivers. The water
surface ln the canal would be regulated by five automatic gates installed
at concrete check structures and there would be 11 intakes for secondary
canals.  A 3-m wide maintenance road would be built on the right bank.
10.       Construction Quantities.  Excavation and fill quantities for the
main canals are estimated as follows:
Canal                    Excavation                      Fill
(m3)                        (m3)
Dabara
km O to km 5.0             40,000                      42,000
km 5.0-to km 49.0         91,000                       44,000
km 49.0 to km 52.1         31,000                      21,000
Sub-total                   162,000                     107,000
North                        68,000                      63,000
Anamitsivalana               80,000                      72,000
Total                  310,000                     242,000
Main Drains
i1.       Runoff water is conveyed by natural drains in two directions --
west to the sea and south to the Morondava River. The ground slopes generally
at 1.4% in an east-west direction, which is favorable. The projectu system
would consist of three main drains -- the Tandila, Tsivavy, and Mande
Rivers -- which would be deepened and widened where necessary. Check struc-
tcures, made with gabions, would be lnstalled to limit erosion. Water level
in Lake Tsivalaka would be controlled by an outlet drain connected with
the Tandila River. In addition, two main drains (Kabatomena and Androvakely),
having a total length of 7 km, would be excavated in the rice-cultivated Delta
area.
12.       Construction quantities for the drains are estimated as follows:



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Drain        Length         Excavation         Check Structures
(m)           (m )                    (No)
Tandila        14,100        200,000                    8
Tsivavy         8,000         72,000                    8
Mande          11,800         70,000                    3
Secondary Irrigation and Drainage Systems
13.       Mahabo Rice Area.  Five secondary earth canals (MN1, MN2, MS1, MS2,
and Bezezika), having a total length of about 27 km, would convey water to
the Mahabo rice area, occupying approximately 1,800 ha (gross) both north
and south of the Dabara Canal. Each of the sub-areas served would have a
secondary drain conveying water to either the Morondava and Mande Rivers or
to Lake Tsivalaka.
14.       Ankilivalo (Cotton and Rice) Area.  Sixteen secondary canals (five
from the North Canal and 11 from the Analamitsivalana Canal), having a
total length of about 60 km, would convey water to the Ankilivalo area,
consisting of approximately 6,200 ha (gross). Secondary drains, having a
total length of about 51 km, would be excavated between them. Although it
is not expected that the groundwater would rise to a level detrimental
to the cultivation of cotton, a network of piezometers would be installed
in the cotton area to follow the ground level so that, if necessary, the
drainage system could be amended.
15.       Analaiva Area (Tobacco Farm).  This area of about 2,700 ha (net)
would be sprinkler irrigated. Two secondary canals (Analaiva Il and III),
having a total length of about 14.5 km, would feed 29 pumping stations, which
would, in turn, deliver water to buried pipes (para 19). Two secondary
drains would drain off water accumulated in the impervious depressions (known
as Ranvory).
Roads
16.       Only two all-weather roads exist in the project area:  one from
Morondava to Mahabo, a distance of 50 km, and the other from Morondava to
Belo-sur-Tsiribihina, a harbor about 106 km to the north of Morondava.
Development of the area would require improving existing rural roads and
constructing new cnes.
17.       The road from Bevoay to Mahabo would be reconstructed and approxi-
mately 12.5 km would be surfaced with macadam. A new rural road of about
7 km would be constructed through the tobacco farm (Analaiva) to connect
Betsinefo and Betsipotika. About 69 km of farm roads would be built along
the secondary canals and 14 km of feeder roada would be built throughout
the area. Also, all existing service roads along the main canals would be
rehabilitated.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
On-Farm Development Works
18.       Rice and Cotton Area.  On-farm development works for this 6,600-
ha area would include bush-clearing, deep plowing, leveling, and construc-
tion of the tertiary and quarternary gravity irrigation and drainage system.
Spacing between tertiary canals would be from 200 to 300 m and lengths
would vary from 400 to 800 m. A tertiary canal would thus feed irrigation
units having areas between 8 and 25 ha. Quarternary canals would be
installed at 100 m spacing where the ground is flat and convey water to lots
of 2 to 3 ha. Drains would be associated with the canals and excavated
halfway between them. Tertiary canals would have a design capacity of
6 i/sec/ha for rice and from 3.5 to 5.0 1/sec/ha for cotton, according to
soil texture.
Tobacco Farm
19.       On-farm development work for this 2,700 ha area would include
bush clearing and the construction of a sprlnkler irrigation system. The
area would be divided into 31 irrigation units, ranging from 30 to 150 ha
each. Diesel-driven portable pumping unita would discharge vater from the
secondary canals into buried asbestos cement pipes 1,600 to 2,400 m long,
from which aluminium portable pipes, 6 m long, with the necessary risers,
sprinkler heads, valves, and fittings, would branch off. The length of the
sprinkler laterals would vary from 150 to 250 m the portable pipes being
connected by couplers of the self-sealing type. Sprinklers would be spaced
in 18-m squares; water discharges would be 2.75 m3/h, with operating
pressures of 2 kg/cm2.
jBuildings and Research Station
20.       Housing for staff and buildings required for offices and for
agricultural operations are listed in Table 1. In addition, a new 15 ha
research station vould be established at the tobacco farm for investigations
on tobacco, peanuts, cotton, and forage crops (Annex 10).
May 24, 1972



ANNEX 3
Table 1
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
MORONDAVA IRRIGATION AID RURAL DEVEIDPXRIT PROJECT
Bailding5
No.   Unit Cost      Total Cost
- - (PMG million) - -
Rice Area
Warehouses                                     2         3.0            6.0
Housing (Superintendents)                      5         2.0           1D
Sub-Total                                                            16.
Cotton State Farm (Ankilivalo)
Farm buildings
Office and central warehouse                 1       6.0             6.0
Central workshop (equipped)                  1      10.0            10.0
Garages and farm workshops                   3       3.0             9.0
Housing
Dlrector                                     1       6.0             6.0
Superintendenta                              4       3.5            14.o
Sub-Total                                                           45.0
Tobacco State Farm (Analaiva)
Farm buildings
Office and central warehouse                 1       6.0             6.o
Central and workshop (equipped)              1      10.0            10.0
Garages and farm workshop                    6       2.0             12.0
Drying barns                               900       0.03           27.0
Grading house 4(,50 m2)                      1      58.5            58.5
Packing house  2400 m                        1       5.0              .0
Storage house  350 m2                        1       4.5               .5
Housing
Director                                     1       6.0             6.o
Deputy Director                              1       4.5             4.5
Superintendents                              5       3.5            17.5
Sub-Total                                                          151.0
SODEMO Headguarters
Housing
General Manager                             1       8.0              8.0
Deputy Managers                             4       6.o             24.0
Superintendants                             4       3.5             14.0
Central Office                             1        4.0              4.0
Sub-Total                                                           50.0
Total                                                                 262.0
May 2.5, 1972






Annex 4
':able i
M4ALA(IASY REPUBLIC
H)RMDAVA IRRIGATION AN1D RURAL DMEIDP)MNT PROJlT
Completion Dates for Major Work Items
Issue of           Award of      Completion ol'
Tender Docwnents    Contracts       Constructioii
1 . i )abara J >an
a)  Intake and Sluiceways       DeOember 1972         Mg' 1973    Povember 1974
b)  Overflouweir ermbankment    October 1976        April 1977    November 1978
2,  Prirnary and iecondary Canals
arn d loads
a) Virst Ph.2se                 Decmiber 1972         Hay 1973    November 1975
b)        Pienond Phse            October 1975      April 1976    Noveynber 1978
3. COr-farrn Development WJorks
;t) dicp aw(l Cotton areas      Dee3uber  1972        MW 1973    Niovernber 1978
b) '-i'obaccO Farrri              October 1973      April 1974    November 1978






MALACASY REPUBLIC
MORONDAVA IRRIGATION AND RURAL DEVE:lPMENT PROJET
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
Year (Calendar)    1973             1974           1975          1976             1977             1978           Total
Item of Works -
Main Works
Lntake and    sluiceways                                   overflow  weir   and embankment
Dabara Dam                                                                                        -                  -
40                                                      12
Dabara Canal (km)                                                                                  -                               52
il             3
North Canal (km)                                                                                                                    14
5             7
Anamitsivalana Canal (km)                                                           -              -                                12
5                412                             3            15                 4            4
Main Drains (km)                                                                                                                   43
65            20                18
Roads (km)                                                                                                                        103
Tobacco Farm (Analaiva)
13                                            12
Secondary Network (km)                                                                             -                               25
450            500             630            560               560
On-Farm Works  (ha)                                                                                                             2,700
Buildin3s                                           -                -              -               -                 -
Cotton Farm (Ankilivalo)
6                6             13              13              6
Secondary Network (km)                                                                                                             44
250              250            530             530             200              140
On-Farm Works  (ha)                                                                                                            1,900
Buildings
Rice Area
7                24              35             33              23               12
Secondary Network (kn)                                                                                                            134
1,1009         1,603          1,300              700
On-Farm Works      (ha)                                                             -               -,300          7           4,700       >
Buildings                                           -,40 -                         -
Area to be Developed  (ha)         250            700            2,130           2,760          2,060           1,400          9,300    ' v






ANNEX 5
Page 1
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
MORONDAVA IRRIGATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Water Supply, Demand, and Quality
Supply
1.        The project water supply would be obtained from the unregulated
flow of the Morondava River. The Office de la Recherche Scientifique et
Technique Outre-Mer (ORSTOM) began measuring the flow of the Mo ondava
River at Dabara, where the watershed covers an area of 4,650 km , in
September 1951, but because some years were missed, only 14 years of
record are available (Table 1). Data indicate that the average annual
flow of the river is 49 m3/sec (1,500 Mm3), with 81% taking place during
the four months of the rainy season (December through March). The water-
shed has a small retention capacity and the dry season flow is generated
from the aquifer located in the sandstone area in the upstream part of the
watershed. Vegetal cover is light and, as precipitations are intense,
erosion is significant (annual depth of erosion is about 2 mm). As a
consequence, the river, which also has steep slopes, carries a heavy sediment
load (mostly sands) and does not have a stable regime.
2.        Since the period of recorded flows is short, mathematical simulation
models were developed using data-generating techniques for estimating floods
and for studying the influence of potential reservoirs on the availability
of water for irrigation during the dry season. These models took into
account all available hydro-meteorological and geomorphological data, as
well as data on the two adjacent rivers, the Mangoky River to the south and
the Tsiribihina River to the north. The calibration of models was success-
ful and dry season flows were thus predicted for a period of 69 years.
3.        The maximum recorded daily rainfall in the watershed was slightly
above 200 m on January 17, 1970, which resulted in a recorded peak flood
of 6,000 m3/sec at Dabara, whereas the estimated 100-year flood has a peak
of 7,000 m3sec.
Demand
4.        Net irrigation requirements have been computed by using Penman's
formula. Table 2 shows field requirements, which take into account irriga-
tion losses estimated at 35% and 25% for gravity and sprinkler methods,
respectively. The overall efficiency has been estimated at 50%.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
5.        Irrigation achemes to be served by water available at Dabara
intake are:
(a) the project area;
(b) Bezezika citrus plantation; and
(c)  paddy fields in the Delta area.
Every monthly record of simulated flow shows that the corresponding
irrigation Aemand would have been included. Moreover, an excesa of at
least 1.5 m /sec, which is considered an acceptable sanitary flow, would
have occurred 66 out of 69 years. Table 3 presents supply and demand
at Dabara intake. Maximum project demand is 6.1 m3/sec in June, when some
6,600 ha would be irrigated, the average demand being 2,400 m3/ha.
Quality
6.        The quality of water resources is excellent for irrigation
purposes. According to the classification of the United States Salinity
Laboratory,, the water of the Morondava River belongs to clase Cl-Sl, i.e.,
non-saline and free of alkaline hazard. The main characteristics of this
water are:
(a)  Electric Conductivity:  200 micronhos/cm (at 25C)
(b) Sodium Absorption Ratio (SAR): 0.19 - 0.34
(c) Boron: 0.03 mg/l
May 24, 1972



MALAGASY REPUBLIC
MORONDAVA IRRIGATION AND RURAL DEVEtOPMENT PROJECT
Average Monthly Flow of Morondava River Measured at Dabara Station
(m3/ sec)
Monthly
Year    Jan      Feb    Mar    Apr    May    Jun         Jul    Aug       Sep     Oct    Nov      Dec    Average
1952     141.0  67.6   76.0   21.8   12.7   11.6    10.5          9.6     8.7     7.9     7.9   68.9        37
1953     129.0  97.1   77.5   16.0   14.4   13.1   11.9   10.8            9.7     8.9     n.a     n.a       39
1957     117.0 132.0  120.0   24.8   10.5   10.0         9.3     8.8      8.3     7.8     n.a     n.a       45
1959      93.1  73.2   37.2   12.4   11.4   10.4         9.5      8.6     7.8     7.2    33.1    87.4       33
1960     105.0 170.0    64.6   10.9   10.0       9.0     8.2      7.4     6.8     6.2     8.0   125.0        44
1961     196.0  91.0   96.0   14.0   12.7   11.6   10.5           9.6     8.8     8.0     n.a     n.a       46
1964     136.0 192.0   113-0   17.6   12.5   11.5   10.5          9.6     8.8     8.0    34.3   67.5        52
1965     268.0  98.0  103.0    12.6   11.5    10.4        9.5     8.6     7.8     7.2    15.0  102.0         54
1966      73.0 130-0   34.3   27.6    12.5   11.4   10.3          9.5     8.6     7.8    11.6    68.6       34
1967     146.0  45.5  286.0   23.6   12.5   11.4   10.3           9.5     8.6     7.8    15.9    68.2        54
1968     121.0 318.0   67.0   15.5   14.0   12.6   11.3   10.4            9.5     8.6   16.7  141.0          62
1969     167.0 237.0    50.4   39.4   20.5   17.3   14.5   12.6   10.6    11.9    15.1  114.0                59
1970     227,0  90.8   73.7    28.6   19.5   17.4   16.2   14.5   13.2   14.7   108.0   58.9                 57
1971     102.0 192.0  123.0   27.3   21.5   18.6   16.8   15.4   13.1    12.3             n.a     n.a        54
Average  144   138      94      21      14      13       il      10       9       9      26        90        49
: ebrwLary 172



MALAGASY REPUBLIC
MORONiDAVA IRRIGATION AND RURAL DEVELOPM4T PROJECT
Irrigation Demand (Penman method)-
(m-"/ha)
Month           Evaporation        Effective Rainfall                             Irrigation Demand
ïisce    All uther       Rice (rainy   Rice (dry   Cotton   Tobacco   Peanuts  Forage
Crops           season)       season)
January             2,260          1,800        1,190               700               -          -               -
February            2,o040         1,400        1,080             1,000          -          200        _          200      -
March               2,o40            700          520             2,100          -        1,400        -         700       700
April               1,650             -           -                 -            -        2,000        -          -      1,100
May                 1,300             -           _                 -          2,000-/    1,600        -          -      1,000
2/
June                1,050            _      -                       -         2,300-      1,300      1,100       -         800
July                1,110            -            -                 -         1,700         700      1,200       -       1,000
August              1,420             -           -                 -          2,200        -        1,500        -      1,300
September           1,760            -            -                 -         2,700                    -         -
October             2,160             -                             -         1,700         -          -          -
November            2,270            140          130             4,100-/        -          -          _       1,300       -
December            2,280            780          710             2,300          _        1,000        -         900       -
Total              21,340          4,820        3,630            10,200      12,600       8,200      3,800     3,100    5,900
1/  Evapotranspiration coefficients:  rice - 1; other crops - 0.5-0.8.  Irrigation efficiencies:  gravity 65%;
sprinkler, 75%.
3                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
2/  Rice fie4d  pre-irrigated in November (2,500 m3/ha) for the rainy season crop  and in May (2,000 m /ha) and June
(1,500 m /ha) for the dry season crop.
February 1972



ANNEX 5
Table 3
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
MORONDAVA IRRIG&TION AND RURAL DEVELOPMOET PROJEOT
Water Demand at Dabara Intake-
May    June    July    August    September    October
Project Area
Rice (2,900 ha)                3.3      4,0     2.6      3.4        4.3          2.6
Cotton Farm
Cotton (1,400 ha)           1.2      1.0     0.5       -          -            -
Forage (500 ha)             0.2     0.2      0.2      0.4          -           -
Sub-Total                   1.4     1.2      0.7      0.4         -            -
Tobacco Farm
Tobacco (900 ha)             -      0.5      0.6      0.7          -           -
Forage (900 ha)             o.4     0.4      0.4      0.7          -           -
Sub-Total                   0.4     0.9      1.0      1.4         -            -
Total Project Area             5.1      6.1     4.3      5.2        4.3          2.6
Delta Area
Rice (900 ha)                   1.0     1.1     0.8      1.0         1.3         0.8
Bezezika Plantation
Citrus (2,000 ha)              0.8      0.7     0.7      0.9        1.1          1.3
Total Water De znd                 6.9     7.9     5.8      7.1         6.7         4.7
Available flow_/                 10.2      9.7     9.2      8.6         8.2         7.7
Exess                              3.3     1.8     3.4      1.5         1.5         3.0
1/ Demand at Dabara intake has been computed assuming 30% conveyance losses.
2/ Corresponds to the flow that would have been exceeded for 66 out of 69 years of
recorded and simulated flows.
February 1972






ANNEX 6
MÀLAGASY REPUBLIC                                       Table 1
MOR0NDAVA IRRIGATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PRWJECT
Cost Estimates
____ (FMG millions-       -;-- ----(US$ '000) -------                   %
Local  Foreign  Total      Local  Foreign      Total             Foreign Exchange
Civil Works                            769    2,035    2,804      3,015   7,976       10,991                  73
A) Main Works
Dabara Dam                      138      412      550       541     1,617        2,158                  75
Dabara Canal                     61      183      244       239       718          957                  75
North Canal                       il      34       45        43       133          176                  75
Main Drains                      26       80      106       102       314          416                  75
Secondary Network               115      350      465       451     1,373        1,824                  75
Roads                            20       61       B1        79       239          318                  75
B) On-Farm Development
Tobacco Farm                     85      490      575       333     1,923        2,256                  85
Co-ton Farm                      33       98      131       130       384          514                  75
Rice Area                        80      242      322       314       950        1,264                  75
C)  Buildings and Research Station   200        85      285       783       325        1,108                  30
Settlement and Health Control          852     306    1,158    3,342      1,201        4,543                   26
Studies                          19       28       47        74       110          184                  60
Construction of facilities      501      214      715    1,964        841        2,805                  30
Equipment                        21       64       35        84       250          334                  75
operating Cost                  311       -       311    1,220         -         1,220                   -
Equipment                               12     234       246       47        91 9        966                  95
Operation and Maintenance         5      101      106        20       396          416                  95
Farm                              6      115      121        24       451          475                  95
Transportation                    1       18       19         3        72           75                  95
Management                             439      23       462    1,722         91       1,813                   5
Local Personnel                 233       -       233       914         -          914                   _
Operating Costs                 206       23      229       808        91          899                  10
Consultants                             86     485      571       335     1,9D5        2,240                  85
SCMV                             14       76       90        53       300          353                  85
RED                              19      100      119        75       392          467                  85
SODEMO                           53      309      362       207     1,>213       1,420                  85
Contingencies                         826      818    1,644    3,239      3,208        6,447                  50
nr>! l ci                       242     246      488       949        965       1,914                  50
Price                           584     572    1,156    2.29        2.243
TOTAL   2,984   3,901    6,885   11,700    15,300        27,000                   57
1/  Civil 1torks: 15% on Dabara Dam and 10% on other items; Settlement and Health Control: 20% on construction of
facilities and 15% on equipment; Equipment: 10%; Consultants: 10% on engineering.
May 17, 1972






ANNEX 7
MALAGASY REPJBIIC
MORONDAVA IRRIGATION AND RURAL DEVEIA)PfET PRDIJICT
Equipment
Unit Price
Quantity     CIF Morondava    Total
- - (FMG million) - -
A)  Operation and Maintenance                                                106.0
Crawler excavator with dragline (0.5 m3)   1               13.7           13.7
Low loader                    3             1              10.3           10.3
Rubber-tired excavator (0.3 m )              1              7.0            7.0
Crawler tractor with dozer (125 hp)         1              17.0           17.0
Crawler trac or  'ith dozer (90 hp)         1               7.5            7.5
Scraper (6 m)                               1               2.5            2.5
Rubber-tired tractor (70 hp)                1               1.2            1.2
Motorgrader                                  1              4.2            4.2
Flat-bed trucks (4-ton)                      2              1.2            2.4
Dump trucks (h-ton)                         3               `2.4           7.2
Trench digger                                2              3.5            7.0
Sub-total                                   _                _            Of.o
Spare parts (20%)                                                         16.0
Miscellaneous                                                             10.0
B)  Farm Machinery                                                           121.0
i)  Cotton Farn (Ankilivalo)                                              50.0
Rubber-tired tractors (70 hp)          16               1.2           19.2
Reversible plows (3-row)               16               0.3           4.8
Sowing and fertilizing machines
(4-row)                                8              0.4            3.2
Trailers                               16               o.5           8.0
Other implements                        -                -
Sub-total                               _                _
Spare parts (20%)                       -                -            8.0
Miscellaneous                           -                -             2.0
ii)  Tobacco Farmn (Analaiva)                                              57.0
Rubber-tired tractors (70 hp)          10               1.2           12.0
Rubber-tired tractors (40 hp)          10               0.9            9.0
Reversible plows (3-row)               10               0.3           3.0
Sowing and fertilizing machines
(4-row)                                8              0.4            3.2
Trailers                               10               0.5           5.0
Packing presses (for tobacco)           4               1.0           4.0
Shellerimachines (for peanuts)          7               0.4            2.8
Washing equipment (for peanuts)         1               5.0            5.0
Other implements                        -                -             2.0
Sub-total                               _                -           46.o
Spare parts (20%)                       -                -            9.2
Miscellaneous                            -               -             1.8



ANNEX 7
Page a (omt 'd)
MALMSY REHJBLIC
NORONDAVA E     X9IAXD  MJURL DEVEOPMINT PROJECT
Equlpment
Unit Price
Quantity     CIF Morondava      Total
-T-- M   m3llionY---
iii)  Research Station                                                       i .o
Rubber-tired tractor (40 hp)             1              0.9             0.9
Implements                               -                -             0.5
Irrigation equipment                     -                -             9.6
Sub-total                                -               -             11.0
Spare parts (20%)                        -               -              2.2
Miscellaneous                            -                -             0.8
C) Vehicles                                     38                -            15.0
Total cost of Equipment                                     242.0
1VMarch J972



ANNEX 8
Table 1
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
MORONDAVA IRRIGATION AND RURAL DEVEWL0PMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Expendiliures (»f  millioa n
Calendar year                       1973  1974  1975  1976   1977  1978  TOTAL
Civil Works                          285   462   464   402  680   431   2,804
A) Main Works
Dabara Dam                      90    40    -     -    230   190      550
Dabara Canal                   55   100    46    -      43    -       244
North Canal                     -     37     8    -     -      -       45
Main Drains                      5     4    46    8     36      7     106
Secondary Network               27   110   102   98   101    27       465
Roads                            -     -     -   51     16    14       81
B) On-Farm Development
Tobacco Farm (Analaiva)         -    96   107  134    119   119       575
Cotton Farm (Ankiliavalo)      17   17    37   37       14      9     131
Rice Area                        -     -    75  110     89    48      322
C)  Buildings and Research Station   91    58    43   44      32    17      285
Settlement and Health Control        235   422  221  160      60    60   1,158
Studies                           20    27    -     -     -      -       47
Construction                    150   300   165  100      _      _      715
Equipment                         35    50    -     -     -      -       85
Operating Costs                   30    45    56   60     60    60      311
Equipment                             28    59    69   58     24      8     246
Operation and Maintenance        -      31    25   29     14     7    106
Farm Machinery                    24    24    40   25      8     -      121
Transportation                     4     4     4    4      2     1       19
Management                            24    44    71   90    112   121      462
Local personnel                  13    14    32   44    61    69        233
Operating Costs                  il    30    39   46    51    52        229
Consultants                           90    92   120   97     97    75      571
SCMV                              20    30    40    -     -      -       90
RED                               26    15    15   26     26    il      119
SODEMO                            44    47    65   71    71    64       362
Contingencies                        1114  247   260  303    395   325   1,644
Physical                          70   110    88   79     86    55      488
Price                            44   137   172  224    309   270   1,156
Total Project Expenditures       776  1,326 1,205 1,190 1,368 1,020  6,885
A/ An estimated US$200,000 for consulting services during 1972 are included in
1 973 expenditures



MOR0NDAVÂ IRRIGATION AND RURAL DlE  Â)F?4ET PROJECT
Futimated S8heduls of Diabursenients
IDA Fiscal bear                            Oumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                            at end of Quarter-US$ million
1 972/73
Decemnber 31, 1972                                 0.2
March    31, 1973                                  0.6
June     30, 1973                                  1 .0
1 973/74
September 30, 1973                                 1.14
December 31, 1973                                  1 .9
March    31, 1974                                  2.5
June     30, 1974                                  3.1
1 974/75
Septeniber 30, 1974                                3.8
December 31, 1974                                  4.4
March     31, 1975                                 5.0
June     30, 1975                                  5.6
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                 6.3
December 31, 1975                                  6.9
March    31, 1976                                  7.5
June     30, 1976                                  8.1
1 976/77
September 30, 1976                                 8.7
December 31, 1976                                  9.3
March    31, 1977                                 10.0
June     30, 1977                                 10.7
1 977/78
September 30, 1 977                               11.4
December 31, 1977                                 12.1
March    31, 1978                                 12.8
June     30, 1978                                 13.4
1978/79
Septmber 30, 1978                                 14.0
December 31, 1978                                 14.6
March    31, 1979                                 15.0
June     30, 1979                                 15.3



ANNEX 9
Page 1
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
MORONDAVA IRRIGATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Authority (SODEMO)
Organization and Ownership
1.        SODEMO would be set up as a limited stock (share) company with a
capital of FMG 300 million divided into 30,000 shares of FMG 10,000 each.
2.        Shareholders and their participation would be:
Distribution of Capital
Shareholder                                £D   No of shares   (FMG million)
Malagasy Republic                            56        16,800          168
Province of Tulear                           10         3,000           30
BNM                                          10         3,000           30
Chamber of Commerce, Morondava                5         1,500           15
CEMIP                                         5         1,500           15
Syndicat des Communes                         4         1,200           12
Cooperatives                                  2           600            6
SCET                                          2           600            6
CFDT                                          2           600            6
Agrar and Hydrotechnik                        2           600            6
OFMATA                                        2           600            6
Total                            100        30,000          300
3.        The Board of Directors would be made up of representatives of:
(a)  each of the Ministries concerned with the project;
(b) BNM;
(c) Province of Tulear;
(d) Chamber of Commerce, Morondava;
(e) Syndicate des Communes and Cooperatives; and
(f)  The consulting firms owning shares of SODEMO (SCET, CFDT and Agrar).
The Board would establish broad policy guidelines for carrying out the
project and would be responsible for coordination of project activities.
Meetings of the Board would be held at least once every three months.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
4.        The objectives of SODEMO would be set forth in the Statutes
as follows:
(a)  to cooperate with other agencies responsible for agricultural
development in the Morondava River basin;
(b) to undertake studies and works to promote agricultural
development in the region of Morondava;
(c) to develop livestock
(d) to settle farmers and laborers in the region;
(e) to promote agricultural research;
(f) to ensure adequate water supply to the irrigated lands
vithin the Morondava basin and assess and collect charges
from the beneficiaries;
(g) to market agricultural produce;
(h) to undertake land consolidation and distribution and provide
necessary supporting agricultural services to rice farmers; and
(i)  to manage state farms for the productions of high value crope.
Activities
5.   (a)  During project construction SODEMO would be responsible
for the land consolidation and distribution to rice
farmers, on-farm works, construction of project buildings,
purchase of operation and maintenance equipment, farm
machinery and its own transportation vehicles, settlement
of farmers and laborers, provision of all necessary support-
ing agricultural services, initiation of a health control
program, creation of two state farms, and establishment and
operation of a research station. The land consolidation
and distribution to rice farmers would be carried out
following the method used by SOMALAC. Rice farmers would
be allocated two-ha plots per family. Permanent laborers
at the cotton state farm would be allocated 0.3 ha plot
for irrigated rice cultivation (single crop) while those
at the tobacco farm would be given one-ha plot for dry
farming. The research station would be operated by IRAM
under contract to SODEMO.
(b)  after the construction period, SODEMO would continue to
operate the two state farms, provide all the necessary
supporting agricultural services to the rice farmers and
assume responsibility for operation and maintenance of



ANNEX 9
Page 3
project works. The supporting agricultural services to rice
farmers would be similar to those provided by SOMALAC i.e.,
SODEMO would distribute water to each unit, assist farmers
in obtaining short term credit, supply them with needed
inputs, and create farmers' cooperatives that would eventually
be able to take over the functions of the extension service
staff. On the state farms, SODEMO will train the laborers
and farm leaders who would progressively take over the respon-
sibilities of SODEMO technicians and cropping superintendents.
6.        To carry out its activities SODEMO would be organized along
the lines indicated in chart I of this Annex. The General Manager would
be appointed by the Board of Directors in consultation with the Association.
In order to attract qualified local personnel, SODEMO statutes would permit
it to offer salaries and fringe benefits similar to those of SOMALAC.
SODEMO would also engage consultants to assist it in implementing the
project. As indicated in Table 1 of this Annex, SODEMO would employ in
its staff expatriate consultants to fill key positions until they can be
replaced by their Malagasy counterparts. The appointment of these counter-
parts would be made after consultation with the Association. During the
project construction period, SODEMO's consultants would also assist
SODEMO in the settlement of families in the project area, prepare final
designs and tender documents, evaluate bide, supervise construction and
certify payments to suppliers and contractors.
Financial Structure
7.        SODEMO would receive its funds from Government, BNM and private
investors. The terms on which the funds would be made available are
explained in para 5.04 and shown In the attached Table 2. Based on the
detailed cash flow presented in Table 2, it can be seen that after meeting
the financial commitment for constructing, operating and maintaining the
project, SODEMO would be able to repay all loans, as well as to generate a
surplus which would permit it to repay Government all project costs subject
to recovery at 5% interest. Annual surpluses to be generated by the cotton
and tobacco farms are presented in Tables 3 and 4, respectively.
May 24, 1972






MALAGASY REP18LTC
MORONDAVA IRRIGATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SODEMO : Staffing Recuire-nents end Salaries
Item                                Annual Salary                                                        Calendar Year
mrlin M-a-    1973       1974       1975      1976       1977      1978       1979     1980      1981     1982/84  1985/ Z012
1. Central Office
General Manager (M)                     3.0              3.0         3.0       3.0        3.0       3.0        3.0       3.0       3.0      3.0        3.0       3.0
Deputy Manager (Techrical) (F)          8.0              8.0         8.0       8.0        8.0       8.0        8.0       8.0       8.0      8.0          -        -
Deputy Manager (Technical) (M)          2.0                -           -        -         -          -          -        2.0       2.0      2.0        2.0       2.0
Deputy Manager (Financial) (F)          8.0              8.0         8.0       8.0       8.0        8.0        8.0         -       -         -         -          -
Deputy Manager (Financial) (M)          2.0              2.0         2.0       2.0       2.0        2.0        2.0       2.0       2.0      2.0        2.0       2.0
Deputy Manager (Settlement) (M)         2.0              2.0        2.0        2.0       2.0        2.0       2.0        2.0      2.0       2.0       2.0        2.0
Assistart Financial Dir. (M)             1.0              -          1.0       1.0        1.0       1.0        1.0       1.0       1.0      1.0        1.0       1.0
-Engineering Services (F)                  -             14.0        14.0      20.0       20.0      70.0       13.0        -                   -         -          -
O & M Esgineer (F)                      6.0              -           -          -         6.0       6,0        6.0             -             -          -         -
O & M Engineer (M)                      1.5              -          _                               1.5        1.5       1.5       1.5      1.5        1.5       1.5
O & M Personnel                          -               -           -         5.0       7(5       10.0       12.5      15.5      15,5     15.5       15.5      15.5
Geoeral Services                         _               3.0         3.0       4.0        5.5       5.5        6.0       6.0       6.0      6.0        6.0       6.0
Sub-Total                          3/               40.0       41.0       53.0      63.0       67.0      63.0       41.0     41.0      41.0       33.0      33.0
2. Rice Area (Extenoion Service)7
Director (F)                            6.0                                    6.0        6.0       6.0        6.0       6.0       6.0
Director (M)                            1.5                                                         1.5        1.5       1.5       1.5      1.5        1.5
Deputy Dtrector (M)                     1.0                                                                                        1.0      1.0        1.0
Zone Superintendent (T)                 2.0                                    2.0        2.0       2.0        2.0       2.0       2.0
Zone Superintendent (M)                 1.0                                    1.0        3.0       5.0        5.0       5.0       5.0      5.0        5.0
Monitor                                  0.12                                  1.2        3.6       6.0        6.0       6.0       6.0      6.0        6.0
General Services                                                               1.0        1.5       2.0        2.0       2.5       2.5      2.5        2.5
Sub-Total                                                                  11.2       16.1      22.5       22.5      23.0      24.0     16.0       16.0
3. Cotton Farm  (Ankilivalo)
Director (F)                            6.0              6.0         6.0       6.0       6.0        6.0        6.0
Director (M)                            1.5                                               1.5       1.5        1.5       1.5       1.5      1.5        1.5       1.5
Cropping Ssperistendent (M)              1.0             1.0         1.0       2.0        3.0       3.0        3.0       3.0       3.0      3.0        3.0        3.0
Workshop Superintendent (M)              1.0             1.0         1.0       1.0        1.0       1.0        1.0       1.0       1.0      1.0        1.0        1.0
General Services                                         0.8         0.8       1.0        1.2       1.5        1.5       1.5       1.5      1.5        1.5        1.5
Sob-Total                                             8.8         8.8      10.0       12.7      13.0       13.0       7.0       7.0      7.0        7.0       7.0
4. Tobacco Farm (Analaiva)
Director (F)                            6.0                                    6.0        6.0       6.0        6.0
Director (M)                            1.8                                                          1.8       1.8       1.8       1.8      1.8        1.8       1.8
Deputy Director (M)                     1.5                                                                    1.5       1.5       1.5      1.5        1.5       1.5
Cropping Soperintendent (T)              2.0                                   2.0        2.0       4.0        4.0       4.0       4.0      4.0        2.0
Cropping Sup)rintendent (M)              12.                                                         1.2       2.4        2.4      3.6      3.6        4.8        4.8
Technicien (M)                          0.5                                    2.0        2.0       4.0        4.0       6.0       6.0      8.0        8.0        8.0
Workshop Superintendent (M)              1.0                                    1.0       1.0        1.0       1.0        1.0      1.0       1.0       1.0        1.0
General Services                                                               0.8        1.0        1.2       1.5        1.5      1.5       1.5       1.5        1.5
Sub-Total                                                                  11.8       12.0       19.2      22.2       18.2     19.4      21.4      20.6       18.6
5. Research Station
Deputy Manager (F)                      6.0              6.0         6.0       6.0        6.0       6.0        6.0
Depoty Manager (M)                      2.0              2.0         2.0       2.0        2.0       2.0        2.0
Specialinto (F)                                                      5.0       5.0        5.0       5.0        5.0
Assistants (M)                          0.5              2.0         6.0       6.0        6.0       6.0        6.0
General Services                                         1.0         2.0       2.0        2.0       2.0        2.0
5,2e-Total         ,                                 11.0        21.0      21,0      21.0       21.0       21.0
Grand Total                                             59.8        70.8     107,0      124.6_    142.7      141.7       89.2     91.4      85.4      76.6       58.6
Notes:
t/ rxpeodit.ros for foreign consultants exclude  ohe c-et of bousisg, offices and cars.
2/  (M) 14alagasy; (F) Foreign Export: (T) member of volu.tary aid program (Misereor. Peson Corps, Service National Aotif Froncais2.
3/ Extension Service specifically assigned to rice cropping would cease after year 10.



NORt1 NA JAA  6072R 21 AlN AN~ Nl RAI KA I
1903    £914    1971    1976    1977    1978    1~~~~~~~~~973-1978    197  19  1 991    190 11 983-1984    198§-1986a-9307    19o8    1900        1-0>    1991    1992    1993-1997    1998-27)02    2003-2007    2008-2012
1.  Coanromon t Crant~~~i1/                     302      587     341      266      124      130        1,2503         82       87       82       82        82                  42              £2       82       82       82       82           82            82              82             82
2. OaaCapital                                   190      00         -       -         -        -          300          -        -        -        -         -                    -              -        -        -        -        -            -              
3.   Jasa                                              117    2145 3     480      790      685      56£       2,823          -        -        -        -          ---                                         -        -        -        -
3.1   Clavernn,stt2/                               8£      186      352     423      350      28£        1, 685         -        -        -        -         ---                                          -        -        -        -
3 .2 3 N057                                        29       57      130      307     335      280        1,138          -        -        -        -         ---                                          -        -        -        -
3.2.1.   Onv---ots   3/                     29       57      130      188      212      225          840                                                                                                                
3.2.2.   Shor   tor   4/-                            -        -       121      122       50          298          -       -        -        -          ---                                         -         -        -        -
4.  Opaoatiog Snoplla   -Irai  Stto  Paroi    5/  -               il        8      3£       36      158          293        2149     781      3227     360        392                 392             3 92     392     39?       392     392          392            392            39               9
.1   Catt                                         -        il        8       22       36       76         153         101      116      121      125       126                 126             126      126      126      726      126          126           126             126            126
42   Tabaro,--                                                               12       38       82         137         14£      165      206      230       266                 261,            266      266      266      266      266          266           266            266             286
5.    rj,vîJa7.                                                                    -        -        -           -          133      133      133      137    10            130               130         130      130      13013 130                  130           130            130 
1.1   Partio£paots                                                                                                     125      125      125      1 22      122                  122            122      122      122      122      122          122           122             122            122
5.1.1. Cotton  stase  fart   6/              -        -        -       -        -        -           -            21       21       21       20        20                  20              20       20       20       20       30           2£            20              20             20
5.1.2. lobtot   store  fart  8/             -         -        -       -        -        -40                               40      40        38        3£                  38              38       38       38       38       38           38            38              38             38
5.1.3. Site  trafitiono.l  fara  2                   -        -        -                                          64       64       64       64        64                  64              64       64       64       64       64           64            64             64              64
5.2   on..partinipaor.       8                              -        -t                                                  8        8        8        8          8                   8              8        8        8        8         8           8              8              8               8
TOTAL                                             569      991      829   1,035       883      856       5,163         464      496      542      5732      604                  604            604      604      604      604      604          604           604             604            604
APPLICATIONO0F PUNDS
1.   osttI-otio   anf £o-alh  Cootro1                  289      548      300      223       78       82       1,520          -        -        -        -          -         -                         -       -         -        -       -             -             -              -        
2.   RasaarL atius   paratiog oasI                      13       39       41       43       46       48          230                                                                                                                                                                          
3.   lilf ing                                           47       70       54       59       45       25          300         -        -        -        -          ---                                         -         -       -        -----
4.     sfrsfvlottn    ok                                2£      139      2584     383      317      266        1,409 (                                                                                                                                                                        
5.   Eqaipti,et                                         32       34       57       40       13        1          1799         -        -       -        -          ---                                         -                                                                             
0.1 Pati s"iarilay                                 28       29       52       35       12       -           16          -                                                         --                      -        --'                                                                  
1.2 Trs..sporrsion                                  4        O        O        5        3        1           23         -        -        -        -         ---                                          -        -        -        -----
6.   Nana go-ttn  .sd aperstitg oasis                    25      29       73      109      150      1722          5                                                                                                                                                      
7.  Cans.oltants                                        40       41       66       77       81       74          379          -       -        -        -          ---                                          -        -       -         -----
8.   sa boora-o                                           3      10        27      59      101      138          238          -        -        -        -                             --                       -        -        -        -----
8.1   Goetet2                                                6       16       29       43       54          150                                                                                                                                                                         
8.2   85!1                                                   4       Il       30       58       84          18(8        -        -        -        -         ---                                          -                                                        
8.2.1.   I-vest-.ten                          1        4       il      23       44       66          149          -        -        -        -         ---                                          -        -        -        -----
8.2.2.   Obori,et-                          -         -       -          7      14       18           39          -        -        -        -         ---                                          -        -        -        -----
9,  Ansisoa  empestes  ai-rer   aontr-ols                -        -        -       -        -                                                            -         ---                                          -        -                                                                    
8.1 SOatrlesta  aaf Hasltlx Contra                          -        --1                                                82       82       82       82        82                   82             82       82       82       82       82           82            82              82              82
9.2   0paeseafeqo1pe;n   -tt-_                                                         -                    -                      5       5         5        73                  73               3        S        S        5        5          73              5             723              O
9.2.1 Ope-ai-n  .sf    iîtnise               -      -                  -        -        -          -                 -             -        -         32                  32              -        -        -        -        -32                        -               32             -
9.2.2 Pat  nahnr                                                                 .       -           -            -        -        -        -         36                  36              -        -        -        -        -36                        -               36-
9.2.3 Traspoetetiion                         -                 -       -                                                    5        S        O         S                    S              5        s        s        s        s            s             5               S              5
9.3  ila...gat-ttr     and operatiof  rors--t                                 -        -                               122      125      116      135       103                   80             80       80       80       80       8£           8£             80             80              88
8.4   Uebl Sav£e-                                           -        -                 -        -                      245      274      268      135       188                  188            185      178      163      142      l18           92             92             92              92
9.4.1. Sosrneat  (Inv-tternt)                                                                                     5             9  59  59    39        92                  92              92       92       92       92       '2           92            92              92             92
9.4.2.: B8)-                                          -        -                                                 186      213      209       96        96                   96             93       86       71       50       26           -             -               -              -
9.5   Retors  to o-Pîtal                           -lu--                               -                                     10       10           l 10 10    1£u                                 10      10       10        10)      LUl 10                     101£1                          10
TOTAL                                             469      910      902      993      833      806       4,913         464      496      481      937       458                  433            362      355      340       319     295          337            269            337             269
SURPLUS 2/
1.  Carret                                             180       81      173>      42       50       50          250          -        -       61I     215        146                 171             282     249      264       285     309          267            335            26               3
2.   Cnntlative                                        100      181      108      15£      200      200                     250      200      311       526       81s               1,331          1,813   1,862   2, 126   2,1.11   2,720          4,855          5,730          7,965          874
ES£TISIATED WOR06IN0  CAPITAL RiQOIRIIOENTS              13       50     180      150      200      250                     200      250      15£      250        250                 250             250      250      250      250      250          250           250            25               5
/io   na   toiso: (i) Sailtt-tr   aof I)alth Contr-l, and (i0) Rasearoh Station  opersing Cso
2/To  oe.       ntso: (1)80%Iof on-fart                            ,-klponob; (81Pr    aaioyadtrnprilaorb*lt   soif  (1117  -onato-ts  datIOf  iLh.oirol                                               oif
Tb1s   an  -ool   Or  -epaif  il,3  aona    jstlîstnt   _o- t alaia  1983 ot 3.5~    s
3/   To nana   oasi   oU: (i  20 '. of on-fart  fevelap-.t  -oks1  ond (il) M ..oagr-tn, farina roitoiapoif                                      is  lot  notî   hr ropod 1  15 yas    nlft
o 2 y_a  gran   pariof  or6.257/ P.o.
4/   To noeraokiag tapitol reqsiresat sad balan.o  dffloit donisg  tosroino  67. pt.
5/  £n    tbUn3 _oo  4,of  tAis   Anses
67/  1. oo rapanasion  -d na -iooanoî   a-d oportiog ao-ts  ol 00DEMO  allo-bla  o. the  stst  farts
7/ Cala1atad  as 600 kg of pafdy pan  aoppad Ia., ta toto   apersaita  -df naaoon    Ot,0 70 stisa  apert ing  ti.a  ji-  Cara  sod
partialttvn    I  oersss
8/   To Saaoll.      o   Pro   leriba  orh-rd.   Cal-lated at NOCG 4,900 (0016)1  par 'la  Ila  a-o pl,                         ai   îdasataacasa   laaî    a  Iaonad
97/  Cîto1tarîttotoi-dof-ia   1991 o--ard   nati   ba  tar-d av_   on  tho                             _- Coer -ra   tr -otov,   itrsoo tIl n mjo  aloiS  noi , oqopeltr a  arpota
aa-  tloonn          -ad  toula s roi_or   ro RCED



MALAGASY REPUBLIC
MORONDAVA. IRRIGATION AND RURAL DEVEPOMENT PROJECT
Operating Accounts of the Cotton Farm
(?îG million)
1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983-2012
IREVEiJUES-                                       _                              __
Cotton Sales                      22      18     42      8h    150    186    222    240    246    250    252
EXPEJDITURES
On-farm production costs
Inputs                           1       1      2       5      8       9      10     il      i1      11     11
Pest and weed control            5       h      8      20     30      35     38      38      38     40      4o
Equipment                        3       3      5      il     18      22      26     27      28      28     28
Labor                            3       3      6      14     22      27     31      32      33     33      33
Sub-total                       12      il     21      50     78      93    105    108    110    112       112
Operating costs
Staff and administration         -              -       -      -       -      13     13      13      12     12
Operation and maintenance        -       -          _  -       -               8      8       8       8      8
Sub-total                        -       -      -       -      -       -      21     21      21      20     20
Total expenditure                 12      il     21      50     78      93    126    129    131       132   132
'SURPLUS.
Operating surplus                 10       7     21      34     72      93     96    111    115       118    120
Depreciation (20% of equipmentl  1         1      1       2       4      4       5      5       6        6      6
î,tal Surplus                     il       8     22      36     76      97    lOi    116    121       124    126



l !AL(4GA3.Yo £?EPUTBIC
MORONDAVA IRRIGATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMET PROJECT
0perat ing Accounts of the Tobacco Farra
( FIIG million)
1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983-2012
REVENUES
Tobacco Sales                      -      -      10     30      70      136    210    240    290    312    335
Peanuts Sales                      -      -      22     47      82      111    135    136    138    ih6    154
Total                              -      -      32     77    152       247    345    376    428    458    489
EXPENDITURES
On-farm production costs
Inputs                          -       -      4      10      20      30      40      44     49      49      49
Equipment                       -       -       6     13      21       29     36      38      38     38      38
Pumping                         -       -       1      5       8       10     12      12      12     12      12
Replacement olZ drying barns   -        -       -      -       -        -      8       8       8      8       8
Labor                           -       -       5     14      25      42      59      68      74     78      78
Sub-total                       -       -     16      42      74     111    155    170    181    185    185
Operating costs
Staff and administration        -       -       -      -       -        -     30      30      30     27      27
Operation and maintenance                              -                -     19      19      19     19      19
Sub-total                               -       -      -       -        -     49      49     49      46      46
Total Expenditure                  -      -      16     42      74      111    204    219    230    231    231
SURPLUS
Operating surplus                 -       _     16      35      78     136    141    157    198    227    258
Depreciation (20>  of equipment) -        -       1      3       4        6      7       8       8      8       8
Total Surplus              -      -      17      38     82      142    148    165    206    235    266
CD X
tC7 "o



MALAGASY REPUBLIC
MORONDAVA IRRIGATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SODEMO'S ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
GENERAL MAAGR        ""
DEPUTY MANAGER                                                                                              DEPUTY MANAGER
(Administration &    t           DEPUTY MANAGER c   guæmoinuDEPUTY MANAGER                                  I Settlement &
Finance)                        (Research)                        (Technical)                               Social Affairs
MARKETING          ACCOUNTANCY;             RESEARCH            ONFAINRMWRKS              RICE               COTATE                ST
SECRETARIAT              STATION             OPERATION AND            FARMS                STATE                STAa 6
Wor(d Bank- 6864






ANNEX 10
Page 1
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
MORONDAVA IRRIGATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Settlement and Health Control
1.        It is estimated that when all construction is completed, some
3,350 farm families vlll be needed to provide the labor required for
efficient operation of project facilities. At present, there are only about
1,300 farm families in the project area s0 that, assuming an average
family size of four persons, slightly more than 8,000 people vould have to
migrate to and permanently settle in the area over a six-year perlod.
2.        A preliminary study vas carried out by the Government in 1971/72
to devise ways and means of attracting settlers and providing the needed
infrastructure, and to estimate the cost of necessary services. Settlement
services were categorized in the study, under four headinge:
(a) migration service;
(b) village construction;
(c) educational facilities; and
(d) medical facilities and health control.
Migration Service
3.        The activities of the migration service vould include selecting
potential settlers in the villages of their origin, providing transport
and subsistence allowances to them, and receiving them in the project area.
It is anticipated that most of the settlers would come from the southern and
southeastern areas of Madagascar, from tribes that are already represented in
the Morondava region (Betsileo, Antandroy). The migration service would be
set up as a central team at project headquarters, with a network of promotion-
al agents in areas of recruitment.
Village Construction
4.        Immigrants would be settled in villages, each to comprise an
average of 150 familles at firet but capable of expanding in subsequent
stages. Works would include houses, roads and communal facilities, such
as schools, a market place, a bath house, public buildings, and storage
space. About 10 new villages would be constructed, while about 10 existlng
villages would be expanded and their communal facilities improved. The
number and location of these villages would be more precisely established in
a detailed settlement study to be completed by 1974.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
Educational Facilities
5.        The number of elementary echool buildings needed has been estimated
on the basis of four classes to a building, with some 40 to 50 children in
each class, and on the assumption that each settler's family would have
about two children of school age. The cost of school equipment and teachers'
salaries during the initial six-year period have been included in cost
estimates.
Medical Facilities and Health Control
6.        The present health situation in the project area is poor.  There
is a high incidence of malaria, intestinal parasitic infection, measles,
and pulmonary infections, and infant mortality is high (30 to 40% in the
f'irst five years). Present medical infrastructure is scanty and almost
entirely concentrated in the town of Morondava. Only Analaiva has a dis-
pensary (one nurse) and Mahabo has one hospital staffed by one resident
doctor, one nurse, and two midwives to handle 31 beds, including 17 maternity
beds and 150 consultations per day. During the rainy season, no medical
care is available at all to a large section of the population.
7.        As part of the settlement program, an epidemiological center
would be constructed next to the present Mahabo hospital, the capacity of
which would be about doubled. In addition, three new dispensaries would
be constructed at Analaiva, Ankilivalo, and Bezezika. The project would
provide hospital and dispensary equipment, staffing at the various centers
(including two doctors for the epidemiological center and another one
for the hospital), and housing, and such items have been included in the
cost estimates.
8.        As a result of studies carried out by Dr. A. Degremont, a public
health consultant, there can be no doubt that S. Haematobium vesical
schistosomiasis is endemic in the project area. During the appraisal
mission, 300 parasitological examinations were performed on the urine of
school children of both sexes and the incidence of infection vas found to
be 10%. While examination of bodies of water at the time of appraisal
revealed the presence of the intermediate hosto of S. haematobium (Bulinus
o'btusispira) in only one pond, indications are that they are much more
widespread in the rainy season. The salinity of the surface water, measured
by conductimetry at more than 50 water localities, is low and therefore
favorable to the multiplication of these molluscB.
9.        With or vithout development, the incidence of vesical bilharziasis
vill increase rapidly and spread in the area surrounding its existing foci
(Mahabo, Analaiva, Bemanonga, suburbs of Morondava, Androvakely).  The
Morondava plain development project, however, will have two effects:
(a) Positive. The restructuring of the irrigation system vill
undoubtedly slow the spread of the disease and, in any case,
facilitate its control; and



ANNEX 10
Page 3
(b) Negative. Bringing in labor from the outside and increasing
density of the population will raise the chances of infection
and therefore the incidence of the disease.
On the basis of a present incidence of 10 to 20%, it can be estimated
that 40 to 50% of the inhabitant8 of the region would be infected with
vesical schistosomiasis by 1980. The incidence in the Mahabo-Tsivalaka and
Analaiva areas would probably be around 90% because of the unhealthy condi-
tions resulting from the many channels and marshes. A campaign against
bilharziasis would prevent the introduction of schistosomiasis in unaffected
regions, limit its spread in endemic areas, and finally, considerably
reduce the incidence of the disease.
Irrigation Network and Bodies of Water
10.       Irrigation channels, even those made of earth, do not necessarily
provide a good habitat for B. obtusispira, but a careful watch would be
kept for some time on zones where the current is slow. Growth of aquatic
and semi-aquatic vegetation would be kept to a minimum by proper and
regular maintenance of the canals. Earth channels would have a barrier of
sisal to protect the banks against erosion, to prevent zebus from damaging
the channels, and to prevent bathing except at definite, readily controlled
points. Unused water would be discharged into drains or rivers, and formation
of artificial reservoirs of the feeding of temporary lakes would be avoided.
River or stream beds make good drains because their sandy bottoms and
the "flushing" by floods in the rainy season limit the growth of vegetation
and make the biotope unfavorable to Bulinus. Some of the projected drains
would be most hazardous because they would not discharge into a river but
would create more or less permanent reservoirs in depressions. These reser-
voirs, would be enclosed by an impenetrable barrier of thorny vegetation.
At present, Lake Tsivalaka probably harbors no Bulinus obtusispira, but it
constitutes a hazard in regard to vesical bîlharziasis, since, if it ever
became infected, it could not be treated with molluscicides because of
the Eschiorna crassipes (water hyacinths). This lake will therefore
require careful and systematic inspections.
11.       The stagnant ponds or artificial borrow pits of the Mahabo-
Tsivalaka and Analaiva regions are excellent habitats for Bulinus
obtusispira and constitute a dangerous source of infection. Because
treating them with molluscicides would always be difficult and uncertain,
they would be filled in or drained if they could not be fenced off effec-
tively. Artificial borrow pits will undoubtedly be formed during contruc-
tion work but their banks would be made as steep as possible and they
would be placed a good distance from villages if they were not drained or
effectively enclosed. Single-crop rice fields generally form a reservoir
of molluscs only if they are kept more or less permanently under water by
uncontrolled irrigation, but double-crop fields are a possible source of
transmission for vesical bilharziasis. Their treatment with molluscicides,
however, is extremely difficult and can be carried out effectively only
when they are re-submerged after temporary drainage for weeding or tillering



ANNEX 10
Page 4
the rice.  The danger they present can therefore be reduced only by health
education among the inhabitants.
12.       The health control program, in addition to the expansion of
existing facilities, would include a campaign to improve sanitary habits
and hygiene, the acceptance ofewhich would be facilitated by the better
communal facilities to be constructed in the villages. In addition, the
program would also include a preliminary epidemiological study to perform
the following tasks:
(a) prepare a map of all bodies of water in the region;
(b) conduct monthly malacological examinations of all
selected bodies of water, noting distribution of molluscs,
their types, and frequency of infection of intermediate
hosts, and performing chemical measurements on the water;
(c) perform parasitological urine studies in all the main
villages in the project area from random population samples;
and
(d) train technical personnel, 8uch as microscopists and mollu8c
control officers.
The objective of this minimum progran would be to control the disease only
in the developed zones (Analaiva, Bezezika, Mahabo, and Ankilivalo), which
would probably allow the unaffected areas (Ankilivalo) to be protected for
a time and the incidence of the disease to be kept down to its present
level in the affected areas. However, sooner or later, incidence of the
disease would increase in the surrounding areas and there would be a greater
chance of the protected inhabitants becoming infected, even on brief stays
outside their areas. Since the minimum program would not suffice to prevent
the spread of bilharziasis into the developed areas, under such conditions,
it would subsequently be expanded to include:
(a) - regular malacological examination of bodies of water In
the region;
(b) - molluscicidal treatment of all bodies of water harboring
infected intermediate hosts; and
(c) - systematic examination and chemotherapeutic treatment of
all inhabitants of the areas concerned who show symptons of
vesical bilharziasis.
13.       The cost of the epidemiological studies as far as they will be
carried out during the initial six years of the project, as well as the
cost of the detailed settlement study have been included in the cost
estimates. Responsibility for the epidemiological studies would rest with
the center at Mahabo, whereas the project authority (SODEMO) would be
responsible for the settlement study.
May 24, 1972



ANNEX 1 1
Page 1
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
MORONDAVA IRRIGATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Research Station
1.        Agricultural research in the Morondava Plain started in 1968
at the Ankilivalo station to improve the yield of cotton grown on alluvial
soils and at the Antevanema station to find the most suitable crops and
irrigation method for red sandy soils.
Ankilivalo Station
2.        This station concentrates on cotton research.  The work is
conducted by the Institut Recherche Coton et Textile (IRCT), with financial
assistance from the French Aid and Cooperation Fund (FAC). Results obtained
at the station have shown that both the Alcala and Stoneville varieties
could be grown under irrigation with good results. These varieties are
already grown in the area under rainfed conditions by Compagnie Francaise
pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles (CFDT). A small irrigated
coffee plantation (0.25 ha) was also established in 1970 by Institut
Franciase du Cafe et du Cacao (IFCC) to ascertain the possibility of using
small coffee orchards to encourage laborers to settle in the project
area. Experimentation on both cotton and coffee would continue at the
station, and an entomologist would be added to the research team. The work
to be carried out at the station would adequately serve the project needs.
Antevamena Station
3.        Work at this station is conducted by the Institut de Recherche
Agronomique Malgache (IRAM) and financed by the Government. Experiments
deal mainly with tobacco, peanuts, cotton, forage crops, sunflower, wheat,
soya beans, and safflower. Results obtained so far indicate that burley-
type tobacco could be grown successfully in rotation with peanuts and
forage crops. Experimentation would continue but the area would have to
be expanded. As there are no suitable soils in the vicinity to accommodate
the type of research needed, a new 15-ha station would be established on
red sandy soils at the tobacco farm. A deep well, with a capacity of
15 liters/sec, has already been drilled at the site and research work at
the station would be set up as follows:
(a) Tobacco. Experiments would be carried out, with technical
assistance from IRAM and Office Malgache des Tabacs (OFMATA),
on various irrigation methods for burley and for black aircured
tobacco varieties. The crops best adapted for one year
rotations with tobacco would be investigated and experiments
would be conducted to determine the techniques best suited



ANNEX 1i1
Page 2
for protecting seedlings, particularly at the end of the wet
season and after transplanting. Leaf harvesting would be
compared with plant harvesting, and studies would be made to
determine the most suitable type of drying barn.
(b) Peanuts. The program would emphasize selection of varieties,
fertilîzer application, and the use of pesticides.
(c) Cotton. The possibility of introducing cotton in rotation
with tobacco would be investigated, with particular attention
directed at water requirements and irrigation methods.
(d)  ForaRe Crops. Various leguminosae and graminae would be
tried under irrigation, and methode of forage conservation
and cattle fattening vould be studied, with technical assis-
tance from Institut d'Elevage et de Medecine Veterinaire des
Pays Tropicaux (IEMVT).
(e) Other Crops. Other crops, such as wheat, sunflower, and
safflower would also be tested for best growing techniques.
May 24, 1972



MALAGASI REPUBLIC
MO.1ONDAVA IRRIGATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
PRODUCTION WITHOUT AND WITH THE PROJECT
PRODUCTION COSTS                   Net Return
Crop Area    Yield    Price     Gross Value   Inputs and   Hired  Total Net Value        From Project
(ha)      (ton/ha) (FMG/ton)  of Production Machinery    Labor           of Production    Area
----(FNG/ha)----------------- (FMG mll1ron7
WITHOUT PROJECT
Riee (paddy             1,,00         1.2     14.000      16,800         6,000        -     6,000    10,800         16.2
Cotton (seed)             500         1.5    60,000       90,000        42,000     13,000  55,ooo    35,000         17.5
(50,000)    (75,o00)                  (7,0O0) (49,0)  (26,000)        (13.0)
TOTAL                   2,000                                                                                       33.7
(29.2)
WITH PROJECT
Traditional Rice Farms
Rice (paddy)        7,600          4.0    14,000       56,000        11,500       -      .1,500 o  44,500       345.8
Cotton Farm
Cotton (seed)        1,400         3.0    60,000      180,000        56,000     21,000  77,000   103,000        1.44.2
(50,000)   (150,000)                 (11,000) (66,ooo)  (84,000)     (117.6)
Forage                 500          -        -          7,500         6,oo0      1,500   7,500     -              -
Sub-total            1,900                                                                                      144.2
(117.6)
Tobacco Farm
Tobacco (burley)       900         1.5   248,000      372,000        52,000     65,000  117,000  255,000        229.5
(32,000) (84,000)(288e000)     (259.2)
Peanuts              1,800         1.9    45,000       86,ooo        27,000     10,000   37,ooo   48,ooo         86.4
( 5,000) (32,000) (53,000)      (95.4)
Forage                 900          -        -          5,000         3,000      2,000    5,000     -             -
Sub-Total            3,600                                                                                      315.9  
(354.6)
TOTAL                  13,100                                                                                      805,9    M
------                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(818.0)
/ Figures in parenthees indicate adjustaent made for the purpose of
economic analysis (see Annex 14 for details).



ANNEX 12
Table 2
1LALAGASY REPUBLIC
MORONDA'VA IRRIGATION AND RURAL DEV1WPLOT PROJECT
Production Costs
(FMG/ha)
'tem                            Rice    Cotton-r
WithcuQ Project
Seeds                           600       200
Herbi ;c                        -       3,000
Fertilizers                     -       4uOO
Treshing                      1,200      -
Pest control                          12o500
:arm   4fl5i'r                h,1io    l5,- 500
.. abor                     12,000   13,200
echnica.l Assistance           -      4,3 o
Z,i ^117, 900   54,'7°°
Item                          Rice    Cotton                   Tobacco    Peanut
B ith Pro et
Seeds                           600       200.                 5,000       6,000
Herbicides                      200        -                      -           -
esticid.es                      -         -                   7,000         -
ê'ertnlizers                  2,D00    9,100                  17,800       6,300
Sacks                           500        -                     800         300
Weed corLtrol (by airplane)      -     5, 9oc                     -           -
Pest cortrol (by airplane)       -    25,000                      -           -
Treshing                      4,000        -                      _           -
;arm iMac4irer               2,400   15, 500                  18,000     12,000
Powcr for rirk1^r rstc-    -               -                   3,800       2,800
Labir 9                      18,000   21,000                  64,500       9,800
Total                        28,500   /6,700                 116,900      37,200
lj' .t current wage of FMG 150 per day ; for rice cultivatioon the cost aDppies «o I rnio     y
ebiraor à i28bu1ion.
?ebruary 28, 1972



ANNEX 12
Table 3
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
MORONDAVA IRRGATION AND RURAL 1DEVELPET PROJECT
Project Labor Requnrmatu
At FR1 Dovepmt 
(a-month)
Rice Area           Cotton Farx   Tobacco Fara     Total
(Double     (Single
cropped)    cropped)
January         1,000         600           500        1,100          3,200
February        1,700       1,100          400         1,300          4,500
March           2, 90       1,500           300        1,200          5,900
April           3,200       1,1400          300        1,100          6,000
May             1,600         100         1,000        1,500          4,200
June            1,200         -           2,000        1,400          4,600
July            1,OOO                     1,900        1,100          4,000
August          1,700         -             500        2,400          4,600
Septe aber      2,900         100           -          2,600          5,600
October         3,200         500           -          1,300          5,000
November        1,600         900           -            800           3,300
Deceeber        1,200         700           -          1,100          3,000
1/ Based on the following requiremnts in m-dayc per has rice, 120; cotton, 140;
tobacco, 430; peanuts, 65; forage after cotton, 20; and forage after peanuta, 11.
By couparison, present requirents are 80 and 90 ma-days per ha for rice and
cotton, reapectively.






ANNEX 13
Page 1
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
MORONDAVA IRRIGATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Marketing
Rice
1.        Rice is Malagasy's main crop, accounting for 850,000 ha, or
nearly 30% out of the total cultivated area of 2.8 million ha. Domestic
production has been increasing steadily in recent years, with a record
crop of 1.7 million tons of rice recorded in 1970. High quality rice,
which is produced mainly in the high plateau of the country, is being
exported, while low quality rice (42% broken), which is preferred by the
local population, is imported. In 1969, the latest year for which
records are available, rice exports totalled about FMG 2.5 billion and
imports FMG 1.5 billion.
2.        Present production in the Morondava region is about 4,000 tons
of rice per year. The region is self-sufficient in rice, and increased
consumption due to population growth through the 1980's would be met from
higher productivity in existing fields. The bulk of the project produce
would, therefore, have to be marketed outside the region. The major
outlet would be the province of Tulear where the present rice deficit
exceeds 50,000 tons per year, met mostly through imports. By 1985, rice
shortages in Tulear are expected to increase to around 60,000 tons per
year. As rice to be produced on the project could be sold in Tulear
at a price equal to or even lower than the projected 1985 import price,
no difficulties are anticipated in marketing all the project's rice
production.
Cotton
3.        The Malagasy cotton policy is based on an agreement between the
CFDT, signed in 1967 and valid until 1976, which grants to the CFDT the
monopoly of purchasing, ginning, and marketing the entire production
throughout the country. Both farm-gate and ex-factory prices are fixed by
the Government. The Caisse de Stabilisation des Prix du Cotton - an
entity grouping the Ministries of Finance and Agriculture, the Producers
and the Exporters - acts as a regulator of the commercial policy.
4.        Present production is about 17,000 tons of seed cotton,
equivalent to some 6,300 tons of lint. Domestic consumption is about
7,000 tons; it is met by 5,000 tons of domestic production and some 2,000
tons of imported cotton. About 1,000 tons of medium staple (1-3/32") lint
are currently exported. The balance, about 300 tons, constitutes the
stock.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
5.        The CFDT envisages to double the production by 1975, when the
domestic market is expected to absorb about 10,000 tons of textiles; some
1,000 tons - the qualities not produced in the country - would still be
:Lmported. Therefore, the Malagasy exports are projected at a level of about
3,000 tons by 1975. Even without extending the targets, it is in this
context where the project production, about 1,600 tons of lint, would fit.
erobacco
6.        Production of burley tobacco in Madagascar started in the early
1960's and reached about 1,200 tons per year by 1970. Practically the
entire production is being exported to France. Marketing is handled by
t:he Societe Industrielle des Tabacs de Madagascar (SITAM), a private
company consisting of the country's main producers, and the Office Malgache
des Tabacs (OFMATA), a public authority under the supervision of the
ministries of Finance and Agriculture. France and other EEC members would
continue to be the main outlet for Malagasy's burley tobacco. Present
burley imports by the EEC are about 30,000 tons per year and the demand
is growing. Since Madagascar is exempted from EEC import duties on tobacco
(these amount at present to FMG 78 per Kg, or about 25% of the CIF price),
aLnd the country has established an efficient marketing system, no
difficulties are expected in marketing the added production from the
project.
'eanuts
7.        Malagasy's peanut production has increased from about 27,000 tons
In 1961 to 40,000 tons in 1970. At the same time, exports declined from
12,000 tons in 1962 to 4,000 tons in 1970, largely as a result of the lo8s
of the Algerian market, which, in the early 1960's, absorbed about half of
Madagascar's exports. Most exports at present are bought by France. The
increase in peanut production has so far been readily absorbed by the local
market in the form of vegetable oil.
8.        Most of the peanuts Malagasy exports are unshelled, for which
there is little demand on the world market compared to shelled peanuts.
Consequently, all the project produce would be exported in the form of
shelled peanuts. The quantities involved are relatively small and,
considering the quality control measures to be introduced under the
project, there should be no difficulty in exporting all the project
produce.
May 24, 1972



ANNEX 14
Page 1
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
MORONDAVA IRRIGATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        The project's estimated useful life is 40 years.  When discounting
the costs and benefits over this period, the economic rate of return would
be about 16%. Assumptions made in carrying out the analysis are as follows:
(a)  Prices.  Farm-gate prices were derived from the 1980 workd
market prices forecast, prepared by the Bank's Economic
Department. The following assumptions were made in converting
them into farm-gate prices:
(i) Rice. The FOB Rangoon price per ton of standard quality
(42% broken) rice is projected at US$82. When adding to
it US$15 for freight and insurance, the CIF Malagasy port
price is US$97 per ton (FMG 27,000) and, with inland
transport and handling charges, the price at Morondava
would be FMG 33,000 per ton; this would be equivalent to
FMG 22,000 per ton of paddy (milling efficiency, 66%)
and, after deducting milling and transport costs, the
final farmgate price would be FMG 14,000 per ton of paddy.
(ii)  Cotton.  The projected CIF liverpool price of medium staple
cotton (1-3/32") is t26 per pound, equivalent to FM 160,000
per ton of lint, which, after deduction of freight,
insurance, loading and inland transport, comes to an
ex-factory Morondava price of FMG 148,000 per ton; with
a net cost of FMG 4,800 per ton for ginning of seed
cotton and a ginning yield of 37%, the farm-gate price
would be FMG 50,000 per ton of seed cotton.
(iii) Tobacco and Peanuts. The farm-gate prices were based
on the FOB Malagasy average prices obtained during the
period 1966-71, which amounted to US$1,150 (FMG 320,000)
per ton for tobacco and US$287 (FMG 80,000) per ton for
peanuts.  After deducting processaing costs, the farm-gate
prices were FMG 248,000 per ton for tobacco and FMG 45,000
per ton for peanuts. All prices are expressed in terms
of 1972 constant prices.
(b) Project Costs. The costs used in the analysis (FMG 3,610
million) and the timing of investments are based on data
presented in Annex 8. The following costs were excluded
from the evaluation:



ANNEX 14
Page 2
(M)  settlement and health control (FMG 1,320 million),
since these investments would have their own benefits
which vere also excluded from the analysis;
(il) farm machinery and vehicles (FMG 150 million), which
are included in the farm production costs and general
annual expenses, respectively;
(iii)  a share of the comn coste (FMG 270 million) charged
to non-project beneficiaries (Bezezika orchard);
(iv) price contingencies (FMG 1,180 million);
(v)  half the vages of unskilled labor engaged in the
construction of project works (FMG 50 million); and
<vi) agricultural research (FMG 200 million).
(c)  Protect Production.  The projected rice yields are expected
to be reached in the fourth year after introduction of
irrigation, and for other crops in the fifth year. Since
physical implementation of the project would be completed in
six years, full production would be achieved by year 11. In
addition to the benefits generated in the project area, the
project would also improve the water supply for about 900 ha
of rice in the delta area where it has been estimated that
yields would rise from the present level of 1.2 ton/ha
(single cropping) to 3 ton/ha (double cropping); the
corresponding incremental net value (FMG 42 million) is
therefore included in project benefits.
(d)  ProJect Benefits.  In estimating the benefits of the project,
it has been assumed that annual increases of 3% (the overall
growth rate expected for the agricultural sector), up to a
maximum of 15%, would occur in the absence of the project.
2.        The incremental net benefits and project cost streams used in
t:he analysis are presented below:



ANNEX 14
Page 3
Net Value of Production
Year             Costs                  Without Project      Vith Proiect
-------(FMG million)--------------------
1973               308                         30                   30
1974               566                         31-                  31
1975               565                         32                   36
1976               685                         33                  124
1977               897                         34                 271
1978               590                         35                 441
1979                95                         35                 662
1980                95                         35                  761
1981                95                         35                 819
1982                95                         35                  849
1983-2012           95                         35                  860
Rate of Return: 15.6%
3.        To measure the project's sensitivity to deviations from the most
probable assumptions, the following possibilities were tested:
Rate of Return
z
(a) yields in ton/ha were reduced simultaneoualy
to: rice, 3.5; cotton, 2.5; tobacco, 1.2;
and peanuts, 1.6;                                   12.2
(b)  construction costs increased by 20%;                  13.6
(c)  project construction period extended to
8 years; and                                        14.3
(d)  the time required for crops to reach the
projected yield level extended by 4 years.          12.1
MIay 24, 1972






``, \'-n,                                             MALAGASY REPUBLIC
MORONDAVA  IRRIGATION  AND  RURAL  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT                              _
040040 C  UFt antFoOF9mm  )/  <*_ %> >   09O-UFfiFPROJECTED LAND USE AND IRRIGATION NETWORK
400400430003001.040 R- -    -d   100o k,
l000,L0001O ) 1400    _  _  b,|19u  _  _   990  1,90R 1(0D 1t.
lOooO,o1430-.5 _00 1A          5  03091
Tlob  9  30  0390   0400    1400   900  000   1400  10,100  100  k.U'/   %\-> > _
.-LIC ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~--, 
R1o,00 < jii       /  0.<\ 4 Fd4AN AA/II55l0000N r     ~ ° v i   °    ~    S    O   %    N
* To444,|5,  S      _       t      Ze        L      >2        _      2\        zAd);tj                   r     CANAL    \    lANANtlAV3   /   (   /  -
_-  AMV0090d3l54   4,5 E4AK5_ 4,<v                                                                                                               N4sNIS         +   
0,0sOJeCA,EA 4iL0  A Al   O    K 5 > »\10< A 0v 
\   !                                                                                                                                                                           F r IWFTFSOo CO  000
__~~~~~~~~~~,, 000554454  1,d4
A7R1L~~~~~~~~~Z 5,,,                                                                                                                                                                                                       199D~I Osoono



