CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 322 MAG
Development Credit
Agreement
(Morondava Irrigation and Rural Development Project)
BETWEEN
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 30, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 322 MAG
Development Credit
Agreement
(Morondava Irrigation and Rural Development Project)
BETWEEN
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 30, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 1972, between MALAGASY REPUBLIC
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Development Credit Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has, by Decree No. 61,593, dated November 2, 1961,
established the Aire de Mise en Valeur Rurale de Morondava; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of
Sections 5.01 and 6.02 (h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02 (i)
into 6.02 (h) thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project Area" means the areas within the territories of the Borrower,
west of Dabara, north of the Morondava River, east of the Marovoay-Andranomena
road and south of the Andranomena River, comprising a total of about 10,000


﻿4
ha, which areas shall be further defined on a map to be agreed upon between
the Borrower and the Association;
(b)   "AMVRM" means the Aire de Mise en Valeur Rurale de Morondava
referred to in paragraph (B) of the preamble to this Development Credit Agreement;
(c)   "SCMV" means the Service Central de Mise en Valeur of the Ministry
of Agriculture of the Borrower;
(d)   "Delta rice area" means the portion of the territories of the Borrower
comprising a total of about 900 hectares west of Marovoay and between the
Morondava and Kabatomena Rivers.
(e)   "BNM" means "Banque Nationale Malagasy de Developpement", a
socite financidre et de crdit d'intrdt national of the Borrower, established
pursuant to Law No. 61-029 of the Borrower, dated October 18, 1961 and to
Statuts published in the Journal Officiel of the Borrower on February 9, 1963;
(f)   "GR" means the Genie Rural, the rural engineering services of the
Ministry of Agriculture of the Borrower;
(g)   "SODEMO" means "SocitW pour le Dgveloppement Economique de
la Rggion de Morondava ", a Soci9t9 d'economie mixte of the Borrower, established
pursuant to Decree No. 72-043 of the Borrower, dated February 22, 1972;
(h)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SODEMO pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this
Development Credit Agreement, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, as the same may be amended from time to time and such term includes
all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(i)   "FMG" means Malagasy Francs in the currency of the Borrower; and
(j)   "ha" means "hectares".
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,


﻿5
an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million three hundred
thousand dollars ($15,300,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Development
Credit Agreement, as such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Development Credit Agreement and to be financed under
this Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank
(other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such
territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1979 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-quarters of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing
October 15, 1982 and ending April 15, 2022, each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 15, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿6
ARTICLE I
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A and B of the Project
through GR and Part F of the Project through SCMV, and shall cause SODEMO
to carry out Parts C and D of the Project and to carry out or cause to be carried
out Part E of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with sound administrative, agricultural and financial practices, and shall provide,
and cause SODEMO to be provided with, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)        make available to SODEMO in the form of a grant an
amount equivalent to such proceeds of the Credit as it
shall withdraw from the Credit Account for the carrying
out of Parts C.5, C.6 and E of the Project; and
(ii)       lend to SODEMO such other amounts equivalent to the
proceeds of the Credit as it shall withdraw from the Credit
Account for the carrying out of Parts C.1, C.2, C.3, C.4
and D of the Project, under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
(iii)      exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Association and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, not take any action which may have the
effect of amending, assigning, abrogating, terminating or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
(c)   Without in any way restricting or limiting its obligations under
paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, the Borrower shall cause BNM to provide
credit to SODEMO and, through SODEMO, to the farmers participating in Part
C.3 of the Project in such additional amounts as shall be required to carry out
Parts C.1, C.2, C.3, C.4 and D of the Project and to operate efficiently the
agricultural production units included in Parts C.1, C.2 and C.3 of the Project,
under such terms and conditions as shall be agreed from time to time between
the Borrower, the Association and BNM.


﻿7
Section 3.02 (a) In order to assist SCMV, GR and SODEMO in the carrying
out of the Parts of the Project respectively entrusted to them, the Borrower shall
cause SCMV, GR and SODEMO to employ engineering, agricultural, management
and accounting consultants acceptable to the Association to an extent and upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   In order to assist SODEMO in the carrying out of the research programs
included in Part C.6 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause SODEMO to enter
into a contract with the Institut de la Recherche Agronomique Malgache, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, within six months from the
date of this Development Credit Agreement.
Section 3.03. In carrying out the civil works included in the Project, the
Borrower shall employ and cause GR and SODEMO to employ contractors
acceptable to the Association to an extent and upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credx . -ainst hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof ' Lhe place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower, through SCMV, shall furnish to the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules, for the Project, and
any mateial modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, and cause SCMV, GR and SODEMO
to set up and maintain, records adequate to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to inspect the Project, the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the


﻿8
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause SODEMO to take all such
action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the construction and operation of the
facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause SODEMO to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of SODEMO; such records to
reflect, independently from all operations of SODEMO, the operations and financial
condition of the agricultural production units included in Parts C. 1 and C.2 of
the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause SODEMO       to: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of such accounts and financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning such accounts and financial statements and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause SODEMO to:
(a)   at all times conduct its operations under experienced and competent
management, in accordance with sound financial, agricultural and commercial
practices and with the assistance of adequate, competent and experienced staff;
(b)   consult with the Association prior to making any appointment to the
post of General Manager;


﻿) 9
(c)   replace non-Malagasy personnel with Malagasy personnel only after the
Borrower, the Association and SODEMO shall have agreed, in each case, upon the
qualifications and experience of the candidate;
(d)   be able to offer to its Malagasy personnel in key positions in the field
such salaries or other related benefits as shall be necessary to attract the qualified
personnel required in the Project Area;
(e)   at all times operate, renew, repair and maintain all irrigation and
drainage works and :ssociated facilities within the Project Area;
(f)   continue to provide the agricultural support services referred to in Part
C.4 of the Project after the completion of the Project; and
(g)   take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other
provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall (a) take all feasible measures to ensure
that the execution and operation of the Project are carried out with due regard
to ecological and environmental factors and (b) not permit (i) the water flow of
the Morondava River or of other rivers supplying water to the Project Area to
be depleted, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, below the minimum water
requirements of the agricultural production units referred to in Parts C. 1, C.2 and
C.3 of the Project and of the rice farmers in the Delta rice area; or (ii) that the
waters of such rivers be polluted in any way which might have an adverse effect
on the agricultural development of the Project Area or the sanitary conditions
prevailing therein.
Section 4.04. (a) As and when the irrigation and drainage facilities required
for the Project are completed, the Borrower shall distribute land plots of about
(i) I ha for dry-farming, near the area referred to in Part C. 1 of the Project, to
permanent laborers working in the agricultural production unit therein referred
to; (ii) 0.3 ha for irrigated rice cultivation, to permanent laborers working in the
agricultural production unit referred to in Part C.2 of the Project; and (iii) 2 ha
for irrigated rice cultivation, in the area referred to in Part C.3 of the Project,
to farmers settled therein and working thereat.
(b)   The land distribution referred to in sub-paragraph (iii) of the preceding
paragraph (a) shall be in accordance with the terms and conditions of a contract,
acceptable to the Association, to be entered into between the Borrower, SODEMO


﻿10
and each such farmer in respect of each such plot; such contract to provide, inter
alia, that:
(i)        each such farmer or his successors shall pay to SODEMO over
a period of 40 years beginning one year after completion of
Part C.3 of the Project an annual charge equivalent, on the
average, to 600 kilograms of rice paddy for each cropped hectare
per harvest, as compensation for improvements and services
provided by SODEMO; and
(ii)       upon completion of such payments and compliance with the
other terms and conditions of the relevant contract over a period
of 15 years, each such farmer, or his successors, shall become
the owner of the plot to which the contract applies.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause SODEMO to:
(a)   collect  from  the Bezezika   citrus  state  farm, beginning  on
January 1, 1979, or such other later date as shall be agreed between the Borrower,
the Association and SODEMO, one annual irrigation and drainage service charge
equivalent to FMG 4,000 for each cultivated and irrigated ha or such other amount
as shall be agreed between the Borrower, the Association and SODEMO by
September 30, 1978 and at least every five years thereafter; and
(b)   pay to the Borrower, on April 1, 1981 and every year thereafter until
2012, an amount equivalent to the net cash surplus of the preceding fiscal year
obtained by SODEMO.
For the purposes of the preceding paragraph (b):
(i)         "net cash surplus" means gross cash revenues from operations
less all cash operating expenses, after the constitution of a
working capital fund equivalent to $1,000,000;
(ii)       "gross cash revenues from operation" means the aggregate gross
cash revenues of SODEMO, including in particular the operation
surplus of the agricultural production units referred to in Parts
C.1 and C.2 of the Project and the charges paid to SODEMO
in accordance with Sections 4.04 (b) (i) and 4.05 (a) of this
Development Credit Agreement;


﻿11
(iii)        "operation  surplus", for   the  purposes of the     preceding
sub-paragraph (ii), means gross revenues from the marketing of
the agricultural products of the relevant production unit less
depreciation and the costs of operation and management of such
unit; and
(iv)         "cash operating expenses" means the aggregate expenditures of
SODEMO, including in particular its operating costs, debt service,
replacement of equipment and dividends paid to its shareholders
at a rate agreed to between the Borrower, the Association and
SODEMO.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall (a) operate the educationce and sanitary
facilities included in Parts E.3 and E.4 of the Project in accordance with sound
administrative, educational and sanitary practices; (b) staff such facilities with
competent and qualified staff in adequate numbers; (c) adequately maintain all
such facilities and make all necessary repairs and renewals therein; and (d) provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall cause GR at all times to operate, renew,
repair and maintain all irrigation and drainage works and associated facilities within
the Delta rice area.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from    time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under this Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of SODEMO and,
in respect of the Project, of SCMV, GR and any other departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part theireof, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and


﻿12
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of SODEMO and,
in respect of the Project, of SCMV, GR and any other departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform     each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under this
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. This Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.


﻿13
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Development Credit Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time
during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to
the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and
payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and upon any such
declaration such principal and service charges shall become due and payable
immediately, anything to the contrary in this Development Credit Agreement
notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   SODEMO shall have failed to make payment of principal, interest or
any other payment required under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b)   a default shall have occurred in the performance of any other obligation
on the part of the Borrower or SODEMO under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   any creditor of SODEMO shall have demanded payment of monies
lent to SODEMO, prior to the agreed maturity of any loan having an original
maturity of one year or longer, in accordance with the terms of such loan; and
(d)   the Decree No. 72-043 of the Borrower, dated February 22, 1972,
or the Statuts of SODEMO shall have been suspended, terminated, repealed or
amended in such way as to impair the ability of SODEMO to carry out Parts
C, D, and E of the Project or its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) or in paragraph (c) of Section
7.02 of this Development Credit Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of thirty days;
(b)   any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 7.02 of this
Development Credit Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty


﻿14
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower
and SODEMO; and
(c)   any  event specified  in paragraph (d) of Section 7.02 of this
Development Credit Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Statuts of SODEMO, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association, have been duly approved by all necessary corporate
and governmental action;
(b)   a financial plan to enable SODEMO to carry out Parts C, D and E
of the Project, consistent with the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) and (c) of this
Development Credit Agreement and in all other respects satisfactory in form and
substance to the Borrower, the Association and SODEMO, has been agreed between
the Borrower and SODEMO and has been duly approved by all necessary corporate
and governmental action; and
(c)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action, executed and delivered and
has become effective; and
(d)   the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Development
Credit Agreement have been employed by SODEMO and GR.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that all acts, consents and approvals required in connection with the
Statuts of SODEMO have been validly performed or given;
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and SODEMO,


﻿15
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
SODEMO in accordance with its terms; and
(c) that the other contractual arrangements, if any, required to carry out,
initially, the financial plan referred to in Section 8.01 (b) of this Development
Credit Agreement, have been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and
delivered on behalf of, SODEMO and all other parties thereto, respectively, and
that such arrangements constitute valid and binding obligations of SODEMO and
such parties in accordance with their respective terms.
Section 8.03. The date of September 28, 1972, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under paragraph (c) of Section
3.01 and Article IV (except paragraph (e) of Section 4.02 and Section 4.05) of
this Development Credit Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
this Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years
after the date of this Development Credit Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Ministre des Finances of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre des Finances
Tananarive
Malagasy Republic
Cable address:
Minfin
Tananarive


﻿16
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
By /s / Ch. Randrianasolo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / M. Shoaib
Vice President


﻿17
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
I.    Equipment                    1,300,000       100% of foreign ex-
penditures
or
75% of local expendi-
tures (representing
the estimated foreign
expenditure component)
II.   Civil Works for:
(a)   Parts A and B           5,000,000 )    73% of total expendi-
of the Project                    )     tures (representing
)     the estimated foreign
(b)   Part C of the           3,900,000 )    expenditure component)
Project                           )
(c)   Part E of the            900,000       30% of total expendi-
Project                                 tures (representing
the estimated foreign
expenditure component)
III.  Consultants' Ser-
vices for:


﻿18
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(a)   Parts A and B            450,000 )
of the Project                    )
)     82% of total expendi-
(b)   Parts C, D and          1,450,000 )    tures (representing
E of the Proj-                    )     the estimated foreign
ect                               )     expenditure component)
(c)   Part F of the            300,000 )
Project                           )
IV.   Unallocated                  2,000,000
TOTAL            15,300,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Development Credit Agreement,
except that withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories III (a) and (b) on


﻿19
account of expenditures incurred after May 1, 1972, in an amount not exceeding
in the aggregate the equivalent of $200,000; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Development Credit Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and the Association may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Association under this Development Credit
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in
the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category II or
III shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to


﻿20
such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the first phase of a development plan of the Borrower for
the Worondava region and it consists of providing irrigation and associated services
to three new agricultural production units, totalling in the aggregate about
9,300 ha. The Project comprises the following Parts:
A.    Main Irrigation Works
1.   Construction of a diversion dam on the Morondava River, at Dabara.
2.    Rehabilitation of about 64 km of the Dabara Canal and the North
Canal.
3.    Deepening and widening of the Tandila, Tsivavy and Mande Rivers
for drainage purposes, and excavation of two main drains at Kabatomena and
Androvakely, in the Delta rice area.
4.    Construction of secondary irrigation and drainage canals to serve the
Project Area.
5.    Detailed engineering for the above works.
B.    Road Works
1.    Reconstruction of the Bevoay-Mahabo road, including about 12.5 km
of macadam surfacing.
2.    Construction of a rural road through Analaiva tobacco area, to connect
Betsinefo and Betsipotika.
3.    Construction of about 69 km of farm roads along the secondary canals
and about 14 km of feeder roads throughout the Project Area.
4.    Rehabilitation of all existing service roads along the main canals.
5.    Detailed engineering for the above works.
C.    Farm Development, Ancillary Buildings,
Equipment and Staff Housing


﻿22
1.    Organization of a tobacco and peanuts farm       at Analaiva, with an
approximate cultivated area of 2,700 ha, including construction of a sprinkler
irrigation system.
2.    Organization of a cotton farm     at Ankilivalo, with an approximate
cultivated area of 1,900 ha, including construction of tertiary and quaternary gravity
irrigation and drainage systems.
3.    Land consolidation and distribution to rice farmers in the vicinity of
Mahabo, Tsivalaka and Ambohibary, in an aggregate of about 4,700 ha of cultivated
land, including construction of tertiary and quaternary gravity irrigation and
drainage systems.
4.    Provision of agricultural support services to rice farmers, including, but
without limitation:
(a)   irrigation management and distribution;
(b)   assistance in obtaining agricultural credit;
(c)   assistance in procuring agricultural machinery and equipment, seeds,
fertilizers, pesticides and other required inputs;
(d)   agricultural extension services; and
(e)   training and   organization  of farmers into cooperatives or other
intermediate    associations   capable    of   assuming    managerial
responsibilities.
5.    Construction of an applied research station of about 15 ha within the
Analaiva tobacco farm.
6.    Carrying out at the new Analaiva station and at the existing stations
at Ankilivalo and Antevamena of applied research, mainly on tobacco, peanuts,
cotton and forage crops.
7.    Detailed engineering for works described in paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and
5 hereof.
D.    Main tenance
Preparation and initial execution of an operations and maintenance program
for the foregoing irrigation, drainage, road and farm development works, including
equipment therefor.


﻿23
E.    Settlement and Health Services
1.    Recruitment and selection of about 2,100 settler families to participate
in the Project; provision of transportation and subsistence allowances to such
families; and reception and location of such families throughout the Project Area.
2.    Expansion   and improvement of about 10 existing villages and
construction of about 10 villages, with an average capacity of 150 families each,
at locations to be agreed from time to time between the Borrower and the
Association.
3.    Construction, equipping and furnishing of about 20 elementary schools
at the foregoing villages with an aggregate enrollment capacity of about 4,200
student places and of a technical training center with an enrollment capacity of
about 100 student places.
4.    Expansion of the hospital at Mahabo to double its capacity to about
50 beds; construction, equipping and furnishing of an epidemiological center,,
adjacent to such hospital and of one new dispensary each at Analaiva, Ankilivalo
and Bezezika, including staff housing.
5.    The carrying out of health control services, including, inter alia:
(a)   a six-year program to control the incidence of a urinary bilharzia in
the Project Area and consisting of:
(i)         the preparation of a map of all bodies of water in the Project
Area and the periodic sanitary inspection thereof;
(ii)        educational hygiene campaigns and selective parasitological
testing of residents in the Project Area; and
(iii)       treatment of residents and bodies of water as may be necessary
in accordance with sound public health standards and practices;
and
(b)   the preparation of a long-term plan for the control and eradication
of urinary bilharzia, to be implemented after consultation with the
Association.
6.    The provision of professional services to assist in carrying out the
settlement and works, and to provide the services, herein described.


﻿24
F.    Feasibility Studies
Feasibility studies for the second phase of development of the Morondava
region.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1978.


﻿25
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more or any contract for the supply of equipment estimated to
cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more:
(a)   Goods and services shall be grouped, whenever practicable, for the
purposes of inviting bids in amounts sufficiently large to attract international
competitive bidding.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom    it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the engineering
and agricultural consultants referre.J to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Development
Credit Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendations for award of such consultants, and the reasons for the
intended award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03
of this Development Credit Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
2.    In the case of any contract for civil works estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $100,000 or of any contract for the provision of equipment estimated


﻿26
to cost less than the equivalent of $10,000, competitive bidding may be limited
to firms doing business within the territories of the Borrower and the award shall
be made in accordance with the Borrower's procurement procedures; provided,
however, that (i) the total aggregate amount of such contract shall not, unless
the Association shall otherwise agree, exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000 in the
case of contracts for civil works or of $400,000 in the case of contracts for the
provision of equipment; and (ii) the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request.
3.    No amendments shall be made without the prior written approval of the
Association to any contract referred to in the preceding paragraphs 1 and 2 if
such amendment involves a price increase of more than 10% of the original contract
price.
4.    For the purpose of evaluating bids for goods and associated services included
in Category I of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Development Credit
Agreement, bid prices shall be determined and compared in accordance with the
following rules:
(a)   the term  "Local Bid" means a bid submitted by a manufacturer
established in the territories of the Borrower for goods manufactured or processed
to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the Association) in such
territories; any other bid shall be deemed to be a "Foreign Bid";
(b)   the bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum of the following
amounts:
(i)         the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii)       inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such
goods to the place of their use or installation;
(c)   for the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid,
the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of the following amounts:
(i)         the c.i.f. (port of entry) price of such goods;
(ii)       the amount of any taxes on the importation of such goods into
the territories of the Borrower which generally apply to


﻿27
non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount specified in (i)
above, whichever shall be the lower; and
(iii)       inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such
goods to the place of their use or installation.


