Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2654 
Operation Name 
Third Development Policy Loan 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
General finance sector (50%);General public administration sector 
(50%) 
Project ID 
P100327 
Borrower(s) 
MINSITRY OF FINANCE 
Implementing Agency 
OORDINATING MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS 
Date PID Prepared 
September 15, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
October 15, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 19, 2006 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
In recent years, Indonesia has provided compelling reasons for a positive outlook.  The country has 
restored macroeconomic and financial stability through prudent fiscal and monetary policies, has 
strengthened the financial sector and intensified efforts to improve the investment climate, the physical 
infrastructure, the legal framework, public sector governance, and the fight against corruption.  The 
economy ended 2005 with overall GDP growth of 5.6 percent, the highest rate in nine years.  After 
adjusting to the effects of last year’s fuel subsidy reductions, the economy has shown signs of a rebound, 
with strong exports, falling interest rates, higher public and consumer spending, and lower inflation.  
Debt to GDP is also continuing to decline.  Current Bank projections foresee a growth rate of 5.5 percent 
for 2006 and 6 percent in 2007.  Last year’s cabinet shake-up has reinvigorated the reform process with 
the Government issuing several reform packages in key areas.  With sustained growth, continued 
political stability, and broad progress on the reform agenda, investor confidence has risen.  During the 
first half of 2006, the JSX stock index gained 23 percent; Moody’s International raised Indonesian bond 
ratings (foreign and domestic) from B2 to B1, followed by S&P’s upgrade from B+ to BB- in July.  In 
September 2006, Indonesia’s Finance Minister was named Best Finance Minister by Euromoney, 
attesting to the Government’s commitment to macroeconomic stability and structural and institutional 
reform. 
Despite the positive outlook, the Government faces tremendous challenges to achieving its development 
objectives.  The past year provided another reminder of the natural perils facing Indonesia, given the 
May 2006 earthquake in central Java, the July tsunami in west Java, continuing concerns over the 
potential eruption of Mt. Merapi, and the worrisome spread of Avian Influenza.  And while the current 
administration has triggered genuine momentum in the fight against corruption – with several high 
profile corruption investigations having been launched and successfully prosecuted – the Government 
lacks a clear focal point to develop and implement a comprehensive preventative anti-corruption 
strategy, leaving weak governance and corruption as major impediments to sustainable growth and 
poverty reduction.  On the latter, while poverty in recent years had dipped to below levels seen prior to 
the regional financial crisis, the past year saw an 11.25 percent (or 3.95 million) increase in the poverty 
head count.  Initial assessments point to the sharp rise in the price of rice, due in part to restrictions on 
imports.  The Government’s on-going fuel subsidy compensation programs – the assessment of which is 
supported by DPL 3 – and the recently announced nationwide expansion of Bank-supported CDD 
approaches, should provide direct assistance to the poor.  However, sustainable poverty reduction 
requires accelerated progress on the Government’s pro-poor and pro-growth reform agenda.  Such is the 
Page  2
rationale behind the DPL program.  The policy dialogue and analytic work underpinning the DPL 
program are addressing critical structural and institutional reforms needed to consolidate 
macroeconomic stability and to improve the investment climate, public financial management, 
governance and anti-corruption, and the provision of public service delivery. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The overall goal of the DPL program is to help the Government achieve its medium-term growth and 
poverty reduction objectives.  The proposed DPL 3 is the third of four annual, single tranche operations 
in a programmatic series.  It supports a subset of the Government’s medium-term strategy (RPJM) and 
annual work plans (RKP) – and builds on Government-issued policy packages – to achieve four 
mutually reinforcing and cross-cutting objectives: (i) macroeconomic stability and creditworthiness; (ii) 
improved investment climate; (iii) enhanced public financial management, governance, and anti-
corruption; and (iv) improved public service delivery.  The policy dialogue underpinning DPL 3 covers 
a
broad array of issues and reform measures – the most critical of which are highlighted as triggers or 
prior actions.  The results framework of the DPL program focuses on a prioritized set of expected 
outcomes which has driven the design and selection of reform measures supported by the operation.  
Policy actions proposed under DPL 3 are expected to continue to strengthen fiscal policy, reduce public 
debt levels, and raise non-oil and gas revenues.  They aim to reduce the burden on the business 
community, making it easier and less costly to register and license new businesses, and strengthening 
the regulatory environment.  Reforms should also help diversify and strengthen the financial sector.  On 
governance, the DPL program is expected to accelerate reform measures recommended by the CFAA, 
improving budget management and making financial systems more transparent and effective.  New areas 
under consideration include anti-corruption, civil service reform, and social protection – all key areas 
that are expected to grow in importance in future DPL operations. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
The proposed operation entails several key benefits.  The first is to help lock in and accelerate progress 
on a set of priority reforms from the Government’s own development program.  The proposed reforms 
cover four critical policy areas: (i) macroeconomic stability and creditworthiness; (ii) investment 
climate; (iii) public financial management, governance, and anti-corruption; and (iv) public service 
delivery.  The DPL program is seen by many reformers within Government as a vehicle for highlighting 
key measures, raising them to high levels of the administration, fostering discussion and debate, and 
focusing attention to ensure they are undertaken.  The second expected benefit is to sustain Bank 
engagement in the policy dialogue with Government on the direction and content of, and strategies for, 
its economic, structural, and institutional reform program.  The third benefit is donor harmonization and 
parallel financing by key donors (World Bank, Government of Japan, Asian Development Bank) around 
a
common policy framework and dialogue.  For 2006, the Government faces an unanticipated increase 
in financing needs and has requested more in program loans from the three donors.  In addition to the 
US$500-600 million proposed for DPL 3 by the World Bank, parallel financing is expected from the 
Government of Japan (about US$100 million) and the Asian Development Bank (US$200 million).  All 
three donors have sought to closely harmonize policy dialogue and to ensure complementarity with each 
others’ programs, with the ultimate goal of reducing duplication and transaction costs to the government.  
Lastly, the DPL has provided a critical signaling effect and key endorsement by donors of the 
Government’s sound policy implementation and economic management. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
Page  3
DPL 3 supports key reform measures of the Government’s medium-term agenda.  A review of the 
proposed policy triggers for DPL 3 indicates that the following require closer scrutiny and discussion 
over ways mitigating potentially adverse effects. 
ƒ
Measures proposed by the Government to improve the investment climate by cutting the time 
taken to start up new businesses should have no discernable negative environmental effect.  
However there is a tendency towards misinterpretation of the intent of such measures at sub-
national government level.  For example, some sectoral ministries perceive that they are 
expected to speed licensing of complex operations, such as forest concessions, power plants or 
pulp mills, which will undermine efforts to ensure complete environmental review and multi-
stakeholder consultation.  Such misinformation and confusion, which has led to considerable 
concern both within the Ministry of Environment and at the provincial level, is unnecessary and 
could have the effect of further weakening existing environmental management procedures. 
ƒ
Proposed government support for infrastructure sector public-private partnerships (PPP), in the 
form of subsidies or risk bearing, as well as establishment of PPP institutions must be seen 
within the context of weak capacity for environmental management in the sector.  While the 
roads directorate of the Ministry of Public Works is probably the best-equipped national 
government agency with a dedicated unit responsible for environmental and social safeguards, it 
is already under pressure from the considerable volume of World Bank and other donor-related 
safeguards work which it handles.  In other sectors, such as water and sanitation, energy and 
telecommunications, no such capacity currently exists.  At a minimum, the capacity of 
government departments and agencies dealing with the environmental review of infrastructure 
projects needs to be ‘established’ and then resourced to a level that is commensurate with the 
volume of new investment. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
530 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
70 
 Total 
600 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Subrahmanya Pulle Srinivas 
Title: Lead Financial Economist 
Tel: 5781+3082 
Fax:  
Email: Psrinivas@worldbank.org 
Location: Jakarta, Indonesia (IBRD)
 
