Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2700 
Operation Name 
Third Development Policy Loan/Credit (DPL 3) 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
General finance sector (50%);General public administration sector 
(50%) 
Project ID 
P100327 
Borrower(s) 
MINSITRY OF FINANCE 
Implementing Agency 
OORDINATING MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS 
Date PID Prepared 
November 24, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
November 13, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
December 19, 2006 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
Indonesia is a much different country than it was just a few years ago.  In recent years, Indonesia 
has restored macroeconomic and financial stability through prudent fiscal and monetary policies; 
has strengthened the financial sector and intensified efforts to improve the investment climate, 
the physical infrastructure, the legal framework, public sector governance, and the fight against 
corruption and poverty.  Despite occasional bouts of volatility, the economy is on strong footing.  
Recent growth rates (5.6 percent in 2005, 5.5 expected in 2006) are among the highest in the 
region.  The debt to GDP ratio is around 40 percent of GDP and falling quickly, while total 
investment is now 21.5 percent of GDP.  Having reduced regressive fuel subsidies last year, the 
Government (central and regional) has an additional US$10 billion dollars a year to spend on 
development priorities, and consolidated government investment is estimated to be close to pre-
crisis levels as a share of GDP in 2006.  The transition to higher domestic fuel prices and rising 
world interest rates has been managed well, with the exchange rate stabilized and inflation and 
interest rates down significantly.   
The reform agenda is progressing well.  Financial sector reforms are continuing: the banking 
system has a strong capital position; reform of non-bank financial institutions is gaining 
momentum; and the blanket guarantee on deposits has been withdrawn in line with the 
announced schedule.  Indonesia’s international credit rating improved from B- to BB- and 
domestic and international interest premiums have declined.  Perceptions of the investment 
climate are improving gradually – as indicated in the Investment Climate Monitoring Surveys – 
although challenges remain.  There has been solid progress on public financial management and 
governance.  Finance, Treasury, and Audit laws are in place with a new law on the Supreme 
Audit Board having been approved in October 2006 to clarify the role of the Government’s 
external auditor.  Reforms at the Ministry of Finance have been especially impressive.  A first 
and second reorganization provides better checks and balances and more transparency; there is 
renewed leadership in taxes and customs areas of long standing concern by business and civil 
society; and piloting substantive civil service reform is now on the table.  Progress has been 
more difficult on the investment climate and infrastructure as coordination problems and 
institutional difficulties have slowed implementation.  Nevertheless the time to start a business 
has been reduced from 151 to 97 days, and breakthrough investment and tax laws are now under 
Page  2
discussion in Parliament.  Reform is being institutionalized through policy packages on 
infrastructure, investment, finance, and a pending package on SMEs. These packages lay out 
reform goals, specific reform measures to be undertaken, responsibilities, timing, and monitoring 
framework. 
Despite the positive outlook, the Government faces tremendous challenges.  The past year 
provided another reminder of the natural perils facing Indonesia, given the May 2006 earthquake 
in central Java, the July tsunami in west Java, and the worrisome spread of Avian Influenza.  
And while the current administration has triggered genuine momentum in the fight against 
corruption 
–
with several high profile corruption investigations having been launched and 
successfully prosecuted – the Government lacks a clear focal point to develop and implement a 
comprehensive preventative anti-corruption strategy, leaving weak governance and corruption as 
major impediments to sustainable growth and poverty reduction.  On the latter, while poverty in 
recent years had dipped to below levels seen prior to the regional financial crisis, Indonesia saw 
an increase in poverty in 2006, from 16 percent (2005) to 17.8 percent (or 3.95 million people 
falling below the poverty line).  Initial assessments point to the 33 percent increase in the price of 
rice, due in part to restrictions on imports that were subsequently relaxed.  The Government’s 
on-going fuel subsidy compensation programs and the Government’s expansion of Bank-
supported CDD programs to over 70,000 villages by 2009 should provide direct assistance to the 
poor.  However, sustainable poverty reduction requires accelerated progress on the 
Government’s pro-poor and pro-growth reform agenda.   
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The overall goal of the DPL program is to help the Government achieve its medium-term growth 
and poverty reduction objectives.  The proposed DPL 3 is the third of four annual, single tranche 
operations in a programmatic series.  It supports a subset of the Government’s medium-term 
strategy (RPJM) and annual work plans (RKP) – and builds on Government-issued policy 
packages – to achieve four mutually reinforcing and cross-cutting objectives: (i) macroeconomic 
stability and creditworthiness; (ii) improved investment climate; (iii) enhanced public financial 
management, governance, and anti-corruption; and (iv) improved public service delivery.   
 
The policy dialogue underpinning DPL 3 covers a broad array of issues and reform measures – 
the most critical of which are highlighted as prior actions.  The results framework of the DPL 
program focuses on a prioritized set of expected outcomes which has driven the design and 
selection of reform measures supported by the operation.  Policy actions proposed under DPL 3 
are expected to continue to strengthen fiscal policy, reduce public debt levels, and raise non-oil 
and gas revenues.  They aim to reduce the burden on the business community, making it easier 
and less costly to register and license new businesses, and strengthen the regulatory environment.  
Reforms should also help diversify and strengthen the financial sector.  On governance, the DPL 
program is expected to accelerate reform measures recommended by the CFAA, improving 
budget management and making financial systems more transparent and effective.  New areas 
under consideration include anti-corruption, civil service reform, and social protection – all key 
areas that are expected to grow in importance in future DPL operations. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Page  3
The Bank continues
 to play a key role in supporting Indonesia’s reform process through the DPL 
program.  In the past three years, the DPL has facilitated a coordinated approach to donor policy 
engagement with the country’s main development partners, namely, the World Bank, the Asian 
Development Bank (ADB), and the Japanese Government; provided an impetus for decision 
makers to debate, coordinate, and prioritize policy and institutional reforms; supported reform 
“champions” within the Government by locking in and accelerating key reform measures; 
reduced the average cost of borrowing; and extended the government debt maturity.  More 
broadly speaking, the DPL has helped the Government operationalize key parts of its 2004-09 
RPJM, or medium-term strategy, by translating broad objectives to a set of high priority policy 
actions.  Overall progress has been made commensurate with expectations, both in terms of 
achieving the DPL program’s original outcomes and fulfillment of critical reform measures that 
underpin each operation. 
 
4. Financing 
 
The DPL 3 is a single-tranche IBRD loan of US$ 530 million and IDA credit of SDR 47,370,000 
(equivalent to US$70 million, at the exchange rate of 1.47789 as of October 31, 2006) that would 
be made available upon loan effectiveness, as all policy actions supported by the loan/credit 
would have been completed prior to Board presentation. For the IBRD loan, the Government has 
confirmed that Indonesia would borrow this amount as a Fixed Spread Loan (FSL) in US$ 
currency.  The terms for IDA credit would follow the standard terms for blend countries.   
 
The operation has benefited from a harmonized policy dialogue and parallel financing by two of 
Indonesia’s largest development partners.  The Government of Japan was closely involved in the 
policy dialogue and preparation of DPL 1-2 and provided parallel financing for $100 million for 
each operation.  Collaboration has continued with DPL 3, for which it has expressed interest in 
parallel financing (the amount is yet to be determined).  At the request of the Government of 
Indonesia, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) also parallel financed DPL 2 for $200 million 
and a similar amount of parallel financing is expected for DPL3.   
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The loan disbursement will follow the standard Bank procedures for Development Policy 
Lending.  The loan amount will be disbursed into a foreign currency account of the Borrower at 
Bank Indonesia that forms part of Indonesia’s official foreign exchange reserves. The equivalent 
Rupiah amount will immediately be transferred to the General Operational Treasury (SBUN) 
account of the Borrower that is used to finance budget expenditures, as the loan is intended to be 
used to support the general government budget.  The Borrower would provide to the Bank a 
written confirmation that this transfer has been completed, and provide to the Bank any other 
relevant information relating to these matters that the Bank may reasonably request.  
Disbursements of the loan will not be linked to any specific purchases and no procurement 
requirements have to be satisfied, except that the Borrower is required to comply with the 
standard negative list of excluded items that may not be financed with Bank loan proceeds. 
Ongoing discussions with the Government on the overall reform program being supported by the 
series of DPLs will form the basis for reporting on substantive policy issues. The funds from the 
loan will be used to support the general government budget.   
Page  4
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
The key benefits expected from the program are: 
ƒ
Progress toward government’s medium-term objectives of improved (i) macroeconomic 
stability; (ii) investment climate; (iii) public financial management/governance; and (iv) 
service delivery to the poor. 
ƒ
Sustained Bank engagement in policy dialogue with the government on the direction and 
content of, and strategies for, its economic, structural, and institutional reform agenda 
ƒ
Donor harmonization and parallel financing by key donors (World Bank, Government of 
Japan, Asian Development Bank) around a common policy framework and dialogue. 
ƒ
Critical signaling effect and key endorsement by donors of the government’s sound 
policy implementation and economic management. 
 
The operation and the Government’s reform program are subject to several risks: 
ƒ
Fiduciary and reputation risks remain despite considerable improvements in the overall 
fiduciary environment since 2000.   
ƒ
Slow down in reform efforts and coordination problems could potentially worsen 
economic volatility.   
ƒ
Potentially difficult implementation decisions are needed shortly if they are to avoid the 
electoral cycle. However, a desire to get infrastructure going too quickly may have an 
adverse impact on long-term systemic reforms. The reform agenda also remains sensitive 
to coalition politics and tensions between partners may grow as the election nears. 
ƒ
Rice price increases and Government policies are widely recognized as the primary 
source of the increase in the poverty rate between 2005 and 2006.  Further large rice price 
increases could raise risks of social unrest.   
ƒ
Corruption and weaknesses in the governance framework remain serious impediments to 
development in Indonesia.  However, prospects of genuine reform are also now better 
than in the past.  
ƒ
Security threats stemming mainly from radical Islamic terrorism could slow FDI and a 
tourism industry slowly recovering from last year’s Bali bombings. 
ƒ
There are growing fears of a bird-flu epidemic in Indonesia, where half of human deaths 
attributed to HPAI worldwide have occurred.  If found to be transmissible between 
humans, it may have widespread health and economic implications.     
ƒ
Repeated natural disasters, could redirect attention away from pressing reforms. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
DPL 3 supports key areas of the Government’s medium-term reform agenda, including 
macroeconomic stability, the investment climate, public financial management and anti 
corruption, and service delivery to the poor.  A review of the proposed policy measures for DPL 
3
indicates that environmental impacts should be, at most, benign.  However, the following 
measures may require closer scrutiny. 
Page  5
ƒ
Measures proposed by the Government to improve the investment climate (Inpres 
3/2006) by cutting the time taken to start up new businesses (from 151 to 30 days) have 
received widespread media coverage and should have no discernable negative 
environmental effect.  However there is a tendency towards misinterpretation of the 
intent of such measures at sub-national government level.  For example, some sectoral 
ministries perceive that they are expected to speed licensing of complex operations, such 
as forest concessions, power plants or pulp mills, which will undermine efforts to ensure 
complete environmental review and multi-stakeholder consultation.  Such misinformation 
and confusion, which has led to considerable concern both within the Ministry of 
Environment and at the provincial level, is unnecessary and could have the effect of 
further weakening existing environmental management procedures. 
ƒ
Proposed government support (2007 budget) for infrastructure sector public-private 
partnerships (PPP), in the form of subsidies or risk bearing, as well as establishment of 
PPP institutions must be seen within the context of weak capacity for environmental 
management in the sector.  The best-equipped national government agency is the roads 
directorate of the Ministry of Public Works, which has a dedicated unit responsible for 
environmental and social safeguards.  However, this unit is already under pressure from 
the considerable volume of World Bank and other donor-related safeguards work which it 
handles.  In other sectors, such as water and sanitation, energy and telecommunications, 
no such capacity currently exists.  At a minimum, the capacity of government 
departments and agencies dealing with the environmental review of infrastructure 
projects needs to be ‘established’ and then resourced to a level that is commensurate with 
the volume of new investment. 
Recommended actions to build regulatory, administrative, and institutional capacity can be 
specified within or outside of the operation.  An important underlying principle here is that 
safeguarding the environment and resource base requires very specific and targeted measures, 
serving as a complement to the broader objectives of the DPL.  The Bank will assist the 
Government in undertaking the following actions to support the implementation of DPL 3. 
ƒ
Further guidance to sub-national government on investment climate policy:  It is 
frequently the case that national policy and regulatory reforms lack sufficient definition 
and clarity and that intent is lost as they filter down to sub-national tiers of government.  
One of the main reasons is that the need for information dissemination and interpretation 
is habitually underestimated.  In support of the implementation of DPL 3, the Bank (in 
cooperation with IFC-PENSA which is the key part of the Bank Group involved in sub-
national investment climate related issues) will offer to provide support to further 
articulate changes implied by the new investment law.  A specific focus will be to support 
Government efforts on ensuring that the implications of the new law on the development 
approvals process at province and local level are more effectively communicated to 
government officials (in particular local environmental authorities), investors and NGOs.  
The assistance is likely to require a program of regional consultations supported by print 
media involving provincial and local government, local parliaments, NGOs and academic 
institutions. 
ƒ
Environmental management and PPPs:  The proposed operation will support 
development of institutions to support public private partnerships.  These new institutions 
will require wide ranging support including environmental capacity building measures to: 
Page  6
(i) raise awareness and understanding among senior managers of environmental and 
social safeguards; (ii) establish necessary procedures to bring PPP institutions into line 
with all required environmental laws and regulations; (iii) provide related capacity 
building and budget allocations for environmental management.  As part of the policy 
dialogue underpinning this operation and the upcoming Infrastructure DPL series, as well 
as the analytic and advisory work currently being undertaken by the Bank and 
development partners, integrating environmental management capacity into the 
Government’s PPP institutions will further be discussed with the aim of formulating a 
broad-based and coherent strategy.  This commitment should be linked to achievement of 
clear environmental actions under the up-coming Infrastructure DPL series, including the 
need for all involved infrastructure departments and agencies to establish an 
environmental unit (equivalent to the Directorate for Roads environment unit) to ensure 
that the Government’s environmental procedures are followed.  This would represent a 
significant investment on the part of the Government to improve its environmental 
management capabilities, which would be monitored by assessing whether future 
infrastructure projects allocate sufficient budget to support environmental mitigation.    
In terms of poverty and social impacts, it is the view of the team that unlike the fuel subsidy 
reduction supported by DPL 2 last year, the proposed policy measures supported by DPL 3 will 
not result in significant negative poverty and social impacts.  In fact, there are several measures 
linked to the DPL policy dialogue that are expected to have a significant positive affect on poor 
and vulnerable populations.   
ƒ
The Warehouse Receipts Law, which was passed by parliament, targets small- and 
medium-sized farmers, allowing them to keep their harvest in a warehouse while waiting 
for better prices, instead of having to sell their produce immediately after harvesting, 
when prices are usually low due to excess supply.  But perhaps more important is that 
centrally registered receipts for commodities can also be used as collateral.  SMEs in 
Indonesia often have difficulties getting competitive loans from banks.  They often lack 
the necessary collateral that is required for bank loans.  As a result, expanding business 
has been hard for many Indonesian SMEs, which are often considered the main drivers 
behind economic growth. 
ƒ
Evaluation of compensation programs (to mitigate the impact of last year’s fuel price 
increase) was undertaken by independent institutes. The findings were used by Bappenas 
to make immediate changes to the way the cash compensation is being carried out, 
including (i) changes to beneficiary registry; (ii) improved public awareness; (iii) 
improved payment procedures; and (iv) modified complaints resolution procedures.  The 
preliminary findings of the qualitative assessments of the education, health and village 
infrastructure were disseminated to Bappenas and line ministries in April 2006 in line 
with Bappenas’ request to have the findings as an input to the government’s planning and 
budgeting cycle.  Preliminary feedback suggests that line ministries and donor/lending 
agencies have improved or will improve aspects of social protection programs and their 
implementation.  This is particularly significant in light of the new conditional cash 
transfer (CCT) program which will be piloted over the next year. 
8. Contact point 
 
Page  7
Contact: Subrahmanya Pulle Srinivas 
Title: Sr Financial Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-8939 
Fax:  
Email: Psrinivas@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
