Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7418-IND
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Third Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 20, 2006 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7418-IND 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated   December 20, 2006 entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
INDONESIA (
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of 
the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The IBRD General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
–
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of five hundred and thirty million 
Dollars ($530,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 
of this Agreement (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.   
 
Page  3
2
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15
 
in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; and (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.10 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information 
relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, 
reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE III 
–
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
Page  4
3
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
–
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
–
EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that 
the Financing Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions 
precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
thereunder, except only the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled. 
 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date sixty (60) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
–
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
c/o Directorate General of Debt Management 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4 
P.O. Box 1139 
Jakarta 10710 
Indonesia 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
   
 
FINMINISTRY 
 45799 
DJMLN-IA 
(21) 
381 
2859 
   
Jakarta 
  44319 
DEPKEU-IA 
 
Page  5
4
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Jakarta, Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA 
 
By: /s/ Mr. Rahmat Waluyanto   
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Mr. Andrew Steer 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following: 
 
1. 
In order to separate the formulation and implementation of fiscal policy within 
MoF, the Borrower has created a fiscal policy office (“BKF”) with capability and 
access to information sufficient to provide analysis of proposed tax, tariff and 
financial market policies, and provided BKF with the tools and resources that it 
requires to be fully operational. 
 
2. 
The Borrower has issued ministerial decrees giving details of procedures 
governing the DRPPHLN–JM (Blue Book), as well as decrees on on-lending and 
on-granting arrangements, setting forth the detailed procedures for the channeling 
of loans and grants, respectively, from central to local governments. 
 
3. 
The Borrower has submitted to its national assembly for approval a Warehouse 
Receipts Bill establishing a system of designated warehouses providing official, 
centrally registered receipts for commodities stored by small- and medium-sized 
farmers and traders, allowing such farmers and traders to store their goods for as 
long as needed without having to dispose of them, and to use such receipts as 
collateral to secure loans.  
 
4. 
The Borrower has continued to make progress in the implementation of the 
financial sector safety net, through implementation of the planned reduction of 
the coverage of the deposit guarantee on bank liabilities to Rp. 1 billion. 
 
5. 
The Borrower has completed the reorganization of BAPEPAM and DGFI, 
merging them into a single entity (“BAPEPAM-LK”), and providing 
BAPEPAM-LK with the tools and resources that it requires to be fully 
operational. 
 
6. 
The Borrower has submitted proposals to its national assembly for revisions to its 
tax laws to allow taxpayers to defer payment of tax assessments under dispute, 
pending the outcome of an appeal to the tax tribunal.  
 
7. 
The Borrower has established the legal and institutional framework governing its 
involvement in Public-Private Partnership (“PPP”) transactions and the 
management of the consequential fiscal risks, and set aside the tools and other 
resources required for the effective implementation of both the risk management 
functions and PPP framework.  
 
Page  7
6
8. 
The Borrower has continued to make progress in the implementation of the 
Treasury Single Account through extension of the pilot for zero-balance non-
salary accounts to at least 50 KPPNs. 
 
9. 
The Borrower has provided evidence of improved fiscal reporting of budget 
expenditures through the timely presentation of aggregate central government 
financial statements for FY 2005. 
 
10. 
The Borrower has taken steps to modernize the headquarters of DGT though the 
establishment of a separate unit to handle the modernization program on a full-
time basis. 
 
11. 
The Borrower has launched a pilot exercise on civil service reform through the 
design of a new job classification and remuneration policy for the 
Pejabat 
Negara
.
12. 
The Borrower has taken steps to monitor the effectiveness of compensation 
programs financed out of the proceeds of reallocated fuel subsidy funds, through 
an independent assessment, including a review of the fiduciary aspects, of the 
cash transfer, and health, education, and village infrastructure programs funded 
thereunder. 
 
Section II. Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan and Credit Amounts.
 
The Loan and Credit shall (except 
for amounts required to pay the Front-end Fee) be withdrawn in a single tranche.  
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan and Credit to this end is set out in the 
table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated 
(expressed in 
SDR) 
Single Tranche 
530,000,000 
47,370,000 
Front-end Fee 
0 
n/a 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
530,000,000 
47,370,000 
Page  8
7
C. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Bank determines 
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank.  Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
E. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is March 31, 2007. 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (
“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Repayment Date
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
April 15, 2012 
1.93 
 
October 15, 2012 
2.00 
 
April 15, 2013 
2.07 
 
October 15, 2013 
2.14 
 
April 15, 2014 
2.21 
 
October 15, 2014 
2.29 
 
April 15, 2015 
2.37 
 
October 15, 2015 
2.46 
 
April 15, 2016 
2.54 
 
October 15, 2016 
2.63 
 
April 15, 2017 
2.72 
 
October 15, 2017 
2.82 
 
April 15, 2018 
2.92 
 
October 15, 2018 
3.02 
 
April 15, 2019 
3.12 
 
October 15, 2019 
3.23 
 
April 15, 2020 
3.35 
 
October 15, 2020 
3.46 
 
April 15, 2021 
3.58 
 
October 15, 2021 
3.71 
 
April 15, 2022 
3.84 
 
October 15, 2022 
3.97 
 
April 15, 2023 
4.11 
Page  10
9
October 15, 2023 
4.26 
 
April 15, 2024 
4.41 
 
October 15, 2024 
4.56 
 
April 15, 2025 
4.72 
 
October 15, 2025 
4.89 
 
April 15, 2026 
5.06 
 
October 15, 2026 
5.61 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (
“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
Page  11
10
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
Page  12
11
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“BAPEPAM” means 
Badan Pengawas Pasar Modal
,
the Borrower’s capital 
market supervisory agency.  
 
2. “BAPEPAM-LK” 
means 
Bapepam dan Lembaga Keuangan
,
the Borrower’s 
newly-created securities and non-bank financial institutions regulator.  
 
3. “BAPPENAS” 
means 
Badan Perencanaan dan Pembangunan Nasional
,
the 
Borrower’s agency responsible for national development planning.  
 
4. “BKF” 
means 
Badan Kebijakan Fiskal
,
a
newly-created Fiscal Policy Office of 
MoF. 
 
5. “DRPPHLN–JM” 
means 
Daftar Rencana Prioritas Pinjaman dan Hibah Luar 
Negri 
–
Jangka Menengah
,
a
list of priority development projects also known as 
Blue Book, published from time to time by BAPPENAS, and to be financed 
using external sources of funding.  
 
6. 
“Credit” means the credit which is provided for in the Financing Agreement. 
 
7. 
“DGFI” means the Directorate-General of Financial Institutions of MoF.  
 
8. 
“DGT” means the Directorate-General of Tax of MoF. 
 
9. 
“DG-Treasury” means the Directorate-General of Treasury of MoF. 
 
10. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Page  13
12
Group Sub-group 
Description 
of 
Item 
 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group 
metals (except watches and watch cases) 
and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores 
and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds 
during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation. 
 
11. 
“Financing Agreement” means the agreement between the Borrower and the 
Association in support of the Program, of the same date as the Loan Agreement, 
as such agreement may be amended from time to time.  “Financing Agreement” 
includes all appendices, schedules and agreements supplemental to the Financing 
Agreement. 
 
Page  14
13
12. 
“Fiscal Year” or FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing January 1 
and ending December 31. 
 
13. 
“IBRD General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
14. “KPPN” 
means 
Kantor Pelayanan Perbendaharaan Negara
,
a
local payment 
office operating under DG-Treasury, and responsible for the disbursement of 
central budget funds. 
 
15. 
“MoF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance. 
 
16. “
Pejabat Negara
”
means elected officials and other high ranking public 
appointees.  
 
17. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated November 16, 2006, from the Borrower to the Bank 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
18. 
“Rupiah” or “Rp” means the Borrower’s currency.  
 
19. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 are as follows:  
 
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to 
Applications for 
Withdrawal
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
 
Page  15
14
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Loan until two (2) years after the Closing Date. The Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan 
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.” 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”.
Page  16
15
 
