                            Document of
                           The World Bank




                                              Report No:ICR000004




   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IDA-30000)

                               ON A

                    CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF

                         SDR 42.22 MILLION

                 (US$59.75 MILLION EQUIVALENT)




                              TO THE

                SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                              FOR AN

INLAND WATERWAYS AND PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT

                            March 30, 2007




Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                       ( Exchange Rate Effective 09/01/2006 )
                            Currency Unit = Dong
                               Dong 1.00 = US$ .00006
                                US$ 1.00 = Dong 16011


                                   Fiscal Year
                             January 1 ­ December 31



                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
DMS             Detailed Measurement Survey
EIA             Environmental Impact Assessment
EMAP            Environmental Management Action Plan
ERR             Economic Rate of Return
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
HCMC            Ho Chi Minh City
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
IDA             International Development Agency
IRR             Internal Rate of Return
MDMP            Mekong Delta Master Plan
MOF             Ministry of Finance
MOT             Ministry of Transport
MTIDP           Mekong Transport Infrastructure Development Project
NCB             National Competitive Bidding
O&M             Operations and Maintenance
PAP             Project Affected Persons
PMU-W           Project Management Unit-Waterways
QAG             Quality Assurance Group
RAP             Resettlement Action Plan
SAR             Staff Appraisal Report
SOE             State Owned Enterprise
VIWA-SD         Vietnam Inland Waterways Administration-Southern Department


      Vice President: James W. Adams
    Country Director: Martin Rama, Acting
     Sector Manager: Junhui Wu
 Project Team Leader: Simon David Ellis
   ICR Team Leader: Simon David Ellis

                                                Vietnam
                Inland Waterways and Port Rehabilitation Project



                                             CONTENTS
Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 8
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 12
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 13
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 15
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 17
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 18
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 19
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 21
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 26
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 28
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 29
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 30
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 34
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 35
 MAP: IBRD 34990

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Inland Waterways and
Country:                Vietnam               Project Name:          Port Rehabilitation
                                                                     Project
Project ID:             P004843               L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-30000
ICR Date:               04/04/2007            ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:              GOVT OF VIET NAM
Original Total
                        XDR 53.7M             Disbursed Amount:      XDR 42.2M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
Project Management Unit - Waterways
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        07/05/1994    Effectiveness:         03/06/1998        03/06/1998
Appraisal:             04/14/1997    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              11/04/1997    Mid-term Review:       12/17/2005        10/21/2002
                                     Closing:               06/30/2003        03/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry      Highly Satisfactory


                                              i

at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                         Yes                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                         Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               8                12
Ports, waterways and shipping                                 92                 88


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Municipal governance and institution building                Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                    At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:          James W. Adams                   Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:        Martin G. Rama                   Andrew D. Steer
Sector Manager:          Junhui Wu                        Jeffrey S. Gutman
Project Team Leader:     Simon David Ellis                Jitendra N. Bajpai
ICR Team Leader:         Simon David Ellis
ICR Primary Author:      Kek Choo Chung



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Project was to enhance the capacity, efficiency and safety of inland
waterway transport in the Mekong River delta through (a) improving the traffic carrying
capacity and safety of the two main inland waterway routes connecting the Mekong River
delta with Ho Chi Minh City; (b) rehabilitating and improving facilities at Can Tho Port
to enable efficient transshipment and distribution of cargo; and (c) enhancing the capacity
of MOT and related agencies to plan, administer, operate and maintain the inland
waterway system in the Mekong River delta.

  Key indicators for the project were established as set out in Annex 1. The outcome
indicators were (i) increase in average daily cargo traffic at selected locations along the
project waterways; (ii) increase in throughput of the Can Tho Port; (iii) financial
performance of Can Tho Port, in terms of increased operating profits; and (iv) staff-
weeks of training and the number of VIWA and VIWA-SD staff trained under the
project.


                                             ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The development objectives and key indicators were not revised

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value            Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
                                                approval            Target        Completion or
                                               documents)           Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Increase in average daily cargo traffic at selected locations (million dwt)
Value           Cho Gao - 16.9             Cho Gao - 24.0                      Cho Gao - 57.0
quantitative or Rach Gia - 5.4             Rach Gia - 11.0                     Rach Gia - 8.0
Qualitative)    Vi Thanh - 2.0             Vi Thanh - 2.6                      Vi Thanh - 5.6
Date achieved 12/30/1995                   12/30/2000                          12/30/2005
Comments        Cho Gao - 237% increase
(incl. %        Rach Gia - 48% increase
achievement)    Vi Thanh - 180% increase
Indicator 2 :   Increase in throughput of the Can Tho Port (tons per annum)
Value
quantitative or 183,000                    500,000                             1,145,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/30/1996                   12/30/2000                          12/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %        Greater throughput also achieved with additional investments following Saigon

achievement)    Port merger.

Indicator 3 :   Financial performance of the Can Tho Port improves (profitability %)
Value
quantitative or 4%                         25%                                 0.5%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/30/1998                   12/30/2000                          12/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %        Actual profitability is lower than expected because of higher than expected

achievement)    investment costs. Sales growth is now higher than expected.

Indicator 4 :   Staff weeks of training and number of VIWA and VISA/SD staff trained
Value
quantitative or Staff weeks - 0            Not stated                          Staff weeks - 143

Qualitative)    No. of staff - 0                                               No. of staff - 138

Date achieved 12/30/1998                   12/30/2000                          12/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                iii

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally    Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from                     Achieved at
                                               approval           Revised    Completion or
                                              documents)      Target Values  Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Number of project affected families resettled or compensated
Value
(quantitative  0                           1280                            7215
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 10/30/1997                   12/30/2000                      12/30/2005
Comments       The resettlement pilot helped PMU-W, which had no previous experience, to
(incl. %       successfully compensate 7215 PAP. The activities have strengthened
achievement)   institutional capacity to undertake this work in the future
Indicator 2 :  Mitigate the environmental impacts of dredging
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments       Environmental management requirements were part of dredging contracts and
(incl. %       adequate mitigation measures were taken to avoid adverse environmental
achievement)   impacts.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                               Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                          IP             Disbursements
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     04/07/1998           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  0.00
  2     06/19/1998       Highly Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  1.00
  3     08/05/1998       Highly Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  1.00
  4     12/15/1998           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  1.00
  5     06/25/1999           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  1.29
  6     12/29/1999           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  1.99
  7     04/10/2000           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  2.33
  8     09/16/2000           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  2.33
  9     02/01/2001           Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory                4.11
  10    10/30/2001           Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory                6.39
  11    01/23/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  9.42
  12    03/27/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                 10.42
  13    07/15/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                 12.19
  14    12/17/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                 13.94
  15    12/24/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                 13.94
  16    06/30/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                 20.96
  17    12/31/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                 25.60
  18    02/10/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                 26.97
  19    08/13/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                 31.11


                                               iv

  20  03/16/2005        Satisfactory     Satisfactory    45.90
  21  05/10/2006        Satisfactory     Satisfactory    59.05
  22  11/07/2006        Satisfactory     Satisfactory    61.91



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

In 1997, inland waterways in Vietnam's Mekong River delta carried 70-80 percent of all
freight traffic. In the years preceding project appraisal, waterway capacity and safety had
declined as a result of several factors, such as the silting of channels, inadequate
navigation aids (navaids), sharp bends and other obstacles. Vietnam recognized that its
medium term transport sector investment strategy needed to focus on restoring,
modernizing and maintaining waterways and ports where demand was high but
deterioration posed serious bottlenecks. Consistent with the Government s Mekong Delta
Master Plan and IDA's Country Assistance Strategy (dated October 25, 1995),
investments in the rehabilitation of key inland waterways infrastructure would improve
market access and increase fleet productivity, while maintaining the comparative
advantage offered by waterways in the region.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The objective of the project was to enhance the capacity, efficiency and safety of inland
waterway transport in the Mekong River delta through (a) improving the traffic carrying
capacity and safety of the two main inland waterway routes connecting the Mekong River
delta with Ho Chi Minh City; (b) rehabilitating and improving facilities at Can Tho Port
to enable efficient transshipment and distribution of cargo; and (c) enhancing the capacity
of MOT and related agencies to plan, administer, operate and maintain the inland
waterway system in the Mekong River delta.

Key indicators for the project were established, as set out in the ICR datasheet. The
outcome indicators were (i) increase in average daily cargo traffic at selected locations
along the project waterways; (ii) increase in throughput of the Can Tho Port; (iii)
financial performance of Can Tho Port, in terms of increased operating profits; and (iv)
staff-weeks of training and the number of VIWA and VIWA-SD staff trained under the
project.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The development objectives and key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

Improvements in the Mekong Delta's inland waterway network would directly benefit
new and existing vessel fleet owners and operators by permitting safer night navigation
and reducing travel time, and thus increasing productivity towards meeting growing



                                               1

cargo demands. Users of Can Tho Port would benefit from the improved facilities and
cargo handling equipment provided under the project by being able to ship cargo in
containers. The improvements at the port would enable Can Tho Port Enterprise, the
operating entity at the port, to handle an increase in throughput at a minimum incremental
cost.

The Vietnam Inland Waterways Administration (VIWA) would also benefit directly from
the project. Established in 1993, VIWA, under the Ministry of Transport (MOT) oversaw
inland waterways, river ports and shipping with specific responsibilities for formulating
and administering sector policies and regulations; planning and funding waterway
infrastructure investments; and overseeing waterway safety and training. The project's
institution building initiatives would strengthen VIWA's administrative capability and
foster a management culture that recognizes the importance of adequate funding for
operations and maintenance (O&M) to protect capital investments. The project also
sought to develop management practices in the inland waterways sector that would
increase commercial barge traffic and improve efficiencies and safety in the project
corridors.

Local communities along the project corridors also benefited through new and improved
bridges opening up new four wheel access, improved market facilities, bank protection
allowing easier loading and unloading for country boats, and dredge spoil that raised
residential and farm land above flood level.

Other beneficiaries included several local provinces in the delta region that benefited
from the increased scope of work, such as the six landing stages and the replacement of
low clearance bridges with new bridges of standard height clearance for Class III
waterways.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project comprised the following components.

Component A: Waterways Improvements (US$56.3 million).The two main inland
waterway routes (Ho Chi Minh City to Kien Luong and Cho Lach to Ca Mau) totaling
546 km long would be improved through seven sub-components to permit safe daytime
and nighttime, year-round, two-way navigation. The improvements comprised (i)
dredging and excavating the navigation channels to a minimum depth of 2.7 meters and a
width of 22-30 meters at lowest low water; (ii) bridge improvements that would meet the
minimum 30 m horizontal and 7 m vertical clearance standards; (iii) slope protection to
stabilize and prevent erosion along the waterways; (iv) the rehabilitation or installation of
new navigation aids; (v) a landing stage and relocation of markets at Ca Mau; (vi) the
construction of a navigation lock (with pedestrian overpass at Thoi Binh) to limit salinity




                                              2

intrusion and allow the passage of barge convoys to and from Ca Mau; and (vii) land
acquisition and resettlement in connection with the proposed improvement works.

Component B. Can Tho Port Improvement (US$1.56 million). To support the
anticipated growth in the demand for cargo handling, Can Tho Port would be
rehabilitated and improved through three sub-components that included (i) replacing
fenders along the berth of 144 meters; (ii) providing facilities for the collection of vessel
bilge water and chemical spills; (iii) supplying cargo handling equipment (one 40-ton
mobile crane, one 40-foot self loading/unloading trailer and a prime mover/tractor) to
improve cargo flows and reduce waiting time; and (iv) providing technical assistance and
staff training to Can Tho Port Enterprise to strengthen port management in marketing,
financial management, and business development.

Component C. Institution Building (US$10.65 million). To support VIWA/SD and
PMU-W with project implementation and capacity development for operations and
maintenance, three sub-components would provide (i) equipment for waterway
operations and maintenance, including six buoy-laying vessels six work boats and 20
small patrol boats for maintenance and policing, surveying and sampling equipment for
maintenance and environmental monitoring, machinery and tools for maintaining and
repairing navigation aids, and office and communication equipment for enhancing
management capacity; (ii) specialized training for developing VIWA/SD waterway
management staff skills in dredging, maintenance, and traffic enforcement and safety;
and (iii) support to PMU-W for project implementation and management in procurement,
financial management, project monitoring and supervision for quality control.

1.6 Revised Components


Following the mid-term review, the scope of the project was extended to include sections
of the waterways from Ca Mau to Nam Can and from Kien Luong to Ha Tien (a total of
97 km), a feeder section of the canal from Ganh Hao to Gia Rai (40 km), six additional
landing stages, further upgrading of Can Tho Port consisting of a perimeter road and a
paved container/open cargo storage yard, as well as supplementary institution building
activities that included technical standards for inland waterways, a river management
information system (RMIS), improving navigation on the Bassac river and simulators for
training. The extension of improvements of the waterways would enable a 24-hour
navigation of vessels up to 300 tons to transit the whole length of the waterways. The
need to further upgrade Can Tho Port was the outcome of the increase in cargo being
handled and the emergence of container traffic. The additional six landing stages would
support logistics development, improve safety and increase productivity by facilitating
the use of cargo handling equipment and reduce damage on the banks of the waterways.
The supplementary technical assistance would further support institutional development
in the waterways sector.




                                              3

The expanded scope was consistent with and enhanced achievement of the original
development objectives. It was financed through cost savings and the reallocation of both
the unallocated expenditure category and the resettlement compensation category, which
was ultimately financed through counterpart funding.

1.7 Other significant changes


There were some revisions in the project implementation plan. The location of the
navigation lock was shifted from Thoi Binh to Tac Thu to comply with the request of the
Ministry of Agriculture and the pedestrian overpass was replaced with a bridge for
vehicular traffic. The modification resulted in late commencement of work on the lock
but did not affect the overall completion of the project. The bridge for Kien Luong was
built at Tan Ngan, downstream from its original location, to overcome the need for a
ferry crossing at that point, thus facilitating an uninterrupted flow of navigation on the
waterway.

Originally planned to close on December 31, 2003, the Credit closing date was extended
three times to June 2003, July 2004 and September 2005. Initially, there was a two-year
delay following Credit effectiveness to resolve issues involving (a) the eligibility of state-
owned enterprises (SOE) to bid on civil works, and (b) the method of payment of
compensation for resettlement, which contributed to the first 12 month extension. The
second extension, to September 30, 2005, was approved in order to complete on-going
contracts and the implementation of the revised project components (see Section 1.6). A
third extension of six months was approved to complete all remaining works (Luong The
Tran Bridge, Giao Long landing stage, traffic control center, Tac Thu shiplock and Thoi
Binh bridge).

An amount of SDR 7 million was cancelled in September 2005 when it was evident that
the sum was not required to complete the project.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Lessons learned from past operations in Vietnam and from the Bank's experience in
inland waterway projects in Bangladesh, China, Myanmar and Thailand were taken into
account in the preparation and design of the project. Project risks were identified early
and measures to mitigate these risks were incorporated in the design of the project. These
measures included a pilot resettlement exercise in the area to familiarize local authorities,
project affected people and PMU-W with the procedures outlined in the RAP. During
project preparation, PMU-W staff was given training in resettlement planning and in the
Bank's procurement guidelines. The commercial risk of the investment at Can Tho Port
was mitigated by limiting it to the minimum level to preserve current capacity. To avoid



                                                4

under-funding for the maintenance of waterways, an undertaking was obtained from the
government that the annual budget for VIWA-SD would be increased to an equivalent of
US$2,000 per km of waterways.

2.2 Implementation


The commencement of project implementation was delayed by about two years due to the
protracted process in resolving a procurement policy issue pertaining to the eligibility of
MoT dependent SOEs in undertaking Bank-financed contracts. The prequalification of
contractors was completed in December 1998 but the Bank would not concur with the
final recommendations of the implementing agency to award the main dredging contracts
to an SOE. The issue was finally resolved in July 2001 with the Bank agreeing to
an exception allowing dependent SOEs to participate in the remaining contracts under the
project. This agreement came as part of a wider dialogue on SOE reform where the
Country Director agreed to a transitional arrangement to allow the Ministry to restructure
the construction industry to make these enterprises financially and managerially
autonomous. During this dialogue, the validity of the original bids for dredging works
expired and offers were withdrawn by the contractors, resulting in a re-bidding for the
works, a process that took about six months from the invitation to bid to the award of
contract.

Parallel in time, an issue also arose over the method of payment of compensation for
resettlement. The Borrower wanted to pay compensation in the form of cash; the Bank
held to its position of compensating in kind. The major component of the project
(dredging), which was planned to commence in October 1998 at the time of appraisal, did
not start until December 2001. It was during 2001 that progress towards meeting the
project's development objectives was rated as unsatisfactory because of the slow progress
in starting the civil works.

A comprehensive mid-term review in October 2002 established that, apart from the initial
delays, project implementation was proceeding satisfactorily and the project's
development objective was likely to be met. Competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's procurement guidelines and the depreciation of the Vietnamese currency had led
to considerable cost savings and it was apparent that the cost savings could justifiably be
used to extend the scope of the project to achieve greater benefits.

The process of compensating project-affected persons was transparent but time
consuming and, resettlement on the whole, was a challenge throughout implementation.
For a number of contracts, implementation was delayed for many months while
protracted negotiations were undertaken with single households.

Consultants' performance in hydrographic surveys, design of facilities and construction
supervision on site could have been better.


                                              5

Contractors' performance generally left much to be desired and was the main reason for
the project not being able to make up for lost time caused by the initial delay in the
commencement of work. On the whole, civil works contractors seemed to lack the
financial resources to execute the contracts on schedule.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization


Achievement of the project's objective was monitored mainly by the volume of traffic
using the project waterways at selected locations and by the tonnage of cargo handled at
the Port of Can Tho. For the Can Tho Port Improvement component, a further measure
was the profitability of the port's operations. The indicators were appropriate for
monitoring the outcome of the project. However, data collection was weak. The volume
of shipping and cargo carried on the waterways was obtained through a physical count of
vessels at nominated spots over a period of a few days with the volume of cargo verbally
declared by the vessels' operators and projected to arrive at the annual traffic volume. The
monitoring indicators obtained each year for waterway improvements are indicative and
would serve to reflect a trend rather than to compare performances from one year to
another.

There are also inconsistencies between the various sources of data with the government
statistics office providing much lower estimates of cargo movements on the waterways
than the traffic counts from VIWA-S and various consultants studies would suggest. The
government statistics are used in this ICR because they were also the source of
information at appraisal stage.

The River Management Information System financed under the project will provide a
more systematic approach to data collection and analysis. The proposed Mekong
Transport Infrastructure Development Project (MTIDP) will follow through on the
development and use of this system with the aim of providing even more reliable
planning data.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard and fiduciary compliance throughout the project was satisfactory.

Resettlement Action Plans for all components were implemented satisfactorily. A total of
7,215 project affected families were compensated in accordance with Bank guidelines
and governmental stipulation, roughly thirty percent higher than the original estimates of
5,000 families, largely due to the increase in the scope of work and as a result of limited
identification of spoil disposal sites at the time of appraisal. Of these affected families,
1,451 were severely affected, compared with 1,280 at the time of appraisal. The
resettlement activities under the project were difficult to implement, time consuming and
often adversely impacted the speed of civil works implementation. However, once



                                                6

agreement was reached between the Bank and GoV on the procedures for resettlement,
PMU-W followed through very diligently and in compliance with agreed policies. There
were some complaints at a resettlement site where utilities had not been installed in a
timely fashion but these issues were eventually resolved.

Environmental management requirements for dredging work were integrated into
contracts as a part of technical specifications. One of the main concerns related to the
dredging of acid sulphate soil and its potential impact on fisheries and agriculture, but
mitigation measures were good and, in general, adverse impacts were lower than
expected. Some environmental problems were evident at construction sites where the
sanitary conditions for workers were poor and insufficient attention was paid to traffic
management. Gradually these issues improved but they remain a significant challenge for
the industry. Environmental monitoring in accordance with the Environmental
Management Action Plan (EMAP) was undertaken by an independent agency.

Financial management, accounting policy, bookkeeping and reporting were in
accordance with Decision 214 of the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The fund flow
mechanism for the project worked well. Counter-part funding was facilitated by MOF
transferring an advance from the central budget to PMU-W at the beginning of the year
that would be offset by counterpart funds upon their allocation. Compliance with legal
covenants was generally timely and satisfactory.

Procurement was undertaken in a satisfactory manner with a full range of procurement
methods used. The main procurement issue was related to the ineligibility of dependent
MoT agencies, according to Bank procurement guidelines. This caused a two year delay
as the Government argued that they needed time to transition their state-owned
contractors to a more independent status. The Bank eventually agreed to a transition
period where dependent agencies under MoT would be eligible to compete until any new
operations after January 2003.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase


Waterways in the south, including the project waterways, continue to be managed by
VIWA-SD. The day to day functions of waterway inspection, traffic enforcement,
monitoring of water level, pollution control, ensuring navigation aids were operating, etc.,
were carried out through local offices at selected locations. Institution building under the
project has enhanced the management capacity of VIWA-SD, but budget allocation,
unless increased, would be a constraint on the maintenance of the waterways.

Capacity building at Can Tho Port has resulted in a significant increase in port throughput,
providing evidence of the ability of the port to attract cargo from other terminals and a
potential for growth greater than expected at the time of appraisal. Can Tho Port
Enterprise, which was reorganized in July 2002 to merge its facilities with an adjoining


                                              7

terminal of Saigon Port, will play an important role in the consolidation of the operation
and management of port terminals in the Mekong delta.

The proposed MTIDP will further build the capacity of VIWA-SD by (a) exploring ways
of increasing cost recovery in the sector for sustainable finance of maintenance;
(b) supporting the development of the River Management Information System;
(c) institutionalizing training in MoT training schools; and (d) providing assistance in
developing good models for ports management.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation


Vietnam's dilapidated transport infrastructure has been identified as a critical constraint to
rapid, sustained and geographically broad-based economic development. The Bank's
current strategy is to assist in rehabilitating the basic infrastructure network, promoting
regulatory reform and strengthening the public sector institutions responsible for
transport infrastructure provision and management. Improving the Mekong delta's
network of waterways is an integral part of this strategy. The outcome of the project in
contributing towards meeting the Government's plan and strategy remains highly relevant
to the overall goal. The program on institutional building, which constituted 25 percent of
the project's cost, is consistent with the Bank's current CAS of building capacity to plan,
manage and maintain transport system investments.

Two projects in the Bank's current assistance strategy will follow-up on the objectives
from this operation and provide a substantial shift in both Bank and Government
financing towards inland waterways transport. The new projects will be located in the
Mekong Delta and Red River Delta.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives


A. Enhance the safety and traffic carrying capacity of the two main inland
waterway routes connecting the Mekong Delta with HCMC (Satisfactory)

The project's development objective of enhancing the capacity, efficiency and safety of
inland water transport in the Mekong delta has been achieved. The improved facilities for
navigation accommodated increases in traffic volumes on the waterway routes that were
higher than expected at appraisal. Improvements to the waterways exceeded the original
plan by more than 120 km. The travel distance of the two main routes was shortened by
50 km and 47 km respectively, reducing transport costs by an estimated US$2 per ton.
The construction of the bridge at Sa Dec permitted the through navigation of barge
convoys of clinker (annual tonnage of about 1.8 million tons) from Kien Luong to
HCMC, resulting in considerable savings in travel time and fuel cost due to a shortened


                                                8

round-trip travel of some 100 km. There has been a gradual shift to higher capacity
vessels as evidenced by the timely completion of the waterway from Can Tho to Ca Mau
which enabled high tonnage vessels (800-1,000 dwt) to transport sand, construction
materials and oversized equipment totaling some 2.0 million tons annually to the Ca Mau
industrial complex.

Although the SAR did not provide a specific accident reduction target, the number of
accidents on project waterways dropped from 0.0034 per hundred vessels in 2000 to
0.0023 in 2005, a 32 percent decline. Six additional landing stages were built to facilitate
the loading and unloading of cargo to further increase the utility of the waterways. More
significantly, the higher level objective of promoting economic growth through the
restoration of the nation's network of waterways to maintain a balanced use of road and
waterway transport modes appears to be have been attained in the Mekong delta.

                                    Mekong Delta Traffic by Mode
                        2000         2001       2002           2003       2004    Av. Annual
                                                                                  increase %
Total:
Freight                29587         31410      33366         36347      38672        5.4
tons(x1000)            2551.3        2707.7     2869.6        3104.4     3458.5       6.1
Ton/km(million)
Road:
Freight tons           10394         11134      11923         14088      15278        7.7
(x1000)                 797.0        842.7      896.6         1145.1     1253.6       9.1
Ton/km (million)
Waterways:
Freight tons           19193         20276      21443         22259      23394        4.0
(x1000)                1754.2        1865.0     1972.8        1959.3     2204.9       4.6
Ton/km (million)
    Source: Statistics Yearbook, 2005

B. Rehabilitate and improve the Port of Can Tho to improve the efficiency of
cargo transshipment and distribution (Satisfactory)

Although Can Tho port did not approach the level of profitability suggested at appraisal,
it did see a doubling of throughput compared to the appraisal targets. The number of
containers moved through the port increased from zero at appraisal to 18,600 per annum
by the end of 2005. The port is increasingly serving as a hub facility for distribution in
the Mekong Delta. The technical assistance to improve marketing helped port
management to be more resourceful in finding new business opportunities, with new
business growing at 8.3 percent per annum.

An eventual merger of Can Tho port and Saigon port part way through the project also
injected fresh capital and an expansion of the facilities to cope with the increasing
demand. However, the merger was not well planned and it was initially unclear exactly
the nature of the relationship between the two entities. Unfortunately, the Bank was not



                                              9

informed of the new arrangement and only became aware during the mid term review
mission in October 2002. It was only after the Bank sought clarification on the
arrangements that it became clear that the two entities proposed a merger with the facility
being managed by the director of Can Tho port. While the merger inevitably
accommodated significant additional throughput at the port, it also negatively impacted
on the profitability of the operation. In 2005, the port only just broke even and was
significantly behind the appraisal target of 25 percent.

C. Improve the institutions involved so they can better plan, administer, operate
and maintain the inland waterway system in the Mekong Delta (Satisfactory)

The project's substantial technical assistance component strengthened institutions through
training, improved systems, standards and equipment. Specifically, institutional
development was enhanced through:

Improved skills. The project trained 138 people in waterways and port management, and
provided training simulators for the Inland Waterways Training School to train vessel and
port handling equipment operators.

Improved planning and standards. The project financed the development of a River
Management Information System to better plan and manage the waterways network in
the Mekong Delta. It developed technical engineering standards for inland waterway
development operation and maintenance. It also financed a feasibility study on improving
navigation at the Bassac River.

Improved operations. The project financed equipment for more efficient operations and
maintenance of the waterways systems. This included vessels and workshop equipment to
support maintenance of navigation aids and other waterways facilities.

3.3 Efficiency


The economic evaluations for the waterways section conducted at appraisal and
completion are based on savings in barge operating costs per ton kilometer. The savings
are derived from a combination of shorter travel distances, ability to use larger vessels,
ability to travel 24 hours per day and more efficient loading and unloading facilities. For
the two main corridors, HCMC to Ha Tien and Cho Lach to Nam Can, the ex-post ERRs
indicate substantial project benefits (577 percent and 29 percent, respectively). The high
rates of return on the HCMC to Ha Tien corridor are attributed to very high rates of
traffic growth in the Cho Gao canal, the main route from the Delta to HCMC. By 2005
total tonnage in this corridor had reached 57 million tons, already at capacity.

The economic evaluation of Can Tho port also indicates substantial benefits, although the
improvements at the port were greater than envisioned at appraisal because of the merger


                                             10

between Can Tho port and Saigon port. Given this, the ex-post ERR is 43 percent,
compared to the 26 percent estimated at appraisal. However, the NPV was US$4.04
million compared to the US$2.83 million at appraisal because of the additional
investments financed by Saigon port. By 2005 the port had a throughput of 1.1 million
tons or double the target set at the beginning of the project.

The merger between Saigon port and Can Tho port makes the financial comparison
between appraisal and ICR difficult because the operating entity now is very different
from the one originally envisaged. However, the table below gives a comparison of the
main financial indicators, which show that sales growth has been much higher than
expected but that profitability is lower than expected because of the additional
investments in the port.

                     Major Financial Indicators Comparison (2005)

                          Operating                                                 FNPV
        Sales growth      revenues       Operating ratio  Profit Margin    FRR      (VND
            (%)        (VND Million)          (%)              (%)         (%)     million)
SAR           5            23,424              73              14          17.8     1,099
 ICR        8.20           36,136              88             0.50          24       570

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

Overall, the outcome of the project is satisfactory due to the better than expected results
and the continuing relevancy of the improvements undertaken in the project. Waterway
traffic has been increasing at a rate of 5-6 percent compared to a rate of 3 percent
forecasted at appraisal; the volume of cargo at Can Tho Port has gone up from 183,000
tons in 1996 to 1,145,000 tons in 2005. Project outputs exceeded the original (appraised)
plan. The successful implementation of the measures and program has enhanced the
institutional capacity of VIWA-SD and PMU-W to plan, administer, operate and
maintain the inland waterway system in the delta. The return to the investment has been
greater than forecasted. The EIRR of the project was greater than 50 percent and
exceeded the appraisal estimate of 26 percent.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Issues of poverty alleviation and gender were not specifically addressed in the project.
Improving waterways in the Mekong delta would remove a critical constraint to the
economic development (mainly agriculture and trade) of the region thereby helping to
improve living conditions of the poor rural population. Results so far seem to bear out
that the project contributed to economic growth, as evidenced by the increased
agricultural and industrial output in the Mekong delta. Provincial GDP has grown


                                              11

between 4.6 percent and 6.3 percent annually from 2000 to 2005. The poverty rate in the
Mekong delta has dropped from around 48 percent in 1993 to about 16 percent in 2004.

                Agriculture and Industrial Outputs of the Mekong Delta
                            (VND billion at 1994 constant prices)
                   Output          2000       2001    2002     2003     2004
                 Agriculture     40,625.1   39,567.6 44,269.0 44,667.9 45,763.2
                  Industrial     18,480.6   21,676.9 25,116.1 28,018.4 32,331.1
                Source: Statistical Yearbook, 2005

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Prior to the project, the ability of VIWA-SD to perform effectively was hampered by the
lack of modern equipment, facilities and trained staff. Even core functions such as
channel verification, supervision of riparian structures, law enforcement and search and
rescue were conducted in a rudimentary manner. The project provided PMU-W with a
river management information system, a set of technical standards for the development
and maintenance of inland waterways, the most up to date office and workshop
equipment and introduced modern technology and implementation of efficient methods
for waterway management and operation through training and technical assistance. These
measures will have a long-term impact on the capacity of VIWA-SD in the management
and operation of waterways under its administration.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The project had an unintended positive outcome in that the disposal of dredged material
at selected sites ended up being very beneficial for the local communities because it
raised their land above the flood water level, thus reducing damage and enhancing its
value. The negative impacts from acid sulphate soil on agricultural productivity were also
much lower than estimated during appraisal.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

No beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshops were conducted.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The risk to development outcome is moderate. Benefits that the project was expected to
yield have largely materialized, except the port's profitability. Project outputs exceeded
what had been planned at the time of appraisal. Inland waterway traffic may be expected
to increase in light of the savings in transport cost brought about by the improvements in
the waterways. The shortening of the distance traveled on the two main waterway routes
resulted in an estimated saving of $2 per ton of cargo carried on the waterways.
Improvements at Can Tho Port have led to a significant increase in the volume of cargo
handled including containers (from zero at the time of appraisal to some 18,600 TEUs in



                                                 12

2005). However there are two areas where governmental actions could remove a degree
of uncertainty and risk:
    · The sustainability of the benefits of the improvements in inland water navigation
        could be affected by an insufficient maintenance budget. Proper maintenance of
        the waterways requires an estimated US$1,900 per km annually. Budgetary
        allocations to VIWA-SD in recent past years have fallen short of this
        amount. The total budgetary allocation to VIWA-SD for 2005, for instance, was
        VND 40.5 billion (US$ 2.53 million) or approximately VND 13.9 million or
        US$ 870 per km of waterways managed by VIWA-SD. On a more positive note,
        the budget allocation for 2005 was a 25 percent increase over the previous year's
        allocation of VND 32.8 billion.
    · The structural form of management and operation of the landing stages need to be
        determined by VIWA-SD without further delay. IDA has suggested various
        models for their management and operation including the possibility of entering
        into joint venture with the private sector. To date, only the management and
        operation of the Ca Mau landing stage has been resolved.

These issues will be addressed in the proposed MTIDP.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

IDA performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The design of the
project and the approach taken in planning its implementation was highly relevant to the
development strategy for improving the country's inland waterways and their
management. Recognizing that this was the first inland waterway project in the country to
be financed by IDA, IDA facilitated the preparation of the project by transferring know-
how on project identification and development including the technical design and
evaluation of economic, social and environmental aspects. However, during
preparation full agreement was not reached between the government and IDA on
the eligibility of state owned enterprises to participate in civil works contracts. This was
to prove a significant cause of delay in subsequent implementation and as such this rating
is lower than the QAG quality at entry review, which rated the project as excellent at
entry for the attention paid to environmental and social issues.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory




                                              13

The quality of Bank supervision was satisfactory. Regular implementation review
missions focusing on the timely completion of works and their impact on the
achievement of the development objective were conducted throughout implementation.
Issues that emerged during implementation were attended to efficiently and promptly.
Compliance with safeguard and fiduciary policies was closely monitored and
recommendations for improving the implementation of the EMAP and the RAP were
readily given. The quality of Bank supervision was slightly diminished by the protracted
process in resolving the eligibility of SOEs to bid for contracts financed by the Credit.
Although the ports component of the project was less than 2 percent of the overall credit,
the supervision team could have been more proactive in addressing the unexpected
merger of Can Tho and Saigon Ports and the implications for this on the overall financial
viability of the facility.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory


Overall Bank performance can be considered satisfactory. The project design was
extremely relevant for Vietnam and will be the basis for future operations. The final
outcomes were also positive and exceeded the expectations for traffic growth and port
throughput. The project was effective in building capacity to implement inland
waterways projects but slightly less effective in building the institutional capacity for
subsequent management and maintenance. However, the outcomes could have been
achieved more quickly had the delays in implementation been addressed more
comprehensively both during preparation and subsequent supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Government performance is rated satisfactory based on its commitment to the project, its
oversight and monitoring of project implementation and the nature and timing of its
interventions in support of the project. One weakness was the lack of advance
information to the Bank, as a key financier of the port, for the Can Tho port expansion
plans and the subsequent merger with Saigon port.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Project Management Unit -          The performance of PMU-W, the implementing agency
Waterways                          for the project, was very good. Cooperation between
                                   PMU-W and the Bank was very good, consultations
                                   were extensive and meaningful and issues were
                                   promptly raised and jointly resolved. PMU-W


                                              14

                                  discharged its fiduciary responsibilities conscientiously
                                  and correctly. Compliance with Bank's requirements
                                  was highly satisfactory. PMU-W displayed a strong
                                  sense of ownership throughout the implementation
                                  period.

                                  Considering that PMU-W was newly established and
                                  had to manage 36 civil works and equipment supply
                                  contracts and some 30 contracts relating to resettlement
                                  and the monitoring of environmental and social impacts
                                  over a wide geographical area, its performance was very
                                  creditable. The project was completed with outputs in
                                  excess of planned targets and at a cost that was less than
                                  estimated. Although the project was completed later
                                  than expected, the delay was largely not attributable to
                                  any shortcoming on the part of PMU-W in managing the
                                  implementation but to circumstances beyond the control
                                  of PMU-W. However, given the overall project delays
                                  and, at times, insufficient resourcing of project
                                  supervision consultants, their overall rating is
                                  satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Overall, the Borrower's performance was satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

Differences on matters of policy between the Borrower and IDA would best be resolved
prior to Board presentation. The resolution of the eligibility of SOEs to bid for IDA
financed contracts and the resultant need to re-bid dredging contracts due to the expiry of
their validity set the commencement of the major contracts back by about two years. This
could have been avoided if the issue had been raised and resolved before the original bids
were called.

Timing of Resettlement Activities. Resettlement in the project took longer to complete
than expected. Ideally, resettlement should have been completed before the award of
contracts whose execution could be affected by the resettlement process. Where this was
not possible, such as in dredging contracts where the sites for the disposal of dredged
material were determined by the contractor, acquisition of the land had to be carefully
planned and coordinated with the schedule of works to avoid delay in their execution. It
was obvious that efficient resettlement required a constant dialogue with each and every
PAP, implementation after agreement was reached had to be swift to maintain



                                             15

momentum and instill confidence; resettlement management could not be left entirely to
local authorities.

The resettlement work under the project greatly benefited from a resettlement pilot prior
to a full scale implementation that helped to increase awareness of resettlement
implementation procedures among the local authority and build capacity in the PMU. The
pilot led to the creation of the Resettlement and Environment Unit (REU) in the PMU
with separate groups to focus on the key resettlement activities such as demarcation,
entitlement, consultation, data management, and monitoring. The REU developed an
efficient data management and documentation system for resettlement implementation,
emphasized external monitoring and most importantly had a dedicated team to implement
and supervise resettlement implementation.

Planning and Managing Dredging Operations. For future dredging operations, it may be
helpful to include hydrographic surveys in the scope of work of supervision consultants.
Dredging operations could have been expedited if the quality and timeliness of surveys
prior to and post dredging had been better. This would have reduced the amount of
checking and re-checking; quality would be assured and the time to complete each
contract could conceivably be reduced. The inclusion of slope protection works in
dredging contracts would provide better results as dredging contractors would not have
any incentive to over-dredge the banks that receive slope protection. Furthermore, the
siting, design and management of dredged spoils are critical in preventing the pollution of
agricultural fields and fish farms, and their requirements should be included from the
outset in EMAPs.

Commercialization of Facilities Management. Cargo handling facilities should be
designed not only in accordance with engineering standards but to also take into account
the services to be provided. The management arrangements for these facilities also need
to be well understood prior to the commencement of civil works. For example, the Ca
Mau landing stage remained empty for 12 months after completion while the province
finalized the management arrangements. Generally, insufficient attention was given to
user requirements both in terms of the design and management of these facilities. Greater
commercialization could help address these problems.

Competitive Bidding Benefits both Cost and Quality. The performance of many (but not
all) of the SOE contractors in the project was poor. They lacked the knowledge,
incentives and financial resources to do the job. The financial resources of contractors
and the capacity of their staff should be carefully assessed in qualifying contractors for
competitive bidding. Towards the end of the project private contractors started winning
contracts and there was a noticeable improvement in both the quality and speed of
implementation.




                                              16

Strengthening Project Ownership. The current implementation arrangements for projects
in Vietnam where PMUs implement projects under the authority of MoT tends to
marginalize the role and commitment of the modal administrations, in this case VIWA. In
the future, VIWA should take a much more central role in managing waterways projects
and dictating their direction. This would increase ownership of the infrastructure and the
desire to maintain it.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower and the implementing agency appeared satisfied with the outcome of the
project. Additional measures to improve the inland waterway sector identified by the
Borrower are being taken into account in a follow up project on the development of the
Mekong's transport infrastructure.

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                            17

                        Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
          Components                                                    Percentage of
                                  (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                       millions)         Appraisal

WATERWAY
IMPROVEMENTS                           56.30              57.10             101

CAN THO PORT                             1.60               1.60            100

INSTITUTION BUILDING                   10.70              19.70             184


            Total Baseline Cost        68.60               78.40

Physical Contingencies                   0.00               0.00            0.00

Price Contingencies                      0.00               0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs       68.60               78.40
Project Preparation Fund                 0.00               0.00            .00
Front-end fee IBRD                       0.00               0.00            .00
      Total Financing Required         68.60               78.40




(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds            Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                   Cofinancing      (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)     millions)
Borrower                                        11.90        15.80        .00
International Development
Association (IDA)                               73.00        62.60        .00




                                           18

                            Annex 2. Outputs by Component



          Component               Planned at Appraisal            Achieved at Closing

Waterways Improvements:         US$ 56.3 million             US$ 57.12 million

a)     To improve two main      Dredge and excavate          Dredged and widened the
waterways to permit safe        waterways from Ho Chi        main waterways from Ho Chi
daytime and nighttime, year     Minh City to Kien Luong Minh City to Kien Luong to
round, two way navigation       and from Cho Lach to Ca Ha Tien and from Cho Lach to
                                Mau to a depth of not less Ca Mau to Nam Can (a total
                                than 2.7m and a bottom       of 626 km) and a feeder
                                width of 22 to 30m, a total section from Ganh Hao to Gia
                                distance of 546 km           Rai (40 km) to a depth of 3m
                                                             and a width of 26 to 30m.

b) Bridge improvements that Replace/improve bridges Replaced/improved bridges at
meet the minimum 30m            at Sa Dec, Kien Luong,       Sa Dec, Kien Luong, Trinh
horizontal and 7m vertical      Trinh Huu Nghia, Vin         Huu Nghia, Vin Thuan, Doan
clearance standards             Thuan and Doan Ket           Ket, Luong The Tran and Thoi
                                Demolish bridge at Cai       Binh
                                San and Thoi Binh

c)    Slope protection to       At selected sites over a     At selected sites over a total
stabilize/prevent erosion along total length of 546 km       length of 668 km
canal banks

d)    Rehabilitation or         62 lattice towers, 726       72 lattice towers, 830 buoys,
installation of navigation aids buoys, 251 poles, 613        266 poles, 661 masts, 498
                                masts, 402 signboards        signboards

e)    Landing stage for loading At Ca Mau                    At Ca Mau, Tac Cau, An
and unloading of cargo: 2                                    Phuoc, Binh Long, Long Duc,
hectares comprising wharf,                                   Giao Long, and Sa Dec
storage yard, office

f)     Shiplock : 132m x 14.6m At Thoi Binh                  At Tac Thu
x 2.4m

Can Tho Port Improvement US$ 1.56 million                    US$ 1.55 million

a)    Rehabilitate/improve port Replace fenders on 144 m Replaced fenders on 144 m of
facilities                      of wharf and develop         wharf, developed facilities for
                                facilities for collection of collection of vessel bilge
                                vessel bilge water and       water and chemical spills,



                                             19

                             chemical spills            constructed a new perimeter
                                                        road, and a container/open
                                                        storage yard.

b)    provide cargo handling 1x40 ton mobile crane, 1 1x40 ton mobile crane, 1 self-
equipment                    self-loading/unloading     loading/unloading trailer and 1
                             trailer and 1 prime mover/ prime mover/ tractor.
                             tractor.

Institution Building         US$ 10.65 million          US$ 19.66 million

a)   To support VIWA-SD      Provide 32 work boats,     Provided 32 work boats, 6
and PMU with project         surveying and sampling     forklifts, workshop equipment
implementation and capacity  equipment, office and      for surveying, sampling,
development for operations   communication              spraying, drilling, cutting,
and maintenance              equipment, and 5 vehicles pressing; echo sounders; 5
                                                        vehicles and a training
                                                        simulator.

                                                        Developed River Management
                                                        Information System, technical
                                                        engineering standards for
                                                        inland waterways
                                                        management, and feasibility
                                                        study for improvement to
                                                        navigation on Bassac River

b) Specialized training for                             143 staff weeks of training for
developing VIWA-SD                                      138 staff including 96 from
management staff                                        MOT/VIWA-SD and 41 from
                                                        PMU

c) Support to PMU for project                           Technical assistance for
implementation                                          construction supervision from
                                                        June 1999 to March 2006




                                         20

                        Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Inland Waterways Project Components

Traffic demand
The traffic forecasts for the Mekong Delta at the time of appraisal have proved extremely
conservative, although there is conflicting data on the true level of demand on the
waterways. Based on the official government statistics, which were the source for the
SAR estimates, there has been a 345 percent increase in waterways freight traffic (from
6.8 million tons in 1994 to 23.4 million tons in 2004). By the year 2000, freight traffic
was already 65 percent over the SAR forecast and the 2004 figures have already
exceeded the SAR forecasts for 2020. According to these figures, traffic has been
growing at 4 percent per annum over the last five years. In the SAR it was estimated that
traffic would grow at 9 percent per annum in 1994-2000 and between 3-4 percent per
annum in 2000-2020.

However, a recent consultant study for the proposed Mekong Transport Infrastructure
Development Project (MTIDP) in the Delta suggests that freight traffic on the waterways
is much higher, and that by 2004, traffic had already reached 70 million tons. This study
forecasts that traffic will grow at 7.3 percent per annum in 2005-2010 and 4.5 percent per
annum in 2010-2025. The range of values is set out in Table 1. The figures contained in
this study do seem to be more consistent with the actual traffic levels on the waterways,
as set out in the next section, but the collection of accurate data clearly needs to be
improved if planning decisions are to be made with any degree of confidence.

For the purposes of the economic analysis it is assumed that traffic growth rates will be in
the order of 4.5 percent per annum.

      Table 1: Mekong Delta: Waterway Freight Traffic Forecasts (million tons)
                            1994    2000     2004     2010     2015      2020      2025
     SAR                    6.8      11.6                       18.1      22
                           actual forecast                    forecast forecast
     Statistics yearbook             19.2    23.4
                                    actual  actual
     MTIDP estimates                         69.6     106.5                       208.4
                                            actual Estimate                      forecast

Traffic on project corridors
As with the overall traffic forecast for the Mekong Delta, the traffic on the project
corridors was much higher than expected. At the three representative count stations,
annual percentage increases of between 21 percent and 37 percent were recorded. The
Cho Gao canal is the main meeting point for routes to and from HCMC and now carries
an enormous 57 million tons; it is already at operating at capacity. Tan Hiep is the count
station on the Kien Luong waterway and Vi Thanh is the count station on the Ca Mau
waterway (see Table 2).




                                               21

These huge traffic increases in part reflect the importance of removing constraints from
waterways in terms of increasing canal depth and increasing bridge clearance. Without
these improvements, large vessels are simply unable to travel. The figures also reflect a
construction boom in the Mekong Delta over the period, including facilities such as the
Ca Mau industrial complex and rehabilitation of NH-1. The Ca Mau complex alone has
required the transportation of around 2 million tons per year of building materials (mainly
sand). There has also been a general up-turn in movement of goods. For example, before
the project there were no containers transported on the waterways; now there are 18,000
annually just from Can Tho port. As mentioned in the previous section, there are also
concerns over the reliability of the data.

              Table 2: Freight Traffic on Project Corridors (million tons)
                  Station           Cargo movement million tons       Annual %
                                2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 increase
           Cho Gao               6.8    3.8   14.1  27.4  45.3   57.0     35
           Tan Hiep (Rach Gia) 0.9      3.2    3.2  2.9   6.2    8.0      37
           Vi Thanh              1.6    0.7    1.3  1.7   5.3    5.6      21

Project costs
Overall, the costs for both project corridors were lower than estimated (US$53.3 million)
even though additional dredging was undertaken to complete the corridors to Ha Tien and
Nam Can. The costs for the HCMC - Ha Tien corridor were 15 percent lower than
expected and the costs for the Can Tho - Can corridor were 7.5 percent higher than
expected.

  Table 3: Comparison of Project Costs between the SAR and ICR (US$ million)
                        HCMC Kien Luong Ha TienCan Tho Ca Mau Nam Can
                              SAR              ICR           SAR           ICR
      Distance (km)            328             353          218.2          273.2

      Dredging                15.4             12.1           8.0          11.9
      Bridges                  2.0             1.7            5.0           4.0
      Bank Protection          1.9             2.1            1.3           1.7
      Aids to Navigation       4.1             3.3            2.8           2.5
      Ship lock                 -                -            3.7           4.3
      Resettlement             6.9             4.6            4.6           3.5
      Landing stages            0              0.8            1.0           0.8

      Total                   30.3             24.6          26.4          28.7

The economic analysis also includes annual operations and maintenance costs associated
with maintenance dredging (US$ 2,000 per km) and maintenance of the aids to
navigation (US$ 2,100 per km).




                                              22

Estimation of Project Benefits
The main project benefits have been the following:
    · the ability for barge operators to use higher tonnage vessels (up to 1,000 dwt)
        because of wider, deeper canals and increased bridge clearance;
    · the reduction in transport distances of 50 km and 47 km respectively on the
        project canals through the elimination of transport bottlenecks such as low
        bridges;
    · the ability to use day and night navigation;
    · the reduction in accidents, particularly around the piers of bridges; and
    · improved loading facilities at the provincial landing stages.

Surveys suggest that barge tariffs on the main routes have been reduced by $2 per ton,
which is a per ton kilometer saving of US$0.0057. The economic analysis for MTIDP
using the Inland Waterways Transport Cost (IWTC) model estimates benefits in the range
of US$0.006 and US$0.0013 ton/km for similar waterway corridors in the Delta. For the
purposes of this analysis, a figure of US$0.0057 has been used.

At appraisal it was estimated that improvements to the Aids to Navigation (Navaids) to
allow 24 hour navigation would reduce transport costs by a further 18.75 percent, which
is a per ton kilometer savings of US$0.041. However, the Navaids were installed
towards the end of the project and it is too early to identify impacts from these
investments at this stage. It is also likely that improvements to navigation have been
factored into the new freight rates; as such, no additional benefit is assigned in this
analysis.

Cost-Benefit Analysis
For the waterways component the actual economic returns from the project have been
higher than expected at appraisal. The very high rates of return that have been
experienced on the HCMC to Ha Tien section are principally the result of the high
tonnage passing through the Chao Gao canal.

     Table 4: Comparison of Economic Rates of Return at Appraisal and Project
                                          Completion
                                           SAR                              ICR
                             IRR (%)NPV (US$ million)*IRR (%)NPV (US$ million)
       HCMC-Ha Tien              27            73.4             >50              239.7
       Cho Lach Nam Can          24            30.9              29               49.6
       Waterway component        26            104.3            >50              289.3
*NPV has been updated to December 2005 prices by multiplying with a factor of 1.288

The Can Tho Port Improvement Component

Port throughput
As with the waterways component, Can Tho port received much higher throughput than
predicted during appraisal. At appraisal it was estimated that the port could receive
572,000 tons of cargo before a further port expansion would be required. It was
anticipated that this would be achieved in the year 2000. In reality, the work on the port


                                               23

had not been started by this date and throughput remained low at 363,900 tons. However,
once the work started, throughput increased rapidly, supported by a further enhancement
of capacity at the port with funding from Saigon port. By 2005, throughput had reached
1.15 million tons, a two fold increase over the 2000 target. Since 2000, there was an
average annual increase in throughput of 19 percent. However, it is likely that growth
will decline.

Project costs
The actual project costs were roughly the same as estimated at appraisal. Infrastructure
costs were about 76 percent of appraisal estimates and equipment was 110 percent of
appraisal estimate. Within these costs the project also financed an internal access road
and storage yard that were not anticipated at appraisal. See Table 5.

Table 5: Comparison of Port Improvement Costs between the SAR and ICR (US$m)
                                                Can Tho Port Improvement
                                                 SAR estimate ICR actual

                    Infrastructure improvements       0.43              0.33
                    Loading equipment                 0.97              1.07
                    Total                             1.40              1.39

As part of the economic analysis, account has also been taken of the additional
investments by Saigon port. Although exact figures are not available, it is estimated that
US$3 million was invested to construct a purpose built container yard and additional
wharf.

Estimation of benefits
The calculation of benefits for the ICR has been done on the same basis as for the
appraisal. It is assumed that the port would have had a capacity of 393,000 tons without
the investment. At the time of appraisal it was assumed that the cost of the alternative
would be to barge the cargo to HCMC at a cost of $3.60 per ton. This calculation was
based on rice, as it accounted for 80 percent of the throughput of the port. In a recent
logistics study it was found that the cost saving for rice export of using ports in Can Tho
over ports in HCMC was $3 per ton. Therefore this analysis uses that figure for the
benefits of the improvement.

Cost Benefit Analysis

     Table 6: Comparison of Economic Rates of Return at Appraisal and Project
                                         Completion
                                             SAR                               ICR
                                  IRR (%)NPV (US$ million)*IRR (%)NPV (US$ million)
      Can Tho Port Improvement       43            2.83             26            4.04
*NPV was updated to December 2005 prices by multiplying with a factor of 1.288.




                                              24

Financial Analysis for Can Tho Port

Given the recent merger of Can Tho Port Enterprise with Saigon Port, it is difficult to
make meaningful comparisons between the financial rates of return at appraisal and
following project completion. However, the recent throughput data and financial
statements from the port indicate that although the port was only marginally profitable in
2005, its performance is improving.

                        Table 7: Income Statement (VND million)
                                                2004       2005
                          Total revenue        26,736     36,136
                          Total operating costs 27,815    35,926
                          Profit after tax      -1,078     210

A comparison of the key financial indicators from the SAR to ICR shows that although
sales growth and operating revenues grew faster than expected, the additional costs from
the merger adversely affected operating ratios and profit margins. The port is over staffed
and much of the equipment and facilities are under utilized. However, given the rapid
growth in throughput over the last few years it is likely that the port will be returning
healthy profits in the coming years.

                Table 8: Major Financial Indicators Comparison (2005)
                    Operating                                           FRR      FNPV
     Sales growth revenues            Operating ratio Profit Margin (%)          (VND
     (%)            (VND Million)     (%)               (%)                      million)
SAR5%               23424             73%               14%             17.8     1,099
ICR 8.20%           36136             88%               0.50%           24       570




                                            25

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

            Names                         Title             Unit   Responsibility/
                                                                       Specialty
Lending

Pramod K. Agrawal         Senior Social Development Spec   SASES Resettlement
                                                                 Specialist
Jitendra N. Bajpai        Adviser                          EAPVP Task Team Leader
Veronique Bishop          Sr Financial Spec.               CININ Financial Analyst
Bobbie J. Brown           Program Assistant                EASUR Task Assistant
Carlos Ricardo Escudero   Lead Counsel                     LEGEA Sr. Counsel
Dieter Havlicek           Consultant                       EASTE Transport Economist

Scott D. MacKnight                                         EASTE Environment
                                                                 Specialist
Ismail E. Mobarek         Consultant                       SASEI Port Engineer

Chander P. Ohri           Consultant                       EASEG Procurement
                                                                 Specialist

Thach Ngoc Phan           Operations Officer               EASTE Infrastructure
                                                                 Engineer
Paul Stott                Consultant                       ETWWA Operations Officer

Deepali Tewari            Senior Municipal Development S   AFTU2 Resettlement
                                                                 Specialist
G. George Tharakan        Lead Transport Specialist        SASEI Transport Economist

Ronald D. Zweig           Sr Agric. Ecologist              EASRE Environment
                                                                 Specialist

Supervision/ICR

Pramod K. Agrawal         Senior Social Development Spec   SASES Resettlement
                                                                 Specialist

Phillip Brylski           Country Sector Coordinator       EASEN Environment
                                                                 Specialist

Kek Choo Chung            Consultant                       EASTE Port and Water
                                                                 Transport
Christopher J. De Serio   Senior Program Assistant         EASTE Sr. Program Assistant

Vinh Quoc Duong           Consultant                       EACIF Environmental
                                                                 Officer
Quyen Do Duong            Finance Analyst                  LOAG1 Disbursement Analyst
Simon David Ellis         Sr Transport. Spec.              EASTE Task Team Leader
Dung Anh Hoang            Operations Officer               EASTE Operations Officer

Hung Viet Le              Financial Management Specialis   EAPCO Financial
                                                                 Management
Hung Kim Phung            Senior Finance Officer           LOAG1 Sr. Finance Officer
Richard Y. Scheiner       Consultant                       EASTE Engineer
Kien Trung Tran           Sr Procurement Spec.             EAPCO Procurement Analyst
Phuong Thi Minh Tran      Senior Operations Officer        EASTE Operations Officer
Toshiro Tsutsumi          Sr Port Engineer                 EASTE Task Team Leader
Hong Vu                   Sr Operations Off.               EASSO Resettlement Officer



                                            26

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY94                                                           55.07
  FY95                                                          123.04
  FY96                                                          114.07
  FY97                                                          238.48
  FY98                                                           35.57
                        Total:                                  566.23
Supervision/ICR
  FY98                                                           56.12
  FY99                                                           59.16
  FY00                                 24                        69.18
  FY01                                 21                        58.37
  FY02                                 17                        61.09
  FY03                                 26                        68.53
  FY04                                 34                        87.23
  FY05                                 24                        55.69
  FY06                                 23                        56.86
  FY07                                                           34.64
                        Total:        169                       606.87




                                    27

                 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not Applicable




                                 28

              Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not Applicable




                                    29

       Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Inland Waterways and Port Rehabilitation Project has been successfully completed
with the closing of the IDA Credit on March 31, 2006. The project was appraised in July
1997 and the Credit of SDR 53.7 million became effective on June 3, 1998. The project
was originally estimated to cost US$84.89 million. The actual cost, on completion, was
US$78.33 million, of which US$ 62.57 million (SDR 42.56 million) were financed by the
IDA Credit.

Project Objectives

The project's general objective was to enhance the capacity, efficiency and safety of
inland waterway transport in the Mekong Delta. Its specific objectives were to:

    · improve the safety and traffic carrying capacity of the two main inland waterway
        routes connecting the Mekong Delta with Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC);
    · rehabilitate and improve the port of Can Tho to increase the efficiency of cargo
        transhipment and distribution; and
    · enhance the capacity of institutions involved so that they can better plan,
        administer, operate, and maintain the inland waterway system in the Mekong
        Delta.

Achievement of Objectives

The project's objectives were fully achieved. The traffic carried on the two main
waterways and the Port of Can Tho have been increasing, the accident rate has declined,
and the institutional capacity of VIWA-SD and PMU-W have been strengthened. In
terms of improving the facilities, the project achieved more than originally planned and at
a lesser cost.

Project Components

The project comprised three components, namely, waterway improvements, Can Tho
Port improvements and institution building:

    · Waterway improvements consisted of deepening and widening the navigational
        channel of the two main routes from HCMC to Kien Luong and from Cho Lach to
        Ca Mau (a total of 546 km) to a minimum depth of 2.7m at low water and a
        bottom width of 22-30m; protecting the slopes alongside the channels for stability
        to prevent erosion; replacing five and the demolishing two bridges; installing
        navigation aids to ensure safe day and night navigation; providing a landing stage
        at Ca Mau to facilitate cargo handling; and constructing a navigation lock to limit
        salinity intrusion.



                                             30

    · Can Tho Port improvements consisted of the replacement of fenders along the
        berth, the provision of cargo handling equipment and facilities for the collection
        of vessel bilge water and chemical spills and the strengthening of port
        management through technical assistance and training.
    · Institution Building consisted of the provision of equipment, technical assistance
        and training to VIWA-SD and PMU-W.

Achievement of Component Outputs

The above components were to be implemented at a cost originally estimated at US$84.9
million. When the Credit was closed on 31 March, 2006, the total cost came to US$ 62.57
million and actual outputs of the project exceeded the original plan by the following:

    · improvements of a further 82 km of the main waterways from Kien Luong to Ha
        Tien and from Ca Mau to Nam Can and a feeder section of 40 km from Ganh Hao
        to Gia Rai;
    · 6 more landing stages each with a designed throughput of 500,000 ton;
    · 1 additional bridge;
    · a new perimeter road and a container yard/open storage area; and
    · technical assistance in the form of the development of technical engineering
        standards for waterway management, a river management information system and
        a feasibility study on improving navigation on the Bassec River.

Lessons Learned

A good lesson learned from the implementation of the project is that more time is
required for resettlement than anticipated. The implementing entity for resettlement has
to be patient and sensitive to the needs of the project-affected person (PAP). Close
consultation, publicly and individually, with project-affected persons, is essential to
resolve difficulties and hardship. Follow-up action on agreement reached should be
implemented quickly. For these reasons, resettlement management cannot be left entirely
in the hands of local authorities and the implementing agency should be pro-active in all
stages of resettlement.

Context at Appraisal

The Mekong Delta with an area of 39,738 sq. km at the southern tip of Vietnam had a
population of about 17 million, eighty five percent of which lived in rural areas and
engaged in small-scale agriculture. The region generated a quarter of the nation's GDP,
one third of its agriculture production and half of its rice production. Inland waterways
were the delta's most important transport system. There were about 4,800 km of
navigable routes of which 1,578 km had a depth that could accommodate vessels drawing
a draft of 2-4 m. The main rivers of Dong Nai, Mekong and Bassec could accommodate



                                             31

sea-going vessels with a draft up to 4.5 m. However, there was a serious backlog of
dredging and navigation aids were in short supply. The Port of Can Tho at the center of
the delta handled some 200,000 tons of cargo.

About 65 percent of freight in the delta were carried on the inland waterways. Freight
traffic consisted mainly of bulk commodity such as rice, fertilizers, construction materials
and petroleum products. About 75 percent of the traffic had its origin or destination in
HCMC. Two main corridors ( HCMC-Cho Lach-Kien Luong and Cho Lach-Ca Mau)
carried about 60 percent of the waterway traffic.

The Vietnam Inland Waterway Bureau (VIWA) was responsible for the country's
waterways. VIWA was established in 1993 and reported to the Ministry of Transport
(MOT). While it had an independent legal status, VIWA's budget was subjected to
MOT's review and approval and its chief executive was appointed by the Chairman of
the Council of Ministers on the recommendation of the Minister of Transport. Foreign-
financed developments of waterways were put under the charge of a Project Management
Unit, Waterways (PMU-W) by MOT. PMU-W reported to MOT and VIWA. VIWA
delegated its responsibility for the administration, management, maintenance, standards
and safety of state-controlled waterways to South Vietnam Inland Waterways Sub-
Department (VIWA-S). VIWA-S managed about 2,327 km of rivers and canals including
the project waterways. Responsibility for operations and management was subdivided
into 5 geographical divisions; each division consisted of 4-5 stations that performed day
to day functions such as waterway inspection, enforcement of regulations, routine checks
on water level, navigation aids, pollution control and public communication. Plans for
annual maintenance dredging were prepared by VIWA-S and submitted to VIWA and
MOT for review and clearance. Once approved, MOF appropriated the necessary funds
for distribution to its subsidiary entities.

VIWA-S had a staff of about 330 including 29 professionals at its central office in
HCMC. A typical area division had 14 persons, a typical station 8. The ability of VIWA-
S and its subsidiary units to perform was hampered by lack of modern equipment,
facilities and trained staff.

The inland waterway sector had two main sources of revenue: fuel taxes and registration
fees. Fuel taxes were collected by MOF, registration fees by VIWA. At the time of
appraisal, revenue from taxes and registration fees amounted to some VND 25 billion
(US$ 2.5 million) of which VND 24 billion came from diesel fuel tax.

Can Tho at the center of the delta had a throughput of 250,000 tons. It reached 200,000
tons in 1996 and demand was expected to exceed capacity by the year 2000. The
government had designated the port as an international seaport and planned to develop it
as a hub for the region. However, the port's ability to carry sea-going traffic was
hampered by silting at the Bassec river channel leading to the sea, a lack of commercial



                                             32

orientation, poor financial management and constraints on the marketing and exportation
of rice. The port had 13 managerial staff to cover operation, finance, cargo handling
services, maintenance and personnel functions. However, key commercial functions such
as marketing, financial planning and plant management were not staffed.

Key Issues

Restoration of System Capacity and Efficiency. Chronic neglect of dredging of rivers
and canals, inadequate navigation aids and other impediments to navigation had led to
under-utilization, rising unit transport cost and declining safety of inland waterways. To
restore capacity, the dredging backlog had to be cleared, the main routes improved for
use of larger vessels, navigation aids provided for day and night navigation, and
waterway operations improved through modernization of equipment and better
enforcement of rules. These requirements were addressed in the project.

The existing fleet was operating at its maximum carrying capacity and by 2000 would fall
short of meeting demand, estimated at 7.3 million tons, by 80,000 tons. There was a need
to increase fleet productivity by enabling night navigation, reducing travel time and
permitting and facilitating the use of larger vessels.

To maintain and expand its role, Can Tho Port had to increase its cargo handling capacity
and efficiency while adopting commercial business practices.

Sustaining Adequate Maintenance. The government had increased recurrent
expenditure considerably from US$ 184 per km to US$ 870 per km of waterways
between 1991 to 1995. The government was committed to provide sufficient funds to
maintain the waterways.

Human Resource Management and Development. VIWA and VIWA-S were under-
staffed, under-trained and lacked equipment for proper management. The project
addressed these issues through the institutional building component.

Remaining Challenges. The favorable outcome of the project will improve inland
transport in the Mekong Delta and is expected to spur the growth of the private market
for transport. Additional measures to ensure adequate sector investment, strengthen the
public institutions responsible for providing fixed infrastructure, promote regulatory
reforms to stimulate private sector operations and design pricing and taxation policies
that will generate revenue and efficiently allocate demand across modes will develop
greater efficiency and productivity in the transport sector and these measures will be
addressed in follow up projects.




                                              33

      Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable




                                    34

                        Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report. Report No: 27659-VN. January 22, 2004

Development Credit Agreement (Cr. 3000-VN) November 8, 1997.

External Monitoring Reports on Results of Compensation Rehabilitation and
Resettlement Process of Households Affected By Inland Waterways and Port
Rehabilitation Project. National Center for Social Sciences and Humanities of Vietnam
Human Geography Research Centre.

Development of River Management Information System (RMIS). Series of Reports.
CREDENT Technology (Asia) Pte. Ltd.

Environmental Monitoring Reports. Environmental Protection Center. (1998-2006).

Feasibility Study for Improvement of the Bassac River - Final Report. SNC-Lavalin
International Inc. February 2005.

Improvements of Port Operations, Marketing and Business Development Date
for Can Tho Port ­ Final Report. COWI. December 2001.

Feasibility Study for Mekong Transport Infrastructure Development Project. Louis
Berger. June 2006.

Monthly and Quarterly Supervision Progress Reports. SMEC. (1998-2006).

Staff Appraisal Report. Report No. 16599-VN. September 25, 1997.

Technical Engineering Standards for Inland Waterway Management - Final Report.
Ministry of Transport w/ Royal Haskoning. September 2005.

World Bank Aide-Memoires, Project Status Reports, and Implementation Status Reports.
(1994-2006).




                                            35

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 34990

           100°                               105°                                                                                                                            5°
                                                                                                                                                                            10                  Binh Long
                                                                                                                                                                                                Binh Long                                                                            CAMBODIA
                                                     C H I N A                                C A M B O D I A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BINH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BINH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DONG

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Thu Dãu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Thu Dãu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MôtMôt                          7°
                                     VIETNAM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Biên Hòa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Biên Hòa
MYANMAR                                        Hanoi
                                                                                       Ha Tien
                                                                                       Ha Tien                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DonDong
20°                        LAO                                            20°                                                                                                                                                   DONG THAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DONG THAP                        DonDong
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Dong                                                                                                                                                DONG
                                                            G u l f o f                                                                                                                                                                                                     Tieiien
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              en                                   LONG AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LONG AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Can
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Canaal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Canal                                                                                                                  NaNai
                         P.D.R.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NAI
                                                            T o n k i n                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ho Chi Minh City
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ho Chi Minh City
                                                                                                                                                                                         AN GIANG
                                                                                                                                                                                         AN GIANG                                        Nguyen
                                                                                                      KienKien                                                                                                                           NguyeNguyenVan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Va
                                                                                                      LuongLuong       Rach
                                                                                                                       Rach                                                                                                                              Ti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Cao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Cao                       Tiieep
                                                                                                                                  GGia                                                                                                                          CanaCanal
                                                                                                                                    ia                                                               Long Xuyên
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Long Xuyên               Lanh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Lanh
                                                                                                                                      -HHaa
                                                                                                                                           TTien                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R.
                                                                                                                                             ien                                                            Cai San
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Cai San    LapLap
                THAILAND                                                                                                                        CCanal                                                                  Vo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Vo           Mekong R.                                        TIEN GIANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TIEN GIANG                                         Tan An
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          an An
                                                                                                                          Hon Dat
                                                                                                                          Hon Dat                 anal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T. . HO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             T.P HO
15°                                                                       15°   10°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CaCCananGuioGuioc

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CHI MINH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CHI MINH
                                                                                                                                                                KIEN
                                                                                                                                                                KIEN
                                                                                                                                                             GIANG
                                                                                                                                                             GIANG                            CCanal
                                                                                                                                                                                                anal                                                                                                                         My Tho
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             My Tho
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ~
                                                                                                                                                                                         Giang                                                                                                            My
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MyTTh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ho  R.                          Ga
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Gaoo
                                                                                                                                                                                         Giang                                                                                                                                                           ThanhThanh
                                                                                                                                                                                     Ha                          CANCAN                             My Thuan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    My Thuan                                                                             Choo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VinhVinh
                                                                                                                                                                                  oi-Hauu Tan Hiep
                                                                                                                                                                                          Tan Hiep
                                      CAMBODIA
                                      CAMBODIA                                                                                                                                                                   THOTHO                                   Vinh Long
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              nh Long
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ~                                                                                          DongDong
                                                                                                                                         Rach Giá
                                                                                                                                         Rach Giá                       Rach    SSoi                                                                                                               Cho Lach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Cho Lach                             ChoCho
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GaoGao
                                                                                                                                      Bypass Canal
                                                                                                                                      Bypass Canal                      Rach
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VINH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VINH                              R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R.                           Bên Tre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Bên

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LONG                   ThiTThithit

                                                    Ho Chi                                                                                                                                                                    Cân Tho'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Cân Tho'                                      ManMang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Mang                                                              BBooLaLa
                                                   Minh City                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Laii
10°                                                                       10°                                                                                                                                                                           Tam Binh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Tam Binh                                                                                      R.
                     G u l f o f                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MangCanalCan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Mang  TThital
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       hit

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C                      BEN TRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BEN TRE
                    T h a i l a n d                                                                                                                         CailoCCailon                                      NooCanal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Canal                                                                                         Coo
                                                                                                                                                                                                              N                                                                                                   Chien
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Tra On
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Tra On                                                                     Ham
                                               Area of map                                                                                                   ailon                                         Xaa
                                                                                                                                                                                                           X                                                                                                                   HaHam
                                                                                                                                                                        RR..                                                                                                                                      Chien             LLuong

           100°                               105°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RR..           uong
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Vi Thanh
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Thanh                                                                                                                       R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                Hoa Luu
                                                                                                                                                                                                Hoa Luu                                                                                              Trá Vinh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            nh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HAU                                        Bassac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GIANG                                       Bassac RR..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TRA VINH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TRA VINH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10°

                                                                       G u l f                                                                          DennCanal
                                                                                                                                                            Canal
                                                                                                                                                        De
                                                                                                                                                               VinhVinh
                                                                        o f                                                            Trem-Canhrem-Canh     ThuanThuan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sóc Trang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sóc      ang
                                                                  T h a i l a n d                                    Thoi Binh
                                                                                                                     Thoi Binh
                                                                                                                                  R.

9°                                                                                                                        TTrrerem                                                                                                            SOCSOC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TRANGTRANG
                                                                                                                                                                                          BAC LIEU
                                                                                                                                                                                          BAC LIEU
                                                                                                                CA MAU
                                                                                                                CA MAU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VIETNAM
                                                                                                                     Cà Mau
                                                                                                                     Cà Mau
                                                                                                                                                                                           Gia Rai
                                                                                                                                                                                           Gia Rai       Bac Liêu
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bac Liêu                                                                                           INLAND WATERWAYS AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROJECT WATERWAYS, DREDGED                                               SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROJECT WATERWAYS, NOT DREDGED                                           PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OTHER IMPORTANT WATERWAYS                                                NATIONAL CAPITAL (INSET)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROJECT BEND REALIGNMENTS                                                NATIONAL ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROJECT BRIDGES
                      0          10           20         30                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OTHER ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROJECT NAVIGATION LOCK
                                  KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SEAPORT
                                                                                                        Nam Can
                                                                                                        Nam Can                                                                                                                                                                                         PROJECT DEFLECTION STRUCTURES

     This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AND RIVER TRAINING WORKS                                               PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

     The boundaries, colors,denominations and anyother information shown                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PROJECT SEAPORT                                                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
     on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
     judgment on the legalstatus of any territory,or any endorsement or                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT RIVERPORTS
     acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                  °                                                                                                                              °                                                                   PROJECT BANK PROTECTION WORKS                                  7°
                                                                                                  105                                                                                                                            106                                                                                                                   9°            10

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OCTOBER 2006

