Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3000 VN
Development Credit Agreement
(Inland Waterways and Port Rehabilitation Project)
between
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 8, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 3000 VN 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated November 8, 1997, between  SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
Page  2
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
 (c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have 
been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous 
period of 
thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Association determines, 
after consultation 
with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will  not be required to finance the 
Project’s costs to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at any 
time, the Association determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the 
Credit during 
the procurement or the execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures 
in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any 
time, the Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the 
Development Credit Agreement 
and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect 
of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the 
Credit 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association  may, by notice to 
the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to  make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Credit shall be 
canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Affected Person" means a person who on account of the execution of the 
Project had or would have his or her: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or 
(ii) right, title or interest in any house, or interest in or right to use any land  
(including premises, agricultural and grazing land) or right in annual or perennial 
crops and trees or any other fixed or movable asset, acquired or possessed, 
temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work or place of residence 
or habitat adversely affected, temporarily or permanently, and "Affected Persons" 
means, collectively, all persons who qualify as an Affected Person;
(b)
“Can Tho Port Enterprise” means the state-owned business entity, 
established and operating under the Borrower’s State Enterprise Law of 1994, the 
Decision No. 1393/QD-UBT92 of the People’s Committee of Can Tho province, dated 
November 28, 1992, and the Decision No. 1828/KH-DT of the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Transport and Communications dated September 17, 1993, responsible for the operation 
and maintenance of the Can Tho Port;
(c)
 “Environmental Management Action Plan” means the environmental 
management plan setting out specific actions and measures, monitoring indicators, and 
institutional arrangements required  to mitigate adverse environmental effects during 
the construction and operation of the facilities under the Project, dated August 1997, 
as such plan may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and 
the Association;
(d)
“Financing Agreement” means  the agreement to be entered into between  
the Borrower and Can Tho Port Enterprise pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules supplemental to the Financing Agreement;
Page  3
(e)
“Implementation Arrangement” means  the agreement to be entered into 
between  the Can Tho Port Enterprise and PMU-SW pursuant to Section 3.01 (e) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules supplemental to the Implementation Arrangement;
(f)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, and any successor 
thereto;
(g)
"MOT" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Transport and Communications, and 
any successor thereto;
(h)
"Project Management Unit of Southern Waterways” and the acronym “PMU-SW" 
mean the project management unit established within MOT for purposes  of preparation 
and implementation of waterways projects in the two main waterway routes in the Mekong 
Delta;
(i)
“PMU-SW/Environmental Unit” means the unit established within PMU-SW 
pursuant to paragraph 2(c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(j)
"RAP" means the Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan dated August 
1997, satisfactory to the Association, for carrying out the compensation, resettlement 
and rehabilitation of each Affected Person pursuant to paragraph  4 of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement, approved by the Prime Minister’s Decision  No. 4162/KTN dated August 
20, 1997 and the Decision No. 2141/CGD of the Borrower’s Minister of Transport and 
Communications dated August 28, 1997, as such plan may be amended from time to time by 
agreement between the Borrower and the Association;
(k)
“Safe Line”  means a land strip of 2 meters wide counted inwards from the 
natural top shore line of the inland waterways channels under Part A of the Project;
(l)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means  the agreement to be entered into 
between  the Borrower, through MOF, and Can Tho Port Enterprise pursuant to Section 
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules supplemental to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(m)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement;
(n)
“Vietnam Inland Waterways Administration” and the acronym “VIWA” mean the 
organization under MOT, established and operating under Borrower’s Law of Governmental 
Organization and Personnel dated September 30, 1992 and the Government Decree No. 
08-CP dated January 30, 1993, responsible for formulating and administering inland 
waterway transport systems, including  policies and regulations, planning and funding 
infrastructure investments, management and maintenance, and standard setting and 
safety;  
(o)
“Vietnam Inland Waterways Administration/Southern Department” and the 
acronym “VIWA/SD”  mean the department within VIWA established by Decision No. 1477 
QD/TCCB-LD of MOT dated July 23, 1993, responsible, inter alia, for routine operations 
and management, maintenance, and enforcement of VIWA  safety policies and regulations 
in the inland waterway transport systems in the Mekong River Delta; and 
(p)
“Vietnam Maritime Administration” and the acronym “VINAMARINE” mean the 
organization under MOT, established and operating under Borrower’s Law of Governmental 
Organization and Personnel dated September 30, 1992 and the Decision No. 250-TTg of 
the Prime Minister dated  April 29, 1995, responsible, inter alia, for the 
administration of sea transport, port operations, sea going vessel repair, maritime 
brokerage and related activities.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifty three million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 53,700,000). 
Page  4
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each  April 15 and October 15 commencing April 15, 2008 and ending October 15, 2037. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on October 15, 2017 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
Page  5
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Parts A and C of the Project through MOT/PMU-SW and Part B of the Project through 
Can Tho Port Enterprise, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate engineering, river navigation, ports, environment, involuntary 
resettlement of persons, administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall, through MOF, relend part of the proceeds of the 
Credit to Can Tho Port Enterprise under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and the Can Tho Port Enterprise, under terms and conditions which 
shall have been approved by the Association which shall include the obligations to 
carry out Part B of the Project pursuant to the relevant provisions of this Agreement 
and of the Implementation Arrangement, and for the maintenance and auditing of 
accounts set forth in Section 4.02 of this Agreement, and the following terms and 
conditions:  
(i)
the amount so relent shall be the amount allocated to and 
withdrawn from Category 2(b) in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(ii)
interest at a rate of thirteen and two tenths percent 
(13.2%) per annum on the principal amount so relent and 
withdrawn by the Can Tho Port Enterprise and outstanding 
from time to 
time; and
(iii)
repayment over a period of twenty (20) years, including a 
grace period of five (5) years, of the equivalent in Dong 
at the 
time of withdrawal of the respective SDR amounts  
from time to time 
from the Credit Account. 
(d)
The Borrower shall, through MOF, make available on a grant basis to Can 
Tho Port Enterprise the amounts allocated to and withdrawn from Categories 1(c) and 
3(b) in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, under a financing 
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the Can Tho Port Enterprise, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association which 
shall include the obligation to carry out Part B of the Project pursuant to the 
relevant provisions of this Agreement and of the Implementation Arrangement, and for 
the maintenance and auditing of accounts set forth in Section 4.02 of this Agreement.
Page  6
(e)
The Borrower shall cause Can Tho Port Enterprise and PMU-SW to enter into 
an implementation arrangement for the carrying out of Part B of the Project, under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association which shall 
include: 
(i)
the obligation of Can Tho Port Enterprise to make available 
at no cost to PMU-SW the amounts allocated to and withdrawn 
from Categories 1(c), 2(b) and 3(b) in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for purposes of 
carrying out, in the name, and for the benefit, of Can Tho 
Port 
Enterprise, the procurement of goods, works and 
services 
under Part B of the Project; 
(ii)
the obligation of PMU-SW to carry out, at no cost to Can 
Tho Port Enterprise, the said procurement of goods, works 
and 
services in accordance with the provisions of this 
Agreement, the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Financing 
Agreement; and 
(iii)
the obligation of PMU-SW to maintain separate records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures 
in respect of Part B of the Project.
(f) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement  and the Financing Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of 
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or the Financing Agreement or 
any provision thereof.
(g) 
The Borrower shall cause Can Tho Port Enterprise and PMU-SW each to 
exercise its rights under the Implementation Arrangement in such manner as to protect 
the interests of the Borrower, the Association, Can Tho Port Enterprise and PMU-SW, 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause Can Tho Port Enterprise and PMU-SW each not 
to assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Implementation Arrangement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section including those for the Special Account for 
Page  7
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable 
to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than six months after the end of each 
such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof 
as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02 (a) The Borrower shall cause the Can Tho Port Enterprise to 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the Can Tho Port Enterprise to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and 
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such 
year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for 
such year as 
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records, accounts and financial statements 
as 
well as the audit thereof, as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is  specified, namely, that the Borrower or any other 
Page  8
authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or 
disestablishment of the Can Tho Port Enterprise or for the suspension of its 
operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
that the Borrower, through PMU-SW, shall have retained the services of an 
independent monitoring agency pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement;  
(b)
that the PMU-SW/Environmental Unit shall have been established pursuant 
to the provisions of paragraph 2 (c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
(c)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and Can Tho Port Enterprise;  
(d)
that the Financing Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and Can Tho Port Enterprise; and  
(e)
that the Implementation Arrangement has been executed on behalf of Can 
Tho Port Enterprise and PMU-SW.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and Can Tho Port Enterprise and is legally binding upon the Borrower 
and Can Tho Port Enterprise in accordance with its terms;  
(b)
that the Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and Can Tho Port Enterprise and is legally binding upon the Borrower and Can 
Tho Port Enterprise in accordance with its terms;  
(c)
that the Implementation Arrangement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Can Tho Port Enterprise and PMU-SW and is legally binding upon the Can Tho Port 
Enterprise and PMU-SW in accordance with its terms; and
(d)
that the provisions of the RAP are legally valid and enforceable in 
accordance with Vietnamese law.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Governor or any of the Deputy Governors of the State Bank of 
Vietnam is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
State Bank of Vietnam
Page  9
49 Ly Thai To Street
Hanoi
Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Cable address:
Telex:
VIETBANK
412248 NHTWVT
Hanoi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as of the day and year first above written.
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
By /s/ Le Duc Thuy, 
Deputy Governor, 
State Bank of Vietnam 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Andrew Steer, 
Country Director for Vietnam 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
  Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works:
90%
(a) under Part A.1 of
      the Project
27,900,000
(b) under Part A.2 of
      the Project
 5,000,000
(c) under Part B.1 of 
      the Project
          350,000
Page  10
 (2)
Goods:
100% of foreign
expenditures and
(a) under Parts A.1 and C.1
100% of  local
      of the Project
  8,110,000
expenditures 
(ex-factory cost)
(b) under Part B.1 of
and 80% of local
      the Project
    720,000
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(3)
Consultants’
100%
services and training:
(a) under Part C of 
      the Project
   3,630,000
(b) under Part B.2 of
      the Project
     120,000
(4)
Unallocated
   7,870,000
  __________
TOTAL
  53,700,000
  ========== 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(a)
goods under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each;  
(b)
works  under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each;  
(c)
training under contracts costing less than $25,000 equivalent each; 
(d)
services provided by consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent; and 
(e)
services provided by individual consultants under contracts costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to enhance the capacity, efficiency and safety 
of inland waterway transport in the Mekong River Delta, through: (a) improvement of 
the traffic carrying capacity and safety of the two main inland waterway routes 
connecting the Mekong River Delta with Ho Chi Minh City; (b) rehabilitation and 
improvement of the Can Tho Port to enable efficient transshipment and distribution of 
cargo; and (c) enhance the capacity of MOT and related agencies to plan, administer, 
operate and maintain the inland waterway system in the Mekong  River Delta.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Page  11
Part A:
Waterway Improvements 
1.
Improvement of about 546 kilometers of the two main inland waterway routes in 
the Mekong River Delta from  Ho Chi Minh City to Kien Luong in the northwest, and Cho 
Lach to Ca Mau in the southwest to accommodate convoys of three 300-dwt barges, 
including dredging and widening of about 250 kilometers of the main waterway routes, 
rebuilding or improving five bridges, erosion protecting works on canal side slopes, 
improvements at selected dangerous canal intersections and curves, provision and 
installation of navigational aids for night navigation, construction of a landing 
stage for transshipment of goods near Ca Mau town, and building a navigation lock to 
permit navigation and provide anti-salinity protection near Ca Mau town. 
2.
Resettlement and rehabilitation of the Affected Persons, including construction 
of infrastructure facilities at resettlement sites and provision of building 
materials.
Part B:
Can Tho Port Improvement 
1.
Rehabilitation of the infrastructure facilities  and  provision of cargo 
handling equipment for  Can Tho Port, including construction of fenders,  vessel bilge 
water and accidental chemical spills facilities, and provision of a 40-ton mobile 
crane, two yard tractors and six 40-foot trailers.
2. 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of the Can Tho Port Enterprise  in 
mar-keting,  financial  management, business development and port management of inland 
waterway ports  through, inter alia, provision of staff training and consultants’ 
services.
Part C:
Institution Building 
1. 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of VIWA/SD and PMU-SW in the design, 
operation,  management and maintenance of inland waterway transport systems through, 
inter alia, provision of staff training, equipment, and consultants’ services. 
2.
Strengthening the institutional capacity of PMU-SW in procurement and 
supervision of works, goods and services, and on monitoring and evaluation of 
environmental and resettlement activities under the Project through, inter alia, 
provision of consultants’ services.
*         *          * 
The Project is expected to be completed by  December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Prequalification 
Page  12
Bidders for dredging and spoil treatment (other than between Ho Chi Minh City 
and Cho Lach), bridges at Trinh Huu Nghia, Vinh Thuan and Sa Dec, and navigation lock 
works under Part A of the Project shall be prequalified in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for: (i) the navigation lock at Thoi Binh, 
including the demolition of an existing bridge and construction of a pedestrian 
overpass shall be grouped in a bid package estimated to cost $4,700,000 equivalent or 
more; and (ii) bridges at Trinh Huu Nghia, Vinh Thuan and Sa Dec, shall be grouped in 
a bid package estimated to cost $7,900,000 equivalent or more.
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic 
contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(d)
Dispute Review Board 
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines. 
(e)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $8,700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
International and National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international and national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Force Account
Works for installation of navigational aids under Part A.1 of the Project and 
for site preparation and infrastructure facilities under Part A.2 of the Project which 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and costing $9,900,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be 
carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of 
the Guidelines. 
4.
Procurement from UN Agencies 
Vehicles may be procured from United Nations Development Programme-Inter-Agency 
Procurement Services Organization in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 
of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning
Page  13
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided for in Part C of this Section, Consultants’ 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, 
Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality-and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
Services for environmental and resettlement monitoring may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultants’ Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more and each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph 
Page  14
of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an implementation 
plan satisfactory to the Association.
2.
The Borrower shall, through MOT:
(a) 
maintain at all times during the implementation of the Project the 
PMU-SW, headed by a Manager with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association, and assigned with functions, responsibilities and funds, satisfactory to 
the Association, and staffed by competent staff in adequate numbers;
(b)
carry out the training under Part C of the Project in accordance with 
training programs satisfactory to the Association, and to that end,  by no later than 
October 31 of each year, commencing October 31, 1998, furnish to the Association for 
its concurrence its proposed training programs including syllabus and time-tables for 
each such training program for the forthcoming Borrower's fiscal year, and thereafter, 
implement such training programs; and
(c) 
within PMU-SW and during the implementation of the Project, establish and 
thereafter maintain a unit assigned with functions, responsibilities and funds, 
satisfactory to the Association, and staffed by competent staff in adequate numbers, 
as shall be necessary to adequately implement the Environmental Management Action 
Plan.
3.
In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project the Borrower shall, pursuant to a 
time-table satisfactory to the Association, undertake environmental mitigating 
measures, satisfactory to the Association, pursuant to the Environmental Management 
Action Plan.
4.
The Borrower undertakes to carry out the asset acquisition from, compensation 
to, and resettlement and rehabilitation of, Affected Persons in accordance with the 
provisions of the RAP, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Association.
5.
The Borrower shall, pursuant to the provisions of Section II, Parts A and C of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, retain an independent monitoring agency with qualified 
and experienced staff to: (i) undertake the external monitoring and supervision of the 
implementation of Part A.2 of the Project; (ii) prepare and furnish to the Borrower 
and the Association semiannual monitoring reports thereof, the first of such reports 
to be furnished by July 31, 1998; and (iii) prepare and furnish to the Borrower and 
the Association a final evaluation report on completion of Part A.2 of the Project.
6.
The Borrower shall, through MOT:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association: (i) semi-annual reports, not later than January 31 and 
July 31 in each calendar year, the first of such semi-annual reports to be furnished 
by July 31, 1998, consolidating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section during the preceding 
calendar semester, setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
then current calendar semester; and (ii) a mid-term report, not later than July 31, 
Page  15
2000, consolidating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association by September 30, 2000, the report referred to 
in paragraph (b)(ii) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Association’s views on the matter. 
7.
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions, 
the Borrower shall, through MOT, furnish to the Association quarterly reports on the 
implementation of the Project, satisfactory to the Association, including 
recommendations of actions to be undertaken to further achieve the objectives of the 
Project. The first of such reports shall cover the first two quarters of the calendar 
year 1998 and shall be furnished by  July 31, 1998; thereafter, the quarterly reports 
shall be furnished no later than on the 30th day of the month following the respective 
quarterly period. 
8.
By August 31 of each year, commencing 1998, the Borrower shall, through MOT,  
review with the Association its proposed annual expenditure program for the national 
inland waterways under the administration of  VIWA/SD for the  following year, and 
thereafter, taking into account the Association's comments, take all such action, 
including provision of the required budgetary allocations, for carrying out such 
annual program.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means the Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $2,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts 
pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $1,000,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 4,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposit into 
the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify.
Page  16
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the 
payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn 
by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified 
by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
Page  17
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
