Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21754
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-25090)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 116.5 MILLION (US$165 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR THE
UTTTAR PRADESH BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
April 12, 2001
Education Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchane Rate Effective as indicated)
Currency Unit   hdian Rups (R)
Rs. 100 - USS 2.16 (20001)
USS 1.00 - Rs. 31.37 (1993-94)
Rs. 31.39 (1994.9s)
Rs. 33.44 (1995.96)
Rs. 35.50 (1996-97)
Rs. 37.16 (1997.98)
Rs. 41.30 (1998.99)
Rs. 43.10 (1999.00)
Rs. 46.37 (2000-01)
The figures indicate average exchange rates oer h     fical yer.
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AS                  Alternative Sdcools
AWPB                Annual Work Plan and Budget
AWS                 Angn%w4dis (Early Chidhood Dvelopmt centes)
BAS                 Baseline Assessment Study
BRC                 Block Resource Center
BSA                 Basic Shiks/BaAdhikri masic Edution Offic)
sSP                 Basic Shaksba Panrhed (Basic Education Bord)
BTC                 Basic Training Certificate (for teachers of Elemeay Schools)
DBE                 Department of Basic Education
DCA                 Development Credit Agreement
DEPC                District Education Prject Cowmittee
DIET                District Institute of Education and Training
DOE                 Department of Education
DPEP                District Pnmary Education Prm
DPO                 District Prject Office
EAS                 End-tenu Assesament Study
ECCE                Early Childhood Care and Edction
ECE                 Ealdy ChiWhood Education
EFAPB               Education for All Project Board
EMIS                Educational Maneent Infomon System
ESW                 Econmic Sector Work
GC                  Geral Council
GER                 Grmss Enrollment Ratio
GO[                 Govemnewt of India
GOUP                Govenrment of Utta Pradesh
HT                  Head Teacher
ICDS                Ibrated Cbild Dewepmt Senices
ICR                   ICI_ R 4 Conito Ripn
MIS                 Management nfmao Sytm
MUL                 Nfinimu  Level of Lean
MS                  Makila Sakhy (Women's Empowement Po          )
MTR                 Mid Tem Review
NCERT               Natonal Council of  hucational Rerch and Training
NFE                 Non-fonnal Education
NGO                 Non-Goveniental Oqnization
NIEPA               Nail Insbtte of Educational Plumng and Administration
NPRC                IVyay Pawhaya: Resosr  Cenr (Cuser level)
OB                  Operation Blaboard
PiP                 Project Inpemnentation Plan
PMIS                Project Maaement lnnaion Systm
PRAC                Policy Re th Adviy Comitee
QAG                 Quality Assuance Group
SAR                 Staff Apprisl Report
SC                  Scheduled Caste
SCERT               State Council of Educational Reeach and Training
SIEMAT              Stalnsttute of Educational Management and Training
SPO                 State Project Office
ST                  Scheduled Tnbe
UPBEP               Uttar Pradesh Basic Educion Project
VEC                 Vitlge Education Commintee
Vice President:    Meiko Nihimiu
Country Manager/Director:    Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager/Director:    Emmanuel Y. .imenez
Teamn Leader    Edwad HI Heneveld
Task Team Leader:   Venita Kaul



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  15
6. Sustainability                                                                      16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       17
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     20
9. Partner Comments                                                                    21
10. Additional Information                                                             22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  36
Annex 8. Quality at Entry                                                              37
Annex 9. Access and Retention                                                          39
Annex 10. List of Studies completed under UPBEP at SIEMAT (1996-2000)                  45
Annex 11. Summary of Focus Group Discussions                                           46
Annex 12. List of NGOs involved in the Project                                         50
Annex 13. List of Pilot Projects and Innovations                                       51
Annex 14. Civil Works Progress                                                         52
Annex 15. Government of Uttar Pradesh-Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Project            53
Project Evaluation Report
Map
IBRD 31280
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P009955                                       Project Name: UTTAR PRADESH BASIC
EDUCATION
Team Leader: Venita Kaul                                  TL Unit: SASED
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: April 12, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: UTTAR PRADESH BASIC EDUCATION                  L/C/TF Number: IDA-25090
Country/Department. INDIA                                                Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector. EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/15/90                                Effective:                    10/05/93
Appraisal:  01/29/93                                  MTR:                       12/20/96
Approval:  06/10/93                                Closing:                     09/30/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: Government of India/Goverment of Uttar Pradesh/EFAPB
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                           Joseph Wood
Country Manager:     Edwin Lim                                 Heinz Vergin
Sector Manager:      Emmanuel Y. Jimenez                       Richard Skolnik
Team Leader at ICR:   Edward H. Heneveld                       John Middleton
ICR Primary Author:   Venita Kaul
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1 The Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Project (UPBEP) was designed towards the following objectives:
(a) improving access; (b) improving quality; and (c) building institutional capacity to manage elementary
education. The specific targets under each of these three categories are listed in the following table:



Improving Access               Improving Quality &                Building Institutional Capacity
Completion
UPBEP
i) Percentage of girls,         i) Primary and Upper primary       i) EFAPB to be fully functional.
including Scheduled Castes      dropout and repetition rates will    ii) State Institute of Educational
(SC) and Scheduled Tribes       be reduced by 50% over baseline    Mangement and Training (SIEMAT)
(ST) girls, not in school will be   estimates                      to be operational, providing 1000
reduced by 50% over baseline    ii) Grade V learning achievement   person weeks of training and
estimates;                      will improve by 50% over baseline   completing at least five major polic)
ii) 300,000 primary places will   achievement levels;              studies, annually.
have been established,          iii) Village Education             iii) District Institutes of Education a-id
according to norms, for         Committees(VECs) will be fully     Training (DIETs) and Block Resource
currently unserved children     functional for 50% of schools in   Centers (BRCs) to be operational
iii)150,000 upper primary       the initial 10 districts,          providing 1000 person weeks of
places will have been                                              training in each district annually.
established, according to                                          iv) Trained planning and managemr nt
norms, for currently unserved                                      teams to be in place in both initial anid
children.                                                          reserve districts.
iv) Additional 150,000                                             v) A state plan for extension of the
children will be enrolled in                                       basic education program will be
non-formal primary education                                       completed.
vi) Fully functional computerized
Management Information System
(MIS) both at state level and 10 pro' ect
districts will be in place.
vii) Achievement assessment system
will be established.
viii) State Council of Educational
Research and Training (SCERT) w It
have improved procedures for
curriculum research & developmeni
and textbook development.
(ix) Primary curriculum will be revi .ed
based on Minimum Levels of Learn ng
(MLL) and a new generation of
improved textbooks provided to the
schools.
UPBEP II*
Establish capacity to enroll:   Improve learning achievement
(i) All 6-10 year old children.    and completion rates.
(ii) 75% of 11-13 year old
children.
*UPBEPII (Credit No. 30130-1997) objectives/targets are also included since this additional credit is not a stand-alone poject
but was proposed only to complement the investments made in UPBEP in the same 17 districts. UPBEPII was an outcon- e of
an unanticipated surge in enrolments in UPBEP districts, resulting in a corresponding increase in demand for facilities ar i
teachers.Therefore two of the three objectives of UPBEP i.e. improving access and improving quality and completion wer2
extended to UPBEP II as well. The text of the Implementation Completion Report of the two credits, therefore, renmains
common except for Section 3.5 on 'Quality at entry', Annex 1 on Key Performance Indicators, Annex 2 on Project Costs
and Financing and Annex 4 on Bank Inputs.
-2 -



3.1.2 At the time of project preparation in 1992/93 the educational situation in the project districts was
among the worst in India. The Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) at that stage was only 63.3 percent for the
primary grades. The situation was even worse in the upper primary grades with the GER being only 32.5
percent. Surveys suggested that less than 40 percent of girls from a cohort entering school completed the
first five years of schooling. The baseline achievement tests in three districts showed that about half of the
students in Grade 5, on whom literacy and numeracy tests were administered, had not mastered even Grade
2 competencies. The support for teacher development and overall management of the education system was
also inadequate. The objectives and programming included in the Government of India's (GOI) five-year
Plan recognized these conditions, and the Government of Uttar Pradesh (GOUP) was aware that change
was needed. The Bank's sector lending strategy and the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for India
recognized the link between education and reducing poverty and thus, supported the project's objectives.
3.1.3 The commitment of the Bank and India to universalizing elementary education after the Jomtien
Conference in 1990, supported by revisions to India's national education policy in 1992, provided a
common ground for project planning. The research work done mainly by the state, prior to project
preparation, also helped produce consensus among the Government of India, the state government and the
World Bank that the Projects' three development objectives could use "unorthodox" design features (e.g.,
management by an autonomous society, community construction of schools, financing of local
non-governmental organizations) on a large scale from the start of the project. Both GOI and the Bank
allowed the state to develop its own design, and the Bank was particularly successful at providing support
without being intrusive. The investment in "softer" inputs - research, training, improving young children's
school readiness, teacher training, local supervision and support for teachers, learning materials, grants to
teachers and schools for improving learning, and altemative delivery systems for hard-to-serve children -
was evidence of a common understanding among all three participating entities that there are a complex set
of factors that influence student's leaming and continuation in school. Subsequent project designs for the
six national District Primary Education Programme (DPEP) projects that the Bank is now supporting built
on this initial design.
3.2 Revised Objective:
As soon as implementation of UPBEP started, the demand for places in schools in the project districts
increased so rapidly that the need for more school facilities and additional teachers than originally planned
became fully apparent. Four years after UPBEP started, the second Basic Education Project was
formulated for the same districts as the first project. The specific objectives for UPBEP II were to assist in
the establishment of the capacity to enroll all 6-10 year old children and 75% of 11-13 year old children.
Also, as with UPBEP, the project sought to improve student learning achievement and school completion
rates. Following the mid-term review in 1996, with the agreement of the Bank, the targets for non-formal
education were reduced with a view to encourage formal schooling.
3.3 Original Components:
The three objectives of UPBEP were further classified into the following components: (i) Improving access:
promoting community school construction program, improving non-formal primary education; (ii)
Improving quality and completion: strengthening community participation, irnproving readiness to leam,
improving staff and teachers' performnance and school management, improving curriculum and textbooks,
strengthening programs for women's education, rehabilitating dilapidated school buildings, supporting pilot
projects and innovations; and (iii) Building institutional capacity: Improving planning, management and
professional support structures, improving information for planning, management and professional support.
- 3 -



3.4 Revised Components:
None of the components was revised during implementation.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
UPBEP
3.5.1 UPBEP was the first Bank-supported project in basic education in India. Its design was consiste it
with both national and state goals for elementary education and reflected the objectives for the sector in the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. It was innovatively planned, based on numerous studies. It has
proven effective in achieving project objectives with very little revision other than the expansion of UPB EP
II. Most preparatory actions were completed before project approval. Annex 8 provides a summary of the
tasks that were completed prior to project launch. UPBEP II took advantage of the UPBEP experience ia
its preparations. Neither of the two projects was assessed by the Quality Assessment Group (QAG) for
Quality at Entry. However, the Operations Evaluation Department's (OED) annual assessment of
economic analysis in project preparation in 1994 cited UPBEP as best practice.
3.5.2 The design of all aspects of the project including project management, procurement, financial
management, and information systems was nearly complete and summarized in 28 detailed annexes of tte
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for UPBEP. The fact that these design aspects were continued in the
subsequent centrally sponsored District Primary Education Program (DPEP) attests to the effective
planning that went into project preparation. This is particularly commendable since UPBEP was the
Bankrs first involvement in India in the area of Basic Education and the detailed planning was made
possible due to the close collaboration between the Bank and Borrower at every stage and the willingnes i,
on both sides, to learn from other experiences. However, some aspects of project readiness could have been
improved. First, the implementation of construction could have started more smoothly had there been more
detailed and easy to assimilate school building designs and mechanisms for providing support to the
community for civil works. Second, some project objectives in UPBEP were too specific with targets muich
lower than what the state later achieved (leading to the need for UPBEP II), and others (such as the
functions of village education committees) were not stated clearly enough to guide implementation
effectively. Also, as the state's ICR points out, there were no process indicators that defined the
expectations for how the improved teacher development system and teaching/leaming processes should be
functioning by project completion. Finally, the design was overly ambitious in its expectations of the
changes that could be made in classroom pedagogy at the primary stage during the first few years of the
project while for upper primary education these were limited and not adequately articulated. In terms of
project implementation too, the rate of expenditure in the first two years was very low (6 percent ) as
compared to the Bank forecast of more than 30 percent, largely due to start-up delays. The quality at entry
is rated as satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Ouitcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1 Expanding access
In UPBEP, the planned project objectives for access at the primary stage were to increase the GER to 71
percent for girls and to 85 percent for boys. For the Scheduled Caste (SC) children the target was 71
percent for girls and 109 percent for boys. Three sources of data have been used to assess these outcomr s:
(i) the Directorate of Basic Education, which collects data from recognized private schools and all
government primary schools, (ii) the Educational Management Information System (EMIS), which was
established in 1997 and is restricted to government primary and elementary schools and recognized private
- 4 -



schools, and (iii) a survey of 24 blocks in six project districts undertaken in 1999 by SIEMAT. While
there continue to be problems with the coverage and quality of the data, each of the sources suggests that,
without doubt, primary enrolments have increased dramatically, particularly for all girls and for SC girls,
with the overall GER ranging between 93 and 102 percent (Annex 9). The Directorate of Basic Education
estimates that total enrolments increased from 2.6 million (in 1993) to 5.00 million (in 2000) and the girls'
enrolments increased from 31 percent of the total (in 1993) to 43 percent (in 2000). Enrolment growth in
the project districts is estimated to have been around 33 percentage points higher than in non-project
districts. Enrolment data generated by the EMIS indicates that enrolments since 1997 have increased by 20
percent overall, with higher increase for girls and for SC girls, in particular. The overall net enrolment rate
was estimated in the survey of six districts to be around 84 percent. The slowing down of the growth of
Class I enrolments since 1997 suggests that the final phase of the universalization of primary education
will provide a greater challenge.
The access objective for primary schooling in UPBEP II was to assist in establishing the capacity to enrol
all primary aged children. All estimates of number of primary places created suggest that there are
sufficient places across the state within government and all private schools combined to have achieved the
planned objective, though some children in remote villages will not have access to school within the state
norm of 1.5 km.
For the upper primary stage, the objectives for UPBEP were to increase the GER to 64 percent for girls
and to 76 percent for boys. For SC children, the planned increase was to 22 percent for girls and to 43
percent for boys. The EMIS does not currently collect data on upper primary schooling. According to less
reliable data from the Directorate, enrolments in project districts increased from 708,000 in 1993 to 1.76
million in 2000, an increase of 148 percent. For girls the GER in 2000 is 65 percent, and for SC girls 43
percent. For boys the rates were 78 and 61 percent, respectively. All objectives have thus been met. For
UPBEP II, the objective was to assist in providing places for 75 percent of the age group. The gross
enrolment ratio was 72 percent in 2000, which indicates that this objective has almost been met.
Finally, another specific access objective for UPBEP, which covered both primary and upper primary
schooling, was a 50 percent reduction in the percentage of girls out of school. Total out-of-school girls
aged 6 -14 years are reported to have decreased from 1.48 million in 1993 to 0.58 million in 2000, a
reduction of 61 percent. In 1993, out-of-school girls aged 6-14 years were equal to 50.0 percent of the age
group. In 2000 the percentage is reported to have fallen to 18.2 percent. These figures need to be regarded
as estimates only, but given the strong evidence of growth in primary school enrolments, the objective is
very likely to have been met. This is further corroborated by the focus group discussions, as summarized
in Annex 11.
Although achievements in enrolments have been significant, a fallout of this has been the increasing pupil
teacher ratios and high pupil classroom ratios. At the primary stage, the pupil teacher ratio was estimated
to be 47:1 in 1993. The EMIS data show 56 and 60 pupils per teacher in 1997 and 2000, respectively.
Further, within districts there are wide variations between schools, with pupil teacher ratios in some
schools of over 100: 1. The Government is currently in the process of reducing the ratio through local
recruitment of para teachers. Average class size has fallen from 54 in 1997 to 50 in 2000. However, it is
64 and above in three districts and again there are wide variations among schools. The inconsistencies in
pupil-teacher ratio and average class size are largely due to uneven distribution of teachers, which the
government is now trying to rationalize.
One area where the project has not achieved its access objectives is in non-formal education. The initial
objective was to provide an additional 150,000 places (in 5000 new centers). A total of 441 centers (3965
- 5-



children in primary and 885 children in upper primary) have been established and the overall enrolment has
been constant since 1997. The GOUP's decision to scale-down the NFE objective and to give greater
emphasis to placing children in formal schools was endorsed by the Mid Term Review in December 1996.
4.1.2. Improving Quality and Completion
Dropout and Repetition Rates: The baseline estimates for overall dropout rates for children in primary
school were 60 percent for girls and 40 percent for boys. No detailed cohort studies have been undertaken.
The application of the reconstructed cohort analysis methodology to EMIS data generates a current cycle
dropout rate of 27.7 percent, with virtually no gender differences (though the result depends critically oni
the assumption made about the number of times a child repeats a class). The dropout rate estimated from
the sample survey was slightly higher at 32 percent. Thus, both data sources suggest that the target foT
reducing the dropout rate is close to being achieved. The average class repetition rate at the primary stage
in 1999-2000, as obtained from EMIS data, is 3.3 percent as compared to approximately 12 percent (1993)
indicating a considerable reduction. The dropout and the repetition rates in each class have been used by
the state project officials to calculate the average number of years of teaching inputs required to produce
one primary school completer. This has met the SAR target of about 6.3 years compared to a baseline
estimate of 8.6 years, implying considerable gains in system efficiency.
For the upper primary stage, no estimates of the dropout and repetition rates were available at the start of
the project and the EMIS also does not yet cover this stage of schooling. Consequently, it is not possible to
evaluate whether the project objective of reducing the dropout rate by 50 percent over baseline estimates
has been achieved. However, a recent survey across three districts reports a dropout rate of 13.9 percent.
The average repetition rate (per grade) for upper primary grades is reported to be 3.8 percent in the sample
districts. Overall, the current estimates of both dropout and repetition appear to be relatively low. (See
Annex 9).
Learning Achievement: The SAR had set the target of 50 percent improvement in Grade 5 learning
achievement levels over the baseline achievement survey (BAS). While the mid-term assessment (MAS I
did not indicate any definite improvement over the baseline, the Final Achievement Survey (FAS) indicates
a significant increase over BAS and MAS levels, surpassing the planned targets. The extremely skewec.
distribution of scores however raises certain reservations about the methodology used and validity of the
achievement levels attained. At another level of analysis, given the intensive pedagogical interventions
made in the project, the FAS and another end-term study on classroom processes indicate a definite
improvement over the baseline in terms of outcomes related to classroom quality such as teacher
attendance, frequency of assessment, correction of tests and homework, etc. The study on classroom
processes also observed the quality of teacher student interaction, instances of child initiated learning and
overall socio-emotional climate in the classroom. The study concluded that the extensive training of
teachers, availability of attractive textbooks, supplementary reading material and teaching learning
materials, made possible by the TLM fund under the project, have evidently contributed to more interesling
classrooms and an observable change towards more child-friendly behavior in teachers, as compared to the
baseline. This was also confirmed in the course of the focus group discussions held in three districts
(Annex  11). However, the new teaching methods that are advocated require further consolidation at the
school level, supported by a more conducive teacher pupil ratio. At the upper primary stage the quality
aspects received attention only in the last two years of the project in the form of teacher grants, school
libraries, curriculum revision, preparation of new textbooks and teacher training. The impact of these has,
therefore, not been studied. Overall, the review does indicate the need for more robust and independent
monitoring and evaluation mechanisms to assess impact of interventions and make mid-course corrections,
where needed.
-6 -



Village Education Committees: VECs are statutory bodies under the Basic Education Act for providing
decentralised school management. The SAR had set the target of fully functional VECs for 50 percent of
the schools by the end of the project. Under UPBEP, the VECs were activated in all 12,568 villages in the
project districts. The functions envisaged for the VECs were disbursement of funds for school construction
and its supervision, purchase of educational material, community contact and mobilization, micro planning,
supervision of schools and of alternative schools and Early Childhood Care and Education (ECCE) centers,
resource management of funds such as school improvement funds, securing convergence with other
departments, etc. Involving VECs in school supervision and development, including delegation of some
financial control to them, seems to have led to a sense of ownership of schools and some responsibility
towards them. However, in terms of overall impact, while an exact estimate of fully functional VECs is not
available, their performance could be considered by and large satisfactory in school construction and
organization of enrolment drives. Their involvement in regular school management needs to be
strengthened and consolidated further.
4.1.3 Building Institutional Capacity
The project has contributed significantly to the development of instituional capacity in the state for
planning and management of elementary education in the state. In consonance with the planned project
objectives, new institutions were created and existing institutions strengthened under the project. An
autonomous EFAPB, established in Lucknow, is fully functional and through its state project office and
district project offices will continue to supervise implementation of sustained activities for two more years
in7UPBEP districts. SIEMAT has been established and has emerged as a Regional Research and Resource
Center (RRRC) for Northem Hindi speaking states. It has exceeded the SAR target of 1000 person weeks
by providing 2000 person weeks of training to the state, districts and block level officials. Ten District
Institutes of Education and Training (DIETS) were provided additional residential places for 40 trainees,
audio-visual equipment and opportunities for staff development under the project. These provide support
to the quality component of the project under the present institutional arrangement. Block resource centers
(BRCs) were established in 176 blocks and Nyaya PanchayatResource Centers(NPRC) in 1768 Nyaya
Panchayats to provide in-service training and on-site professional support to all teachers in a decentralized
mode. These are at present fully functional. The BRCs have provided 43,000 person weeks of training to
teachers annually, again exceeding the SAR target. Trained planning and management teams were
positioned in the initial project districts but the need for establishing such teams in reserved districts
(proposed in the event of savings) did not arise, as no surplus project fimds were available. A state plan for
the extension of the basic education program was prepared which resulted in subsequent projects, i.e.,
DPEP II (UP component) and UP DPEP IH. A computerized management information system, set in place
under the project, is functional in the project districts. However, while data quality collected by the EMIS
has improved, it is still uneven. The coverage is also limited to government schools and some private
recognized schools. Due to the detailed data collection formats that need to be filled out by schools, private
schools often do not complete them. The capacity at the state, district and block levels to analyze the data
is also still limited, and analytical capacity is yet to be developed especially in the districts. The SCERT
was strengthened and actively involved in curriculum revision, textbook development and teacher training.
However, long-term capacities do not seem to have been significantly developed.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Expanding access
4.2.1 Community school construction program: UPBEP set targets of 300,000 additional primary
school places and 150,000 upper primary places on the basis of existing norms. To reach the targets,
- 7 -



2,052 new primary schools and 1,220 additional classrooms were planned, together with the reconstruci ion
of 1,049 existing schools. The targets for new schools and additional classrooms were later revised (in
September 1997) to 3,370 and 3,650, respectively. However, on the basis of actual requirement, 3,444
additional schools and 3,429 additional classrooms were built. Thus, the number of schools built slight. y
exceeded the targets while the number of additional classrooms was slightly below the target. Similarl,
the original target of 1,077 upper primary schools was revised to 1,460, 1,457 schools were actually
constructed and 223 schools were rehabilitated against the target of 280. In addition to school
buildings, 10,201 toilets and 5,300 hand pumps were planned for and the targets were met.
The school construction targets in UPBEP II were to build an additional 600 primary and 307 upper
primary schools, and an additional 11,000 classrooms in existing primary schools. The number of new
schools exceeded the target (1,259 primary and 601 upper primary). In addition, 870 primary schools and
80 upper primary schools were rehabilitated, and 7,011 additional classrooms were constructed. The
targets for school construction have thus been not only reached but surpassed.
The planned modalities of school construction on such a scale were novel in India at the time for such a
large program. Construction was to be managed by VECs on sites selected by them on common village
land, with technical support provided by a junior engineer posted at the block level. The size of the
completed school construction program, the introduction of many design innovations, the relatively low anit
costs achieved, and the ability of the program to attract additional (matching) support from discretionary
sources of district funding are evidence of the success of the general approach. Indeed, the low unit cos-s
plus the matching funds are the reasons for many of the construction targets having been upwardly revised
and met. The focus group discussions with different groups of stakeholders (Annex 11) indicated that the
community perceived the extensive civil works carried out under the project as one of its most significar t
contributions.
4.2.2 Improving non-formal primary education: A further sub-project target of UPBEP was the
expansion of a high quality non-formal education program. The specific target was to set up an additional
300,000 places to cater to 150,000 children, implying the opening of 5000 centers. The project was to
finance learning materials, training, supervision and honoraria of instructors. Although a review of the NFE
program was agreed during negotiations, this did not take place. The December 1996 mid-term review of
the project, however, reported that 800 centers had been established in three blocks in each district and
reconmmended an evaluation of the program before any further expansion. An evaluation was accordingl y
undertaken in 1998 which indicated that demand for this intervention was less than for formal schools.
Accordingly, the focus shifted towards greater efforts to mainstream the children. Consequently, although
by the end of the project 441 new centers were operating, it is now planned to close these in the near fuiture.
Alternative and more context specific models of non-formal schooling are now being experimented with
under the DPEP.
B. Improving Quality & Completion
4.2.3 Strengthening Community Participation: The project provided training to VEC members in all the
project districts. Two rounds of 3-day training programs were organized for approximately 0.3 million
VEC members. The VECs were reconstituted under the project as a sub-committee of the gram pancha vat
with enhanced representation of women, SC/ST groups, disabled and Mahila Samakhya functionaries, tlhus
inviting wider participation of the community. Subsequent to the enactment of the Panchayati Raj Act, the
VECs were again reconstituted by reducing the membership to only five members out of which two
members are ex-officio (gram pradhanand the school head). The reduced membership has the risk of
limiting conununity participation.
-8 -



4.2.4 Improving Readiness to learn: The SAR proposed establishment of 1000 Early Childhood Care and
Education (ECCE) centers attached to primary schools on a pilot basis. To avoid duplication these were
proposed in non-ICDS (Integrated Child Development Services) blocks. Subsequently, the state decided to
strengthen the educational component of the existing ICDS centers using an activity-based approach,
before moving into non-ICDS blocks. This evolved into a two-fold strategy of (a) coordination with the
existing ICDS, and (b) support to NGOs to establish new ECCE centers in non-ICDS sites. Thus 1200
existing ICDS centers were strengthened and 50 new centers established through an NGO in one district.
Coordination was directed towards: (i) improving quality of the school readiness component through
training of workers in ECE, supply of play materials and development of an improved methodology for
monitoring; (ii) facilitating participation of girls in primary schools through provision of alternative sibling
care facility by relocation of ECCE centers/anganwadis (AWS) in or near school premises and
synchronizing of their timings with primary schools. For the extended timing, additional honorarium was
paid to the workers from the project. However, relocation was not always possible due to inconvenient
locations and impact on other services in the ICDS. Mid-term evaluation indicated a positive impact of
ECCE interventions in terms of the stated objectives and recommended further consolidation of quality and
establishing more institutionalized mechanisms of convergence with ICDS. UPBEP has demonstrated a
model of convergence that has the potential to facilitate better adjustment of children in school and enhance
girls' participation. This has led to a policy decision at the state level to relocate all new ICDS centers in
school premises. The sustainability of the other initiatives undertaken is somewhat uncertain in view of
inadequate ownership by the ICDS.
4.2.5 Improving Teacher and Staff Performance and School Management: UPBEP and UPBEP l: have
both made significant contributions toward conversion of single teacher schools at the primary stage to at
least two teacher schools in the project districts. However, 15 percent of schools in project districts still
continue as single teacher schools. Of the total costs of UPBEP and UPBEP II, 39 and 46 percent,
respectively, were allocated for additional salaries, mainly of teachers, 50 percent of whom were expected
to be women. The original project targets were later revised to meet enhanced enrolments. Thus in all,
9482 teachers for new schools and 15,175 additional teachers have been appointed under both projects at
the primary stage and 8855 teachers at the upper primary stage. In addition, a total of 5685 'para teachers'
known as shiksha mitras have also been appointed under the para teacher scheme which was instituted in
the last year of the project, i.e., 2000. Of these 3812 shiksha mitrashave been targeted to single teacher
schools. This scheme was introduced by GOUP in the context of an unfavourable fiscal situation to meet
the demand for additional teachers created by the unanticipated increase in enrollment. The scheme also
addresses the issue of teacher absenteeism and non availability of teachers in remote areas by bringing in
local accountability. However, the target for qualified female teachers, specified as 50 percent of total
teachers, could not be entirely realized due to the unavailability of female teachers. Under the shiksha
mitra scheme, where local persons are recruited, 50 percent reservation has been made mandatory for
women. Another initiative for improving school management has been the upgrading of 2262 posts of
assistant teachers to that of head teachers for schools which did not have these positions. While project
targets have been met for appointment of teachers, the number of teachers appointed in the project districts,
as a whole to achieve the state teacher pupil norn of 1:40, is still insufficient given the high enrolments.
Overall, across all project districts the ratio in 2000 is still 1:60 for primary schools.
For further strengthening of school management and teacher performance decentralized, on-site resource
facilities have been created in the form of Block Resource Centers (BRCs) and Nyaya Panchayat Resource
Centers (NPRCs), which have been linked vertically to the DIETS. The BRC and NPRC coordinators are
expected to provide support through classroom visits, short meetings and discussions at the centers. More
significant than the establishment of these structures have been the conceptualization of the inter-linkages in
-9-



roles among the DIETs-BRCs-NPRCs-schools and the internalization of this concept of a chain of resource
support by the functionaries at all levels. However, the capacity of the BRC and NPRC coordinators tc
provide support for teacher development as envisaged still needs further strengthening supported by a
reduction in administrative responsibilities expected of them.
A major intervention of the UPBEP has been the opportunity it has provided to 42,300 primary teachers
and 6,330 upper primary teachers to come out of their work situations and get exposure to new ideas an I
methods of teaching. Using a modular approach, a very comprehensive training design, addressing
different levels of functionaries, was planned at the initial stage of project preparation, as indicated in th
SAR, but was subsequently redesigned based on emerging needs in the first year of implementation.
Accordingly, a system of regular in-service training to the teachers was initiated and almost all teachers in
the project districts received five cycles of training. The priority was indicated for training in reading and
mathematics for Grades 1-3 and on multi-grade teaching. While the focus has been on language,
mathematics and science, multigrade teaching did not get due attention and has still to be addressed mor
effectively. For upper primary teachers the focus was on science and mathematics training. In addition
five rounds of training were also completed for head teachers, BRC and CRC coordinators in accordance,
with their expected functions. In addition to these cadres, the project has also completed five rounds of
training for 425 master trainers, 504 District Program Officers (DPOs), 698 Mother Teacher Associaticns
(MTAs) and two rounds of training for 12,568 heads of VECs and approximately 0.3 million VEC
members. To reach teachers in far flung areas and to complement the face-to-face interaction mode of
training, distance education was utilized during the last two years of the project and teleconferencing was
organized on activity-based teaching-learning, use of Teaching Learning Materials (TLM) and changes
visible in the classrooms. There has, however, not been any significant follow-up on the training to assess
impact other than that assessed through the study on classroom processes.
4.2.6 Improving curriculum and textbooks: As proposed in the SAR, the primary and upper primary
curricula were revised and textbooks re-written for primary grades; textbooks for the upper primary stage
are being finalized. While the initial revision of the primary level textbooks was in a more traditional
mode, based on the originally planned MILL paradigm, training in activity-based teaching led to a demanid
from teachers for a more child-friendly curriculum and textbooks. Accordingly, a significant contribution
of the project has been the evolution of an alternative modality of textbook preparation involving teacher
participation, as opposed to the traditional mode of getting subject experts to write the books. This
modality has been further strengthened in the course of the DPEP project. Under UPBEP this led to
development of more child-friendly supplementary materials for children titled 'INDRA DHANUSH',whi oh
are now being used by state institutions as reference for various curiculum-related activities and are also
being replicated for use in school libraries of the UPDPEP districts.These books include experiences
pertaining to the various regions and cultural groups of the state. They also set the pace subsequently for
development of more attractive and child-friendly textbooks for primary education under the District
Primary Education Program (DPEP). Guidelines for ECCE and some additional materials were also
prepared under the project. Assessment of children consistent with the textbook approach and training of
teachers in use of new textbooks are now receiving attention.
Although the need for creating an interesting leaming environment in the classrooms for promoting active
learning was acknowledged in the UPBEP design, the project initially did not make any provision for
supporting preparation of TLM by teachers. Subsequently, under UPBEP II a provision was made of R s.
500 and Rs. 700 per teacher for primary and upper primary grades, respectively. An end-term study on
classroom processes indicates that the majority of teachers have received their fund on an annual basis anid
have been using it on production or purchase of learning materials, or in some cases on procurement of
seating mats and on educational tours. They have begun to realize the merit of using learning materials and
- 10 -



feel this makes the children more attentive in the classroom. The study also indicates that teachers need
more encouragement in preparing and using these at their own initiative and on a more regular basis.
4.2.7 Strengthening Programs for Women's Education: The SAR proposed to improve the
attractiveness and retention power of schooling and non-formal education for girls, removal of gender bias
in curricula, gender sensitivity training for teachers and appointment of female teachers to facilitate girls'
participation. Mahila Samakhya (MS) was proposed to be used as a resource support in this context. The
project's support to MS has helped mobilization of women's collectives for education. This has resulted in
innovative literacy initiatives for women and adolescent girls, residential camps for girls' education (Mahila
Shikshan Kendras) and a significant increase in girl's participation rates in regular schools in the project
areas. The continued role of women's groups in ensuring regular attendance of children (boys and girls)
and improved achievement in school is a priority for the state government and in this context core support
to MS is assured.
Gender sensitization of stakeholders with a view to reducing gender bias in social attitudes has been
undertaken through training and production/telecast of video spots. More specifically, teacher-training
modules have been developed to address gender-biased practices in the classroom. While the process has
generated a great deal of reflection and discussion among the finctionaries resulting in a perceptible shift in
behavior, the process would require continued attention to achieve equity in full measure.
4.2.8 Supporting Pilot Projects and Innovations: The project included a component of innovations
which involved trying out of new strategies and models and assessing their impact before adopting them
for widespread replication. In this context, six new pilot projects namely, Work Experience Programs for
Girls to improve their retention, Stipend for SC/ST Girls, Community Libraries, Programs with NGO
involvement, Upper primary NFE Programme and Double Shift Schools were initiated during the project
period. The implementation experience/evaluation of these suggested replication of some of these
initiatives such as community libraries, double shift schools and work experience program for girls. The
proposed stipend for SC girls was not initiated since the state government started a scheme of scholarships.
NGO participation was encouraged in the project through these innovative programs, for which a booklet
was especially prepared and made available to NGOs giving specific guidance on the requirements of the
programs and modalities tor preparation of proposals. This initiative facilitated the process of NGO
involvement. (Details of innovative projects are given in Annex 13.)
C. Building Institutional Capacity
Establishing Education for All Pariyojana Board (EFAPB): In order to provide flexibility in project
management and to ensure smooth disbursement of funds, EFAPB was established as a legally autonomous
society under the UP Societies' Registration Act. It was responsible for the management and
implementation of the project and has, in the process, also strengthened the capacity of the Directorate of
Basic Education. The society consisted of 21 professional and technical staff, five accounting officials and
11 support staff at the state level, and 48 professionals in the District Project Offices (DPO) financed on an
incremental basis by UPBEP. UPBEP II funded 12 quality coordinators in the project districts. The
project also funded furniture and equipment (including computers), vehicles, training and incremental
operating costs. District Education Project Committees (DEPC) were formed to provide guidance to the
DPOs. In addition to appraising and approval of Annual Work Plan and Budget (AWP&B), monitoring
and evaluation of project implementation, EFAPB stimulated preparation of a state plan for
universalisation of elementary education in UP. This resulted in the UP component of the multi-state
DPEP II and DPEP III covering 60 districts. The EFAPB also prepared the plan (based on the four
sustainability studies) that will sustain the inter-linkages among the project and basic education structures
- 11 -



after the project. In addition, EFAPB efforts resulted in statewide implementation of the renewed
curriculum and textbooks and GOUP was assisted in reviewing and revising the state's sector policy fo:r
elementary education.
Strengthening the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT): In the initial stages
of the project the SCERT and its constituent institutions, i.e., the State Institute of Education (SIE) an(d the
State Institute of Science Education (SISE) were not directly involved in the project activities, largely due
to issues related to capacity. Subsequently, in the interest of institutionalization and sustainability of
project initiatives, they were provided specific inputs for capacity building such as staff development
activities, consultancies, civil works, furniture and equipment and desktop facilities to strengthen SCE RT's
capacity for textbook development. Two professionals were sent as part of a national team to Columbia
where they studied "Escuela Nueva" resulting in piloting of multi-grade projects in UP. The institutions
contributed to (a) revision of curriculum for the primary and upper primary stage; (b) development of a
new generation of textbooks with teacher editions for primary and upper primary grades; (c) developm-nt
of supplementary reading materials for grades 1 to 5; and (d) preparation of training modules for the fi ve
cycles of in-service training of teachers and training of DIET faculty for carrying out training of resource
persons at the district level. With the help of a few individuals from its constituent institutions and
consultants mid-term and final assessment of learning achievement surveys were conducted by the SCERT.
Given the continuing constraints on its functioning, particularly in terms of staff recruitment policy and
lack of autonomy, an institutional development plan for the SCERT is currently being prepared under the
UPDPEP IH. A more structured approach towards strengthening of the SCERT will continue to be
required.
Establishing State Institute of Educational Management and Training (SIEMA T): The SIEMAT,
established under the project, is the first of its kind in a state in India. Its main function envisaged in the
SAR, as distinct from the existing SCERT which was more focussed on curriculum development, was the
development and provision of training for state and district level educational planners and managers an J
conduct of operational and policy research. To this end the project financed civil works, equipment
(computers and software), furniture, library books and joumals, incremental staff salaries, consultancies,
in-house research and studies, and staff development activities. The SIEMAT building complex and hostel
block, both built under the project are complete and fully functional. SIEMAT will, however, need to be
entrepreneurial in marketing its services if the current level of operation is to be sustained without project
support. In terms of performance, SIEMAT has exceeded the targets by providing 2000 person weeks of
training to the state, district and block level officers out of which 1600 staff weeks of training was unde r
UPBEP and UPBEP II. It has completed 23 research studies approved by its Policy Research Advisors
Committee (PRAC); and has initiated 191 action research projects which were conducted by teachers and
BRC and NPRC coordinators who were trained through the DIETs in the project districts. SIEMAT has
also networked with national/intemational institutions working in the education sector. Despite state's
commitment of funds to support salaries of staff and to continue activities in the post project period,
SIEMAT faces difficulties in recruiting and retaining quality staff.
Strengthening District Institutes of Education and Training (DIET): The SAR envisaged the DIET!, as
professional support agencies for curriculum and material development, training and evaluation that weuld
support schools through the network of BRCs. They were expected to provide in-service training for
teacher trainers, head teachers, VEC members and non-formal; instructors and supervisors. Under the
project a new academic supervision package was developed with a view to strengthening organic linkages
among schools, NPRCs, BRCs and each DIET. Under this supervision package DIETs are being
encouraged across the state to provide leadership to the BRCs and NPRCs for training teachers and
providing in-school professional support. The DIET faculty is given charge of specific blocks and
- 12-



participate in feed-back sessions with BRC teams at block level every month. DIETs have provided over
2000 person weeks of training to resource persons; provided training for conduct of 191 action research
projects in selected schools, BRCs and NPRCs and assisted SCERT in carrying out mid-term and final
learning achievement surveys. The project specifically financed additional residential space, furniture and
equipment, library books, transport and staff development inputs. Initially DIETs suffered from staffing
problems but in project districts they are presently adequately staffed.
Establishing BRCs and NPRCs: The establishment of BRC and NPRC structures has been a significant
contribution of the project. It has highlighted the importance of systematization of teacher training through
decentralized structures, to the extent that these structures have now been introduced in the entire state.
Each NPRC coordinator is expected to oversee 10-15 schools in the cluster through the organization of
monthly workshops for teachers and monthly visits to each primary and upper primary school. The
NPRCs organized monthly workshops and every primary and upper primary school was visited at least
once a month by the NPRC coordinator during the last three years of the project. The BRCs provided
43,000 person weeks of training to teachers annually through the five training cycles. In addition, they also
imparted two cycles of training to 12,163 VEC members in supervision of school construction, and in
eliciting community involvement for increasing enrollment and retention of students. The project financed
the construction of the centers, the incremental salaries of BRC and NPRC coordinators, furniture and
equipment, library books, consultancies and training of their staff. The establishment of BRCs and
NPRCs, to a level that they function as envisaged, took more time than anticipated at the planning stage.
These institutions are now accepted as significant for quality improvement in basic education and are being
established across the state. While the respective roles of these institutions and their linkages with the
schools and DIETs are well intemalised, in some cases the NPRCs are required to cover more than 20
schools which adversely affects periodicity of their school visits. As indicated in the focus group
discussions (Annex 11), assignment of administrative duties to NPRC coordinators also often interferes
with their academic responsibilities.This merits the state's attention.
Development of Management Information Systems: A computerized management information system
was financed by the project to improve the information base for facilitating the decision-making process.
The computerized Project Management Information System (PMIS) dealing with financial aspects of the
project is fully operational in the SPO and 12 project districts and the Education Management Information
System (EMIS) is operational in 12 districts. SIEMAT is involved in the analysis of district reports. In the
initial years the data collection system was different from the District Information on School Education (
DISE), which is now in use in the national DPEP. From 1998 onwards the project started using DISE
formats leading to a uniform system across the state. Annual statistical reports have been generated from
1998 onwards. During the last two years the data has been used for participatory planning of AWPBs in
the project districts. The state reports that surveys by VECs have also been completed in 21,662 villages
for micro-planning and school mapping. Based on these surveys, village education plans have been
developed in 19939 villages. The low sub-district capacity to scrutinize data puts a question mark on the
quality and use of the data. This aspect requires further strengthening. With a large turnover of computer
staff, the problem of availability of adequate human resource remains.
Assessment of learning achievement: According to the project design a system of assessing learning
achievement was to be developed in SIEMAT. While the mid-term and final baseline learning achievement
surveys were conducted by SCERT, with the help of consultants, the long-term capacity for a system to
assess learning achievement is still not visible and is now getting addressed in UPDPEPII.
Research and evaluation studies: UPBEP established a funding mechanism for research in elementary
education under the Policy Research Advisory Committee (PRAC). A total of 63 research studies in
- 13 -



primary education were conducted by SIEMAT, SCERT, University Departments, Social Science
Research Institutes, NGOs and individual researchers. The research themes included issues related to
enrollment, dropout, classroom processes, institutional development and evaluation of interventions. In
addition, 191 action research projects in schools, BRCs and CRCs were also completed. The findings Nvere
shared with stakeholders through a Newsletter and discussions during the training programs. Given the
near absence of any research on primary education prior to these projects, the amount of researches
conducted is significant. However, the quality of research and quality control mechanism still need
considerable improvement.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
A cost benefit analysis is not required for the evaluation of basic education projects. The SAR, however,
did provide an annex on the anticipated savings (in the cost of producing one primary school completer)
resulting from expected gains in internal efficiency in the primary cycle. The calculation was made thal if
the Rs. 700 per pupil being provided for investments to raise quality and improve completion rates resulted
in a halving of dropout and repetition rates, the total cost per completer of the five year cycle would fall by
Rs. 1 100 through a reduction in the required teaching input from 8.7 to 6.3 years. The current repetition
and dropout data from the EMIS, presented in Paragraph 4.1.2, suggest that this reduction has occurrec..
4.4 Financial rate of retuirn:
Not applicable for this project
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The EFAPB, constituted under the project, brought in more professionalism at all levels in the Directorate
of Basic Education through its demonstration of more effective planning, monitoring and supervision
procedures and through involvement of the Directorate and other educational institutions in an effort to
make them more responsive to the needs of the stake-holders. Creation and integration of academic and
managerial structures at all levels have contributed to greater professional rigor, systematization of
pedagogical renewal and teacher training processes and improved capacity for management of primary
education. The project experience has resulted in a process at the state level of moving away from
standardized school building designs towards considering alternatives, and has also led to revision of the
norm in terms of unit costs for school construction in the entire state. The new generation of textbooks
developed for grades 1 to 5 were distributed free to about 23 lakh girls and SC children for the first time,
leading to enhanced enrolments. The SCERT has been able to revise the pre-service teacher-training
curriculum, incorporating the new knowledge and successful practices emerging from the project
implementation. Despite difficulties in recruiting and retaining quality staff, SIEMAT has created a
demand for its services and products and is currently marketing these.
The state plan for the achievement of universal elementary education developed under the project resulted
in UPDPEP II and UPDPEP III, covering 60 districts. Because of the overlapping period of
implementation for the UPBEP and DPEP projects there has been considerable cross learning between the
two. For example, DPEP is using models of management structures developed under the UPBEP, and new
textbooks and teacher's guides developed under DPEP have been introduced in the UPBEP districts. Based
on the experiences of UPBEP and DPEP, the GOUP has developed a draft policy document for Elementary
Education that recognizes all the elements incorporated in the projects. With GOUP commitment of funds
in the non-plan budget for sustaining structures and successful interventions and EFAPB's commitment for
continued technical supervision for another two years, the impact is expected to deepen further.
- 14 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The conservative attitude and gender stereotypes in some communities continue to be irnpediments needing
long-term intervention. The limited availability of female teachers and their reluctance in joining rural
locations due to social inhibitions have also served as a constraint for girls' participation. The percentage
of female teachers in the teaching force in elementary schools in the project districts has increased by a
mere 9 percentage points from 18 to 27 percent during the project period. The government policy of
positive discrimination to reserve 50 percent places in teacher training institutions for females will increase
availability of female teachers in the long term. The GOUP is trying to address this issue by appointing
para teachers.
The Fifth Pay Commission (1996) recommendations of the GOI were to be implemented by the GOUP,
which resulted in escalating the costs on salaries, particularly of teachers. This led to disparities between
project estimates and actual expenditure.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The project received full support and commitment from the Government of Uttar Pradesh for project
implementation. Competent project directors were identified and continued for full tenure of their
appointments. The government never defaulted on the state share complement for the project, despite a
tight fiscal situation. GOUP is the only state government which has committed itself for sustaining
institutions and successful interventions after project completion, with an explicit financial provision in the
non-plan budget. Three of the district collectors from the project districts had been members of the
Executive Committee of the EFAPB by rotation. GOUP has made the district collector accountable for
project performance by making UPBEP project performance as one of the factors in assessing each
collector's annual performance. Based on the feedback from the field, GOUP has made several policy
changes in teacher rationalization and transfer policy, ensuring teachers for rural schools and appointment
of para teachers. Timely submission of audited accounts, expeditious follow-up of recommendation of the
supervision mnission and timely fulfillment of the requirement of the legal covenants are indicators of GOUP
responsiveness and conmmitment.
There have, at the same time, been some areas in which difficulties were experienced. While state and
district project offices have been fully staffed staff turnover in DPOs has been relatively high. Staffing of
the DIETS and SIEMAT took more time than anticipated at the planning stage. Bifurcation of districts
resulting in an increase in districts from 10 to 17 created transitory complications, which were sorted out
by GOUP and the EFPAB. The expansion of the DPEP in the state to cover another 60 districts since
1997 further increased GOUP's stake. As feedback from the field indicates, this tended to divert attention
from the UPBEP project districts to some extent. The increasing pupil teacher ratio has also remained a
concem throughout the project and is considered one of the potential risks to the quality of education in the
post-project period
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The EFPAB's decision to involve the regular elementary education structures and institutions in project
implementation paved the way for institutionalization and the sustainability of the gains even after project
completion. The project consistently demonstrated a conmmitment to an incremental, experimental approach
that led to a greater flexibility and adaptibility in use of project funds. The project management took
advantage of the experiences and knowledge from both within and outside the state. This has facilitated
on-going reflections on problems as they arose and adaptations within the state context. Examples are seen
- 15-



in the evolving pedagogical renewal process, the improved textbooks and supplementary material, the
decentralized NPRC-BRC-DIET interlinkages, the early childhood education interventions in convergence
with the Integrated Child Development Services, and the community-based construction model.
5.4 Costs and financing:
GOUP was to contribute 13 percent of project costs to UPBEP and around 21.4 percent to UPBEP II. The
larger percentage from the state in UPBEP H was needed to cover the larger budget for teachers' salaries.
The Bank's contribution was on a declining scale and had already begun to decline in UPBEP when
UPBEP II started. The state contributed its share, as agreed. The expenditure rate in UPBEP has been 99
percent and in UPBEP H it is 98 percent until November 2000. The trend of financial expenditure has
been consistent with achievement of the physical targets.
The component-wise distribution of the project expenditure for UPBEP reveals that civil works occupied
approximately 30 percent and teachers' salaries about 54 percent of the total expenditure. In comparison
with SAR estimates, the actual expenditure in the case of UPBEP has almost doubled, particularly for
teachers' salaries (SAR projection 38.64 percent). The increase can be attributed to: (a) the demand for
new schools in unserved areas, (b) increased enrolments, and (c) increase in teachers' salaries due to
recommendations of the Fifth Pay Commission. An amendment had to be made in the DCA of UPBEP
dated July 11, 1997 for appointrnent of about 3250 additinal teachers to take care of this enhanced demand.
The differences with SAR estimates are not as sharp in UPBEPII (35 percent for civil works and
approximately 54 percent for total salaries) indicating a more realistic estimation, possibly based on lessons
learned from experiences of UPBEP implementation. The rate of expenditure was very low (6 percent) .n
the first two years of implementation as compared to the Bank forecasts of more than 30 percent, largely
due to start-up delays.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The rating for sustainability has been given as 'likely'. The rationale for this rating includes: (a) significant
community involvement in the construction of new schools and additional classrooms and the creation oi
the appropriate number of sanctioned teacher posts; (b) the Government's decision to continue the
operation of BRCs and NPRCs with coordinators and activity grants to ensure regular teacher training and
support activities; (c) continuation of the school grant and teachers' grant (though the latter is at a reduced
level) for school maintenance and the development of teaching-learning materials; (d) introduction of new
textbooks for the whole primary cycle across the state; (e) the establishment and functioning of SIEMA'';
(f) allocation of Rs. 2295 million ($49.35 million) for 2000/2001 in the non-plan budget to sustain project
activities including the additional teachers, teacher training, the TLM grant for teachers, training activities
in the DIETS, BRCs,NPRCs and MS; (g) provision of staff in the district education office for the
continuation of the EMIS; (h) the timeliness with which the state government has consistently contributed
its financial share to the project Society; and (i) involvement and integration of the existing institutions, and
the strength of the relationships between these institutions and the professional focus which has been
created. Other positive factors, which will support the continuation of the project interventions, institutions
and processes, include (i) the two ongoing DPEP projects covering 60 districts, which will further the
process of pedagogical renewal in the state and continually provide new lessons and continuation of the
SPO and its commitment for two years to oversee the implementation in the UPBEP project districts; (ii l
the Government of India's new scheme for the universalization of elementary education (Sarva Shiksha
Abhiyan), which can be expected to further provide the resources and support for the consolidation of the
program for primary schooling as well as for the further expansion and reform of upper primary schooling;
(iii) the reconstitution of the VECs as a sub committee of the Gram Panchayat; and (iv) the acceptance by
- 16 -



the state government of the need for an extensive program of fiscal reforms.
Overall, the State Project Office's approach to sustainability, which began with the commissioning of a
detailed and comprehensive Sustainability Study 18 months prior to project completion and resulted in a
considerable allocation in the 2000/2001 non plan budget. This has provided an excellent lesson to be
learnt for the seven DPEP-I States where project funding will cease in September 2001.
Some risks remain. First, the pupil teacher ratio averages 60:1 across project districts and rises to 74:1 in
Bhadohi. Within districts there are wide variations across schools. The Government has begun the process
of appointing para teachers through the VECs to reduce these ratios to 45:1 but the pressure to regularize
this process will need to be maintained. Second, the end of the project mode and the integration of
activities into the larger system of government may reduce the vitality that the project has generated.
Third, there is a risk that restructuring the VECs as a committee of the village panchayat together with
their reduced membership will reduce the level of community involvement in schools. Fourth, interventions
such as ECCE that have depended on collaboration with institutions external to the Department of
Education are in danger of not being sustained now that project funding has ceased. And finally, the
unpredictable fiscal situation in the state continues to pose an overall risk for sustaining project initiatives.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
A transition plan was explicitly made a part of the Sustainability Plan. Several of the arrangements that
have been described in para 6.1 above should ensure a smooth transition from the project mode. In
addition, there has been an intensive campaign over the past year to highlight the role of the community and
the VECs in schools, a new academic supervision package has been developed and institutional
development plans are being formulated in the SCERT and SIEMAT. In addition, office orders have been
passed for the adoption in the UPBEP districts over the next two years of all the pedagogical renewal
activities being developed in DPEP districts and management of these by the SPO, and for the continuation
of the AWPB model of planning. District project offices are being subsumed into the district education
offices together with the EMIS function, for which a post has been created.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's lending performance has been satisfactory. The Bank identified an experienced Task Leader
who resided in India and who was supported by international professionals from inside and outside the
Bank during project preparation. The project design was consistent with both national and state goals for
elementary education and the Bank's country assistance strategy. The project design incorporated the
lessons learnt from small projects in India and other countries. The Bank, with the cooperation of the
borrower, conducted studies on learning achievement, educational finance, textbook production and
distribution, efficiency analysis and analysis of available educational statistics as a part of preparation to
gain an in-depth understanding of the context, needs and potential in the basic education sector in the state.
During pre-appraisal and appraisal missions several workshops involving stakeholders (on research needs,
in-service training, district plan preparation, etc.) were organized in the state to build local capacity for
preparation of the project. This sector work helped produce consensus among the GOI, GOUP and the
World Bank regarding the design and project objectives. Throughout, the borrower took the lead in framing
the project's design, and the Bank was flexible and responsive to the state's preparations. Project
preparation was rated as best practice in OED's annual review of project Economic Analysis in 1994.
An ex-post review of the project design indicates that the project objectives were clearly stated, risks
appropriately identified and possible remedies suggested. The design of all aspects of project management,
- 17 -



procurement, financial management, management information systems were completed and summarized in
the 28 detailed annexes of the Staff Appraisal Report. Project performance indicators were specified and
baseline data on indicators, including student achievement in mathematics and language for grades 2 and 5
for three districts, were included in the design. Process indicators for quality were, however, not specified.
Also, the design was overly ambitious in envisaging the extent of changes expected in classroom pedagogy
at the primary stage, while for upper primary the design could have been more comprehensive. There was
also a lack of detailed preparation for civil works. The preparatory period took more time than anticipated
as it was the first large basic education project prepared with a participatory approach and the capacity for
such an exercise was limited at the district as well as state levels. The access targets were underestimated
and had to be revised twice to meet the increasing enrollment demands.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision has been rated as highly satisfactory. The task management for the project was based in the
World Bank's New Delhi Office from preparation through closing. Consequently, the New Delhi office
was responsible for supervision right from the first supervision mission in January 1994. This arrangement
strengthened the partnership between the GOUP implementation team and the Bank's India education team
during the life of the projects and has since confirmed the value added by decentralizing supervision
arrangements to the field offices. During the first three years two interim missions, one for INSET and the
other for civil construction were also organized to improve the quality of implementation in the two major
components. With the installation of DPEP II in 17 additional UP districts in 1997, UPBEP supervision
was brought within the fold of the Joint Supervision mechanism for DPEP. This, however, reduced the
frequency of visits to the state although it enriched certain quality aspects through cross sharing. The Bank
team also facilitated the provision for technical assistance in the development of supplementary reading
materials for grades 1-5. The Bank responded with a sense of urgency to the increased demand for more
schools and teachers created by an unanticipated surge in enrolments and prepared the complementary
UJPBEP II in 1997. Amendments in the legal agreement (twice) to meet the emerging demand have
contributed to community confidence in GOUP. The Bank's Quality Assurance Group rated the
supervision of UPBEP and DPEP as 'highly satisfactory' in 1999.
In 1995, the Bank carried out an external evaluation of the quality of civil construction. This encouraged
the EFAPB to complete another external evaluation by Sulabh International in 1996 which indicated that
55 out of 344 sites had unsatisfactory quality. The listed defects ranged from poor quality of flooring,
cracks in walls and beams to undersizing of beams. The State Project Office took corrective measures
wherever flaws were identified. Regular follow-up of implementation of legal covenants resulted in no
default. The State Project Office followed procurement procedures throughout, except for the construction
of SIEMAT in the initial stage of implementation, wherein it was undertaken as a single source
procurement without obtaining Bank clearance. Bank management regularized this problem since this was
the first, and now in retrospect, the only deviation from Bank procurement guidelines. While no financial
specialist participated in the supervision missions, aspects related to financial management were regularly
monitored. The report of the auditing firmn was received regularly and followed up during supervision
missions.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall performance of the Bank is highly satisfactory. Interim thematic supervisions to complement
biannual supervisions, independent evaluation of the quality of civil construction, and the Bank's
responsiveness and flexibility in responding to the project's evolution (e.g., the preparation and approval of
UPBEP II to accommodate access demands, giving NGOs and civil society responsibility for
implementation tasks) have all contributed to the quality of implementation.
- 18 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower's project preparation has been rated as satisfactory. The Government of Uttar Pradesh
(GOUP) took the lead in preparing UPBEP with technical assistance from the Government of India, private
consultants (e.g., a new concept for carrying out baseline beneficiary assessment survey and focus group
discussions with the stakeholders) and the Bank's team. As this was the first district-based project which
followed participatory methodology, project preparation took about two years. The capacity for
undertaking such an exercise with stakeholder's participation was low, especially at the district level, but
during the preparation process it improved. The beneficiary assessment study including student
achievement survey in language and mathematics for grades 2 and 5 was conducted, but initially only in
three districts. For the remaining seven districts the study was conducted only mid-course in 1996. GOUP
approval for creating an autonomous EFPAB constituting VECs, community construction of schools, a
policy to encourage girl's education, increased involvement of women in school development, curriculum
and textbook review and revision and making them available to all students, were included in the project
design. EFAPB was established even before Board's approval of the project. The community was offered
a range of choices of school designs, however, community construction lacked detailed preparation and had
to be later strengthened through development of a manual.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is rated highly satisfactory. The GOUP provided an enabling
policy environment for effective project implementation. Its commitment has been highly visible in regular
and timely flow of state share of funds to EFAPB for project implementation, in spite of adverse fiscal
position. It is also reflected in posting of senior and committed officials, monitoring of implementation at
the highest level and accountability of the district collector for implementation at the district level. GOUP
also provided support to project implementation through regulations and procedural reforms such as
teacher rationalization and transfer policy, convergence of inputs from different departments and creating
interface between PRIs, VECs and the Directorate of Basic Education. Bringing elementary education
under the Panchayat Raj Institutions further endorsed the decentralized management of elementary
education in the project districts. The most significant contribution of GOUP is the commnitment to sustain
institutions created during the project period through budgetary support after the project completion.
GOUP did not default on any of the legal covenants and timely submission of the audit report. Teacher
deployment and keeping the teacher pupil ratio within the reasonable limit of 1:45 was attempted by the
GOUP but could not be effected largely due to unanticipated surge in enrolments. This is now being
addressed through institution of the para-teacher scheme.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
EFAPB, SPO performance is rated highly satisfactory. Six features that have contributed to the
successful implementation of UPBEP and UPBEP II are: (a) the SPO acted as an open learning
organization willing to use lessons and feedback from the field to identify problems and design solutions,
using the flexibility provided in the project design; (b) Networked with a number of institutions and
individuals within and outside the state which enabled institutional development, (c) follow through of the
implementation by the state and district institutions was quite visible; (d) reporting mechanism was timely
and well executed, and (e) consistency in communication at various levels of implementation. EFAPB's
efforts for community mobilization, particularly for significant increase in participation of girls, reducing
drop out, developing supplementary reading materials and revised textbooks, ensuring their supply in all
schools and availability to all children, developing infrastructure for providing INSET to all teachers,
providing in-school professional support and improving student learning in language and mathematics,
particularly in the beginning grades, are significant achievements. The most significant contribution of the
EFAPB has been to work closely with the regular structures and institutions of the state, which ultimately
- 19-



resulted in improving chances of sustainability of the inputs after project completion.
7 7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall performance of the Borrower is rated as highly satisfactory. This is in view of the visible state
commitment, timely and systematic project implementation, efforts towards institutionalization and
sustainability of the project processes, and institutions and initiatives.
8. Lessons Learned
UPBEP and UPBEPII have the distinction of being very large-scale and complex programs geared to. ards
educational reform. These projects, which were the first Bank supported Basic Education Projects,have
demonstrated several achievements over the project period. More notable among these include, the
significant impact of project interventions on access and enrohnents, the pedagogical reform towards nmore
child centered education, the strengthening of institutional capacity through establishment of decentrali sed
teacher -support structures and the SIEMAT and a successful demonstration of community based
construction. There have, however, been some concerns as well which would need to be addressed more
pointedly in future projects. These include the need for more robust and independent monitoring and
evaluation mechanisms to track progress in project outcomes, the concern for further improvement in lata
quality and utilisation, the need to synchronise enrolment growth with teacher appointments to regulat.
teacher- student ratios, and the need for more improved methods of securing and utilising feedback from
the field to maximise the potential of community based organisations including village education comitsees
for school improvement.
The review of these successfully prepared and implemented projects has generated significant learning,
particularly for project planning and implementation in the social sector. Some of the major lessons learned
are as follows:
Project Preparation
I. Borrower's ownership of the project is critical to successful project implementation. This should be
ensured by allowing the borrower to take the lead in designing a project which would best fit its
context, with the Bank providing technical support.
2. The project management structure, although autonomous, should be closely linked with the state's
management structures. This will allow project financing to flow smoothly and provide for flexibile and
expeditious management procedures; at the same time this will not alienate the project's activities from
regular state activities and will improve prospects of sustainability.
3. Any project for school improvement should have a design that includes and is informed by relevant and
updated educational research and incorporates, in a holistic and integrated way, a variety of input, that
reflect what is known about the characteristics of good schools; for example, an attractive physical
environment for learning; community involvement; significant funding for in-service training; a
decentralized teacher training support system; TLMs and textbooks and individual teacher grants -or
developing need-based teaching learning materials.
4. The start-up of complex, comprehensive investments takes time, suggesting that as much detailed
planning as possible (e.g., civil works and initial training designs) should be done before funds start
flowing and that targets for school-level inputs and student outcomes should be cautiously estimated
for at least the first two years of implementation.
5. However, while quality of initial preparation is important, this is at best artificial until it gets testec.
against the field realities. The project design should therefore be adequately flexible to accomodatc and
adapt to unanticipated factors emerging in the course of implementation. During preparation,
- 20 -



therefore, a balance should be sought as in UPBEP, between planning and getting started.
6. Projects in the social sector are more process driven and require more complex, sustained and
multi-faceted interventions to achieve deep-rooted sustainable change. Therefore, lending instruments
such as the APL, which allow for more flexibility and time and a more process-based approach, might
be more appropriate than short duration and target-bound project loans.
7. It is possible to mount large-scale interventions in the social sector if an alternative model with a "start
big and continuously improve" approach is adopted as against the traditional "start small, think big
and gradually expand" model. However, the impact on the system of this model can be more
widespread and consistent if the project is embedded in, and supported by, a larger context of
governance and system reforms.
8. Project interventions need to match existing and future field realities, as anticipated, to ensure
applicability and sustainability; for example, given that multi-grade teaching is likely to continue for
some time to come, teacher training should take this into account; similarly, school and classroom
designs should be informed not only by the existing but by future needs as well.
Project Implementation
1 . Continuity of competent and committed project personnel in the life of the project is critical to the
quality of implementation for which political will and commitment on the part of the borrower is
required.
2. Commitment on the part of the borrower is required to make research and reflection a feedback
mechanism into project implementation. For example, (a) the baseline, mid-term and final assessments
of student learning; (b) studies on topics such as school construction quality, dropouts, community
participation, classroom processes, teacher supervision and support, and the role of private institutions;
(c) introduction of action research by teachers; and (d) studies on data quality and usage.
3. Institutional development is a continuous process so that even sound success during the life of a
project (as with the establishment of the BRCs/NPRCs and the SIEMAT) is probably not sufficient to
guarantee long-term sustainability of the capacity that has been established. It is therefore essential to
invest in continued resource support even after the project, and to bring in more accountability at all
levels in order to maintain quality in the performance of institutions across the system.
4. Decentralization is equally difficult to achieve since its success depends on the surrounding political
environment, communities' internal socio-economic dynamics, and the public sector's existing capacity
to provide sound governance.
5. Decentralised and field-based supervision by the Bank, with task management in the field, can add
value to the quality and timeliness of supervision and this emerges as a significant factor contributing
to the success of the project.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments of Ms. Neera Yadav, Principal Secretary, Department of Education, Government of U. P.,
Lucknow:
Quote: I would like to place on record our appreciation of the association with the World Bank in the
implementation of the UP BEP-I & II projects in Uttar Pradesh. The UP BEP-I & II helped to target funds
to a priority sector such as elementary education in the State and helped to build up a programme for
primary education reform in the State. It showed the immense possibilities there were to improve primary
- 21 -



education services in the State and helped to create an atmosphere where the benefits of primary education
were publicly acknowledged. Unquote:
Comments from the Goverunent of India indicate that they "are in broad agreement with the report".
Specific comments were largely editorial which have been appropriately incorporated in the text.
The Borrower's independent Project Evaluation Report is attached as Annex 15.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not Applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not Applicable
10. Additional Information
The following contributed to the preparation of the ICR:
Task Team Leader       Venita Kaul
Co-Task Team Leader    N. K. Jangira
Team Members           Ward Heneveld, Keith Hinchliffe, Vandana Sipahimalani, S. Krishnan, Rajat Narila,
Renu Gupta, Gertrude Cooper
Consultants            Sharada Jain, Vijay Rewal, Kamal Gaur
List of UPBEP Districts
1. Varanasi
2. Chandaully
3. Bhadhoi
4. Gorakhpur
5. Allahabad
6. Kaushambi
7. Banada
8. Chitrakut
9. Etawah
10. Aurrai
11. Sitapur
12. Aligarh
13. Hathras
14. Saharanpur
15. Pauri
16. Nainital
17: Udham Singh Nagar
- 22 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/Impact Indicators-Primary
INDICATOR                   PROJECTED IN LAST PSR*              ACTUAL/LATEST ESTIMATE
EXPANDING ACCESS
Percentage of girls (SC and total)  i Since the last PSR focussed only
not in school to be reduced by 50%  on operational issues requiring   Gross Enrollment Ratio (GER): 94.4 %
over baseline estimates            follow- up from the previous       (Boys); 91.4 % (Girls)
mission conducted six months
earlier, the indicators listed in
Column I were not discussed.
GER: (SC Boys/Girls)                                                  SC Boys: 126.2; SC Girls: 118.6
Enrolments: (SC/Boys/Girls)                                           Boys: 2.9 million; Girls: 2.1 million
Enrolment in Non Formal centers                                       3965 children in 441 non-fornal centers
IMPROVING QUALITY AND
COMPLETION
Dropout and repetition rates to be                                    Dropout Rate --Boys: 27.9% Girls:
reduced by 50% over the baseline                                      27%  (More than 50% reduction over
estimates                                                             baseline). Repetition rate- 3.3%
(Baseline: 12 %)
Dropout Rate: SC/Boys/Girls                                           SC Boys: 32.5; SC Girls: 31.8
Leaming Achievement: Grade V                                          Targets surpassed. Methodology of study
scores to improve by 50% over                                         has raised questions.
baseline achievement levels for
SC/Boys/Girls
IMPROVING PLANNING,
MANGEMENT AND PROFESSIONAL
SUPPORT
Status of EFAPB                                                       An autonomous EFAPB which was
established in Lucknow is fully
functional and through its state project
office and district project offices will
continue to supervise implementation of
sustained activities for two more years in
UPBEP districts.
Status of SIEMAT (Target: providing                                   SIEMAT has been established and has
I 000 person weeks of training)                                       emerged as a Regional Research and
Resource Center (RRRC) for Northem
Hindi speaking states. It has exceeded
the SAR target by providing 2000 person
weeks of training to the state, districts
and block level officials.
- 23 -



Status of State EFA Plan                                              A state plan for the extension of basic
education program was prepared which
resulted in UP DPEP II and UP DPEP III.
Status of MLL Curriculum Revision                                     Not applicable since MLL-based
curriculum has been further revised ir
January 1999.
Status of SCERT: Capacity for                                         The SCERT was strengthened and
Curriculum Development Processes                                      actively involved in curriculum revision,
textbook development and teacher
training. Curriculum was reviewed and
new textbooks were revised from grac.es
I-V (16 textbooks which have been
distributed across the state).
Status of DIETS                                                       Ten DIETs were provided additional
residential places for 40 trainees,
audio-visual equipment and
opportunities for staff development ur.der
the project. These DIETs provided
support to the quality component of the
project under the present institutional
arrangement
Status of BRCs                                                        BRCs were established in 176 blocks to
provide in-service training and on-site
professional support to all teachers in a
decentralized mode. These are at pres-nt
fully functional. The BRCs have
provided 43000 person weeks of train ng
to teachers annually, again exceeding the
set target.
Status of NPRCs                                                       NPRCs were established inl 768 Nya)ya
Panchayats. These have been organising
monthly workshops for teachers. Ever-
primary and upper primary school is
expected to be visited at least once a
month by the NPRC coordinator.
Status of District Plans                                              Not applicable
Status of MIS System                                                  A computerized PMIS dealing with
financial aspects of the project is fully
operational in the SPO and 12 project
districts and EMIS is operational in L!
districts. The low sub-district capacity to
scrutinize data puts a question mark on
the quality of the data and its usage.
With large turnover of computer staff the
problem of availability of adequate
human resource remains.
- 24 -



Status of Assessment System                                           The mid-term and final baseline learning
achievement were conducted by
individuals drawn from different
departments of the SCERT and
consultants. However, the long-term
institutional capacity for conducting
learning assessment is still not visible
and is now being addressed under
UPDPEPII.
Research & Evaluation Studies                                         UPBEP established a funding
Conducted                                                             mechanism for research in elementary
education under the PRAC. A total of 63
research studies in primary education
were conducted by SIEMAT, SCERT,
University Departments, Social Science
Research Institutes, NGOs and
individual researchers. The research
themes included issues related to
enrolment, dropout, classroom processes,
institutional development and evaluation
of interventions. In addition, 191 action
research projects in schools, BRCs and
CRCs were also completed. The findings
were shared with stakeholders through a
newsletter and discussions during the
training programs. The quality of
research, however, needs considerable
improvement.
Output Indicators-Primary
INDICATOR                    PROJECTED IN LAST PSR              ACTUAL/LATEST ESTIMATE
EXPANDING ACCESS
300,000 primary places to be                                           Targets surpassed. 3444 schools and
established for currently unserved                                     3429 additional rooms constructed.
children
Additional 150,000 children to be                                      3965 children in 441 non -formal primary
enrolled in non-formal primary                                         centers Targets not met due to lesser
education.                                                             demand for NFE vis-a-vis formal schools.
Number of schools completed                                            3444
Number of additional classrooms                                        3429
constructed
Number of new teachers appointed                                       9482 teachers for new schools, and
15,175 additional teachers
Number of assistant teachers upgraded                                  2262 teachers
as head teachers
- 25 -



Number of head teachers trained                                                No. of head teachers trained
Cycle I    16050    10 days
l                                   Cycle II    17570     6 days
Cycle HII   19730    6 days
Cycle IV    21300     6 days
Cycle V    21900      8 days
Number of new teachers trained                                         7520 teachers given induction training.
Number of Non-Formal Centers                                           441 centers for primary stage.
established
IMPROVING QUALITY AND
COMPLETION
Early Childhood Education Centers                                      1250 centers are functioning and 50 <:ut
of these are run by an NGO.
Number of Schools with ICDS                                            1000 ECD centers are linked with
Linkages                                                               primary schools.
Number of Toilets and Drinking Water                                   10201
facilities provided
Number of renovations completed                                        1105
Status of Mahila Samakhya (MS)                                         MS was proposed to be used as a
resource support for girls' education. The
project's support to MS has helped
mobilization of women's collectives f hr
education and has resulted in innovative
literacy initiatives for women and
adolescent girls, residential camps fc-
girls' education (Mahila Shikshan Kce idra
) and significant increase in girls'
participation rates in regular schools in
the project areas.
Proportion of newly appointed female                                   GOUP has appointed 27% female
teachers                                                              teachers
Number of SC/ST girls receiving                                        Scheme of scholarships for SC girls has
scholarship                                                            not been initiated under the project
because state government started its 'own
scheme of scholarships for SC and S-
children for the entire state.
Number of teachers receiving                                                   No. of teachers trained
In-Service training                                                    Cycle I     42300     10 days
Cycle II    43733      6 days
Cycle III   43563      6 days
Cycle IV    43205      6 days
Cycle V    43305       6 days
Revision of MLL Textbooks in                                           MLL is not applicable since further
Schools                                                                revisions have been made in curricul i.
Revised textbooks introduced in July
2000.
- 26 -



Status of VECs (to be fully functional                                   All 12,568 VECs have been trained. An
for 50% of schools)                                                      exact estimate of fully functional VECs
is not available; their performance could
be considered, by and large, satisfactory
in school construction and organization
of enrolment drives but their involvement
in regular school management is not
significant.
Utilisation of Block Resource Centers                                    BRCs are involved in organising training
for teachers, head teachers, VEC
members, ICDS workers, AS workers
and in providing academic support to
schools
Utilisation of School Clusters                                           NPRCs are involved in demonstrating
good teaching practice during school
visits,organising monthly meetings and
training of teachers.
IMPROVING PLANNING
MANAGEMENT AND PROFESSIONAL
SUPPORT CAPACITY
Staff appointment and training                                           UPBEP financed incremental salaries of
21 professional and technical staff, five
accounting officials and 11 support staff
at the state level. UPBEP II funded 12
quality coordinators in the project
districts. All the staff members have
been trained by the SIEMAT.
Staff Appointment and training at                                        48 professionals have been appointed at
District Level                                                           the DPOs . All the staff members have
been trained by the SIEMAT.
Outcome/Impact Indicators - Upper Primary
INDICATOR                     PROJECTED IN LAST PSR               ACTUAL/LATEST ESTIMATE
EXPANDING ACCESS
Enrolments -SC/Boys/Girls: Increase                                      1.76 million in 2000 indicating an
over the Baseline estimate                                               increase of 148 percent over the Baseline
estimate
GER: SC/ST/Boys/Girls                                                    Girls: 65 percent, SC girls : 43 percent,
Boys : 78 percent and SC Boys: 61
percent
Enrolment for Non Formal:                                                 855 children in 40 centers .
SC/Boys/Girls
IMPROVING QUALITY AND
COMPLETION
Dropout Rate: Boys/Girls over the                                        Girls: 12.8; Boys: 14.4
Baseline estimates
- 27 -



Output Indicators- Upper Primary
INDICATOR                     PROJECTED IN LAST PSR              ACTUAL/LATEST ESTIMATE
EXPANDING ACCESS
Upper primary places to be established                                  Targets surpassed. 1457 schools
for unserved children.                                                  constructed
Schools completed                                                       1457 schools constructed
Additional children to be enrolled in                                   885 children in 40 non-formal centers
non-formal primary education.
New teachers appointed/trained                                          8855 new teachers have been appointeC
New teachers trained                                                    Not available
New Head teachers                                                       Not available
appointed/promoted/trained
IMPROVING QUALITY AND
COMPLETION
Toilets and Drinking Water facilities                                   Not indicated
completed
Rehabilitated Schools                                                   219 schools have been rehabilitated
Proportion of newly appointed female                                    GOUP has appointed 27%  female
teachers                                                                teachers
Teachers receiving In-Service training                                  No. of teachers trained  Duration
Cycle I     6330            8 Days
Cycle II    4950             8 Days
Revision of curriculum and textbooks                                    Curriculum was revised in January,
in schools                                                              2000. Process of finalization for
textbooks for upper primary is under
process
- 28 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Project Cost ay Cpmpone. U.$ rnilljn    J$ milln .M             .
Building Institutional Capacity                      18.71           20.13
Improving Quality and Completion                     83.68           80.73
Improving Access                                     91.38           91.16
Total Baseline Cost                                 193.77          192.02
Total Project Costs            193.77          192.02
Total Financing Required             193.77         192.02    _    _ _
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expendure Cabgory         1cB           NB                  -       NF.      Tw1 Cost
1. Works                      0.00          3.90        67.60         0.00         71.50
(0.00)       (3.90)       (60.80)       (0.00)       (64.70)
2. Goods                      0.00          3.90         17.90        0.00         21.80
(0.00)       (3.40)       (16.30)       (0.00)       (19.70)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00         8.80         0.00          8.80
(Professional & NGO          (0.00)        (0.00)       (8.80)       (0.00)        (8.80)
services)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         8.20         0.00          8.20
(Training)                   (0.00)        (0.00)       (8.20)       (0.00)        (8.20)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         4.70         0.00         4.70
(Studies)                    (0.00)        (0.00)       (4.70)       (0.00)        (4.70)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00        79.10         0.00         79.10
(Salaries, Operation &       (0.00)        (0.00)       (59.30)       (0.00)      (59.30)
Maint.)
Total                      0.00          7.80        186.30         0.00        194.10
(0.00)       (7.30)      (158.10)       (0.00)      (165.40)
(The total cost indicated in the SAR should have been US$193.86 but was reported incorrectly as US$194.10)
- 29 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
PrlocureMqnMeto0d'
Expendliture Catgo            1GB                                                     ToOO  Cost
1. Works                         0.00            0.00          57.54           0.00          57.54
(0.00)         (0.00)        (62.07)         (0.00)        i 62.07)
2. Goods                         0.00            0.16          11.53           0.00          11.69
(0.00)         (0.13)         (9.67)         (0.00)        (9.80)
3. Services                      0.00            0.00           1.75           0.00           1.75
(Professional & NGO              (0.00)         (0.00)         (1.51)         (0.00)         (1.51)
services)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           5.55           0.00           5.55
(Training)                       (0.00)         (0.00)         (5.61)         (0.00)         (5.61)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.31           0.00           0.31
(Studies)                       (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.31)         (0.00)         (0.31)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00          115.18          0.00          115.18
(Salaries, Operation &           (0.00)         (0.00)        (84.15)         (0.00)        i84.15)
Maint.)                                                                                    _
Total                         0.00            0.16          191.86          0.00          192.02
________________________         (0.00)         (0.13)        (163.32)         (0.00)       (163.45)
* Reasons for the wide discrepancy between the appraisal estimate and the actual expenditure of columl 6
are discussed in Para 5.5
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2I Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of c ontracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Cormonent (in USS million equivalent)
C;;ompoent              A       I 1;.;$ wist.     ,_'                        '                 ____
Building Institutional    16.23      2.48                16.18      3.95               99.7   159.3
Capacity
Improving Quality and     74.18      9.50                64.73      16.00               87.3   168.4
Completion
Improving Access          74.99     16.39                82.54      8.62               1 10.1  52.6
- 30 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable for this project.
- 31 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                N  of Persons and Specialty,             Performance Ratingx
:g2 Ecotf0 nomists, M e.            Implementation   Devel9pment
M:ontear  PCount 7           Specilti                       Pogress         Objective
Identification/Preparation
Pre-appraisal             11   I Education Planner, 2
Mission,                        Economist, 1 Social
November-                       Development Specialist, 3
December 1992                   Educationists,
I Architect, 2 Management
Specialists, I Financial Analyst
Appraisal/Negotiation
February -                10   2 Education Planners, 2
March 1993                      Economists, I Social
Development Specialist,
1 Educationist, I Architect,
2 Management Specialists,
I Financial Analyst
Supervision
January 1994                6   1 Education Planner,               S              HS
I Economist, I Educationist,
I Architect, 2 Management
Specialists
June 1994                   7  2 Education Planners,                S             HS
2 Educationists, 2 Architects, I
Management Specialist
February 1995               5   1 Education Planner,               S              HS
3 Educationists, 1 Architect,
July 1995                   5   1 Education Planner,               S              HS
3 Educationists, I Architect
March 1996                  6   1 Education Planner,               S              HS
2 Educationists, I Architect,
2 Management Specialists
December 1996               9   1 Education Planner,               HS              S
Mid Term Review                 3 Educationists, 5 Architects
September 1997              8   2 Education Planners,              S               S
I Economist, 3 Educationists, I
Architect, 1 Management
Specialist
March 1998                  3   1 Education Planner, 1 Social       S              S
Development, 1 Educationist
October 1998                7   1 Education Planner,                S              S
6 Educationists
April 1999                  7   1 Education Planner,                S              S
6 Educationists
November 1999               8   1 Education Planner,                S              S
I Economist, 6 Educationists
- 32 -



March 2000                  8   2 Economists, 6 Educationists      S               S
ICR
December 2000             10    2 Economists, I Social             HS             HS
Development Specialists, I
Education Planner, 3
Educationists,
I Architect, I Financial
Management Specialist,
1 Procurement Specialist
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   ActualLatest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             Us$ (W0)
Identification/Preparation                                     573,844.60
Appraisal/Negotiation                                    Included in above
Supervision                                                   484,572.60
ICR                                                             48,000.00
Total                                                        1,106,417.20
- 33 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=-High, SU=Substantial, M-Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Sector Policies                          O H  *SUOM  O N  C) NA
Z Physical                                * H  O SU O M  O N  C) NA
F Financial                               * H  OSUOM  O N  C) NA
N Institutional Development               0 H  * SU O M  0 N  C) NA
J Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                O H  0 SU O M  0 N  C) NA
Z Gender                           O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
El Other (Please specify)          O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
5 Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
* Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
* Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 34 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
X Lending                                          OHS OS OU OHU
 Supervision                                       OHS OS  OU  OHU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS  0 U  0 HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
F Preparation                                       OHS OS  0 U  O HU
* Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
* Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS  O  U  0 HU
E Overall                                           OHS OS  0  U  O HU
- 35 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Basic Reports
1. Aide Memoire, Appraisal Mission- UP BEP. December 12, 1992.
2. Aide Memoire, Pre-Appraisal Mission- UP BEP. March 22, 1993.
3. Baseline Survey of Three Districts of Uttar Pradesh (Varanasi, Sitapur and Nainital) - Volumes I, 11, III.
4. Development Credit Agreement. The World Bank. March 3, 1998.
5. District Primary Education Programme - Status Report. October 1998.
6. Draft Report - Study of UP EFAPB's Managerial Structures and Practices. Indian Institute of Managemert,
Lucknow.
7. Education For All - UP BEP (1995).
8. Education for All Project (Uttar Pradesh) - State Finance Studies (Education).
9. Final Assessment Study (October 2000).
10. Joint Review Mission Reports (Ist - 10th).
11. Project Agreement Document. The World Bank. March 3, 1998.
12. Project Appraisal Document. The World Bank. October 27,1997.
13. Role of Village Education Committees in Sustainability of UP BEP - A study sponsored by UP EAPB.
14. Second Baseline Assessment Study of 12 districts of UP BEP.
15. Sustainability Plan for UP BEP. April 1999.
16. UP BEP Civil Works Supervision Mission. November 1994 - July 1995.
17. U.P. Basic Education Project - Project Implementation Plan. June 1997.
18. U.P. Basic Education Project - Status Report. April 1995.
19. U.P. Basic Education Project - Status Report. October 1998.
20. U.P. Basic Education Project - Status Report. March 1999.
21. Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Project: Understanding the Challenges of Sustainability and Mainstreaming
May 1999.
22. Uttar Pradesh: From Fiscal Crisis to Renewed Growth. The World Bank. Draft Report. 1998.
SIEMAT
1. Research in Primary Education (UP BEP) - Research Abstracts by SIEMAT.
2. Research schemes in UP BEP by SIEMAT.
3. SIEMAT- Status Report (April 1999-March 2000).
4. Work profile of SIEMAT under UP BEP.
Academic Support and Teacher Training
1. A Study of Classroom Processes in UP BEP Districts of U.P - 1998-99 (By SIEMAT).
2. Classroom Observation in Schools of UP BEP Districts (October 2000).
3. Evaluation of the Pilot Project of Work Experience for Girls of Upper Primary Schools in Uttar Pradesh - Tie
Report (1998).
4. Evaluation of Shiksha Ghar NFE Programme under UP EFA - July 1998.
5. Strengthening Academic Support & Supervision - DIET-BRC-CRC School (March 2000).
6. Study on Evaluation of Teachers Training Programme (Nov. 1996) by Ed.CIL.
7. Study on the Role of School Library for Gaining Knowledge and Day-to-Day Information For Children by
SIEMAT (April 2000).
8. Use of Teaching Learning Materials Developed by Teachers and The Utilisation of Teachers Grant.
Gender and ECCE
1. ECCE Project Documentation Report - Supported by UPEFAPB (June 1997).
2. Making A Difference - Primary Education for Girls in Uttar Pradesh - February 2000.
3. Shishu Shiksha Kendras - Evaluation Report by NCERT.
- 36 -



Additional Annex 8. Quality at Entry
Tasks Completed Prior to Implementation
S.NO    TASKS                                ACTIONS COMPLETED            STATE INITIATIVES
I.       Setting up of EFAPB and             Completed. Schedule of
appointment of key managerial staff    staff appointment was
revised
2.       Study on the research capacity      Policy Research Advisory    List of research areas was
Commmitte was formed      prepared
and research needs were
identified.
3.       Assessment of learning achievement    Baseline Assessment was    Sharing workshop was held
completed in three districts  on the baseline beneficiary
at the beginning of the   studies
project
4.       Setting up of SIEMAT                Efforts were initiated and
cost estimates were made
5.       Site plans for DIETS and BRCs;      Completed                 Development of alternative
Relocation of schools; School maps                            school building design.
developed for each village;
Completion of prototype designs and
cost estimates; Complete lists for
primary and upper primary school
complexes and BRCs
6.       Implementation plans for the MIS    Completed
system
7.       Plan for the coordination of ICDS and   Efforts initiated
school timings
8.       Workshops to review training        Organised
curricula, material development
needs and training schedules
9.       Workshops for text books            Organised
improvements
10.      Review of implementation plans for   Completed
NFE
11.      Gender bias review of textbooks     Completed
and NFE education material
- 37 -



12.     Review  of textbook production  Completed
quality
13.     Focused group discussion in 35  Completed
communities on barriers to
enrollment
14.     Review  of school construction  Completed
quality
15.     Testing of learning materials based   Efforts initiated
on MLL curriculum standards.
16.     Development of alternative school    Completed
building design
- 38 -



Additional Annex 9. Access and Retention
TABLE 1
ENROLMENT IN PRIMARY GRADES (I-V), UPBEP DISTRICTS: 1993,2000
(in thousands)
District              1993                     2000                     1993                       2000
Boys    Girl    Tota    Boys    Girl    Tota    SC         SC       SC      SC      SC        SC
s       I                s       I      Boys    Girl   Tota    Boys    Girl        Total
s       l                s
Varanasi      262      166     428     491      389     880      64      46      110      89       69       158
Gorakhpur      196      115     311     255     248      503      56      30       86      49      45        94
Allahabad      188      98      286     650     376    1026    104        76      180     110      93        203
Banda        138      91      229     197      157     354      16      14       30      24       17       41
Sitapur       108     99      207      248     235     483      48       32      80      48       42        90
Etawah        178     131     309      189     184     373      22       17      39       31      28        59
Aligarh       222     114     336      391     166      557     41       32      73       54      31        85
Saharanpur     125      77      202     256      202     458      39      29       68      60       48       108
Pauri        77      67       144     52       61      113      6       4       10       8        8        16
Nainital      111      69      180     129      123     252      16      13      29       34      30        64
Total       1605    1027    2632    2858    2141    4999    412        293      705     507     411        918
Source: Directorate of Basic Education
Note: The Directorate data cover primary grade enrolments in government primary, elementary and secondary schools, as well as in
private recoglized schools.
- 39 -



TABLE 2
ENROLMENT IN PRIMARY GRADES (I-V), UPBEP DISTRICTS: 1997/88 to 2009101
(in thousands)
Year              Total              Boys               Girls            SC Boys           SC Girls
1997-98             3080              1734               1346               500                357
1998-99             3176              1716               1460               506                385
1999-2000            3414              1878               1536               544                435
2000-2001            3689               1982              1707               627                523
Source: Education Monitoring and Information System (EMIS), State Project Office
Note: The EMIS covers primary enrolments in government primary and elementary schools only, plus in private recognizec
schools.
TABLE 3
PRIMARY GROSS ENROLLMENT RATIOS (CLASSES I-V): 1993 and 2000
TOTAL
Number enrolled (1993)                                          2632
Population 6-10 years (1993)                                      4156
GER (1993)                                                 63.3
Number enrolled (2000)                                          4999
Population 6- 10 years (2000)                                     4319
GER (2000)                                                 115.7
Source: Directorate of Basic Education
-40 -



TABLE 4
PRIMARY GROSS ENROLLMENT RATIOS (CLASSES I-V): 1993 and 2000
TOTAL            ALL BOYS           ALL GIRLS            SC BOYS           SC GIRLS
Number enrolled         3080                1734               1346                500                357
(in thousands)
(1997)
Population 6-10         3979               2125                1856                572                500
years (in
thousands)
(1997)
GER (1997)             77.4               81.6               72.5               87.4                71.4
Number enrolled         3689                1982               1707                627                523
(in thousands)
(2000)
Population 6-10         3968               2100               1867                497                441
years (in
thousands)
(2000)       _                                  _
GER (2000)             93.0               94.4               91.4               126.2              118.6
Source: EMIS
Note: The EMIS team in SIEMAT use revised population estimates.
TABLE 5
PRIMARY GROSS ENROLLMENT RATIOS (CLASSES I-V): 1997 and 1999
GIRLS                        BOYS                        TOTAL
1997                         87.2                        101.7                        95.4
1999                         97.0                        106.6                        102.1
Source: SIEMAT
Note: The estimates are based on a sample survey of 24 blocks in 6 project districts.
- 41 -



TABLE 6
PERCENTAGE OF SINGLE TEACHER SCHOOLS, PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO AND STUDENT
CLASSROOM RATIO IN PRIMARY SCHOOLING
District       % of single teacher schools         Pupil-Teacher ratio            Student-Classroom ratio
1997-98        2000-01          1997-98         2000-01          1997-98         2000-01
Sitapur            12             45.7             54              III              49              64
Pauri            17.9            14.8             26              24               20               19
Allahabad          11.5             6.6             79               74              70               57
Saharanpur          12.2            12.9             55              58               50              46
Gorakhpur           10.1           23.1             70               64              70               55
U-S.Nagar           8.3             4.7             48               44              46               43
Bhadohi            6.8             7.5             85               79              75               67
Banda             6.1             7.7             56               55              60               56
Chitrakoot          6.7            17.6             53               64              54               59
Varanasi           4.1             6.3             62               64              65               65
Nainital          16.7            19.4             30               29              27               25
Etawah            12.7             14              57              49               59               45
Aligarh             -              -                -               -                -
Average            10.4            15             56.3             59.6             53.8            50.1
Source: EMIS
-42 -



TABLE 7
ENROLMENT IN UPPER PRIMARY GRADES (VI-VII): 1993 AND 2000
(in thousands)
District                                             Total enrolled
1993                                 2000
Varanasi                                101                                   293
Gorakhpur                                93                                   240
Allahabad                                85                                   382
Banda                                  56                                    107
Etawah                                  85                                   180
Sitapur                                 67                                   94
Aligarh                                 93                                   179
Saharanpur                               71                                    180
Pauri                                  22                                    43
Nainital                                35                                    77
Total                                 708                                   1775
Source: Directorate of Basic Education
Note: The EMIS does not yet cover upper primary schooling
TABLE 8
UPPER PRIMARY GROSS ENROLMENT RATIOS (CLASSES VI-VIII): 1993 AND 2000
TOTAL
Number enrolled (in thousands)                                       708
(1993)
Population 11-13 years (in thousands)                                  2176
(1993)
GER (1993)                                                  32.5
Number enrolled (in thousands)                                       1775
(2000)
Population I11- 13 years (in thousands)                                2488
(2000)
GER (2000)                                                  71.3
Source: Directorate of Basic Education
- 43 -



TABLE 9
ESTIMATED PRIMARY CYCLE DROPOUT RATES
(percent)
YEAR                ALL            BOYS            GIRLS          SC BOYS         SC GIRLS       SC (TOT AL)
1993            50.0            40.0            60.0              -                -               -
2000            27.7            27.9             27.4            32.5            31.8             32.2
Source: 1993: Project Staff Appraisal Report
2000: EMIS
TABLE 10
ESTIMATED UPPER PRIMARY CYCLE DROPOUT RATES
(percent)
YEAR                ALL            BOYS            GIRLS            SC           OBC            MINORITY
1999        13.9                14.4             12.8          17.6           14.8              17.9
Source: SIEMAT
Note: The estimates are based on a sample survey of 24 blocks in 6 project districts.
- 44 -



Additional Annex 10. List of Studies completed under UPBEP at SIEMAT (1996-2000)
ENROLMENT
1. A Study on Enrolment Attendance and Retention in Primary Schools in relation of Incentive Schemes
2. Mid-day Meals Scheme effect on Enrolment and Retention at Primary Level
3. Parishad vs. Private Schools: A Comparative Study
4. Role of Community and Other Factors in Promoting Primary Education amongst Muslim Girls in the District
of Saharanpur
ACHIEVEMENT
I . A Study of Leaming Achievement of the Students, Facilities and Teaching-Learning material available at the
Primary Level Schools
2. A Comparative Study of Achievement of Primary School Students, with and without Pre-Primary Education
3. A Study of the Educational Achievement and Educational Conditions of the Child Labourers involved in the
Bangle Industry
4. The Comparison between Formal and Non-formal Education in Relation to Girls' Education
5. Understanding Underachievement in School Children
DROPOUT
I . A Study of Socio-Cultural Context of Female School Dropouts in Etawah District, U.P.
2. A Study of Repetition and Dropout among Minority Students
3. Sample Study of Dropouts in six BEP Districts in U.P.
4. Sample Study of Dropouts in Upper Primary Schools of three BEP Districts of U.P.
5. District Base Sample Studies on Enrolment Trends, Dropout and Transition Rates in Classes I to V
TRAINING
I . Impact of In-Service Teacher Training Programme (EFA) on the Social Emotional Climate of Classroom in
the Primary Parishadiya Schools of Sitapur (Project) and Barabanki (Non-project) Districts, U.P.
2. An Evaluation of In-Service Teachers Training and its Impact on Classroom Teaching
3. An Assessment of the Training needs of the Head Teacher for Effective Primary School Management
4. Job Involvement and Problems of Female Teacher
5. Impact of Innovative Teachers Training Teacher Competencies on Motivation, Attendance and Community
School Relationship
6. Use of Teaching Learning Materials (TLM) developed by the Teachers and the Utilization of Teacher Grants
provided for the purpose under the U.P. "Education for All Programme"
MISCELLANEOUS
I . Improving Effectiveness of Early Childhood Care & Education in U.P.
2. Community Libraries in School in the Rural Areas of Uttar Pradesh: An Evaluation
3. A Study of Environmental Awareness among Primary Grade Girl Students and their Parents in Varanasi
4. A Study of Classroom Processes in EFA and Non-EFA Districts of Uttar Pradesh
5. Role of VEC and Community Participation so far
6. To Study the Role of School Library for Gaining Knowledge and Day to Day information for Children
7. Community Participation in Construction and Maintenance of School Buildings and Benefits which accrue
viz-a-viz Departmental Construction
-45 -



Additional Annex 11. Summary of Focus Group Discussions (FGD)
As part of the ICR Mission activity FGDs were conducted with different categories of beneficiaries in three
project districts. The feedback obtained from these discussions is summarised below:
1. Major Questions addressed to the groups
*   To what extent has the project contributed to improving the quality of primary education in their
respective areas?
*   What is your own role in improving primary school education?
*   How has the project helped you in carrying out your role better?
2. Category-wise Feedback
2.1 Administrative/Academicpersonnel
District Level Staff
(One Group consisting of 6 District Level Staff, i.e., DPO, Regional Coordinator, District Quality
Coordinator and BSAs)
*   Female education has improved.
* Community involvement has been established and is adequate.
*   Resource availability, particularly in terms of civil works and materials, has increased.
DIET
(Two groups consisting of 27 faculty members)
*   There is improved access, increase in enrolments and teaching-learning has become more activity-base J
as an outcome of the project.
*   As a result of the project, DIET faculty are now assigned a block each and visit the BRC once a month for
core group meetings which include participation of a BRC coordinator, an Assistant coordinator, an
NPRC coordinator, ABSA and DIET faculty.
*   Training has been received by the faculty at various points of time and the lack of primary school
experience, which was initially a handicap, is less of a problem now.
* They feel the NPRC and BRC coordinators are good but need more training and delegation of powers.
*   VECs are active.
*   DIET faculty involved in demonstration of lessons. Encourage NPRC coordinators to provide academic
support to the schools that are otherwise more involved with administrative work
*   The roles asigned to all levels of personnel are more clearly understood now.
*   Main problem in the field is shortage of rooms and teachers.
BRC Coordinators
(Three groups: First of 14 members, Second of 10 members and Third of 6 members)
*   The role of BRCs is well articulated and linkages with NPRC, DIET and school well established.
Monthly meeting of BRCs are held when DIET faculty participates. However, NPRCs should be more
active and take on more academic support responsibilities.
*   The BRC and NPRC are expected to demonstrate lessons to the teachers and facilitate sharing of good
teachers amongst schools and use them as resource persons.
*   In terms of impact of the project, enrolment and retention has increased but repetition continues to be a
problem; school quality has improved and students now like to go to their school; teachers are using
TLMs more and also applying joyful learning methods. This has helped change parents' attitudes.
*   The group articulated a commitment to 'activity-based' pedagogy, with a focus on child and his/her
- 46 -



learning. New textbooks are good and provide a stimulus to lesson preparation.
*   Under the project a school grading system has been developed for NPRCs and schools, thereby creating
competition amongst schools.
* The faculty has received training annually.
NPRC Coordinators
(Two groups: First of 7 and Second of 12 persons)
*   Better access and infrastructure has led to increased enrolments. Teaching-learning process has improved.
Free textbooks have been provided.
*   They visit schools twice a month (but still see themselves as inspectors rather than actually providing
academic support). Hold monthly meeting of headmasters at NPRC.
*   Forty percent of time devoted to administrative duties like pulse polio, elections, etc.
*   Shortage of teachers, especially for mathematics and science, is an issue. Suggested the need for
individual subject teachers at the primary stage too.
ABSA/SDI
(One Group)
*   See their role as shifting from administration inspection to observing and facilitating teaching in schools.
* They are aware of the suggested changes in pedagogy which is now "Child-centered" teaching; the
students are engaged in learning more as a result of this method; supervision requires more sensitivity;
children don't fear school anymore and corporal punishment has been eliminated.
* New challenges are IED and remedial education for slower students.
* Without continuation of regular training for teachers, UPBEP gains will recede.
*   They showed awareness of UPBEP goals but are still intemalizing them; they have too many schools and
a long agenda which now recognizes the project structures like BRC/ NPRC but does not integrate them
fully in the field as yet.
State Project Office Officials
In terms of impact
*   Improvement in physical facilities is significant.
*   VECs and larger communities have developed greater feeling of ownership of schools because of
involvement in civil works. Have better understanding of value of education.
*   Capacity of DIETs, BRCs and NPRCs has been strengthened, which augurs well for quality improvement.
*   Decentralisation of financial management was done at District, BRC and VEC levels.
*   System of school visits has been developed and objective parameters set for quality.
*   There has been a lot of learning from experiences of other programs.
If UPBEP were to be redesigned and implemented.
*   Should have more emphasis on quality improvement, revision of textbooks, development of teachers'
guide in early years of the project.
* Teachers should be made more accountable through community participation.
*   Maximum attention in the project should be on quality and retention.
*   Micro planning data should be used more in the annual work plans.
* Civil works should be preceded by adequate community mobilization activity.
2.2 Direct Beneficiaries
Mahila Samakhya
(Two groups: First of 6 persons at district, and Second of 4 persons at state level)
- 47 -



*   High level of commitment and visible empowerment of workers seen.
*   MS has created a supportive environment for girls' education, evolved innovative methods for girls (11-14
yrs) education such as residential camps, strengthened MTA in project areas and helped in making EC CE
component more effective. They have also mobilized community participation in BEP processes like
"School Chalo Abhiyan".
Anganwadi Workers (Under training at DIET)
*   They have received training under the project. Find being with children more fun.
*   Feel more like teachers with enhanced self-esteem. Despite longer hours of work, the ICDS - UPBEP
model is more satisfying and rewarding.
Teachers
(6 Groups: First of 25, Second of 36, Third of 6, Fourth of 27, Fifth of 10 and Sixth of 10 persons)
*   In terms of project impact there is significant achievement in physical facilities - access (each village has
a school); Increase in enrolments, particularly of girls; improvement in quality of training processes,
textbooks, TLM availability and use, more accent on understanding, integration of SC/ST and girls, more
classroom participation.
*   VEC and community participation have increased. Social attitude towards teachers has changed for the
better.
o   There is still a severe shortage of rooms and teachers - there should be at least one teacher and a room rer
grade.
*   About 50% of the children do not perform at the expected levels even now.
*   Burden of extra duties like pulse polio, elections, etc., takes away much of their teaching time and hinders
their setting up a routine with the children.
*   Some did not feel the need for a BRC or NPRC, while others found it helpful
* No class IV employees like peons, etc., are available to them and the cleaning of classrooms, etc., has to
be done by the teachers or pupils.
Village Education Committees
(Three Groups: Two of 10 each and one of 30 persons)
*   The project has had a significant impact on enrolment of girls. Major achievement has been schools and
toilets, free textbooks, more TLMs and overall improvement in physical conditions and environment.
Teaching-learning has become more interactive.
*   VEC should have more powers to be able to be effective and some compensation should be given as an
incentive. VECs contribution has been largely towards infrastructure and community mobilization. More
competent/educated members should be ensured on the VECs for effective action. More training is also
required to update their knowledge base. Women's participation is poor in the VECs.
*   Any future project should have bottom-up planning to make it more acceptable.
*   Shortage of teachers is a major problem.
*   Gram Panchayat is more significant as an institution than the VEC in terms of performance and
involvement.
Parents
(5 Groups: One of 25, Two of 10 and Three of 15, Four of 5 and Five of 20)
*   Feel more reassured about the school's functioning.
*   All children coming to schools due to easy access and better infrastructure facilities, i.e., toilets, drinking
water.
*   Teaching is good - use of TLMs, children enjoy going to the school. All children have textbooks.
- 48 -



*   Introduction of English at the primary stage is appreciated.
* Dropout continues largely due to migration and transfers to private schools, which are considered better
quality.
* Educated mothers are willing to teach but there seems to be no channel to teach in government schools.
Students
(3 Groups: First of 20 children of Grades IVNt, Second of 12 primary children and Third of 8 upper
primary children)
*   Highly motivated and active. Some children had moved from private schools after project
implementation. They seem happy in school.
*   Liked new textbooks and corroborated use of teaching aids like kits in science and mathematics.
*   Women teachers are seen as a positive factor in the school. No gender differences are evident.
*   They like most teachers but particularly those who spend time with them and help with their difficulties.
Accept that the teacher even canes when required.
* Like introduction of English.
* Could not articulate how things have changed after the project other than change of textbooks.
-49 -



Additional Annex 12. List of NGOs involved in the Project
Non-Formal Education
1. Chacha Nehru Children's School Committee, Balepur, Pedaganj, Gorakhpur
2. Purvanchal Gramin Vikas Sansthan, 4/19, Ismaylnagar, Gorakhpur
3. Adarsh Shishu Shiksha Vihar, Dharmshala Bazar, Dakshini Zarepur, Gorakhpur
4. Jaibharti Gramodyagh Sanstha, 6115 Swatantra Nagri, Saharanpur
5. Shiksha Prasar Samiti, Chilkana, Saharanpur
6. B. S. Samaj Sewa Sansthan, 73 Katara Balsingh, Etawh
7. Mayana Gramodyogh Sewa Sansthan, Morarinagar, G. T. Road, Khurja, Aligarh
Early Childhood Care and Education
1. Society for Action & Vision Enterprises, Lucknow
Research & Evaluation
1. Media Research Group, F-126, Rajori Garden, New Delhi
2. J. P. S. Associates (Management Consultants), Dr. K. Shriram Office, 18, Awadh Bazar, Lucknow
3. Operation Research Group (ORG), D-24, South Extension Institute, New Delhi
4. Centre for Economic Research Development (CERD), 13/4550, Dyptiganj, Sadar Bazar, Dehi
5. Govind Ballabh Pant Science Institute, Allahabad, Academic & Social Research, Allahabad
6. Institute of Applied Research & Development, Indira Nagar, Lucknow
7. Organization for Applied Socio-Economic System (OASES), New Delhi
8. Indian Institute of Development Studies & Research, Allahabad
9. U. P. Desco, Lucknow
10. Institute of Cooperative & Corporate Management Research & Training (ICCMRT), 21/467, Ring
Road, Indira Nagar, Lucknow
11. PRATEEK, Dr. P. N. Sharma
12. Council for Social Development, 53 Lodi Road, New Delhi
13. Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Lucknow
Civil Works
1. Sulabh International, A-700 (A), Sector C, Mahanagar
2. Point Architect, 1, Qaiser Chamber (GF), 46/67 Wazir Hasan Road, Lucknow
3. Centre for Architectural Design and Development, 204, Lekhraj Dollar, Indira Nagar, Lucknow
4. Sketch Consultant, K-736 Aaslaiana, Lucknow
5. P. K. Peu Das, H-1483 Chittaranjan Park (FF), New Delhi
6. Habitat Consultant Architects, C- 14, Green Park Extension, New Delhi
7. Construction and Design Services, U. P. Jal Nigam, Lucknow
- 50 -



Additional Annex 13. List of Pilot Projects and Innovations
1. Work Experience Programs for Girls
This pilot programme was launched in one Upper Primary School of three blocks of each district in
1994-95 for three years. Traders were identified for imparting training to girls, depending on local
conditions and needs. The impact of this scheme was evaluated and it indicated that there was no dropout
amongst girls. The evaluation has suggested diversification of trade for training purposes. The state
government is taking up a detailed planning for replicating the revised design for this program.
2. Stipend for SC/ST Girls
The proposed stipend for SC girls was not initiated under the project because the state government started
its own scheme of scholarships for SC and ST children for the entire state.
3. Community Libraries
After launching a pilot program of six community libraries for children and neo-literate, 1056 libraries
were opened in all project districts. SIEMAT's evaluation of community libraries has found the initiative
useful. For a fuller assessment of its contribution to children's learning, a detailed analysis of their reading
habits, ongoing availability of exciting materials and sharing of experiences in different districts may prove
helpful.
4. Programs with NGO involvement
NGO participation in BEP has been elicited through innovative projects. A booklet has been prepared
providing information of the program, guidelines for selection of organizations and extension of assistance
to them, and formats for submission of proposals. Eight proposals have been approved by GOI and
sanction has been accorded; NGOs would run the programs for two years.
5. Upper primary NFE Programme
The opening of upper primary non-formal education centers has been taken up in 2 project districts, viz.
Sitapur and Banda. Two representative Blocks of each District have been identified and 10 upper primary
NFE Centers have opened in each Block. The program piloted a non-formal education model for children in
the 11-14 age group who do not attend school or who have discontinued their studies. Taking into account
local needs and constraints, the program offers a flexible alternative to formal schooling aimed at bringing
out-of-school children to the desired upper primary competency level.
The Resource persons at the DIET in both districts have provided instructors of the centers 20 days
training in two rounds. In Banda and Sitapur districts NFE centers are functional. In-depth evaluation of
the initiative could provide guidelines for replication/revision.
6. Double Shift Schools
The project implemented a scheme of double shift schools known as Dwipali Yojna in selected blocks of
seven project districts. Under this scheme a separate shift of school is being run for girls exclusively and a
female teacher is given the responsibility of managing the shift. This is being implemented in the lowest
female literacy blocks of these districts. This scheme opens up the possibility of providing more focussed
attention to girls' enrollment and retention.
- 51 -



Additional Annex 14. Civil Works Progress
Physical Status - Targets and Achievements
Civil Works               SAR Targets        Revised Targets      Completed
Primary Schools                          2052               3370*               3444
Upper Primary Schools                    1077               1460*               1457
Additional Classrooms                    1220               3650*               3429
Reconstruction/Relocation (Primary)      1049               1110**              1105
Reconstruction/Relocation (Upper         280                 223**              219
Primary)
Block Resource Centres (BRC)              173                176*                176
Nyaya Panchayat Resource Centres         1500               1640*               1768
(NPRC)
Repairs                                 3049                6090*               6175
Toilets                                 10161               10250*             10201
Drinking water facility                 5240                5300*               5300
* SAR targets revised as per Second Amendment of DCA and PA dated July 11, 1997
** Project: Targets revised by SPO on the basis of actual requirement.
Cost Estimates
Activity                               Unit Cost (Rs. lakhs)
Primary Schools                                                   2.14
Primary Schools (Hill)                                            2.42
Upper Primary Schools                                             2.80
Upper Primary Schools (Hill)                                      3.08
Additional Class Rooms (1+2)                                    0.55/0.95
Reconstruction/Relocation (Primary)                             2.14/2.42
Reconstruction/Relocation (Upper Primary)                       2.80/3.08
Block Resource Centres (BRC)                                    7.20/7.60
Nyaya Panchayat Resource Centres (NPRC)                           0.65
Repairs                                                           0.20
Toilets                                                           0.12
Drinking water facility (Hand pumps)                              0.20
- 52 -



Additional Annex 15. Government of Uttar Pradesh - Project Evaluation Report
Government of Uttar Pradesh
UTTAR PRADESH BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT EVALUATION REPORT
A. Assessment of Development Objective and Design
Uttar Pradesh, the most populated state in India, has also been one of country's least developed states with respect
to social and educational indicators. The Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Project (UPBEP) was initiated with IDA
support in 1993 with the purpose of reforming the sector and adopting measures that helps in expanding the reach,
enhancing the quality and improving the systemic capacities at various levels. The project was designed as a
district based programme with state providing technical support and guidance besides coordinating the whole
implementation. The project has been operational in twelve districts of the state Initially ten districts were
identified for the purpose which became twelve because of bifurcation of two districts. Later more districts were
bifurcated and now these have become 17 districts. The project covers the entire area of these 17 districts.
Original Objectives
The project mainly aimed at accelerating the pace of the state's goal of universal enrolment and completion in
elementary education. The specific objectives of the project were laid down as a) Building Institutional Capacity b)
Improving Quality and Completion and c) Expanding Access. The Institutional Capacity Building objective was to
be achieved primarily by strengthening and revitalizing the existing institutions such as SCERT and DIETs,
establishing new institutions at state, district and sub-district levels such as SIEMAT, BRC and NPRC, and by
developing systems and processes for improved academic and managerial performances. The objective of
Improving Quality and Completion was detailed out in terms of well-defined outcomes and targets for reducing the
dropout and repetition rates, improving learning achievement, and making Village Education Committees fully
functional in project districts. The objective of expanding access was also expanded in form of outcomes of
reducing the percentage of non-school going girls, reducing the gaps in enrolment of different social groups,
creation of extra schooling facilities and additional enrollment.
The objectives were spelt out clearly and were directly linked to the country's and state's priorities as reflected in
the New Education Policy (1986) and the Programme of Action (POA). The targets were disaggregated and
reflected social commitments of the state by focusing on girls and SC children. Most of the objectives could be
termed ambitious yet realistic considering the seven year time frame of the project. However, the objective
regarding improving the learning achievement by 50 percent over the baseline level could have been further
sharpened and better defined by putting a minimum level to be achieved by all or a particular percentage of
children. The clear focus on well defined institutional development measures were in tune with the state's
requirements and priorities and reflected a long-term view of the sectoral reform. An emphasis on decentralization
and flexibility, and space for community bodies reflected the project's focus on creating ownership at all levels.
The objectives covered a broad spectrum and to that extent, were complex. This also implied that there were
considerable risks in the project. These risks were mainly linked with the change process and decentralisation,
introduction of flexible mechanisms and involvement of various stakeholders required a different way of
functioning and this could face resistance. The capacities to handle envisaged institutional changes effectively were
limited and a failure to enhance those soon could mean significant risks.
UPBEP - II Objectives
Uttar Pradesh second Basic Education Project (UPBEP-II) was started in 1997 as a supplement to UPBEP to
respond to the needs that had emerged after four years of implementation. The new phase was to assist the state to
- 53 -



attain the original objectives by:
*   Establishing the capacity to enroll all 6-10 year old children
*   Establishing the capacity to enroll 75 percent of 11-13 year old children
*   Improving student learning achievement and completion rates.
The above objectives did not lead to any major revisions in the original objectives.
B. Original Components
The project components were designed in view of the detailed objectives and also in the light of experiences drawn
from several sources. The project components were:
(i) Improving Planning, Management and Professional Support structures
(ii) Improving information for planning, management and professional support through conducting, micro
planning, establishing MIS and conducting research and evaluation studies.
(iii) Strengthening community participation by consolidating the experiences of the community school constnmction
programme in the state.
(iv) Improving readiness to leam by opening of new Early Childhood centers, developing model packages for
school readiness and establishing better coordination with the ICDS programme.
(v) Improving teacher and staff performance through regular teacher training and support activities.
(vi) Improving curriculum and textbooks carrying out revisions and bringing out improved quality textbooks.
(vii) Improving school management through making available the head teachers in all primary and upper primrrary
schools, and training of head teachers.
(viii) Strengthening programmes for women's education through several direct and indirect measures.
(ix) Rehabilitating infrastructure facilities in primary and upper primary schools by reconstructing buildings,
constructing additional classrooms and toilets, carrying out repairs, etc.
(x) Supporting pilot projects and innovations through certain identified projects in the initial stage and developing
special innovating programmes for specific unserved groups.
(xi) Starting Community School Construction programme by involving VECs in selection of sites, management of
construction, etc.
(xii) Improving non-formal primary education through shifting the control of NFEs to VECs and providing
intensive teacher training and materials to new NFE classes.
The above components related directly to the project objectives. The aspect of institutional development was dealt
with at different levels and from various perspectives. Apart from creating flexible institutional arrangements --or
management with a degree of autonomy in decision-making and training of manager, the project also includec
interventions for strengthening the information and monitoring system. The components adopted to address the
issues of quality and completion included interventions which emphasized broader social linkages. The
interventions to be adopted for access took account of the needs of different types of out of school children, i.e.,
girls, older children, etc.
The components were suitably selected even from the perspective of the state's capacity to implement these
components. The state had created Basic Shiksha Parishad to manage the recurrent costs and routine management
of elementary education as early as early 1970s. As preparatory steps for implementing UPBEP, a number of s:eps
were taken to facilitate operationalization of these components. These included establishing UP Education for All
Project Board (UPEFA), preparing management plan for UPEFA and conducting Baseline Assessments for
learning achievement in selected project projects. The experiences of running certain basic education schemes in
UP and other states fed to formulation of this project.
Revised Components
The revised UPBEP - I and UPBEP - II components did not mean any major revisions or restructuring in the
project design.
- 54 -



C. Achievement of Development Objective and Outputs
Outcome/Achievement of Objectives
Enrolment, Retention and Learner's Achievement
The objectives of higher enrolment and retention have been achieved and even exceeded the targets set initially.
The following details make this obvious.
Baseline      SAR target      Achievement (1999-2000)
GER (Girls)
Primary                50             71                   95
Upper Primary          30             64                   65
GER (Boys)
Primary                82             85                   115
Upper Primary          57             76                   78.5
GER (SC Girls)
Primary                39             71                   97
Upper Primary           9             43                  22
GER (SC Boys)
Primary                91             109                  118
Upper Primary          32             43                   61
Total enrolment in primary classes increased in all the project districts by about 5 percent during 1998-99 to
1999-2000. The proportion of girls' enrolment in the total enrolment increased from 43.87% to 45.31% during the
three-year period for all the primary classes in the project districts. The number of Out of School Children in the
age group of 6-14 years also declined significantly from 1993-94 to 1999-2000. The decrease has been significant
for girls and has vastly exceeded the project target. The number of non-school going girls in 2000 was only about
one-fifth of the number that existed in project districts at the time of initiating the project. The project had aimed at
reducing this number by 50% by the end of the project.
The Dropout rates at primary level have significantly reduced over the project period:
Dropout              Baseline       Target       Achievement (EMIS-2000)
Rate
Primary Classes
Boys                  40              20               27.9
Girls                  60             30               27.0
Total                  50             25               27.7
The decline in the dropout rate has been sharper for girls than that for boys. The Repetition rate for primary classes
has also been reduced from a base level range of 14%- 9% to 4.9% in 1998, thus achieving the target of reducing
the same by 50% over baseline estimates.
A sample survey undertaken by SIEMAT in three UPBEP districts, Pauri, Sitapur and Varanasi, regarding upper
primary classes showed an increase in the enrolment in these classes for both boys and girls. The rate of increase
has been greater for girls in all three districts. The same sample survey also showed an improvement in pass
percentage. The repetition rates for upper primary classes are low at only 3.8% according to this sample survey.
Learning Achievement and Classroom Transaction
Leaming Achievement Surveys were conducted on sample of students from classes I1 and V at three points of time
in the project districts - Baseline, Mid-term and Final. All the districts have achieved the target of 50%
- 55 -



improvement over baseline estimates in the average achievement scores. While the Mid-term Achievement Su vey
(MAS) did picture a mixed trend without showing any definite improvement over Baseline Achievement Survey
(BAS) results, the Final Achievement Survey (FAS) presents a significant increase over BAS and MAS estimates.
The increase has been significant for both Language and Mathematics, the subjects for which the surveys wer.
undertaken, and this is true for both the classes as well. There is no significant difference between the achievement
of boys and girls either in class II or in class V for both Language and Mathematics in majority of districts. It zould
be inferred from these trends that pedagogical interventions take time to show results in terms of learning
achievements of students, and only after a significant gap of five to six years the discernible changes can be seen.
A major Classroom Observation study conducted by SCERT showed a perceptible shift towards inclusion of
activities despite the fact lecturing remains the main method and textbooks main medium. Girls were seen taking
initiatives in about half of the schools while SC students could be seen taking initiatives in about 40% of schools.
In at least seven project districts, the teachers were observed using some specific method for paying extra attention
to children with learning disabilities. The teaching aids and supplementary materials are being used but lack cf
sufficient activity materials for children was noticed. Teachers' competence as evaluated on the scale of confidence,
awareness, order and organization, flexibility, warmth, creativity and dynamism, showed signs of improveme:lt in
project districts. A minimum of one-third to a maximum of all schools in all project districts reported the pres-nce
of parental interest in some form or the other.
Building institutional capacity
The objective of building institutional capacity has been adequately met with an achievement of almost all its sub
components. The UP Education for All Project Board (EFAPB) is fully functional and through its State project
office is implementing UPBEP-I, UPBEP-II and DPEP District Primary Education Programme (DPEP) was
introduced in 15 (which became 18 after divisions) districts of UP in 1997. This was followed by its expansion to
first 4 and then 38 more districts in 1999. (DPEP-II and III) in 77 districts of the state. The scale of operatior s is
large and some of the new mechanisms such as the practice of Annual Work Plan and Budget helped. The prcject
had delegated a number of powers related to personnel management and fund disbursement to district level w ith
clearly defined simple procedures. This resulted in responsive decision making and faster fund availability at -he
field level.
The SCERT and its various wings have been actively associated with UPBEP in pedagogical related activities of
module development, teacher training, development of textbooks and supplementary materials, and so on. Thi s
implied an opportunity to be exposed to modern pedagogical practices and processes. The SIEMAT has been
established and fully functional. It has been conducting regular cadre based training of district level educatior al
administrators, DIET faculties and Head teachers. In addition, theme based training programmes on leadersh p,
gender, etc. have also been organised for educational administrators. It is providing about 2000 person weeks of
training annually and has completed a number of major policy studies.
The UPBEP tried to make full use of the possibilities inherent in DIET by involving them as the lead instituti )n for
implementation of all academic activities such as action research, training and field visits. At sub-district level, two
new structures were created, Block Resource Centre (BRC) at block level and Nyaya Panchayat Resource Centre
(NPRC) at cluster level. BRC is a crucial link in the academic support chain comprising DIET, BRC, NPRC ;nd
Primary School. 176 Block Resource Centres have been established and made fully functional to conduct
teacher-training programmes at decentralized levels. A total of about 43000 teachers in project districts are given
training annually amounting to about 4300 person weeks of training on average in each district. The project }.as
filled the gap of not having a readily accessible resource center for teachers at manageable distance by establi shing
1768 NPRCs.
One of the critical contributions of the project has been the activation, expansion and capacity building of Village
Education Committees (VECs). VECs, which are statutory bodies under Basic Shiksha Adhiniyam, were
reconstituted with enhanced representation to women, SC/ST groups, disabled and Mahila Samakhya
functionaries. The project assigned several responsibilities of construction, supervision of ECCE and Alternative
Schooling centres to VECs reflecting increased trust and dependence on community organization. In order to
- 56 -



enable VECs to perform these envisaged roles, the project provided training to VEC members in all the districts.
Many VECs have successfully increased the rate of enrolment among the children of disadvantaged groups. VECs
at few places were instrumental in converging with other development programmes and community for resource
mobilisation for improvement in schools including appointment of community teachers.
Computerized MIS have been developed and operationalised to improve the information support facilities to
decision making process. The project has made computers available and the collection mechanisms are also in
place. The importance of research and evaluation in informing the choice of intervention and showing future
directions was recognised and a number of studies covering various aspects of enrolment, drop-out, classroom
processes, institutional development and micro issues relating to specific groups were conducted under the aegis of
the project. One of the important interventions of the SIEMAT has been in the field of Action Research where it
undertook a detail project of training teachers, BRC coordinators and DIET faculties and helped them undertake
action research projects on diverse areas.
Improving Quality and Completion
Most of the objectives set for improving quality and completion have been met satisfactorily. A system of regular
in-service training to the teachers was started and almost all primary teachers in project districts received five
cycles of training during the project. This was in sharp contrast to pre-project days when a district took four to five
years to complete one cycle of training for primary teachers and that too had not been a regular feature. The head
teachers have undergone a number of training on School Improvement, VEC management, Construction, School
Management and Academic Support and Supervision in addition to the regular training on pedagogical aspects.
About 6000 upper primary teachers have received two rounds of training in teaching Mathematics and Science.
BRC and NPRC coordinators have been provided two rounds of specific training in addition to undergoing all
rounds of training meant for teachers. They have also undergone an initial round of orientation for the new
Samarthan package, developed to introduce a more comprehensive academic monitoring and support system.
The means of distance education was accessed, developed and used during the last two years of the project to reach
teachers staying in far flung areas and to complement the face to face interaction mode of training. This included
use of radio broadcasts, use of audiotapes, audio-visual aids, teleconferencing and self-leaming print materials.
The primary curriculum has been revised in the state with support of UPBEP as well as DPEP. Fourteen new titles
have been developed for primary classes textbooks. The state is currently in the process of developing new
textbooks for upper primary classes. The challenges at the primary level were so vast and critical that the upper
primary received less attention during the initial phase of the project. However, inclusion of upper primary in the
project helped in maintaining continuity in inputs and impacted positively upon participation of children,
especially girls. One accomplishment of the project has been development of a series of five supplementary readers
for five primary classes in Hindi, in a participatory exercise involving teachers, writers, artists etc.
The project adopted 100 ICDS centres in each project district and strengthened them by means of providing
training, materials and honoraria to extend the timings to match this with that of primary schools. The project also
fully supported opening and running of 50 additional centers by an NGO in a non-ICDS block in one project
district. As part of the innovative pilot projects, 1056 community libraries were started in 176 blocks. About 250
books were provided to each of these libraries. Another pilot project started under the project included initiating a
programme of work experience for girls at upper primary level. The evaluation suggests that the work experience
project had led to greater retention of girls in school - one of the primary objectives of the programme. The UPBEP
has been supporting the Mahila Samakhya (MS), a process oriented programme with direct and indirect links with
the project. Community participation in school activities was reported to be higher and livelier in MS areas.
Expanding Access
The objective of expanding access, as detailed out in the project, has been achieved completely. During the project
period 3457 new primary schools and 1100 upper primary schools have been opened under UPBEP - I and 1284
primary and 671 upper primary under UPBEP- II. These are more than the targets set initially for the project. In
- 57 -



addition 1049 new buildings were created for existing schools. The project also laid emphasis on building
decentralized mechanisms for speedy implementation of repairs. Opening of these many new schools meant
appointment of 9482 teachers for primary schools and 8855 teachers in upper primary schools under UPBEP [ and
II. In addition, 3401 teachers were appointed in existing schools to cater to additional enrolment under UPBEP - I
and 11774 under UPBEP - II. Provision of more teachers meant an improvement in teacher-pupil ratio in these
districts as compared to non-project ones. Women constituted about 27 percent of teachers appointed for primary
and about 18 percent of that for upper primary schools under the project. In addition to regular teachers, 5685 para
teachers, known as Shikshamitra, have also been appointed for primary schools. In order to ensure adequate
representation of women, 50% seats have been reserved for women under this scheme. In urban areas, the preject
helped in relocating unviable schools to areas where demand existed with no corresponding supply of facilities.
441 Alternative Schooling Centres were opened for children who had either never been enrolled or had dropped
out of the formal system. The scheme can be seen as a modified NFE scheme where the similar approach of a
two-year course with four semesters was followed with focus on provision for improved curriculum and textbooks,
more intensive training and provision for more and better set of materials for learners at the centers, with a view to
help the learners join the mainstream system once they complete their course in these centres. The evaluation s
suggested that the scheme has succeeded in some of its objectives. Concems were expressed regarding some c f the
leaming issues. The project responded by organizing one round of training programme for instructors and
improving the supervision system.
Girls' Education
The different project interventions mentioned under various heads above gave a definite thrust to girls' education.
The emphasis on early childhood and linking it with primary education paved the way for girls' participation in
primary schooling by freeing them from sibling care. The collaboration with Mahila Samakhya helped in getting
support of women for girls' education and also in organizing campaigns that were suitable and effective. Opening
of new schools brought schools closer and encouraged parents to send their daughters to schools. The expansion of
upper-primary schooling especially helped girls in continuing with their education and improved transition rates.
Model Cluster Development approach was adopted for low female literacy rate and low girls' participation rate
pockets. Intensive inputs were provided through VECs, women's groups and motivators. The UPBEP made
significant contribution in making the state develop into a learning model for Girls' education. The state hosted an
international team comprising members from different countries and shared its experiences of working towards
making education available and accessible to girls.
Systemic and Policy Impact
The project succeeded in infusing an element of professional rigour in the functioning of educational
administrators at different levels. The administrators were trained in management, leadership, educational
planning and got an opportunity to practice those in the project. The cadre based training organised by the
SIEMAT for district level educational administrators (BSAs and ABSAs) has not been limited to project districts
and include officials from the entire state. The project also brought in the concept of making informed decisions in
planning and implementation. The introduction of EMIS and conduct of a number of research studies led to lheir
use in planning and identification of problem areas as well as solutions.
The need for and relevance of a holistic approach to educational planning and implementation was established by
the project in the state. The project emphasized integrated management structures for implementation at all
levels. The committees were established at all levels drawing representation form several managerial and academic
institutions of the basic education sector as well as from other departments/sectors. The design, components and
mechanisms of UPBEP directly contributed to choice of interventions, planning and implementation in DPEP.
The experiences of UPBEP helped the state in identifying the strategies that worked and those that do not. Some of
the areas that could not be covered under UPBEP were included in DPEP because of learning from the projec t.
Because of the overlapping period of implementation for the two projects, UPBEP and DPEP, there has been a lot
of cross-learning between the two.
- 58 -



The emphasis given to community involvement and strengthening of VECs as a grassroot organization in the
project has gained wider acceptance and recognition. Widening of VECs' membership and its recognition as a
statutory body are measures that applied to the entire state. The process of decentralisation of educational
management initiated under UPBEP was further advanced by GOUP's delegation of basic and non-formal
education to PRIs in 1999. Education is one of the four committees to be constituted under Gram Panchayats as per
this delegation.
The pedagogical renewalprocess initiated under UPBEP is being carried out further by DPEP and extended to all
non-project (UPBEP or DPEP) districts as well. The importance of regular teacher training and support has been
recognised and the GOUP has agreed for a complete overhaul and systematization of teacher training through
annual training packages in BRCs and follow up through CRCs. This has been accepted as an effective model and
the system is now going to be introduced in the entire state with establishment of BRCs and CRCs/NPRCs in all
districts. The service rules are being developed to incorporate these new institutions permanently in the education
system. The sustainability plan had highlighted the need for strengthening the organic linkages between school,
NPRC, BRC and DIET. The UPBEP responded by developing a new academic supervision package which takes
this aspect into consideration. The implementation of the project has brought the quality aspects of
teaching-learning to the forefront. The importance of monitoring the quality through learning achievement
assessments and documentation of classroom processes has been realized and incorporated as a necessary
component of all later projects.
The importance of involving stakeholders, ie., teachers, community, etc., in development of materials and
conduct of training programmes meant an increased recognition of the role of stakeholders. An important and
direct systemic expression of the project has been incorporation of few positive and modern aspects of the
pedagogical renewal interventions in the pre-service curriculum of Basic Teacher Training course in the state. In
the context of construction, the UPBEP experience has resulted in the initiation of theprocess of redesigning
schools and revision of unit costs for the entire state. There has been recognition of repairs and maintenance of
schools to upkeep infrastructure. Also, school building has been recognised as a full unit by including hand pumps,
toilets etc apart from the main structure. An order has been passed to this effect by the GOUP.
The project has provided an innovative and replicable modelfor effective convergence between ICDS and
primary schools. Apart from revealing the importance of releasing girls from sibling care, this model also
established the importance of school readiness in participation of children in schooling as well as quality of
education. The project experiences showed that proximity of schools to habitations helps in improving girls'
participation and this led to the acceptance and adoption of the Education Guarantee School (EGS) scheme.
Though the UPBEP itself could not achieve much in the field of developing specific models for specific groups of
out of school children, the initiation of the concept and experiences has resulted in the emergence of eight models
of Alternative Schooling under DPEP in the state.
Based on the experiences of UPBEP and DPEP, The GOUP has developed a draft policy document for Basic and
Secondary education which recognizes all the elements incorporated in the project. This outlines the importance
of physical environment, community involvement, pedagogical reforns, teachers' accountability, professional
educational management, equality of opportunity to all social groups, Alternative schooling measures, Early
Childhood education, etc.
D. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
Although most objectives have been achieved and the outcomes have exceeded the project targets, there were
certain delays and minor problems, leading to slowing down the pace or affecting some of the sub-components.
Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency
The procurement procedures recommended by the World Bank and mandatory for the project proved restrictive in
some cases. There are also instances of the requirement of getting the Bank's approval for consultancy and certain
other services leading to considerable delays
- 59 -



Factors generally subject to government control
The procedural aspects caused some initial delays in positioning of staff in the project. The SIEMAT has not be en
able to attract/retain highly qualified professionals as faculty members because the state government has not agreed
to pay the UGC scale of salaries despite the Executive Committee's approval and recommendation. The frequent
transfers of personnel at DIETs and District Project Offices, which has not been under the control of the project
also adversely affected the implementation to some extent.
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
In the initial phase, the project was highly focused on the aspects of physical infrastructure and teachers alone.
Quality related aspects received greater attention only after first two to three years. The functioning of the project
was centralized initially and it took time for decentralized planning and management practices to take roots. The
project personnel who were initially drawn primarily from the government were used to function in a rigid and
centralized environment and the same culture continued in the project management during the initial phase.
E. Project Costs and Financing
The expenditure rate in the project has been almost 100 percent till November 2000. The component wise
distribution of the project reveals that building educational physical as well as human infrastructure has been a
priority. More than 80% of the expenditure was for building school infrastructure, either physical or human,
something that can be seen as the necessary requirement for providing universal basic education
The rate of expenditure in the first two years was much less than initial forecasts of more than 30 percent in the
SAR. The discussions with managers and nature of delays suggest that there are certain imminent and unavoidable
preparatory hurdles and the project design in future should take care of those. Any project which involves a
transition in functioning style and appointment of personnel as per the govemment policies should allow
appropriate time of at least one year for preparatory activities between project approval and take off. It also requires
time to put the newer systems in place, especially if the means and mechanisms happen to be different from what
have been in practice till then.
F. Sustainability of the Project
The sustainability of the project is highly likely as reflected by a number of factors including the government
commitment and institutional development initiatives. The development of a policy document including critical
elements similar to project components, continuation of BRCs and NPRCs in UPBEP districts and adoption of the
concept for the entire state including non-DPEP districts, initiation of institutional development activities for
selected DIETs and delegation of powers to PRIs are some of the measures that reveal positive indicators towards
sustainability of project initiatives and outcomes. The VECs have been made a sub-committee of Panchayats w ith
statutory powers and control.
The establishment and functioning of SIEMAT and strengthening of SCERT would also ensure the sustainabil ity
of a number of outcomes and approach in future. The GOUP is considering to provide greater autonomy to SCERT
which could facilitate further flexibility in its functioning. The GOUP's decision to continue with all the
pedagogical renewal activities in the UPBEP districts on the line of DPEP districts for the next two years reveal its
commitment to take the initiative to a logical end. The introduction of new textbooks and adoption of regular
teacher training and support activities through BRCs and NPRCs would ensure continuity and help in
maintaining/improving the consciousness about quality of teaching learning processes.
The Sustainability Plan developed by the project had also estimated the extent of funding required in the
post-project period. The GOUP has accepted the estimate and allocated Rs.2231.932 million for the year
2000-2001. The approved list of activities include teacher training, TLM grant for teachers, DIET activity grant,
support to MS, salaries for teachers, BRC, NPRC and SIEMAT personnel. The sustainability plan also included a
transition plan for smooth changeover of the project into the post-project phase. The state has suitably respondzd to
most of the suggestions made in this regard depicting the seriousness on the part of the government.
- 60 -



Transition Arrangements to regular Operation
The suggested transition plan in the sustainability study included many measures for strengthening institutions and
capacities at the local levels so that they could themselves take initiatives with some guidance from the above.
Several steps have been taken in this regard. The new package for supervision has been developed to strengthen the
organic linkages between DIET, BRC and NPRC so that they function in a more integral manner. Both SCERT
and SIEMAT are developing detailed institutional development plans to enable them to function more as
responsive organizations to the needs of the districts. Along with School Development Grant, the VEC has been
made the agency for routing the TLM grants for teachers also, expecting the institution to play a larger role in the
post-project period. Recognizing the importance of maintenance of large number of construction activities
undertaken in the project, the provision for school development grant has been retained in the state budget. The
state has already accepted the practice of preparing AWP&B as an effective tool for guiding the activities for the
year and an office order has been passed making it compulsory for districts to continue the practice in the
post-project period.
G. Bank and Borrower Performance
The World Bank's Performance
Lending
The Bank's performance in this regard was satisfactory. The World Bank followed a rigorous process of
identification, preparation assistance and appraisal for UPBEP. India had declared elementary education as a
priority area and identification of Uttar Pradesh as the state for intervention was appropriate, this being the most
populated and one of the most educationally backward states in the country. Project preparation and appraisal
process was professional, detailed and revealed an element of partnership between the Bank and the GOUP. The
project appraisal was based on social, financial and economic analyses. The management, implementation and
monitoring plans were drafted in detail. The monitoring indicators were developed for all aspects of the project.
However, almost all indictors were quantitative in nature and inclusion of process/qualitative indicators would
have further enriched the monitoring and feedback process. The implementing agency did realize the need and
added classroom processes study as an indicator for assessing impact of pedagogical inputs.
Supervision
The device of Supervision Mission by the Bank after every six moths worked well largely and helped the
implementing agency in documenting the progress regularly. The multi-disciplinary composition of Supervision
Missions helped in providing useful feedback to the project implementation. These Missions also affected the
motivation level of the field functionaries positively. The Bank also extended technical support to project
implementation in the initial phase through consultancies provided for development of supplementary materials.
Overall Bank's Performance
Overall, the Bank's performance can be termed as satisfactory and constructive. The role was significant in
bringing in the aspect of professionalism in the project implementation.
The Borrower's Performance
Preparation
The state was adequately prepared for this kind of project in almost all respects. The state conducted all the
preparatory activities including studies as per the Bank's requirements in time and with competence.
Government Implementation Performance
The state government's performance has been highly satisfactory on many counts - in facilitating implementation
of the project, in taking initiatives in sustaining some of the initiatives and outcomes, and also in extending these
to non-project areas. The state government has been releasing substantial sums of money in time for
implementation of the project. This was important for implementation as IDA operates on the basis of
reimbursements and there was no central government component n this project. The government agreed to create
- 61 -



thousands of posts for teachers as well as for BRC and NPRC coordinators, which implied huge financial
liabilities. Highly qualified professionals and senior bureaucrats were appointed who were successful in providing
the required guidance and push to the districts. The autonomy granted to implementing agency by the GOUP
enabled professional functioning. Minor delays in appointment of personnel experienced during the initial phase
eased out once the project started operating in the full swing and its positive impact was visible.
Implementing Agency
The implementing agency's performance was also satisfactory, as shown by the outcomes and completion of the
project objectives. The attainment of some of the targets was noteworthy because of their scale, complexity and
intricacy. Suitable personnel were selected from within the system on deputation and from outside on contract on
consultancy basis. Decentralized decisions permitted by the project included a number of interventions involving
procurement of materials and services. Monitoring mechanisms were established so that regular feedback is
received and the quality of implementation is improved. Efforts were made to develop a new work culture which
was more responsive and professional as compared to the typical bureaucratic system.
Overall Borrower's Performance
Overall, the performance of the borrower was highly satisfactory, especially in implementing complex tasks in time
and making adequate efforts to institutionalize the positive practices.
H. Key Lessons Learned
*   It is possible to implement a complex sector/sub-sector project with complex nature provided there is adequate
preparation and commitment from the state govemment.
*   A long-term view is critical for a project aimed at reforming or bringing a major change in the functioning of
a sector. Considering the fact that these districts still require some more intensive inputs in pedagogical
reforms and institution building, it appears that a ten-year period is a more viable time-frame for a basic
education project. The UPBEP experiences suggest that initial years go in developing systems, mechanisms,
safeguards and devices to attain the quantitative targets (i.e., construction, training, etc.) and the longer pvriod
would allow the agencies to consolidate and emphasize the aspects of quality and institutionalization.
*   The mechanism of Society controlled by an Executive Committee with representation of various govemmcnt
departments works well by ensuring govemment control and convergence and allowing greater flexibility and
decentralisation at the same time.
*   Decentralisation is important for improved local management, enhanced responsiveness to local needs and
faster pace of implementation. However, the project also reflected that decentralisation is effective only when
combined with suitable capacity building measures.
*   The states with huge population, inadequate infrastructure and poor participation rates need to invest heavily
on providing access in terms of building as well as teachers.
*   The increased availability of upper primary schools ensured better enrolment and transition rates for girls.
This showed that the demand for upper primary increases immediately after expansion of and improvement in
the primary education system. However, the experience also showed that the heavy load for the primary
classed meant less importance and priority to upper primary classes in the initial phase of the project. These
varied experiences imply that the future projects should be designed in a manner that the interventions for
upper primary should be built in immediately after putting systems for primary classes in place.
*   The experience of work experience project suggested that inclusion of vocational elements at upper prim,.ry
level directly impacts the demand for education among girls.
* The project interventions in the urban areas depicted that the situation of schooling processes or school
infrastructure is not much better in urban areas and the same must be included in any project aiming at
improving the basic education sector.
*   Although substantial improvement in the functioning of existing institutions/personnel like SCERT, DIETS
and educational administrators is possible with adequate and suitable exposure, the success depends uporI the
combination of factors including leadership, capacity building, delegation of power and control, development
of simple and flexible mechanisms.
*   Establishment and operationalization of SIEMAT helped in establishing the importance of technical support
in area of educational planning and management.
- 62 -



*   The importance of informed decision making and close monitoring in planning, implementation and
improvement was established through conduct and use of research and evaluation studies, collection, analyses
and utilization of MIS, and organization of periodical review meetings.
*   The usefulness of holistic approach as compared to schematic approach in addressing the sectoral issues and
bringing in reform-based changes was realized.
* The continuity of staff both at the top level and at the district levels is important to allow proper understanding
and facilitate implementation in the desired direction and at right pace.
- 63 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 31280
32'                78'                                     80                                    82'                                     84'            32 -
.                                                                          INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH
. >            BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
UTTAR KASHI                         A/     ,                                         PROJECT DISTRICTS.
1-11                                                BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
RHUAPRA  CHAMOLI                 *     ,                                     RIVERS
t"~DEHADU   T*HRJ GARHWA                                                                             t  STATE CAPITALS
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
-300 t                                                                                               - -HORAGAH - -STATE BOUNDARIES                      30' -
(                                               BAGESHWARIt -  r _*_                                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
{        "~~-  ->  -                   ALMORA       >       r
BIJNAUR\"p.,
MUZAFFARNAGAR
o   25   50   75  100 Ki ometers
MERT                                  NAYOTIBA                                                                       1 
\   |    MEERUT   </^\    Y  k F x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                   I      I     I      I
NA G , LE      SR A M P0                                                                  25       50      75      100   M iles
280,                                                                    KHER                                                                              28-
'MTHUR           A           ETAH    
t\   9  < t          9x   vib                X     Sa~~~~~                      ~~AMUR  L     IBALRAMPUR  --           _   N_
RDOI  ~ ~      ~    ~             BLAMUSIDDHARTH
>_AGRA   ~ ~      ~         ~         ~                      0             g;       a N;        <   S/INAGAaS 8~~~~~~AJG~j'
MAINPURIdNAGAR    AHAAG
LUCO                                          SAN
 BRABANKI >'>>              BASTI ~(AB               JSHLNAGAR,
UNN                            FA BAD                  ,
(NAGARI     RAI-BARELI       4UC"U          2AAR6ERI'-
-26R  A R J     ZAMGARH                                                                                                             MAU '            -   26'
t__ { ~~~~~~FATEHPU                     R     4 PRATAPGARH ,  '.................................'BLA-_
,J,. JHANSI                                       f                                            HAMIRPUR ) JAUNPUR ''-Ny ' GHAZIPUR
\ 8;1 / MAHOB ;d  
)LALITPUR  _>  
> LALITRR                                                                                      ,SONBHADRA
24A'                                                                                                                  \                                  24'-
This mop was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
The boundories, colors, denominations and anyother information shown
on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
judgment on the legalstatus of any territory, or any endorsement or
acceptance of such boundaries.
78                                        80                                        82'                                       B4
APRIL 2001



