Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-;S    a -- Cj 5  --/<
Report No.  11746-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
NAY 20, 1993
South Asia Country Department II (India)
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
This document has a restricted distdbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without World Bank authodzation.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of January 1, 1992)
Currency Unit   =  Rupee
Rupee 29.40        =  US$ 1.00
Rupee 1.00         =  US$ 0.034
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Meter (m)       =  3.28 Feet (ft)
1 Kilometer (kcm) = 0.62 Miles
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BEPAC                        Block Education Project Advisory Committee
BRC                          Block Resource Center
BSA                          Basic Shiksha Adhikari
BSP                          Basic Shiksha Parishad
BTC                          Basic Training Certificate (for teachers of Elementary
Schools)
CRT                          Cluster Resource Teacher
DEPC                         District Education Project Committee
DEPSC                        District Education Project Sub-Committee
DIET                         District Institute of Education and Training
ECCE                         Early Childhood Care and Education
EFAPB                        Education For All Project Board
HT                           Head Teacher
ICDS                         Integrated Child Development Scheme
JSK                          Jan Shiksha Kendra
MIS                          Management Information System
MS                           Mahila Samakhya
MLL                          Minimum Levels of Leaming
NCERT                        National Council of Education Research and Training
NFE                          Non-formal Education
NFEO                         Non-formal Education Officer
NGO                          Non-Government Organization
NIEPA                        National Institute of Education Planning and Administration
OB                           Operation Blackboard
SC                           Scheduled Caste
SCERT                        State Council of Educational Research and Training
SDI                          Sub Deputy Inspector
SIEMT                        State Institute of Educational Management and Training
ST                           Scheduled Tribe
VEC                          Village Education Committee



FOR OMCIAL US ONLY
UTrAR PRADESH BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Table ofCotnts
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ..........................  iv
I.    OVERVIEW: BASC EDUCATION IN                  ........................  1
H.  BASIC EDUCATION IN UTTAR PADES
A.    Background ......................................                                3
Formal Education .................................  ........... 4
Basic Education .................................... 5
B.  Sub-sector sues . .................................... 6
Undeveloped Capacity for Planning, Management
and Professional Support ....................................                  6
Low Levels of Leaning Achievement ................................ 8
Constrained State Finances ....................................   14
C.  Sub-Sectoral Objectives and Priorities .15
Government of India .15
Government of Uttar Pradesh ............. 16
D.  IDA Strategy and Rational for Involvement.                                        17
E. External Financing .18
F.    Lessons of Experience .................   18
Ibis report is based on an appraisal mission that visited India in February/March 1993, and consisted
of: World Bank Staff: John Middleton (mission leader and task manager), Marlaine Lockheed (senior
sociologist and co-task manager), Adriaan Verspoor (manager, ESP), Sajitha Bashir (research
specialist), Meera Chaterjee (women in development specialist), and S. Subramanian (financial
analyst). Consul : Eid Dib (architect), Philip Cohen (textbook specialist), Michael Hendricks
(management information systems specialist), V.S. Oberoi (Finance), Keith Hinchliffe (economist).
Mr. N. Raman (procurement specialist) assisted during pre-appraisal. At Headguarters: John
Comings (Vice President, World Education) assisted with non-formal education, and participated in
preparation and pre-appraisal misions. General Coordinaido and Support: Edward Davis assisted in
preparing the document, graphics and annexes. Marilyn Chatterji and Jasvir Bhasin assisted in the
mission's preparation. Peer Reviewe: Adriaan Verspoor (ESP), Rehka Dayal (ASTHR), Edward
Heneveld (AFTHR), Kathryn Johnston (EAIPH). The project was endorsed by Richard Skolnik,
Division Chief, India Population and Human Resources Division) and Heinz Vergin, Director, South
Asia Country Department 2.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their offiil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii -
EPge .
M.   TROE
A.    ScopeandStrateg  .................... 21
B.    Goals and Objectives                                                            22
C.    Buildingilstitutional Capacity  ....................................            24
Improving Planning, Management and Professional
Support Structures ........................    24
Improving Information for Planning, Management and
Professional Support .26
D.  Improvirg Quality and Completion .28
Strengthening Community Paicipation  ............................... 28
Improving Readiness to Len  ..................................... 29
Improving Teacher and Staff Perormance ............................. 29
Improving Curriculum and Textbooks . ............................... 30
Improving School Management ................................... 31
Strengthening Program  for Women's Education ........     ................. 31
Rehabilitating Facilities ......................................   32
Supporting Pilot Projects and Innovations ...........  .................. 33
E.    Improving Access  . .......................................... 34
Community School Construction Program  .............      ................ 34
Improving Non-formal Primary Education ............................. 35
IV.  PROlE  CQS. FINACING AND DATIQAI
A. CostEstines                         . . .35
B. Financing Plan                      . . .39
C.  Recurrent Cost Implications               .         .         .39
D. Project Implementation                  .          .         .                     40
E.    Project Monitoringand Evaluation  ..... ...........,. ...........  43
F. Preparation Proess                     .          .          .44
G. Status of Preparation                  .          .          .44
H.    Disbursements .............................................. 45
I.    Procumment .........              ............................  47
J.  Accoumts and Audits                       ... ..... .... 50
V.    IENEEtI& AND IL¶K
A.  Benefits ........................................... SO
B.    RisLks ..... ..                                   ;                             50
VI. AGREEE. REACD. .52



TABLES
Table 2.1     Lessns fiomExperlenceand ProJM esiplg  ............... ..... 20
Table 4.1     C~osts by Conipon.t .............................**436
Table 4.2     Costs by Categories of Expendltur..   ..........4......... 37
Table 4.3     Cost by Sub-Compn             ...................  ..... ........ 38
Table4.4      SummaryofPropoecProdurnu rwm s   .49
FIGURES
Figure4.1    ProjectMaagementResponsibillfts ...........  .42
ANNEXS
1.    Education Statistcs.                   .... ............. . 55
2.    Structure of Education in Uttar Pradesh       .    .       ................68
3.     NonformnalEducation              .......                  ...............69
4.    Basdine Beneficiary Asessments   .      .......      . ...     ............73
5.     System Efficiency               .      ... *            .................87
6.    Textbok Production and Disttion  ...............             .     .89
7.     Finncing Education in Uttar Pradesh. .                 ..... ...........4 .95
8.    ProjectPhasing ........................4.4,  113
9.    Project Mmagemnet .      ......... ..     ...... .. .        .. * . ,    .114
10.   Building Policy Anaysis Capaciy ............ ................... 126
11.   Plan for MIS System Developmet .. . ... ... ......                  ..130
12.   Studies Program             ..........................146
13. Training Plas                 ..... .....                                         153
14.   Girls'and Women'sEducation .      .. ....          ..................  ,        163
15.   Pilot and Innovative Prosram.s   .      ...........                            169
16.   Community School ConstructIon .............. ......174
17.   Project Costs ..............                                       .179
18.    Financing Plan.....                        ................                   182
19.    Forecasts of Expenditures and DWfE se .o ........ .................. 184
20.    Imnplem_en ionSchde   ................185
21.   Project MontringPla  ...           .0 .........              ............ 186
22.    SupervisionPlan........         ...............            .     . ..          195
23.    StaffingPlan          .      *4**....****4........... .... 197
24.    Civii Works Constucion Pzogram  ......................... .198
25.   SupervisionofConstuctiondProvision of TS&port ............. 204
26.    Civil Works   I     M.plPnai n Pl ..   .............              .206
27.    Beneficiary Enuneration .....           ...............             .214
28.    Selced Document in Project Files . .. . ..    .       ......     .. .*...     218
MAP
Map of Project Districts



J
-iv -
IDM
~~~~~~~~~RDSiBAI EDUCATION l2ROll
aREDIT AMD PRO]ECF SDMMRY-
ndia, scting by its President.
Govemment of Uttar Prdeh and the Uttar Padesh Sabhee Ke Liye Shika
Pariyojiaa Parisiad (Educaton for All Project Board - EFAPB).
i   Amaunt                   SDR 116.5 million (US$165 million equivalent).
TerIa:                       Standard with 35 years maturity.
Onl,&UTenns:                 Governmt of India to Uttar Pradesh in accordance with the Borrower's
standrd aangments for developmenl assistance to the States of India and
the State of Uttar Padesh to the EFAPB as a gant.
D)escrigtin                  Mmhe project would include three components:
vuild  bsioto    Ccitv to plan, manage, and evaluate a 10-15 year
ste-wide basic education development program by establishing a
strengtened  hframwork of state and distict-level planning, management and
prfessional supportgaions;
h      ving Ouality and Com21tion in an initial ten of the 63 distticts of the
statevtrog sbongdmedcommuniy participation, eary childhood
educati, cursiculum and txbook revision, in-ervice training, targeted
prgrms for women and girs, and stregt J school management;
:[ving Access to basic education in ten disricts by
onstructin additional prmauy and upper primary schools in unserved
communities and supportg implementation of a redesigned program of
nofom al primary classes for children unable to attend fonral schools.
Bevits and                   I The proect would be a first investment in a longer-tem program to improve
the leve of literacy among the citizens of UP, and hence their productivity
sad social welfaro. It would create an institutional framawork for cost-
effective policy implementation in basic education. In addition, by the end of
the ptrect, reduced drpout rates, especialy for girls, would enable an
est_mad additional 1 mllio students to comlrete their education, acquig
basic litemcy and numeracy skills, with the atendant benefits of higher
productivity and mre effctive utilztion of poverty alleviation services; an
estimaed 600,000 curedly unserved students would have access to the
benefits of improved basic education semces. Implementation rsk is high
becase the project would deal with a first time borrower seekdng to build a
susinable progrm fom a system base that has historically been inadequate.
Agreement on a basic policy ftamework, detailed preparation, and focused
investent in plaing and   _      t capacity, hould offset this to some
extent. Clos Bak spevision support will be required. The consned



J
-V..
aowwes         Wm so pomo a i.k, especially in the outr yem of the
paJS6; don =WWiug of UP State finaces will be udetaken.
Load     Forelgn    Totl
Estim_tat  Cstte                                            US$ Mio
Building Invtitonal Cait                             17.27       2.13     19.40
Improving Quality and CompletIn                      75.22      11.17     86.39
Improving Access                                       MLB 7LZA
TOTAL BASE COST                                     181.48      21.04   202.52
Contingencies                                       -12.60       3.94     -8.66
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                   68.88      24,9    193.86
i includirg taxes and dnits of US3.2 nUonL
IDA                                                 140.02      24.98    165.00
Uttar Pradesh                                        2LM                  2l
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                  168.88      24.98    193.86
Es*nsa
DIbursme        FY94    FY95    FYW       FY97    FY98      FY99    FYOO    FY01
Annual          10.13   23.63   30.08   30.75    24.13       19.51    18.16     8.61
Cumulative      10.13   33.70   63.84   94.59   118.72    138.23  156.39    165.00
E_ _ffM  i_ ft          o  pleie



Us"TAR M4ES ASI 1£DUCMA1O NQ
Ie {)Vl[]W- BANCEUCAMO  Ei RM
1.1      India has begun the process of economic stabilization and adjustmnent with 25
percent of the populaion living below the poverty line. Despite significant national effort,
population growth remains pesstently high, falling only from 2.1 percent to 2.01 percent in
the 198i-91 inter-census period. Overall infant mortality has fallen from 116 per 1000 births
to about 80 per thousand births in 10 years, but remains very high compared to most
countries. Similarly, maternal mortlity at 550 per 100,000 births is three times that of Sri
Lanka, and 10 times that of China. The productivity of the populaion is reduced by high
incidence of disease - tuberculosis, malaria, leprosy, catar  blindness, diarrhoeal diseases,
and acute respiratory illnesses.
1.2      Low levels of education and literacy substantially weaken the effectiveness of
programs intended to improve the productivity and welfare of the poor. In 1991, ovffall
adult literacy for persons above the age of seven stood at 52 percent; for women, the rate
was 39 percent. In 1986-87, 70 percent of rural females and 43 percent of rural males above
six years of age had never enrolled in any educational institution.
1.3      Basic education for all children aged 6-14 is promised in the Constitution. Basic
education in India is delivered through Primary (Grades I-V) and Upper Primary (grades VI-
VIII) schooling (together, these programs are termed Elementary Education) and nonformal
education. Non-formal altenive primary classes are widely provided for dropouts and
children unable to enter school. Universal enrollment in elementary education has been an
objective of successive five-year plans. But, by 1991, achievements had not matched
intentions. Although a Gross Enrollment Rate (GER) of more than 100 percent was reported
for the primary school age group (6-11), the GER in upper primary (ages 11-14) was only 60
percent. In 1986/87, the last year for which complete data are available, 51 percent of boys
and 67 percent of girls failed to complete the eight year elementary cycle. Preliminary
estimates for 1987/88 put overall dropout in the primary cycle (Grades I-V) at 47 percent
(Annex 1 - Education Statistics).
1.4       For girls, primary enrollment rates are lower than for boys (86 percent versus
115 percent), and dropout rates are higher (49 percent versus 43 percent). Girls are even
less likely to enroll in upper primary education, with a GER of 46 percent compared to 73
percent for boys, and more likely to drop out. Enrollments of scheduled caste (SC) and
scheduled tribe (S1) girls are lower than the national average for girls at both levels,
although SC/ST boys have caught up with national averages on this criterion.



-2-
1.5       The development of primary education has been extremely uneven across the
states and union territones. Kerala has achieved universal enrollment and comparatively high
levels of completion of the five year cycle. Near universal literacy has been attained. In
other states, less than half of the students complete five years of schooling, with girl students
falling far behind boys. Ten such states are termed educationally backward, with overall
literacy rates ranging from 38 to 55 percent, and female literacy rates from 20 to 40 percent.
Together, these states account for more than 60 percent of the school age population.
1.6       Within state disparities are marked. For example, of Maharashtra's 29 districts,
8 have rural female literacy rates above the national average of 39 percent, but the rates in
ten fall below 29 percent. For Assam, the comparable figures are 8 and 10 districts,
respectively. In Haryana, one district is above the national average and 10 are below.
1.7       Low levels of leaning are the norm for primary education in much of India.
Comprehensive learning achievement data for primary education are not available, but
smaller studies confirm that achievement is very low, even in some of the more advanced
states. The evidence also shows that access to and completion of prin.ary education are
direct functions of family income. Poor students benefit less from primary education than
their better-off peers, and poor girls benefit least.
1.8       The effects of these disparities are readily seen in social indicators. In Kerala,
there are 1016 females for every 1000 males, and the infant mortality rate is 28 per thousand
births. In Bihar there are 930 females for every 1000 males, and the infant mortality rate is
117 per thousand births.
1.9       Basic education in India is the joint responsibility of the central and state
governments, although financing is primarily provided by the States. In the Seventh Five
Year Plan the states provided 63 percent of the plan resources invested in primary education
and 96 percent of non-plan recurrent costs.
1.10      During the Seventh Plan, 70 percent of central government assistance to the
states for primary education was delivered through Operation Blackboard (OB), in which
grants are provided to state governments for an additional teacher and educational materials
in single-teacher rural schools. An important provision is that one of the two teachers in OB
schools should be female. While this program has had some success, it is targeted on a state
basis, with no assurance that states will target funds on educationally backward districts;
evaluations have shown a tendency to spread resources evenly but thinly aw 3s all districts.
Perhaps most importantly, the new materials are not accompanied by adequate teacher
training, with the result that they too often lie unused.
1.11      In addition, the GOI provides grants for non-formal primary education for girls
and working children and for improved teacher education through the establishment of
District Institutes of Education and Training (DIETS) in the states. By policy, a range of
out-of-school education and training programs for adolescents and both illiterate and newly



-3 -
literate adults are to be put in place. A National Literacy Mission (NLM) has been
established to implement total literacy amnpaigns (TLC) in selected districts; initial
evaluations indicate that these campaigns have a significant upward effect on enrollments in
primary schools.
1.12     Two national resource institutions are financed by the GOI to provide
professional and academic leadership in education. These are the National Council for
Educational Reseach and Training (NCERI), and the National Institute of Educational
Planning and Administration (NEEPA). Both are located in New Delhi. These institutions
work closely with counterpart organizations in the states, providing taining, research and
planning support.
1.13     In 1992 the Government of India (GOI), in consulwaion with the States, reviewed
and revised fte National Policy or, Education of 1986. The revised policy for primary
education emphasizes decentralization to districts and targeting central resources on the more
disadvantaged districts. New national curriculum standards (Minimum Levels of Learning -
MLL) are to be introduced in the States in order to simplify the curriculum, improve quality
and reduce dropouts. Central assistance to the States in the Eighth Plan has been increased
fourfold over Seventh Plan levels (paragraphs 2.58 - 2.60).
It. BASIC EDUCATION IN UTrAR ERADESY
A. BACGON
2.1       Uttar Pradesh is one of India's least developed states. Per capita income in
1989-90 stood at Rs. 2698, 28 percent below the average for the country. Perhaps more
indicative, surveys in 1988 recorded 41.2 percent of the population below the poverty line, a
proportion surpassed only by Bihar and Madhya Pradesh. During the 1980s the rate of
economic growth increased from 3.9 percent in the first half to 4.7 percent in the second.
Even so, the rates were below those for the country as a whole, rewlting in the State falling
increasingly behind. The relatively low oveall rate of economic growth largely results from
slow growth in agriculture which, at 40 percent, still contributes the largest share of State
output (manufacturing contributes just 13 percent) and in which 70 percent of the labor force
earns a living. The output and employment shares of agriculure indicate low levels of
productivity and suggest a high degree of underemployment. According to the State's new
Eighth Plan 1992-97, even if the economy grows at the projected six percent a year, by 1997
the number of unemployed and underemployed will increase. The current combined rate is
estimated at around 20 percent.
2.2       The relatively low level and growth rate of income in Uttar Pradesh limit State
Government revenues. Taxes collected per capita within the State are the lowest across all
major states, apart from Bihar. Despite substantial transfers from the Central Government,



-4-
deficits on the revenue account have been large in recent years. Partly as a consequence,
levels of Plan (new program) expenditure have been relatively low. During the Seventh Plan
(1985-90) per capita Plan outlays in Uttar Pradesh were Rs. 822, around 20 percent below
the average, and well below those in states such as Punjab (Rs. 1728), Haryana (Rs. 188?3)
and Gujurat (Rs. 1545). Pressures of non-Plan expenditures reduced Plan expenditures
below those envisaged by 19 percent in the Sixth Plan and nine percent in the Seventh Plan.
2.3       Social indicators are disturbing. The 1991 census found a crude birth rate of 37
per 1000 persons, the highest in India. At 118 per 1000 births, the infant mortality rate was
30 percent above the national average, and the second highest among the states. High
maternal mortality contributed to a gender ratio of 880 females for every 1000 males, with
only one state having a lower ratio. In preparation for the Eighth Plan, a Human
Development Index was constructed across states. The Index combines measures of life
expectancy at birth, literacy levels and per capita state income. Among the fourteen most
populated states, Uttar Pradesh came last.
'OR1MAL EIDUCATION
2.4       Fornal education in UP is largely publicly financed, in both public and private
schools. There are 76,700 primary schools, of which 3,080 (4 percent ) are "ptivate aided"
and 920 (1.2 percent) are 'private unaided' and 14,700 upper primary schools, of which
4,200 (28.5 percent) are private aided and 1,500 (10 percent) are private unaided.1' At the
primary level, most schools are co-educational, while at the upper primary level, most
schools are single-sex. There are 6,000 secondary schools, of which 1,375 (23 percent) are
private, 410 degree colleges (13 percent private), and 25 public universities; breakdowns by
private aided and unaided status are not available for post-primary level education. The
higher proportion of pnvate unaided schools at the upper prumary level refiscts both the
relative lack of C.OUP investment and the willingness and ability of parents whose children
have managed to complete lower primary to pay for the next level of education.
2.5       There are 265,000 primary teachers and 95,500 upper primary teachers in the
State. Teacher education is provided in 110 Teacher Training Institutes (ITIs), which
currently enroll about 2,200 prospective teachers who are in principal guaranteed
employment in a school in the district in which they are trained. Slow expansion of
elementary education has led to a surplus of more than 30,000 trained teachers awaiting
assignment; intake into the TIls has been reduced (Annex 2 - Structure of Education in UP).
1V World Bank estimates for UP, based on national percentages for pnvate aided and
unaided schools at the primary level. Private aided schools receive 95 percent of
their funding from the government.



.5-
BASI EI=ATIO)N
2.6       Consistent with national policy, basic education consists of a cluster of programs
for children age 6-14 and for illiterate adults. Elementary education, consisting of both
primary and upper primary schooling, is the centerpiece program, receiving 59 percent of
investments in the Seventh Plan (1985-90), and about 55 percent of annual non-plan recurrent
expenditures in recent years.
2.7       A component of basic education, nonformal primary education is intended to
provide a safety net for dropouts and those unable to enroll. In this approach educated
persons without formal teaching qualifications provide instruction at convenient hours and
places. The five-year primary curriculum is compressed into two years. Children may re-
enter the formal steam through examinations at Grade 5. Teachers are provided with
instructional materials and a monthly honorarium. GOUP has authorized 60,000 nonformal
classes in the past 10 years, with the capacity to enroll 1,500,000 children (Amnex 3 -
Nonformal Education).
2.8       Basic education is the responsibility of the State Departnent of Education
through the Dictrates of Basic Education (elementary and nonformal education) and Adult
Education (literacy and continuing education). The Drectorates have decentraIzed staff at
the district and block levels. Routine management of elementary education is the
responsibility of the Basic Shiksha Parishad (BSP), an autonomous statutory body created by
the UP Education Act of 1972. The BSP receives annual gants from the UP Departm ent of
Education for this purpose. The Education Act of 1972 also established Village Education
Committees (VEC) as statutory bodies responsible for oversight of primary and upper
primary schools.
2.9       The adult education program is built around Total Litracy Campaigns (IICs).
Financed by the GOI, TLCs are planned and managed at the district level, and include
activities to generate demand and widespread mobilization of students, teachers and
community members to provide instruction. Opportunities for continuing education for
dropouts and for newly literate adults are provided in community learning centers (Jan
Shiksha Kendras - JSK) operated in existng government or donated facilities.
2.10      In 1989 the Department of Education (001) launched the Mahila Samakhya (MS)
program of women's empowerment on a pilot basis in four states. With the assistance of
trained facilitators, village women forn groups to provide a forum for discussion and action
on problems confronting women. MS groups are free to choose among problems to be
addressed, and many choose education for village girls as a direct action prionty.
Evaluations suggest that MS groups can acquire a legitimate voice and can be effective in
raising the status of women.
2.11      Utta. Pradesh was one of the three pilot MS states, starting activities in four
disticts in 1989 wiu' Dutch Assistance. Joint Indr-Dutch evaluations in 1990 and 1991



-6 -
found that the program was beginning to work as planned, with positive impact in villages.
MS groups have been established on a sustained basis, and there are examples of successful
efforts to mobilize village action in such areas as improved water supply. The program is
managed under the aegis of the Mahila Samakhya So^,iety, an autonomous registered society
in Uttar Pradesh. However, the MS program in Uttar Pradesh has encountered significant
administrative problems and delays in implementation during the start-up phase. These
problems were largely resolved in 1991-92 and a new State MS Dieor was selected in
early 1993.
B. SUB-SECIOR ISSUES
2.12      Uttar Pradesh is among the educationally most backward of India's states and
territories. In 1991, the overall literacy rate was 55 percent; the rate for women was 26
percent. Of Uttar Pradesh's 63 districts, 30 recorded female literacy rates of less than 20
percent. At the root of these figures is an undeveloped State primary education system that
nominally enrolls 98 percent of boys and 62 percent of girls, but loses approximately 40
percent of enrolled boys and 60 percent of enrolled girls before they complete five years of
education and acquire basic literacy skills.
2.13      The GOUP began efforts in 1987 to expand and improve basic education for the
6-14 age group. Among the accomplishments are an extensive program of community school
construction, expansion of nonformal education, near elimination of single teacher schools
and widespread availabiity of textbooks. However, the impact of these nascent reform
efforts has been limited by relatively undeveloped institutional capacity for planning,
management, evaluation, curriculum development and training. Levels of learnng
achievement remain low, especially for girls and SC students. State finances are under
increasing pressure, raising important issues regarding the financing of the investment and
recurrent costs of extending the reform of basic education to all of the State's 63 districts.
UNDEVELOPED CAPACITY FOYR PLANNG  MANAGEMENT
AND PROFESSIONAL SUPPORT
2.14      The basic education reform program has been initiated by an understaffed,
under-equipped, and overworked Directorate of Basic Education in the State Departnent of
Education. State and district level management of elementary education has been largely
restricted to routine administration of ongoing programs. With relatively undeveloped
supervision, monitoring, testing, evaluation and research capacity, the ability of managers to
identify and correct deficiencies in the present system, much less to initiate and sustain
longer-term system improvement and expansion, has been severely hampered.
2.15      In addition to greater investment, a systematic program of institutional
development would be needed to address fundamental constraints. First, there is no state-
level professional institution with capacity for educataonal planning or for student learning
assessment. Second, although district supervision teams have been established, they are



-7.
understaffet' and under-equipped to manage an education reform program. Third,
suPers:on and support linkages between district education teams and the schools are fragile,
at best. Fourth, the present manual system of recording and aggregating school statistics is
slow, cumbersome and prone to substantial error, making it difficult for managers to monitor
progress against even the most basic indicators. Fifth, the capacity to conduct educational
policy rsearch and evaluation studies is currently limited to small-scale curriculum research.
Sixth, mechanisms for community participation in schooling have yet to work as intended,
reducing the accountability of schools to children and parents.
2.16      Planning and management structures. Technical support for the development of
educational planning and management in Uttar Pradesh has thus far been provided by the
GOI through the National Institute of Educational Planning and Admninistration (NIEPA).
Over the medium term, the development of educational plnning and management will
require sustained state-level institutional capacity for research and training in these two key
areas.
2.17      Education reform programs also need sustained, high-quality professional support
for curriculum and textbook development, teacher education and training, evaluation and
research. Uttar Pradesh has established a basic framework of institutions for these purposes.
The key institution is the State Council for Educational Research and Training (SCERT),
which is a complex of research and training institutions responsible for curriculum
development and extbo k preparation, and for educational research and evaluation.
However, SCERT curriculum development capacity remains undeveloped relative to the
cha.lenge posed by MLL curriculum development and a significant program of textbook
improvement. Teacher education and training curTicula emphasize content over pedagogical
skldls, and are at best loosely tied to the real conditions in the schools.
2.18      Intermediate structures to link state-level agencies with the schools have been
restricted to the district level, where staff time is largely consumed with routine
administraive matters. While D_trict Institutes of Education and Training, which are to
serve as extension bodies for SCERT, exist on paper, few are operational. There are no
institutional arrangements at the block level or below; blocks may have as many as 100
primary schools.
2.19      Information for planning and management. Reliable and timely information on
the effectiveness and efficiency of system operation is essential to good planning and
management. It is especially important for the incremental adjustment of strategies and
resource allocations needed for innovative activities, and for the management of risks. Uttar
Pradesh has developed a cumbersome, manual system of collecting school statistics annually.



- 8 -
The data are unreliable,1' and do not include key indicators of performance, notably
including dropout and repetition rates. The statistical base for planning and management
control at the state and district level is thus extremely weak. At the community level, little
information is available to aid Village Education Committees in participating in planning for
and supervision of basic education programs.
2.20      While there are school completion examinations at all levels, these do not
provide an adequate basis for assessing student learning achievement. Conducted for all
students appearing for the exams, the system geneates a vast amount of information which
cannot be analyzed. Moreover, examinations are only loosely tied to the curriculum, provide
no information on dropouts and students who do not appear, and are not linked to school or
community factors in such a way as to be useful in identifying areas where management
action may be needed. A sample-based assessment system is needed to measure progress on
a range of factors in order to inform program management on the effectiveness of strategies
and interventions, and to establisa accountability for student performance.
2.21      Research capacity has been largely developed for small-scale curriculum
rsearch. Yet to be established is the capacity for system-wide assessment of the cost-
effectiveness of programs intended to increase learning achievement for the elementary age
cohort, and for the focussed evaluation studies needed to guide planning and management
decisions.
LOW LEVELS OF LEARNING ACHIEVEMENT
2.22      The positive effects of education on productivity and social welfare are realized
when students achieve such objectives of the curriulum as literacy, numeracy and problem-
solving skills. Comprehensive data on learning achievement are not available for the State as
a whole. However, baseline beneficiary studies conducted in three project districts indicate
that it is very low. Initial findings suggest that less than half of grade 2 students recognize
five or more of ten common written words. Across three districts, average grade 5 math
scores were 13 correct out of a total of 40 items; language test scores averaged 15 correct
out of a total of 44 items. Simple literacy tests admir to a smaller sample of grade 5
students showed that about half of these students had not mastered grade 2 competencies
(Annex 4 - Baseline Beneficiary Assessments).
2.23      Considerable progress has been made in improving access to and completion of
primary schooling for girls, and for scheduled caste and scheduled tribe students, and hence
their chances to acquire basic literacy and numeracy skllls. In 1986 male and female
primary gross enrollment ratios (GERs) were 86 percent and 50 percent respectively. By
For example, project baseline studies found that more than 15 percent of primary
sudents transfer between schools annually, but this is not recorded on school
regsters, leading to double counting in calculating enrollments.



-9-
1990, male GERS had risen to 98 percent, while that of girls had increased to 62 percent.
Discounted for an estimated 20 percent repetition rate at the primary level, the propontion of
the age cohort in school would be about 80 percent for boys and 49 percent for girls.
Dropout rates in 1986/87 for the full elementary cycle (Grades 1-8) were 51 percent for boys
and 67 percent for girls. Similar gender disarities are found in upper primary enrollments.
Baseline studies conducted for the project show that while overall achievement levels are
low, girls do as well as boys in language but significantly less well in mathematics.
Scheduled caste girls do significantly worse than other students. Girl children are more
likely than boys to be withdrawn from school after one or two years of attendance for work
in the home, including sibling care, and for work outside the home. Dowry practices and
early marriage reduce the value of female education to parents (Annex 14).
2.24      Uttar Pradesh has a significant scheduled caste popuation, 21 percent of the
total. The scheduled tribe population is, by comparison, very small, accounting for only
0.20 percent of the populaion. There are no "tribal districts' as defined by the GOI. As
measured by GERs, Scheduled Tnbe students are the best served stdents in the state, with
prmary GERs for boys of 92 percent and for girls of 69 percent after discounting for
repeition.
2.25       Taking estimates of repetition into account, about 73 percent of SC boys and 30
percent of SC girls were enrolled in 1990 at the primary level; at the upper primary level,
the un-discounted rates oere 32 percent for SC boys and nine percent for SC girls.
Measured by enrollment rates, SC girls are the educationally most disadvantaged children in
the state. Although the main elements of caste discr on are illegal, deeply entrenched
social attitudes change slowly in the absence of widesprad education. The precise impact of
caste discrimination on enrollment and completion of elementary education has not been
determined, although school statistics suggest that it is a factor. Barriers to entry and
completion for girls and minority students are recognized in both national and state education
policy, and special provisions are made to address them. In Uttar Pradesh, scholarships are
provided to SC/ST students, and to those whose families are listed by the Integratd Rural
Development Program as living below the poverty line. These stipends are intended to offset
the direct costs of schooling including books, uniforms, mateials.
2.26      Learning achievement for the children of Uttar Pradesh is limited by low levels
of completion, the poor quality of education, and incomplete access.
.27         W levels of cmpltin. Too many of those students who have access to
schools drop out without completing their education. Compete and reliable cohort statdstics
are not available in Uttar Pradesh. However, project baseline studies have suggested that
the dropout rate between ades I and 5 is about 50 percent for boys and girls, with much of
the dropout coming in Grades 2 and 3, well before literacy skills have been established.
Dropout rates for scheduled caste children are higher. Only 20 percent of girls enter upper
primary education. Baseline studies found repedtion rates in three districts to range from 9
to 37 percent.



- 10-
2.28      High dropout and repetition significantly reduce the efficiency of the system.
Currently, about 8.7 years of schooling are required to produce one Grade 5 graduate. The
cost of a graduate is thus 75 percent higher than it would be if there were no dropout or
repetition (Annex 5 - System Efficiency).
2.29      Failure to complete the primary cycle has a much greater impact on overall
levels of education within the state than does lack of access to a school. Approximately 10
percent of the primary age cohort does not have access to a school. Of those who enroll
more than half, or 45 percent of the age cohort, drop out before completing the curriculum
and acquiring basic literacy and numeracy skills.
2.30      High levels of dropout at both primary and upper primary levels are attributed to
both demand and supply factors. On the demand side, the value of child labor, the direct
costs of education to the family, and cultural factors are constraints on entering and staying
in school. Baseline beneficiary studies reveal that 60 percent of boys and girls cite demand
factors as reasons for not expecting to continue school past Grade 8. National sample survey
data indicate that, across India, lack of interest in schooling accounts for about 40 percent of
the primary age children who have dropped out or not enrolled in school. Already facing
private costs, poor parents are unwilling to continue their children in school, especially girls,
when little or no learning is taking place.
2.31      Informal observation suggests that nonformal classes for dropouts can be
effective. However, a recent evaluation in Uttar Pradesh suggests that the program suffers
from serious technical and administrative weaknesses; learning materials were judged to be
inappropnate, and supervision was weak; salaries and materials have not been provided for
up to one year; morale among instructors was low, leading to poor attendance by both
instructors and students; and many classes are not functioning, though precise estimates are
not available.
2.32      Low  ualy of edu n. Six factors contribute to the quality of primary
education in Uttar Pradesh: (a) community participation; (b) the readiness of students to
learn; (c) the performance of teachers; (d) the quality of textbooks and other basic learning
materials; (e) the effectiveness of school management; and (f) the adequacy of school
facilities.
2.33      (a) Community paicipation. Increasing community involvement with and
control over schools have been an objective of the GOUP since the establishment of Village
Education Committees in 1972. Active VECs are seen as the most cost-effective way to
ensure that teachers work and schools function. VECs were largely moribund prior to the
initiation of the community school construction program in the late 1980s. By placing
responsibility and resources in the hands of the VEC, this program has had some positive
impact towards energizing a number of VECs. However, baseline studies found that
community awareness of the existence of VEC was highly variable and that they do not meet
regularly.



-11 -
2.34      (b) Readiness to lzn. Low nutritional status, and little contact with a literate
world, are facts of life for many children in rural Uttar Pradesh. In 1981, the latest year for
which data are available, 43 percent of rural and 25 percent of urban households had no
literate member. High levels of adult illiteracy mean that many children are first time
leamers. Homes are bereft of reading materials and students get no help with homework.
Under such circumstances, staying in school can be difficult. International experience
suggests that early childhood care and education (ECCE) programs contribute to improved
attendance and learning by providing day care for the younger siblings of children who might
otherwise be held out of school for this purpose, by improving readiness to learn in a
structured group environment, and by enabling the child to acquire initial pre-literacy skills.
2.35      ECCE in Uttar Pradesh for children age 3-6 is delivered through the Integrated
Child Development Service (ICDS), managed by the Department of Welfare. ICDS
anganwadi centers are located at the village level. Trained village women provide early
childhood education, principally reading readiness, together with supplementary nutrition and
referral of children to immunization and other health services. In 1990, ICDS ECCE
progrms reached 720,000 children in Uttar Pradesh, or about six percent of the 3-6 age
group.
2.36      Studies of the impact of ICDS on initial school performance show mixed results.
Bank-sponsored studies in Tamil Nadu reveal little effect. Baseline studies in Uttar radesh
found that few children had access to ICDS sevices, although this was largely due to
incomplete coverage under the progrm. An independent 1991 national evaluation of ICDS
found that 89 percent of children age 5-14 with pre-school education were enrolled; of those
without pre-school education, less than 60 percent were in school.)' These mixed results
are generamly attributed to the uneven priority given to the education component of ICDS in
practice relative to nutrition and health interventions.
2.37      (c) Teacher performance. The educational requirements for entry into prinmay
and upper primary school teaching in Uttar Pradesh are high. Under current policy, new
teachers must have completed three years of college plus two years of formal pre-service
teacher education, known as the Basic Training Certificate (BTC).
2.38      Teacher absenteeism is a major problem. Project beneficiary studies indicate
that, in some districts, teachers spend as litde as 2.5 hours a day in school, and frequently
take turns in attending. Schools are infrequently supervised, and Village Education
Committees have not yet effectively taken on the task of monitoring day-to-day supervision
of teacher atendance and performance.
Ir National Institute of Public Coopeation and Child Development. 1992.  oadonal
Evaluation gf Ingmted Child DevlogMmet Serwees. New Delhi.



- 12-
2.39      Teachers are eligible for re-postng after two years in a given school. This leads
to tremendous pressure from teachers posted to rural areas for transfer to more attractve
conditions. Transfers, in turn, reduce the continuity of teacher service in a given school, yet
international research and experence suggests that teacher contnuity is an important positive
factor in student achievement.
2.40      The cmuriculum for pre-service teacher education emphasizes theory over
practice. Approximately 15 percent of the curriculum is allocated for practice teaching and
instruction in pedagogical methods. Multi-grade teaching is not a subject in the curriculum.
2.41      Yet multi-grade teaching is the nonn in rural areas. Although single teacher
primary schools have been largely eliminated, the majority of schools have only two or three
teachers for five grades of children. In this context, some children read together while others
receive largely didactic instruction. Instructional aids and materials provided to the schools
by Operation Blackboard are seldom used because teachers have not been trained to do so.
2.42      Teachers are not taught how to make the best use of textbobks in the classroom
and are not provided with Teachers' Handbooks to use with textbooks.; Operation
Blackboard provided schools with some rudimentary equipment and a few books, but
teachers were not trained to use and look after them and were not keen to take on the
additional responsibility of caring for them. Baseline studies found that primary teachers use
only language and mathematics texts: science, social studies and environment books are not
used.
2.43      In-sevice training is largely non-existent, with the exception of special intensive
progrms of one or two day orientatioi to policy changes. The last such program was
organized to discuss the 1986 National Policy on Education. With litde supervision, and no
in-service training, teachers operate largely in isolation. Baseline studies found that 30
percent of serving teachers had waited more than five years for their first post after
completing pre-service training. Less than five percent had received in-service training. Yet
all wanted in-service training in teaching techniques, and wanted it delivered in their
classrooms.
2.44      The State has made a policy commitment to increasing the proportion of female
teachers in the schools, currently 18 percent, overall, and about 13 percent in rual areas.
Two-thirds of the places in the BTC pfimary teacher education course have been reserved for
females. However, social barriers against females living alone makes female teachers
unwilling to accept rural posts, and anxious to be transferred when eligible. The GOUP has
sought to address these issues through two policy decisions that are expected to increase the
chances for rural girls to enter the teaching profession. First, all investment in secondary
education in the Eighth State Plan is earmarked for girls' high schools in rural districts.
Second, female secondary graduates would be admitted to the BTC course by examination
without having to first complete college. The effects of these policies are likely to be
manifest towards the end of the decade.



- 13 -
2.45      (d)  ualt of curriclum and t   ka. Across India, the difficulty of the
primary curiculum has been recognized as a banier to student learning and progression, thus
contributing to drop out. Project baseline sudies show that, in Uttar Pradesh, more than half
of Grade 2 students are unable to read the textbook. The problem is generally recognized
by the State, and initial steps to test the nationally developed Minimum Levels of Leaming
(MLU) curriculum have been taken. A complete review of textbooks and nonformal
education materials for gender bias has been completed by NCERT and the results will be
incorporated in revised textbooks for the 93/94 school year. But the major work of full
curriculum and textbook development remains to be done.
2.46      Uttar Pradesh has established a textbook development, publication and
distribution system which malks textbooks available to students throughout the State at the
beginning of the school year (Annex 6 - Textbook Producdon and Distribution). Textbook
costs are quite low. In Grade 1, the total cost of a text, a copy book and a writing slate are
Rs. 14.40, or less than US$ .50. The average cost of multiple texts and practice materials in
Grades 3 to 5 is about Rs. 66. Project baseline studies found that virtually all students have
textbooks.
2.47      The use of State textbooks is compulsory in aU Government elementary schools.
Textbooks are written under the authoity of the SCERT. Production of a total of 84 (51 in
Hindi and 33 in Urdu) titles is handled by the Textbook Office of the Basic Shiksha Parishad
using more than 1200 private sector publishers and prnters and a State wide network of
private sector wholesalers and retalxers. For the school year 1992-1993 more than 83 million
books were manufactured.
2.48      In order to maintain selling prices at an affordable level and at the same time to
do away with the need for subsidies and combat inflation, the physical specifications of the
textbooks have been progressively lowered. Page sizes, paper quality and paper weight have
all been reduced. Printng quality suffers because many printers have elderly equipment and
use outdated technology. The quality of illusations and page layouts need to be improved.
Books are not strong enough to wittnd use and can rarely be passed on to other children.
2.49      Skilled personnel in all areas of textbook publishing from authorship to
distribution are in very short supply and yet many new titles are reqwred for Non Formal
Education and for a wide range of training progams. There are no Teachers' Handbooks,
no textbooks for multi-grade teaching and no provision for supplementary materials that take
into account the wide vanations in local conditions thoughout the State.
2.50      (e) School mam =nt. School-level management is weak in much of the
state, though there are exceptional schools. A quarter of the primary schools have no head
teacher. No trining has been provided for head teachers. School clusters have been
designated as a step towards improved management at decentalized levels. In principle, lead
school head teachers are to provide supeon and professional uport for other schools in
the cluster. Presently, lead schools function primarily to collect and agget school



- 14 -
statistics for the cluster; the trained staff needed to support the work of teachers remain to be
put in place.
2.51      (f) EaciliIie. Learning is difficult in schools without water, latrines, boundary
walls or adequate lighting and ventilation. Decrepit and inadequate facilities make schooling
a less attractive product to children, parents and teachers alike. Surveys conducted by the
GOUP reveal that of the 73,000 public primary schools in the state, 43 percent lack water
supply, 64 percnt latrines, and 10 percent are in need of significant repair and
rehabilitation.
2.52      Incomplete access. According to GOUP normns, a primary school is to be
established within 1.5 km walking distance in the plains, and 1.0 km. in the hill districts.
Upper primary schools are to be established within 3 lan.l State-wide, approximately 10
percent of children do not have access to primary schools according to these norms, and
about 20 percent do not have access to an upper primary school. The GOUP has identified
8700 habitations in the State without a primar school within distance norms, and 4700
habitations without access to an upper primary school. The GOUP estihates that
approximately 2.8 million children do not have access to the full elementary cycle; 1.3
million of these do not have a primary school within reach.
2.53      In India, state governments finance more than 95 prcent of total government
spending on basic education; the health of state finances and the structure of total state
expenditures thus determine the level of financing that is made available for basic education
development.
2.54      State finances in Uttar Pradesh are increasingly constained, marked by growing
reliance on central.transfers (up from 33 percent of total reveues in 1965-70 to 52 percent
in 1986-90) and increasing budget deficits. Growth of the State's own-tax revenues has been
slow, ranling UP number 13 lowest among the 15 largest states (Annex 7).
2.55      Despite these growing financial constraints, the GOUP has managed to maintain
the share of Plan (investment) allocations for education in recent years. As a share of total
Plan expenditures, not including scholarships for SC/ST students, education averaged about
4.3 percent of total Plan expenditures in the Seventh Plan (1985-90) and the subsequent
interim Plan years. In the Eighth Plan, education's share is projected to reach 6.3 percent.
The share of the education outlay for elementary education rose from an average of 56
percent during the Seventh Plan and interm Plan years to a projected share of 61 percent in
I' In application, these strict distance norms are relaxed to take into account physical
barriers to access, such as rivers and mountains, which increase the time required to
walk to school.



the Eighth Plan. Despite these achievements, investment in education remains low relat"-^ to
other major activities. Irrigation and energy are projected to receive nearly half of EigL1'
Plan allocations. The share for power transmission and distibution rose from 24 prcent in
the Seventh Plan to 32 percent in the Eighth Plan.
2.56      Since 1986, Non-Plan (recurrent) expenditures on education have grown
modesty from 17.2 percent to 19.4 percent of total State recurret expenditures. Within
this, the share for elementary education has also increased slightly. However, much of this
growth came in 1986-89, when Non-Plan expenditure on elementary education grew 38
Percent. In 1989-92, the rae of increase slowed to 4.4 percent, and in 1992-93 to 1.3
percent. Taken together, rising Plan and Non-Plan expenditures have led to an increase in
total expenditures on education as a share of total state expenditures from 14 percent in 1980-
82 to 19 percent in 1989-91. Within this, the share for elementary education increased from
49 percent to 55 percent.
2.57      While encouraging, these positive trends would need to be accelerated if the
State is to meet its medium-term goal of achieving universal enrollment and retention in
elementary education by the year 2000. To reach this goal, State recurrent expenditures on
basic education (in consgant prices) would have to grow at a compound rate of just over 11
percent per year. In addition, the capital costs of universal elementary education by the
year 2000 are estimated to be Rs. 39,000 million; the Eighth Plan allocates Rs. 7,000
million. Given these financial realites, altnative policy goals and stategies may have to be
considered, such as limitng the goal to primary education and introducing double shifting.
However, even with less ambitious goals, the State would confront the need for significant
changes in budget priorities.
C.  RMM               OUM AN  ROJ
G-YEMMOF M
2.58      The National Policy on Education (NPE), issued in 1986 at the beginning of the
Seventh Plan (1985-1990) period, gave high priority to investenet in elementay education
(primary plus upper primary), and to special efforts to increase particpation and completion
for girls, scheduled caste and scheduled tribe children. However, Plan resources for the
development of elementary education increased only marginally as a share of total education
allocations between the Sixth and Seventh Plans, from 33 to 37 percent. During the latter
part of the Seventh Plan, and during the two interim plan years of 90(91 and 91/92, the GOI
sharply increased its efforts to exppand donor financing for basic education, iniatng project
development in Bihar, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, and Orissa. IDA assistance was
requested for a basic education project in Uttar Praesh in 1991, although the final proposal
was not cleared by the GOI until August, 1992.



- 16-
2.59      In 1992, the 1986 NPE was revised in consultation with the States. The goal of
univers elementary education (UEE) was reaffirmed, with special provisions for girls and
minority students. The revised policy has initiated a shift from broadly based central
assistance to the states to targeted assistance to states for elementary education development
in low-literacy districts and in districts where demand for elementary education exceeds
available capacity. Decentralization of educational planning and management to the district
level is a new policy emphasis. The overly complex and difficult primary curriculum is
recognized as an obstacle to student achievement in the early gades, and a contributor to
failure and dropout. The revised policy endorses the Minimum Levels of Learning (MLL)
curriculum framework developed by the National Council for Educational Research and
Training (NCERT) for use by all States.
2.60      Policy change has been accompanied by a substantial increase in the Central Plan
Budget for Elementary Education, from Rs. 28,800 crore to Rs. 40,500 crore, raising the
share of elementary education to 48 percent. Policy change and increased resource
allocations have been supported by IDA through the Program to Strengthen the Social Safety
Net (Credit 2448-N). The GOI intends to allocate the largest share of incremental resources
as assistance to the States for targeted assistance to educationally backward districts under the
new national Distrct Primary Education Program (DPEP). Over the balance of the Eighth
Plan period, this assistance would complement donor-assisted basc education projects in
Rajasthan and Bihar enabling the (01 to initiate primary education development programs in
targeted low-female literacy districts in other stes. External assistance would be sought to
support this program; the proposed UP project would thus be the first in a series of
investments. During the Ninth Plan (1997/98 - 2002/03) the GOI also plans to finance the
expansion of present state projects through the DPEP.
eGVRNMElNl OF RRAD lRESlH
2.61      During the Seventh Plan, the GOUP took initial steps to implement the 1986
NPE recommendations for basic education. In 19?7/88 an etnsive program of community
school construction was launched. By 1992, construction of more than 13,350 primary
schools had been strted, and 8,500 completed, creating an additional 600,000 primary
school places. Nonformal pnmary education was expanded. The financial commitment of
the state to elementary education development has expanded.
2.62      Achieving universal elementary enrollment and completion, with special attention
to girls, are priority goals in the Eighth State Plan (1992/93-1997/98). Goals for secondary
education emphasize quality improvement and wonsolidation, with expanded facilities for
girls, improvement of science education, and assistance for the improvement of private
education being important straegies. Vocational secondary education is to be expanded
under a program of central assistance from the (OI. Higher education is to be strengthened
and expanded.



I                      - 17-
2.63      Based on lessons learned since the 1986 NPE, the GOUP is seeldng to strengthen
and deepen the program of basic education development. There are three elements in the
GOUP basic education development strtegy: (a) buiding the institutional capacty needed at
the state and district levels to plan and manage the state-wide basic education development
program over the longer tenn (a key component of institutional development would be the
establishment of a registered society, the UP Education for All Project Board, to strezigthen
management the state-wide program); implementing district-based programs for quality
improvement and increased retention, with priority to girls and SC/ST students, and (c) in
order to ensure equity and progess towards the national goal of universal elementary
education (UEE), providing access to primary and upper pinmaty education for currently
unserved students, again on a district basis.
2.64      A strong commitment to decentralizaon exists in both national and state
education policy as a means of moving decision-makdng authority closer to problems and
opportunities. Districts, with populations ranging from 500,000 to 4.5 million, are seen as
the key point for the planning and management of education. Implementation of
decentralization, however, has just begun, both nationally and in Uttar Pradesh.
D. IDA ST_TEG'Y AND RATIONALE F)R INVOLM
2.65      Speeding economic growth and alleviatng poverty are the central objectives of
IDA's country strategy for India. The main vehicles for IDA support are (a) continuation of
economic and sector work centered on stabilization and stucal refom issues and on
policies that would improve performance in key sectors; (b) adjustment lending supporting
structural reform measures; and (c) investnent lending for projects in agriculture,
infrastructure, and social secwtors, including anti-poverty projects. IDA's human resources
stategy aims to improve the access of the poor to investments in human resource
development and to improve the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of those investments.
The recently approved Structural Adjustment Credit for a Social Safety Net (SSN) (Cr. 2448-
IN) establishes an improved policy fiamework and enhanced financial allocations for the
human ±csource sectors. This will be complemented by specific investment projects in
health, nutrition, faunily welfare and basic education. IDA's strategy for education is to
focus medium term astance exclusively on basic education, given its underdeveloped staus
in India, its high returns, and its importance to the poor. Over the last several years IDA
has advanced the analytic underpinnings of its work through analyses of education finance,
policy development, trends in enrollment, education for women and girls, and factors that
determine student lening achievement in primary schools. The analytical base has been
strengthened by studies undertaken by national insttutions. Based on this work, and on both
national and state-specific seminars and workshops, IDA has entered into a dialogue leading
to the development of a serics of specific investment opeaions to support basic education, of
which the proposed project in Uttar Pradesh is the first. Preparation for additional basic
education proects targeted to diticts with below average female literacy is underway in six
additional staes.



- 18-
2.66      IDA assistance to basic education in Uttar Pradesh would provide the financing
needed for accelerated development in India's largest and one of India's poorest states,
generating lessons to guide subsequent investments in UP and other states. Without IDA
involvement, the pace of development would be consideably slower. In addition, less
attention would be paid to building institutional capacity, to the disadvantaged, to the quality
of education, and to educational outcomes.
E. EXTERNAL FINANCING
2.67      External support for basic education in Uttar Pradesh has been limited to small
pilot projects in such areas as population education (UNFPA), health and nutrition education
(UNICEF), science education (FRG), and nonformal primary education (Norway).
However, substantial external support for basic education in other states has been provided
by a number of donors. In Andhra Pradesh, ODA provided US$35 million through 1992
and has committed US$21 million for basic education. In Bihar, UNICEF has committed
US$10 million of UNICEF General Resources and pledged to raise up to US$92 million
more from other donors for the Bihar Education project. In Rajasthan, SIDA has provided
US$13 million for peripatetic teachers and has pledged about US$85 million for Lok Jumbish
(People's Empowerment). And the Netherlands have committed US$10 for Mahila
Samakhya and are developing a second project for US$20 million.
F. LESSONS OF EXPERIENCE
2.68      This would be the first IDA investment in basic education in India. Prior IDA
investment has assisted one project in agricultural education, one in vocational training, and
two in technical education. The agricultural education project closed in 1982; the Project
Performance Audit Report noted slow implementation, in part due to civil unrest in project
areas. The other tlree projects are under implementation. IDA has also supported eight
population projects, four nutrition projects, and one safe motherhood project. These have
included both national and state projects. Four important implementation lessons have been
learned. First, detailed and early preparation is the key to effective implementation,
especially for civil works and procurement. Second, project designs must, to the extent
possible, identify and deal with bamers to smooth and timely disbursement of funds. Third,
Bank supervision can play a useful and supportive role in the implementation effort. Fourth,
projects that concentrate efforts on district-level implementation, without sufficient
strengthening of state-level capacity, typically are not successfiu (Table 2.1).
2.69      The project would draw on lessons learned over the past five years of GOUP
work in basic education in Uttar Pradesh, and the experien'e acquired through donor assisted
projects in Andhra Pradesh (ODA) and Bihar (UNICEF). These lessons include: (a) the
importance of community mobilization and participation in basic education; (b) the cost-
effectiveness of community school construction, and its positive impact on community
involvement; (c) the value of women's empowerment in encouraging girls to attend and
complete school; (d) the necessity of establishing flexible organizational structures to manage



- 19-
basic education development activities, and (e) the crucial role of district-level institutions for
in-service training, research and evaluation -pport for the schools.
2.70      The project has also drawn on technial lessons leamed from the Bank's wider
experience in supporting basic education development, many of which reinforce lessons
learned in Uttar Pradesh.1' Among the principal lessons are: (a) the value of early
childhood educadon to compledon and leaning achievement; 0) the importance of female
teachers and targeted scholarship assistance to improving enrollment and completion for
girls; (c) the central place of competent teachers and adequate textbooks and learning
materials in raising student achievement; and (d) the need for community participation and
effective school supervision and management.
' These lessons have been summarized in Marlaine E. Lockheed and Adriaan
Verspoor, Im,ivg Prmr Education i Deloig Countnes. New York:
Oxford University Press, 1991. Additional lessons were gained from Ptoject
Completion Reports and Audits, and ongoing lending experience, for baic and
primary education projects in Bangladesh, PaMstan and Nepal.



- 20 -
Table 2.1: L=Soss Prom Exp qien  and Project Design
I^dia Sodd Sector &QJeW
Lsons                                             Dein Elnet
Careful Prepaaton                                Preparatio studies
o Bonficialy amssmets
o Facilities surveys
o Building desg studies
DisbursunsDis                                                 Desin
0 G01 fund advance to State; Stat to EPAPB
o Prqject specific accounting
o Disbus mot M knioDig
Projed Mana _et                                  EFA Project Board with senior politial and
goverma mbrsp
Supervison                                       Supervision Plan
o Regular GOUP monitorig and
rporting lined to servisin
o Supevision schedule/staff
lnked to projea compont
Statelevd and District-level Emphass             State-level and districtlevel capaity building
IndiaBaic nAato  E=k
munity Partpatin                                 Vilage Eduaton Committees
Community School Constructio                                  with enhanced tedncl support
and mooring
Womes Enpowenet                                  Support for Mahila Samakhya womens
exdble Organlaom                                 EFA Project Board
Disbtict I_stiut                                 Disric Insti   of dEducation and Taining
Early Childhood Educato                          Support for Eary Childhood Edua
Femle Teachs an d  hlp  for Girl                 Rese   70 % Primary Teache T nng for
fanale  SC Girls Scholarhips
Teacher and Tedbook Impranent                    Cu    ru usion; ttook hipnpvane
School Mangeme                                   Scool cduster devdopment
B hadacber appoinment and taining
Coemnunity PWriclation                           Vilag Educaio Commnittees Blocki and Dbistrc
Advisory Committees



- 21 -
M. T-M ROvEC
A. SCOPE MM LT&
3.1       The project woud support the Uttar Pradesh basic education progm  stategy by
assisting with the development of the institutional cpacty for planning, managemnent,
evaluation and professional support needed to mange dte long-tem, state-wide basic
education development program, and by financing basc education improvement programs in
an inital ten of the State's 63 districts. Ten additional districts, all of which fail below the
average female literacy rate for the State, have been identified for project planning and
prepartion work. District specific plans would be prepared for at least these additional
disticts during the prqect with a view toward future investment under the national District
Primary Education Program. (See Annex 1, pages 8-10, for basic data on the 20 project
districts.) Experience shows that phased implementation that strengthens institutional
capacity, such as is proposed for Uttar Pradesh, is more effective than attempts at rapid
implementation through weak institutions. The objective of this first phase of a statewide
reform is to establish the institutions that are capable of implementing the full reform. Thus,
concentration on institutional capacity building during the initial phase is crucial.
3.2       Project districts have been chosen to represent the range of nitial conditions in
the state, as well as a geographical sprad to include western (imcluding the hills), central and
eastern Uttar Pradesh. Eight disticts have an average female literacy rate of 17 percent,
well below the average female literacy rate for the state as a whole (26 percent) and for India
(39 percent); two have female literacy rates of 27 percent. These latter two disticts provide
a somewhat more advanced setting for project activities.
3.3       The overwhelming focus of the project is on publicly provided basic education.
This is the system that should serve 4he poor, but has yet to do so adequately. Private
primary and upper pnmary schools would be eligible to participate in staff development
activities and would have the opportunity to use revised curricula and textbooks. NGO
involvement in education in the state has largely been restricted to recently discontinued adult
education programs financed by the GOI, and to Total Literacy Campaigns. Provision would
be made in the project to finance acceptable proposals from NGOs for innovations in service
delivery and for monitoring and evaluation activities. Project baseline beneficiary
assessments, for example, have been conducted by an NGO.
3.4       Capacity bilding lies at the heart of the GOUP project saegy. The strategy
recognizes the importance of strengthening state, distict and community institutions for the
longer term effort, drawing on implementation exprience in the process. By establishing a
phased, district-based program, the GOUP has created a mechanism for decentraliation of
educaional planning and management, and by investing in district level institutions, it would
strengthen the capacity at that level to shoulder new responsibility. Stronger institutions, and



- 22 -
experience in the initial project districts, are expected to contribute to improved effectiveness
and efficiency as the progm  is expanded.
B. GOALS AND QB1fl!
3.5       Universal enrollment and completion in elementary educaton are the goals for
basic education development for the State of Uttar Pradesh. The project will accelerate the
pace at which the State would accomplish its objectives. Thus, the following objectives have
been set to be reached by the end of the project (See Annex 21 - Project Monitoring Plan -
for a list of monitorable indicators):l'
3.6       Building nstitutional.Capacil-
(a) The UP Education for All Project Board (EFAPB) will be fully functional.
(b) A new State Institute of Educational Management and Training (SIEM1I) will be
fully operational, providing 1000 person weeks of training, and completing at
least five major policy studies, annually.
(c)  Institutes of Education and Trining and associated Block Resurce Centers will
be fully opeaional providing 1000 person weeks of training in each district
annuaUly.
(d) Trained planning and management teams wll be in place in both initial and
reserve districts.
(e)  A State Plan for the extension of the basic education program will be completed.
(f)  A computerized management information system will be fully functional in 10
prqject districts and at the State level.
(g)  An achievement assessment system will be established.
(h) The State Council for Educational Research and Training (SCERI) will have
improved procedures for curriculum research and development and textbook
development.
(i)  The primary cuiculum will have been revsed based on Minimum Levels of
Leaning, and a new generation of improved textbooks provided to the schools.
Stitics on enrollment and completion, and on learning achievement, are at best
approxmate in the State. Using data from baseline surveys, the specific objectives
listed here will be measured against initial conditions in each project district.



- 23 -
3.7       hMMdB9in Mh a!tnd Cqmpleti.
(a) Primary and upper primary dropout and repetition rates will be reduced by 50
percent over baseline estimates.
(b)  Grade V leaning achievement will improve by 50 percent over baseline
achievement levels.
(c) Village Education Committees will be fully functional for 50 percent of schools
in the initial ten project districts.
3.8       Eding Aess-
(a) The percentage of girls, including SC and ST girls, not in school will be reduced
by 50 percent over baseline estimates.
(b) 300,000 primary places will have been established, accordin* to norms, for
currently unserved children.                      I
(c) 150,000 upper primary places will have been established, according to nonns,
for currently unserved children.
(d)  An additional 150,000 children will be enrolled in non-formal pimary education.
3.9      If a 50 percent reduction in dropout and repetidon is achieved, the number of
years of schooling required to produce a grade S graduate would fall from 8.67 to 6.37, and
the unit cost of producing a grade S graduate would be reduced from Rs. 4000 to Rs. 3000
(Annex 5).
3.10      All districts in Uttar Pradesh are poor and all fall below the national average
female literacy rate of 39 percent. Thus, the beneficiaries of the project would
overwhelmingly be poor children. However, there is special focus on girls and SC students,
thirough strategies to reduce primary dropouts, increase access to formal schooling and
expand improved nonformal education. The project would increase the GER for girls at the
primary level from 50 to 71 percet and at the upper primary level from 30 to 64 percent (in
comparison with increases for boys from 82 to 85 percent and 57 to 76 percent,
respectively). It would increase the GER for SC girls from 39 to 71 percent at the pimary
level and from 9 to 22 percent at the upper primary level, and would increase the GER for
SC boys from 91 to 109 percent at the primary level and from 32 to 43 percent at the upper
primary level. In all, the total number of poor children who would benefit from the project
is esdmated as about 1.8 million (See Annex 27 for details).



- 24 -
C.e lBUELDING E&TITCnaUNL?{
C, 0P0E    CDIU  un is- mu"=
3.11      Manan g large and complex educational reform programs requi  flexible
institutional arangements, a degree of autonomy in decision-making, skdlled staff, and good
information on program implementation and effects. In a state the size of Uttar Pradesh, it
also requires effective decentralization of decision-making. To improve planning,
management and professional support capacity, the GOUP wi}l (a) strengthen relevant
institutions and structures, and (b) improve the flow of information for decision-making.
lllROYING I!ANNlNM.NAGEIMT AN1D
1 RE$SIONAL LUPlPl=   STRUrtRE
3.12      The project would finance the planning and magement structures and capacity
needed initially for project activities, and eventually for the largstate-wide basic education
development program.
3.13      Important steps have been taken. Flexibility in institutional arrangements has
been approached by establishing the Basic Shiksha Parishad (BSP) to manage the recurrent
costs and routine adminitation of elementary education, with overall responsibity for basic
education development remaining with the Ditoraft of Basic Education. The project
would finance the strengthening of the capacity of the UP EPA Proect Board, a registered
society, to plan and empower the Directonde of Basic education to manage the basic
education development program at the State and District levels. A new State Institute of
Educational Management and Training (SIEMI) would be created as the key institution for
the development of planing, management, student assessment and policy analysis capacities.
At the District level, Disrict Institutes of Education and Training (DIETs) would be
strengthened, and asociated Block Resource Centers established in each block. At the State
level, coordination among these institutions is embodied in inter-lockdng governing boards,
and is overseen by the D rm ent of Education (Annex 9 - Project Management).
3.14      Strengning  .aect Maagement    . The project would be implemented
by the GOUP through the D irerate of Basic Education. The Director of Basic Education
would be the g officio State Project Director. In order to establish a high lve decision-
making body for implementation, to ensure flexibility in project management, and to ensure
smooth disbursement of project funds, the UP Boucation for All Project Board (EFAPB) has
been established under the UP Societies Registration Act of 1862 to strengthen the capacity
of the DBE for the management of the project and, subsequendy, the continuing basic
education reform progam. The EFAPB has a General Council, chaired by the Chief
1' The Director (Basic Education) serves as the sx offic  chairp   of the BSP, and
would similarly be E offlaic State Project Director in the EPA Board.



- 25 -
hMinister of the State, and an Executive Comnittee chaired by the Chief Secretary, with the
Principal Secetay Education as vice-chairman.
3.15      The Council is responsible for establishing oveal policy and periodic review of
implementaton. The Executive Committee is  ponsible for project formulation,
implementation and monitoing, for financial and management decisions, and for creating
post and appointing staff. The membership of the Council and the Executive Committee
would predominantly comprise senior GOUP officials, with additional members drawn from
a broad spectrum of the UP society and from the O01. A fil-dme additional project
diecr for te Project has been appointed, with the rank of Additional State Project
Director. The Additional Director reports directly to the Director, Basic Education. At
appraisal, IDA reviewed the articles of incorporation and by-laws of the EFAPB which are
3.16      The EFAPB would be staffed by 21 professional and technical staff, five
acoounting professionals, and 11 suppt staff. Seven key staff include State Project
Diector, Additional State Project Diector, and five Unit Heads. The five Unit Head
rqwesent finance and accounting, civil works, fomald educadon, non-formal education, and
planing and monitorng. Senior staff would be posted from existng state agences and
institutions; others would be recruited. The headquarer of the Board are located in the
offmes of the Directorate of Basic Education, where adequate space is available. The project
would finance fuirniture and equipment (including computes and software), vehicles,
taining, increnmental salries and incremental opeatng costs. During negotiations, the
GOUP provided assuances that it would aoint key saff to the EFAPB by December 31,
1993.
3.17      Establshing SEMr. To address currendy undeveloped capacity in educational
phnning and management student assessment, and polcy analyis, the GOUP would
establish the State Institute of Educational Manage-ent and Trahing (SmiMT) at Allahabad.
MTe main fumctions of SEM4T would be the development and povision of taining for state
and district level educational planners and mmanaes, and the conduct of opertions and
poiicy resrch. The development of institiona capacty would be phased, with student
leaming assesment capaity being developed first followedby trabng and research
capablity. SEBfT would be hnked with natonalcountwpt instituons, the Naional
Insitute of Educational Planning and Administration (NEPA) and the National Council for
Educational Reseuch and Trainig (NCERT), which would assist wnth organzatonal and
staff development ativities (Annex 10 - Policy Andysis, Evaluaton and Research Capacity
Deveiopment). The project would finance civil wors  for the consucton of SIEM d
faiities on land owned by the Department of Education. In addition, the project would
finance fitue and equipment, vehicles, consultant sevices, educational materials, and
incemental saaries and operating costs. During negotiations, the GOUP provided
assurances dt  SIEMT would be legaly established and the DirorW and key professional
staff appointed by January 31, 1994.



- 26 -
3.18      The preparation of a plan for the extension of the basic education program
throughout the state, including a financing stategy, and the preparation of additional districts
for investment, both under the national District Primary Education Program, have high
priority in the projectL District planning teams would be trained by the SIE1MT, with
assistance from the Project Board, NIEPA and local consultants. The project would finance
local consultants, training and materials needed for these planning exercises. During
negotiations, the GOUP agreed to prepare, in conjunction with the G01, a plan for discussion
with IDA at mid-term review, conceniing the extension of the basic education program in
Uttar Pradesh, in conformity with the Borrower's National Education Policy and its District
Primary Education Program.
3.19      Strengthening DIMTS. To overcome problems of teacher isolation, District
Institutes of Education and Training would be developed in each district by converting and
upgrading an existing government Teacher Training Institute (CMI1 in seven districts, and
through new construction (financed by the GOI) in three districts. DIErs would serve as the
pnncipal professional support agency for the work of the schools. DIETs would organize
and provide regular in-service training for teacher trainers, head teachers, VEC members,
and non-formal education instructors and supervisors. Pre-service education would also be
provided to a limited number of teachers through the Basic Training Cycle (BTC). In
addition to their role in supporting school management, DIEs would eventually serve as
centers for curriculum and materals development and evaluation studies. DiTs would
operate at the block level through a network of Block Resource Centers (BRCs) which would
provide the facilities for decentralized training and teacher support activities. BRCs would
be managed by an eperienced upper primary school teacher. BRC training teams would be
drawn from the faculty of DIETS, colleges and universities, and competent NGOs.
3.20      DIETS would be staffed through re-deployment of existing staff in nonnal
colleges and other state education organizaons, and through new recruitment of post-
graduate degree holders. During negotiations, the GOUP provided assurances that it would
appoint the principal and core staff of each DIET by January 31, 1994, and complete staffing
by June 30, 1994.
3.21      The project would finance civil works, principally for hostels and expnion of
clssroom facilities, equipment, furniture, educational matrias incremental saries and
consultant fees for DIETS and Block Resource Centers. Civil works would be monitored by
the Distict Education officer, supavised by engineers from the PWD and caried out by the
UP Public Works Department (PWD) as the construction management agency.
lllWD?VOSG ENiORMllON FOlR PLANNING, MAAGEMll]  AM1
PROFESIONALSUPOR
3.22      The GOlP would improve the flow of information in four ways, through: (a)
school mapping and micro-planning, (b) management inmation system development, (c)
state-wide assessments of learming achievement, and (d) research and evaluation studies.



-27 -
3.23      School maing and micplanning. A precondition for effective school
planning is information regarding the number and village locations of both primary school-
age children and exisdng schools. To identify school-age children, the VECs would
undetake an annual household survey of children not in school, the reasons children are not
in school, and the number and types of handicapped children in the village. Results from the
survey would be used to prepae the village education plan. Guidelines and basic instruments
for micro-planing developed by the National Insttute for Educational Planing and
Administration (NIEPA) would be udlized. The project would finance materials and training
required for carrying out this exercise in Year 2 and Year 4 of the projeqt.
3.24      Maagnmen  infzm  sstem dpadgv         . During the project, the EFAPB
would oversee the conversion into an automated (computerized) system of the present manual
system of collecting, aggregating and transmitting school statistics and expenditure data from
schools, blocks and disticts to the state. The work would be carried out by the Directorate
of Basic Education, which would draw on technical expertise from SIEMT, NIEPA and the
State Planning Institute as well as from other states in India. The project would finance
equipment, vehicles, training, incremental salaries for district monitoring teams, and
contractual services for software development as needed. Monitoring cells would be
established and staffed by the EFAPB at the distict level to assist in collecting school-level
statistics. The project would finance salaries, furniture, and equipment (including computers)
for the district level monitoring cells (Annex 11 - Plan for MIS System Development).
3.25      Assessment of leaning ahievement. A systematic program  of assessments of
leaning achievement would form the principal method for evaluating project impacts and
monitoring improvements in learning achievement in project districts. Pilot assessments
(baseline beneficiary studies) have been completed in tree of the ten project districts and
would be replicated in the remang seven discts and one control district dung the first
year of the project. All eleven districts would be assessed again during the third and sixth
year of the project. These district-level assessments would strengthen the capacity of the
GOUP for conducting state-wide assessments of leaning achievement. The project would
finance the costs of the assesments, including consultant rices, taining, materials and
travel. During negotiations, the GOUP provided assurances that it would replicate the
assement program in all 10 project districts, and one control district, during the first (by
December 31, 1994), third (1996) and sixth (1999) years of the project and would report
results to IDA during annual, midterm and project completion reviews.
3.26      RMrSh and evaluation sudies. A key objective of the project would be to
provide lessons which can be used to further improve basic education in the State and India.
Evidence in support of these lessons would be provided by analyses of data from the MIS-
statisfics system, special analyses of data from the state assessment of learning achievement,
special empirical policy studies and special studies of curriculum and taining (Annex 12 -
Research and Evaluation Studies Program). After an initial staff development period, five to
ten stdies would be supported annually. The EFAPB would have the responsibility for
identifying policy questions with highest piority for research support and for idenfifying



- 28 -
appropriate institutions within the state for carrying out the resarch. It would be assisted in
this task by a Policy Research Advisory Committee with members drawn from the State and
from national resource institutions. The work would be carried out under EFAPB
supervision by the State Council for Educational Research and Training (SCERT) and by
SIEMT, with technical support from NCERT and NIPA. The prQject would support
incremental costs associated with carryig out the research, including salaries, mateals,
equipment and technical assistance. At negotiations, the GOUP agreed to select research
studies and establish a Policy Research Advisory Committee in accordance with criteria
satisfactory to the Association.
D. EM[OVING OUL=Y4ND COM0PLETlON
(PROPOSED OUTLAY Us 83.58 MMLUONb
3.27      The GOUP has initiated an eight-part program to improve the quality of
education, reduce dropouts, and improve learning achievement: (a) strengthening community
participation; (b) improving readiness to learn; (c) improving teacher and staff performance;
(d) improving curriculum and txtbooks; (e) improving school management; (t) strengthening
and expanding special programs for females; (g) rehabilitating school facilities; and (h)
explonng various program innovations on a initially limited basis. The project would
support the intensification and expansion of these efforts.
3.28      Encouraged by the positive effects of the community school construction
program, the GOUP has initiated administraive action to (a) expand membership to include
SC/ST and female members, (b) assign responsibility for the distribution of scholarships,
and (c) assign responsibility for school construction and rehabilitation. Additional
administrative actions are being considered to strengthen VEC authority with respect to
teachers. VECs maintain bank accounts, and disburse funds for school construction and the
purchase of educational maerals. VECs would meet monthly to discuss school
performance. Distrit and block education officials would participate in a sample of these
meetings on a rotational basis. At negotiations, the GOUP provided assurances that VECs
would be established and maintained in all prqect villages and at that least one woman would
be a member of each VEC.
3.29      The project would finance training for VEC members. In addition, it would
support a progmm of annual cash grants in the amount of Rs. 25,000 each to VECs that
show significant achievements in completing village surveys, increasing enrollment and
retention in schools (especially for girls and minority stuents), and implementing non-formal
education claes. The awards would be used by the VEC for school improvement activities,
purchase of educational materials, or facilities improvements. Each VEC receiving an award
would be required to present a plan for udlization of the funds to the District Education
Project Committee for approval, adnmnister the funds through VEC accounts, and maintain
records and receipts for expenditures. At negotiations, the GOUP agreed to complete



- 29 -
annually, in conjunction with fte GOI, evaluations of VEC effectiveness, including female
membership for discussion with IDA.
inEAOV          L R LAD& m
3.30      For the majority of schools, ICDS services are not available. The Department of
Education would establish ECCE centers in prmary schools on a pilot basis, with about 1000
ECCE centers to be opened in 25 selected non-ICDS blocks. The DOE would coordinate its
selection of blocks with the state ICDS Department and the Central ICD$ Department to
avoid duplication of effort. ECCE centers would be established in exist1ng and newly
constructed schools. Coordination around the content of the program would also be sought.
Model packages of early childhood education materias have been developed by the State
ICDS program. These maters would be reviewed by the State and, if found suitable,
would be used in the ECCE program. The project would finance learning materials, costs of
student health checklps, and the taining and incremental honoraia required for a local adult
woman to manage the program under the supervision of the head teacher. The classes would
be held in existing facilities; no additional rooms would be constructed. This is a new
approach in Uttar Pradesh and in India. At negotiations, the GOUP provided assurances that
it would, in conjunction with the GOI, evaluate by October 31, 1996, the introduction of
ECCE for discussion with IDA at mid-term rview. The evaluation would include specific
reference to links with the ICDS program and the further opertion of ECCE in light of
recent ICDS development in Uttar Pradesh.
EQYINGOM        TFKACHlEIR AND STA}FFlqMBlC
3.31      In addition to the direct actons discussed below, hee steps would be taken to
improve the teaching environment, thus indirectly contributing to improved teacher
performance: increasing the availaility of teachinglleaming materal (paragraphs 3.35-
3.38), strengthening school management (pagraphs 3.39-3.40), and improving physical
conditions in schools (pargraph 3.45). The direct actions are in-service teacher education
and the appointment and training of additional teachers where justified by enrollment
increases.
3.32      In-service training focused on teaching reading and mathematics in Grades 1 to 3
and on multi-grade teaching would have immediate priority in the proect. Lead schools in
school clusters (which serve 8-10 primary schools each) would be strengthened by providing
a small meeting room and professional library. A senior and experienced teacher would be
assigned to serve as the Cluster Resource Teacher (CR1). Follownng induction training,
CRTs would provide continuous support to teachers within the cluster through classroom
visits and short meetings and discussions at the lead school. Continuous support would be
supplemented by periodic residential training at Block Resource Centers, with trainers drawn
from DIETs. The program would be introduced in a phased manner over the first five years
of the project. Direct training acdvities would be supplemented by a Teacher's Journal,
pubLisbed by the F.FAPB which would serve to disseminate best pratce.



- 30-
3.33      In later stages of the prqect, in-service traiing would focus on the skills
required to make better use of educational maWrials, changes in curricula and textbooks
hough the introduction of the Minimum Levels of Learning (MLL) curriculum standards,
gender sensitivity, and community relations.
3.34      The project would finance the appointment of about 1000 additional teachers to
existing schools where justified by enrollment increase, civil works, educational materials,
equipment and incremental salaries for CRTs and Block Resource Center Coordinators, and
the direct costs c ' training, including induction taining for newly appointed teachers. The
project would also finance training for education officials at the block, district and State
level, as well as for members of VECs, women's groups, and NGOs active in the project
(Annex 13 - Training Plans). During negotiations, the aouP provided assurances that it
would complete a study of fctors, including incentives, that contrbute to the willingness of
teachers to accept an retain posts in nual primary and upper primary schools, and to discuss
the results with IDA at mid-term review by October 31, 1996.
IIUPROG CUMIC-U-LM AN!D lE29ffi
3.35      The development of simplified teaching/learning materials for language and
mathematics instruction in Grades 1 to 3 would be the focus of curriculum and textbook
development in the first two years of the project. These materials would be introduced in the
schools through the in-service training program.
3.36      Over the life of the project, the full primary curriculum would be developed to
Minimum Level of Learning (MLL) standards. Teacher Handbooks, improved measures for
learning assessment in the classroom, and new textbooks would be developed and tested.
The work would be carried out by the SCERT, with support from universities in Uttar
Pradesh and from NCERT. The revised curriculum is expected to become available by the
end of the fourth year of the project, followed by the phased introduction of new textbooks,
assessment procedures and teacher handbooks through in-service teacher training. During the
later stages of the project, DIETs would work with teachers and distrct-level officials to
develop supplementary reading materals specfic to the conditions of the distrit
3.37      Dunng the perod of curriculum development, actions would be taken to improve
the quality of textbook writing, design, layout and printing. These ildlude reducing the
amount of material in textbooks by pre-specifying the number of pages and paying writers on
a lump sum basis rather than per page, and providing technical training to staff of SCERT
and the Textbook Office of the Basic Shiksha Parishad.
3.38      The project would finance local fellowships, consultant services, studies,
training, equipment, educational materials and consultng services to support the curriculum
and textbook development program. The project would also finance a package of teaching
and learning resource materials, including consumable educational supplies, for each primary



- 31 -
and upper primary school in project districts, including a small reading library of 200
children's tides.
EMOVING SIOD1L MANAGRO
3.39      An important goal in the GOUP progrm  to improve completion and raise
learning achievement is the well-nmaged and orderly school, one that is responsive to
student and community needs and accountable for results. The first step in this direction has
been taken with the elinunation, with financial assistance from GOI through Operation
Blackboard, of nearly all single teacher schools. In-service teacher training and support from
cluster lead schools would contribute to improved school operations; and functional VECs
and a strengthened management information system would incrcase accountablity for
prformance.
3.40      To complement these program changes with improved management in the school,
the GOUP would upgrade teachers to head teachers (ie. school principals who also teach) and
appoint new head teachers in A primary and upper prinmary schools in project districts.
Training for head teachers would be focused on the skills needed to provide professional
supervision and support for teachers, for working effectively with Village Education
Committees and other community oganiaions, and for maintenance of facilities and
eAuipment. Trining would be provided initially by Teacher Training Institutes ('IMs) and
eventually by the DIETS. In addition to induction taining for newly appointed head teachers
in the first stages of the project, in-service taining would be introduced in later years.
ST-ENGIlU4NG PROGRANIS FO1R W(MM'S E2MUgATIO
3.41      Improved fcilities (imcluding latrines), early childhood care and education, better
teaching, and strengthened Village Education Committees are expected to improve the
attractiveness and retention power of schooling and non-formal education for girls (Annex 14
- Girls' and Women's Education). Removal of gender bias in curricula and materials, and
gender sensitivity training for teachers, are expected to reduce bias in classroom intewaction.
In addition, the GOUP would increase the proportion of female teachers in rural schools and
expand the Mahila Samakya program throughout project districts. Additional strategies,
including a schoLaship progmm for SC girls, would be tested as pilot projects (paragraph
3.47).
3.42      In project districts, 18 percent of primary and 48 percent of upper primary
teachers are female.1' The GOUP would seek to appoint female teachers to 50 percmt of
posts created in new and expanded primary schools, and as replacements due to turnover. If
successful, this effort should increase the percentage of female primary teachers in project
I' Female teachers are less likely to work in rural than in urban areas, and less than 20
percent of upper primary schools are located in nul areas



- 32 -
distrcts to approximately 22 percent. Under current GOUP policy, the potental supply of
female teachers willing to serve in rural primary schools wil be improved over the medium
term by actions taken to increase rral female secondary enrollments, allow secondary
graduites to enter the BTC teacher education programn be examination, and reserve 70
percent of BTC places for women. In the near term, progress is likely to be slow. Even
though teachers are posted in the district of residence (and trning), the ability of single
women to accept posts is limited by social conventions on living away from family; and the
ability to post married couples as teachers is limited by the small size of schools. The
project would finance the salaries of newly appointed female teachers in project districts on a
declining basis. At negotiations, the 0OUP provided assurances that it would appoint
females to 50 percent of new primary school posts and those arising from vacancies, and that
it would monitor, in conjunction with the GOI, the appointment of female teachers and
discuss the results annually with IDA.
3.43      Mahila Samakhya programs have been established in three project districts
(Varanasi, Banda, Saharanpur). In the remaining seven districts, the prqeect would support
gradual expansion of the program to about 1,400 vilages. The UP MS program will be
evaluated by the national MS team in the Department of Education, GOI, and the reports
made available to IDA. MS is expected to be represented on the EFAPB Board and
Executive Council, and on District Education Project Committees, to ensure appropriate
coordination and information exchange. Furniture, equipment, vehicles, educational
materials and incremental salaries and openg costs would be financed to establish
Implementation Units in each of the seven districts. At negotiations, the GOUP provided
assurances that the EPAPB would enter into an understanding, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA, providing for the implementation of the MS component of the project.
GOUP also gave assurances that it would ensure that the autonomy and national program
guidelines of Mahila Samakhya would be maintained in the program in Uttar Pradesh
throughout the life of the project.
3.44      In the 1980s the GOUP established 'women's cells' at both state and district
level to oversee special efforts for women in a number of sectors. Experience demonstrated
that, without direct authonty, such cells soon became isolated and ineffective. In the
proposed project responsibilities for women's programs would be specifically assigned to
positions and their incumbents at each level of the system. At the same time, the State is
increasing its efforts to recruit and place female officers within the system, although civil
service and seniority rules make this a longer-term process.
REHAABILITATING FACIMLITES
3.45      Much of the educational infastructure in the prqject districts is in poor shape.
There are 16,057 rural and 2060 urban primary and upper primary schools. Surveys at the
district level have identified 342 primary and 224 upper primary schools that are operating
without buildings. An additional 1049 primary and 280 upper prim   schools need
significant reconstruction and rehabilitation. Some 90 primary schools and 10 upper primary



- 33 -
schools in ura areas are operating in inadequate facilities, or must be moved to adjust to
changing demographic pattens. An additional 1220 classrooms would be needed for
increased enrollment, 10,161 primary and upper primay schools lack toilets, 5242 lack
drinking water, and 3049 are in need of minor repairs. The project would finance civil
works, equipment and maintenance required to overcome these deficiencies. Rural civil
works would be managed by Village Education Committees assisted by junior engineers on
the same basis as school construction. Urban civil works would be the responsibility of the
UP Public Works Department (PWD).
SUlPPR-TING PD[£T  LJMS-N    OVA9TI[ONS
3.46      The project strategy recognizes the need to test new strategies for cost-
effectiveness before adopting them for widespread replication, as well as the need for
flexibility in mounting small-scale, innovative programs to address special needs and to
explore ways to involve NGOs in project activities (Annex 15 - Pilot and Innovative
Programs).
3.47      Inital strategies identified for pilot testng include community libraries in
schools, targeted stipends financed by the project for about 2,000 SC girls annually for
two years, nonformal upper primary education, and work experience programs for upper
primary girls. Additional strategies are expected to emerge from implementation experience.
At negodations, the GOUP provided assurances that by October 31, 1996, pilot tests of these
strategies would be caried out in conjunction with the GOI in selected districts from the
ird year of the project onwards with appropriate evaluation by SCERT and SIEMT. In
addition, GOUP agreed to implement these programs in Project Districts in accordance with
criteria and procedures satisfactory to the Association, including criteria for selecting
recipients of stipends and awarding stipends and for selecting NGOs for participation in
project activities (Annex 15).
3.48      Innovative programs may be required for the relatively few migratory scheduled
tribe groups in hill districts. In addition, the educational needs of children in small and
isolated hamlets where schools would not be economical, and in minority communities with
altenative education systems, would need special attention. NGO involvement in service
delivery and monitoring and research activities would also be initiated during the prqject.
Proposals for innovative activities would be developed, rewiewed and implemented at the
district level. All programs would be assessed against EFAPB criteria for review of annual
district plans and budgets (Annex 9). The project would finance local fellowships,
educational materials, equipment, training, incremental salaries and honoraria, and
professional services. During negotiaions, the GOUP provided assurances that prior to
implementing the project in blocks with an ST population, it would conduct a study of the
educational needs of ST students under terms of reference acceptable to IDA and the GOI by
January 31, 1995, initiate a pilot test of appropriate intervention strategies by January 31,
1996, complete an evaluation for discussion with IDA at mid-term review, and thereafter
implement the project in accordance with procedures and delivery strategies govening



- 34 -
implementation of IDA-assisted projects affecting indigenous peoples. In conjunction with
this, GOUP gave assurances that it would conduct an evaluation by October 31, 1996 of the
leaning achievement of tribal children.
E. _M OVING ACCESS PO SDOUTLAY  S 91.78 MLION)
3.49      To improve equitable access to basic education, the GOUP would expand
primary and upper primary schooling, as well as non-formal primary education for children
unable to attend formal schools.
COMMMIN  SCHOOL CONST]RUCTI[ON 5Ql
3.50      There are 14,750 primary and 3365 upper primary schools in the ten initial
project districts. About 2050 habitations meet established norms for a primary school and
1070 for upper primary schools, but remain unserved. The project would finance
construction, learning materials, equipment, training and incremental salary costs of opening
schools in these habitations. Approximately 300,000 primary and 150,000 upper primary
places would be cieated. Fifty percent of upper primary schools would be single-sex girls
schools, to increase female participation in school at that level (See Annex 14). Construction
would be financed through and managed by Village Education Committees. Sites would be
chosen by the VEC and provided from common village land. The project would also finance
grants to VECs for maintaining the schools for the duration of the project (Annex 16 -
Community School Construction).
3.51      Head teachers would be posted to the community at the beginning of the school
year in which construction would be completed. The head teacher and the Chairperson of
the VEC would be responsible for managing the construction of the school, with technical
supervision by block level engineers supervised, in turn, by a professional engineer at the
district level. Block engineers would be present to directly supervise roof construction in all
sites. All engineers would be retained full-time by the EFAPB. At negotiations, GOUP
provided assurances that it would ensure that schools are constructed and operated through
VECs in accordance with arrangements satisfactory to IDA, and that it would provide a
report on community school construction to IDA by January 31 of each year.
3.52      Schools would be opened on certification of completion by the Block Engineer
and the EFA Society engineer. Teachers would be posted from the waiting list of trained
teachers. A three-week induction refresher course would be provided to all newly appointed
teachers, initially in normal colleges and in District Institutes of Education and Training once
they become fully operational. The headteacher would be responsible for the purchase of
furniture and learning materials, using funds provided for school accounts from the EFA
Society through the District Education officer.



- 35 -
3.53      In 1992, a NORAD evaluadon found severe weaknse in the nonformal
primary education progam (NFE). Under this project, the NFE component has been
redesigned based on the findings of the NORAD evaluation. A major change would be to
shift control of NFE classes to tie VECs,   anied by asstance with needs assessment
and planning from block nonfonnal education staff. The need for NFE casses would be
detennined by VECs. Recruitment, payment of honorria, and supervision of teachers and
selection of venue would also be undertaken by the Village Educadon Committee. Improved
learning texts have been developed in draft form. Problems with mateials distibution would
be addressed by the creation of NFE materials kits, which would be distrbuted through
district education officials to the VECs.
3.54      Each NFE class would have 25 students. bstuctors would be provided with a
two week pre-service traiing program and regular m-service trning. The project would
finance leaning materials, training, supervision and honoraria for instructors for the opening
of about 5,000 NFE classes under the new program, with a total benefit Qf about
265,500 students (Annex 27). During negotiations, the GOUP provided assurances that it
would conduct a systematic evaluation of the NFE progrm at the beginning of the third year
of the project for discussion with IDA at mid-tenn review.
IV. MO= COST$, iN NG AND lMPLTATION
A. COST llSTD
4.1       Summar of ,. The total cost of the project, including duties and taxes, is
mated at about Rs. 7,287.9 milion or US$ 193.9 million equivalent. The breakdown of
costs of the proosed project by component, categories of expenditure and sub-component for
the project is summized in Tables 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3. Deailed costs of the project by
component, categories of expendiue, and tme are given in Annex 17.



- 36 -
Table 4.1: GM by C Q_
Local  Foreign   Total      Local  Foelgn   TotOd    % of
Component              Rupee (MiOlon)               US$ Mion)          cost
Building Institutional
Capacity                 452.46  55.85   608.31      17.27    2.13   19.40    10
Improving Quality and
Completion              1970.64 292.68  2,263.32     75.22   11.17   86.39    43
Improving Access        2331.62 202.82  2,534.44     88.99    7.74   96.73    47
Base Costs              4754.72 551.35  5,306.07    181.48   21.04  202.52   100
Contingencies           1617.43 364.36  1,981.79     -12.60    3.94   -8.66    -4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS    6,372.15 915.71           7.28                   7.86 £*AM   J1fl8  98
4.2        Basis of cost estimates. Estimated costs for civil works are based on current unit
costs for construction which vary from US$ 70 to US$ 90 per square meter of gross floor
area of construction. These costs are reasonable for comparble IDA-assisted consucton in
India. Costs of professional services for design reflect. the scale of fees established for
similar semrices provided by local architecural consulting firms. Costs for supervision of
construction reflect the standard establishment charges of the PWD in Uttar Pradesh.
Estimated equipment, vehicles and educational materials costs are product of lists developed
by GOI and the State of Uttar Pradesh, and include import duties and taxes. Furniture and
consumable material costs are based on GOI and the state esfimates and reflect current
prices. Estimated costs for the salaries of additional staff are based on basic pay scales
including standard allowances for social and other benefits applicable in the project state.



-37 -
TabI 4.2: Coats kg Catggds of Emanditure
Ruposs (MiMon)                  US, IMaion     % of
Cot,gory of                  Local    Forclgn    Toa          Local  Foreign   Total    B
Investment Cost
Civii Works                 1475.53  416.17    1891.70       56.32    15.88   72.20    36
Professional Fees            160.82   28.38     189.20         6.14    1.08    7.22     4
Furniture                     65.61    8.49     72.10          2.50    0.25    2.75     1
Equipment                     13.33   47.39     60.72         0.51     1.81    2.32     1
Educadonal Materials         319.77   35.54    355.31         12.20    1.36   13.56     7
Vehicles                      7.58    0.78       8.30         0.29    0.03    0.32      0
Books                         65.39    7.28     72.65          2.50    0.27    2.77     1
Local Fellowships            113.80     -       113.80        4.34             4.34     2
Looal Trasling              233.34      -      233.34         8.91             8.91     5
StudIos                       21.00             21.00         0.80             0.80     0
Non-Governmental Organizadon  50.00     -        O.00         1.91     -       1.91    1
Subtotal                   2,526.14  541.98   3,068.12       96.42   20.68   117.10    58
Reouw.nt Costs
Saries of Additional Staff  2050.40     -     2050.40        78.26      -     78.26    39
Operation and Maintenance    158.71    8.35    167.06         6.06    0.32     6.38     3
Building Maintenance          19.47    1.03     20.50         0.74    0.04    0.78      0
Subtotal                   2,228.58    9.38   2,237.96       85.06    0.36   85.42    42
Tota Base Cost             4,754.72  551.35   5,306.07       181.48    21.04  202.52    100
contingencies               1617.43  364.36    1981.79       -12.60    3.94   -8.66    .4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS        6,372.15  915.71   7,287.86       168.88   24.98  193.86    96
4.3         Customs duties and taxes. All imported goods are subject to customs duties and
taxes. The esdtmted cost of the project includes import duties and taxes estimated to cost at
about US$ 3.2 million.
4.4         con'   g      " allowances  Estimated project costs include physical contingencies
(US$ 15.2 million) esimated at 10 percent of all physical components and at 05 percent for
technical assistance, salaries, and opeton and maintenance costs. The estimated costs of
the project also include price contingencies (US$ -23.8 million) to cover expected price
escalation at the following rtes. Por civil works, goods, salades, technical assistance, and
operation and mainteance - foreign costs: 3.1 percent in FY93 through FYOO; local costs: 8



- 38 -
percent in FY93, 7 percent in PY94, 6 percent in FY95, 5.5 percent in FY96, and 5 prent
in FY97 through FYOO.
Tabl 4.3: t  b
Rupe (PAMiN)                      uss (moilon)       % of
Componentl
Sub-Copamnnt          Lol       FifOlgn     Totad          Local  Foeign   Total  C
lGuldin Ine0Ofonal
CaDadtv
Structures                  311.10     42.31      383.41        11.87     1.61   13.48    7
Information                 141.36     13.54      164.90         5.40     .52   6.92    3
Subtotal                    452.46     55.85      508.31        17.27     2.13   19.40    10
Imarovina ualitv and
,Comptbtior
Readiness to Leam            49.81     19.24       69.05         1.90     .73   2.63      1
Failities Improvement       592.71    158.19      751.90        22.62    6.08  28.70    14
Teachers and Staff          284.30      0.03      284.33        10.85    0.00   10.85     6
Perfornancs
Curriculum & Textbooks      162.75     10.85      173.00         6.28     0.41    6.60    3
School Management           44B.66     89.64      536.30        17.05     3.43  20.48    10
Women's Efducation          314.33     10.32      324.65        12.00    0.39  12.39    7
Innovaive Programs          119.09      3.41      122.50         4.565    0.13   4.68     2
Subtotal                  1,969.65    292.68    2.262.33        75.22    11.17  86.39    43
ImgoR*a Access
ElementarV Education       2212.72    197.58    2,410.30        84.45     7.64  91.99    45
Nonfofmal Eduoation         118.90      6.24      124.14         4.S4     0.20   4.74    2
Subtotal                  2,331.62    202.82    2,534.44        88.89     7.74  96.73    47
Total Bae     4,753.72    551.35    6,305.07       181.48   21.04 202.52    100
Costs
1617.43    364.36     1981.79       -12.60    3.94  -8.BB    .4
Contingencies
TOTAL PROJECT COST        6,371.15    915.71    7,286.86       168.88   24.98 193.86    96
4.5         Egiga exchans Qn             . Thm aetimed foreg  exchange component of
US$ 25.0 million is calculated on the basis of esmated foreign exchange proportions as
follows: (a) civil works 22 percent; (b) fiuniitre 9 pucent; (c) equipment 78 percent;
(d) locally produced vehicles 9 percent; (e) locally produced educational mateials,
consumable and books, 10 percent; (f) opertion and maintenance costs 5 percent.



-39-
4.6       The estimated total project cost of US$ 193.9 million would be financed by an
IDA credit of US$ 165.0 million equivalent, which would cover 87 percent of costs net of
taxes. The State of Uttar Pradesh would finance the remagig costs of US$ 25.70 million
and all taxes. The financing plan by project component and by category of expenditure is
oudined in Annex 18.
C. RN  cOST
4.7       The investment costs of the proect for the first four years, or the balance of the
Eighth Five Year Plan, are approximately US$ 100 million, representing about 45 percent of
the total provisional Eighth Plan investnent in elementary education. The balance of project
investments would be assumed under the Ninth Plan. The project thus represents a
substantial shwe of planned State investment costs.
4.8       Recent trends in State fincing for education show that education has increased
as a share of total State expendiues from 14 percent in 1980-82 to 19 percent in 1989-91.
Within this increased share, the proportion going to elementary education has increased from
49 percent to 55 percent over the same period, demoIst-ating an increasing State
comtnunt to basic educaton. However, analysis suggests ta the recent upward treds in
education financing in Uttar Pradesh may be flattening as the overall rate of State
expenditue growth has slowed.
4.9       The project would incorporate a number of measures designed to reduce the
iabilities on state recurrent cost budgets, including deputaton and limited term contracts for
managerial staff and low-cost community school constuction. Preliminary costing puts the
annual reent cost burden of the project at US$ 15 million in the seventh year, including
contingencies. This is 4.5 percent of 1992 Stae recurent expenditures on elementary
education and 0.5 perct of totl State recrt expenditures. Assuming that the total
recurent expenditures on elementary education grow at five percent annually over the life of
the proect, the annual recunrent cost burden of the prject would be equal to 3.2 perent of
recurent expenditures on elementary educaton in the year 2000. As a sbare of total
recurent expenditures for education, the additional annual costs resulting from the project
would be equal to 1.7 percent at the end of the prqject, and aoxmately 0.3 percent of
total State recurrent expenditus (Annex 7).



- 40 -
D. flROJEa INMEI
4.10      As soon as the project becomes effective several project launch acdvities will be
undertaken to ensure that the whole UP education community is aware of the project, the
strategic policy directions it entails and the opportunities it presents, as well as to provide
initial training of State, District and School Cluster staff directy involved in project
implementation on their responsibility and accountability under the project. During
negotations, the GOUP provided assurances that it would by January 31, 1994, carry out
project launch activities consisting of at least a state level project seminar, a state level
seminar on procurement and disbursement under Bank-assisted projects, and selected district
level and thematic activities safisfactory to the Association.
4.11      The proposed project is large in scale, even though it would assist programs in
only 10 of Uttar Pradesh's 63 districts. In addition, the need to simultaneously address
shortcomings in the delivery of education services and build institutional capacity at the state,
district, block and village levels increases project complexity. Effective management of a
large and complex project requires a flexible executive agency with substantal decsion
maldng power, appropriate accountability, decentalizaon of significant elements of the
work to competent implementation organizations, means for ensuring the accountability of
such organizations to the executive body, and mechanisms that provide the information
needed for informed decisions at all levels of the program. The management arrangements
for the project would meet these criteria (see Annex 9 for a detiled analysis).
4.12      As noted earlier, (para 3.15), the central sponlity for implementation is at
the state level and would be vested in the Department of Education. The capacity of the
Department would be strengthened by the UP EFA Project Board. The EFA Board would
have direct responsibility for implementaion of the State's basic education development
program by funding, coordinafing, and supervising all project activities. The Director of
Basic Educatior is the e    State Prqect Director. Actual day-to-day management of
the project would be vested in a senior official with the rank of Additional Stat Prtect
Director who has already been appointed.
4.13      The EFAPB has been established as a regisrd  society under state law. The
Board consists of a Council chaired by the Chief Minister; membersip consists of GOUP
ministers and senior secretaries, senior officials in project implementation orgnizations,
teacher and citiz  representatives, and NGO representatives. GOI representadves are
members of both the Council and the Executive Committee. The majority of Council
members are ex-officio GOUP officials. The Council will meet at least twice a year, and
approve policies and annual programs on behalf of the GOUP. An Executive Committee
(EC) chaired by the Chief Secretay, with the Principal Socreay Education as Vice
Chainnman, consists of key secrearies (finance, planning, social welae), senior officials
from project implemention organiios ("coopeting agencies") and citizen's
representatives. Major policy decisions will be  kn jointly by fte GOI and GOUP. The
EC will be responsible for recommendation of policy directions to the Council and for



- 41 -
supenrviion of program implementation. The high-level nature of the Council and the EC
will permit rwid decision-malkng, much along the same lines as "empowered committees"
that have successfully implemented past WIDA-assisted projects in the social sectors, such as
the Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project (Cr. 1003-IN). Society status also permits the
establishment of a separate banking and accounting system, which will help to ensure that
project funds are fully used for agreed objectives and activities, and disbursed in a timely
manner.
4.14      The accountability of the Board to the GOUP is established by the structure of
membership of the Council and the EC. In addition, the Board will be fully funded by the
GOUP on the basis of annual work plans and budget estimates, through quarterly advances
from the GOI and the GOUP. An autonomous statutory body (Basic Shiksha Parishad) has
effectively managed the administation of elementary education in Uttar Pradesh since 1972,
with funding in the form of grants from the GOUP Department of Education. Societies have
also been effective in implementing government programs in other sectors and states of India;
an example has been the national leprosy eradication program. The Memorandum of
Association and By-Laws of the EFA Project Board have been reviewed and found
satisfactory to IDA.
4.15      The Board will manage the implementatic. of project activities through
coopertng agecies (CAs). The key agencies and areas of responsibility are shown in
Figure 4.1. In this decentralized management process, accountability of CAs would be
estlished through an annual planning, budgeting and reportng system, with supervision
from the EFAPB. The Council will review annual progress, and will be empowered to
suspend funding or approve changes in CA-, with IDA concurrence, in the case of poor
p,erformance. For example, should any district consistently fail to meet targets, funds could
be shifted to other districts. At negotations, the COUP provided assurances that it would:
(a) review annually with IDA project implementation over the preceding twelve months; (b)
discuss with IDA by December 31, of each year, annual work plans and budgets for the next
twelve months; (c) carry out by October 31, 1996 a mid-term review of the project; (d)
discuss dunng the mid-tern review the project related plan for the development of basic
education in UP; (e) take account of IDA's comments in the subsequent implementation of
that plan.



- 42 -
Figure 4.1: Pro£  M emt and hnlfldln RondblUtes
Implementation                   Accountable
Cooperating Agency        Responsibilities                  Official
Directorate, Basic        Overall Implementation            Director, Basic Education
Education                 responsibility for                (State EFAPB Project
GOUP                             Director, Si
Development of
MIS system
EFA Project Board         Program planning,                 Additional State Project
monitoring and                   Director
supervision
Procurement
Public Works              Management of major               Secretary, PWD
Department (PWD)          civil works
State Council for         Curriculum research &             Director, SCERT
Education Research &      development
Training (SCERT)          Textbook revision
Teacher training
DIETs
State Institute of        Policy and evaluation             Director, SIEMT
Education Management &    studies
Training (SIEMI)          Assessment studies
Training in planning &
maaement
Mahila Samakhya           Implementation of                 Director, MS Society
Society (MS)              women's empowerment
program
District Education        Implementation of                 Disrict Project
Project Commitees         district programs.                Director
o Community civil
works supevision
o District MIS development
o In-service training
delivery
o VEC development
o Pilot and innovative
programs
ViSlage Education         Implementation of                 VEC Chairperson
Commies                   civil works                       (Village Chiet)
School supervision               H e



-43 -
4.16      At the district, the patten of accountability would be replicated for the
community school construction program. Based on site and building surveys already
completed, VECs would be asked to submit proposals for school construction or renovation
to the District Education Project Committee (DEPC). The proposal would provide proof of
site availability, agreement to provide community labor contributions, proof of the
establishment of a separate bank account, and a proposed schedule for completing the work.
Prposals would be reviewed by District proect officials, including a site visit. This process
would introduce an element of competition among communities, and, to some extent, would
increase the chances of schools being constructed where community demand is strongest.
4.17      District Education Project Committees would also be responsible for prepang
proposals for innovative programs (i.e., NGO progams) as part of annual work program and
budget proposals to the Board. During negotdations, the GOUP provided assurances that
District Education Project Committees would be established in each project district by
January 31, 1994, with membership and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA.
4.18      The Board would be assisted by a professional staff of 21 persons, organized into
divisions for Planning and Monitoring, Civil Works, Accounting, School Education and Non-
formal Education. Located in the premises of the Directorate of Basic Education, this group
would supdvise and monitor the work of cooperating agencies, process disbursement
documentation, and prepare quarterly and annual reports for IDA.
4.19      A comprehensive project monitoring system would be established at the Board.
It would draw on the education MIS system of the Dietrate of Basic Education, annual
project implementation reports submitted by CAs, curriculum evaluation provided by the
SCERT, assessments, evaluation and policy studies conducted by the SIEMT, and reports of
the Board's own supervision work.
4.20      Among the coperating agencies, District Education Project Committees
(including their professional staff) and the State Institute of Education Management and
Training (SEiMT) would be established by January 31, 1994. The SCERT, DIETS and
Mahila Samakhya Society would be strengted through investments in staff training,
equipment, vehicles and inftrue improvements.
E. PROlJECl MOIk RN    AND EVAATION
4.21      P sogrs toward the achievement of project objecdves would be monitored in
four ways against a defined set of indicators (Annex 21 - Project Monitoring Plan). First,
All unserved communities are disadvantaged; however, to protect against the
possibility that the less disadvantaged communiies would predominate in this process,
district project teams would provide assiMance with commuiitY mobilization and
proposal development where needed.



-44-
sample-based baseline and follow-up assessments of school effectiveness would measure
changes in enrollments, completion and learning achievement, identifying classroom, school
and community factors associated with these changes. Second, the GOUP has agreed to a
program of planning and evaluation studies, the results of which would be discussed with
IDA and the GOI at annual and mid-term reviews. Third, a computeized project monitoring
system to track civil works, training and other key activities, accounts and disbursements,
would be established, with progress summaries prepared in advance of each supervision
mission. Fourth, IDA supervision missions would review all components, but pay particular
attention to progress in the institutional development activities (Annex 22 - Supervision Plan).
F. PREPARATION PROCESS
4.22      The initial project proposal was developed by the Directorate of Basic Education
in close collaboration with district-level staff. Preparation began with brainstorming sessions
at the district level that included teachers and block-level functionaties. A first draft State
proposal was prepared, and discussed in turn at the district level. District-specific plans,
work programs and budgets were then developed within the framework of the state proposal.
The Government of India provided technical assistance and ongoing apprisal for the process.
State-wide discussions of basic education were held at the district, block and community level
in September, 1992. These widespread consultations confirmed the broad strategic approach
being taken by the GOUP.
G. STATUS OF PREPARATION
4.23      Educational Aspects. In pearation of the component on Building
Institutional Capacity, the GOUP has completed an independent evaluation of rsrch and
monitoring capacity, prepared a management plan for the EPA Project Board, and completed
a plan for MIS system development. Preparation activities for the component on Improving
Quality and Completion, in addition to the baseline beneficiary assessments noted below
aragph 4.26), have included a complete gender bias review of textbooks and
nonformal education materials, a review of textbook production quality, and small-scale field
testing of learning mateaials based on Minimum Levels of Learning curriculum standards.
For the component on Improving Access, the GOUP has completed school mapping
exercises, an independent review of school construction quality, and the development of
altemative school building designs. In addition, action plans for the ten district programs
have been completed. All of these studies and plans were reviewed at appraisal and found to
be satisfactory.
4.24      Social aspect. Baseline studies of the benefits of schooling for different gender
and caste groups, and of the individual, school and community factors associated with
retention and learning achievement, were completed prior to appraisal, along with focus
group discussions in 35 communities on barriers to enrollment in and completion of
schooling and strategies for improvement. The results of these studies were discussed at
appraisal in workshops involving Village Education Committee Chairpe s, teachers, block



- 45 -
and district education officials, and NGO representatives, and taken into account in final
project design (Annex 4 - Baseline Beneficiary Studies).
4.25      The project would provide intensive support for the operationalization of Village
Education Committees, which would provide a principal mechanism for beneficiary
involvement in the management of schools and related education programs, improving
accountability of the system to the people it is intended to serve.
4.26      Site. Sites for the construction of new schools, school complex and Block
Resource Centers have been identified. No problems are anticipated in acquisition of sites as
they are made available from Government land in rural areas. Additional construction for
the extension of existing schools would not require additional land. The annual construction
programs which are to be developed by the state would give priority to those schools where
sites are already acquired. The sites for facilities to be constructed during the first year of
the project have been selected and acquired.
4.27      Designs and prepardon of drawings. Standard designs for the construction of
new schools, school complexes and block research centers have been developed. These ae
consistent with approved government standards. Standard architectural designs have been
prepared and reviewed by the appraisal mission. Topographical site surveys, soil tests and
analysis, where required for new construction, have stated for the first year construction
program. The GOUP would prepare draft annual plans for construction of new facilities and
rehabilitation of existing fHcilities as part of the annual work plan and budgeting exercise to
be discussed with IDA (see paagraph 4.16).
4.28      Arrangements for the primary school construction have been prepared following
the Village Education Committee's existing pattern. Standard bidding documents for
constction under LCB procedures have been already prepared and approved by the
Association.
4.29      Furniture, equiment, vehicles books. educagion material and staffing.
Procurement lists have been prepared by the State and the DOE and are based on the
Department of Education standards in use. These were reviewed and found acceptable
during appraisal. A schedule of staff to be appointed under the project has been completed
(Annex 23 - Staffing Plan).
H. DISBRSEM
4.30      Disbursmnt1fljrQ . The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed over seven
years, consistent with the standard profile for PHR projects in India. The project is expected
to be completed on March 31, 2000 and the credit closed on September 30, 2000. The
presence of a first-time Borrower and experience with other PHR projects reinforce the
justification for a standard disbursement profile. Annex 19 shows forecasts of expenditures
and disbursements.



- 46 -
4.31      Disbursement percenges and   qired documentation The IDA credit would be
disbursed against 90 percent of expenditures on civil works; 100 percent of consultants, NGO
services, stipends for SC girls, VEC grants and training; 100 percent of CIF and ex-factory
costs or 80 percent of other local expenditure on furniture, equipment and books; 65 percent
of the cost of vehicles; and 75 percent of incremental staff alaries and other incremental
operating costs on a declining basis, beginning with 90 percent in the first two years,
declining to 80 percent for the third, fourth and fifth year, and 65 percent in the sixth and
seventh year of the project. Other incremental operating costs include supplies, incremental
vehicle operating costs and maintenance. Disbursements for school construction through
community action would be made against Statements of Expenditure based on certification of
satisfactory completion of each stage of the work (foundation, walls, and roof).
Disbursements for school rehabilitation and repair would be made against Statement of
Expenditures certifying satisfactory completion. The state government would maintain
complete records, by site, of work accomplished and funds disbursed, including certificates
of completion signed by the block engineer and countersigned by the District Engineer and
District Project Officer. Disbursements for procurement of goods and services under
contracts of less than US$ 300,000 and US$ 100,000 respectively, civil works contracts
under US$ 500,000, and stipends for SC and ST girls and VEC grants would also be made
against Statements of Expenditure, with supporting documentation retained by the state
government for review by IDA during supervision missions. All other disbursements would
be made against fully documented withdrawal applications.
4.32      Special Account and central government advance to the State. In order to
accelerate disbursements in respect of IDA's share of expenditures pre-financed by the GOI
and the state government, and to allow for direct payment of other eligible local and foreign
expenditures, a Special Account would be opened in the Reserve Bank of India in the amount
of US$ 6.80 million equivalent to cover four months of expected requirements for IDA
financed items. In addition, the GOI would release an advance (not drawn from IDA Credit
proceeds) of an estimated three months of expected project requirements for IDA financed
items as Additional Central Assistance (ACA) to the GOUP. GOUP would place this
advance, together with its own contribution in the account of the EFA Project Board. GOI
would, in turn, release additional ACA to the GOUP linked to subsequent disbursements by
IDA against eligible expenditures.
4.33      Retroactive financing. Retroactive financing in the amount of US$700,000
(approximately four percent of the proposed credit) would cover eligible expenditures
incurred in implementing appraised project activities after March 31, 1993. Retroactive
financing would support initial staff appointments, development of the project monitoring
system, and pilot construction of community schools to test designs and cost parameters. All
procurement would be made against eligible categories of exapenditures in the project, and
would follow IDA procurement guidelines.



-47-
L PROR
4.34      Procurement arrangements are summaized in Annex 20. Project-related
procurement for goods and services would follow procedums acceptable to IDA using ICB
and LCB documents acceptable to IDA. Project-financed consultants would be selected
according to Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers. Procurement
of equipment, vehicles, furniture, books and educational materials would be bulked to the
extent possible and any individual contract exceeding US$ 300,000 would be procured using
ICB. Purchases of vehicles and off-the-shelf items through rate contracts would be
acceptable in packages of less than US$ 10,000.
4.35      Civil works (MJS 71.50 million. Ninety-eight percent of civil works, estimated
at US$ 70.1 million, would be for small, scattered construction of schools, block resource
centers, and school complex buildings, and for school rehabilitation and repair, with a
maximum base cost per primary school site of US$ 12,000. School construction and
rehabilitationlrepair (US$ 67.6 million) would be carried out through the community school
construction program. Civil works for District Institutes of Education and Training
(US$ 0.55 million), with estimated construction costs of US$ 55,000 per site, and the State
Institute of Education Management and Training (US$ 750,000), and Block Resource Center
buildings (US$ 2.6 million, or less than US$ 15,000 per center) would be carried out
through LCB procedures acceptable to IDA under the management of the State Public Works
Department (Annex 26 - Civil Works Plans).
4.36      Eqment (USS 2.70 million). Equipment would be purchased on an annual
basis in accordance with the phasing of project activities. Equipment consists of office and
audio visual equipment (computers, TVs, VCRs, typewriters) with unit costs less than US$
10,000, and small items (science laboratory equipment, science kits) with unit costs of less
than US$ 500. Because of the phasing of the project, and the diversity of items to be
poured, ICB procedures would generally not be practicable. Contracts of equipment valued
at US$ 300,000 or less would be made through LCB procedures acceptable to IDA.
Purchases of equipment totalling US$ 50,000 or less, and not exceeding in aggregate
US$ 2.2 million or equivalent or about 81 percent of total equipment costs, may be awarded
on the basis of rate contract or prdent shopping with solicitation of price quotations from at
least three vendors.
4.37      Vehicles (US= .30 Midllion). Vehicles would be purchased over the life of the
project though local shopping procedures acceptable to IDA, or through rate contracts for
packages of US$ 100,000 or less.
4.38 Furniture (US$ 2.7Q million), books (IJC$ 2.68 million) and educational and
consumable materials (     13.30 million). Furniture and educational materials would be
purchased in accordance with the phaing of the project. Books and educational materials
would be in Hindi, and are available from local manufaturers, as is furniture. Contacts for
the purchase of books, furiture and educational materials estimated to cost less than



- 48 -
US$ 50,000 up to an aggregate of US$ 15.4 million equivalent may be awarded on the basis
of prudent shopping with solicitation of price quotations from at least three bidders.
Contracts valued at more than US$ 50,000 would be awarded on the basis of LCB
procedures acceptable to IDA.
4.39      Studies (US$ .7 million. Local consultants for specific studies would be
selected by the EFAPB, advised by the Policy Research Advisory Committee, according to
the Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants and contracts valued at US$ 100,000
equivalent or more would be subject to prior review and approval of IDA. Individuals
undertaing fellowships (US$ 4.0 million) and trainers identified for local training (US$ 8.2
million) will be assigned and appointed respectively by EFAPB.
4.40      MA Review. All procurement under ICB as well as the first three LCB
contracts for the procurement of goods and works would be subject to prior review and
approval of IDA. Civil works contracts estimated to cost US$ 500,000 or more and
contracts for the procurement of equipment and goods estimated to cost US$ 300,000 or
more would be subject to prior IDA review and approval.
4.41      Table 4.4 on the following page summarizes the project elements and their
estimated costs and proposed methods of procurement.



- 49 -
Table 4.4: Summary of Pronosed Proremert Aranaements
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Procurement Elements           ICB    LCB    OTHER   total       Costs
1.        Works
1.1  Civil Works               -     3.9      67.6       -      71.5
(3.9)    (60.8)           (64.3)
2.        Goods
2.1  Fumiture, Equipment,
Educational and                 3.9      17.9      -       21.6
Consumable Materials,           (3.4)    (16.3)           (19.7)
Vehicles, Books
3.        Training/Technical Assistance
3.1  Professional Services     -      -        7.0       -       7.0
(7.0)             (7.0)
3.2  Local Fellowships and     -      -        4.7       -       4.7
Studies                                  (4.7)             (4.7)
3.3  Local Training                   -        8.2               8.2
(8.2)            (8.2)
3.4  NGO Services, stipends    -      -        1.8               1.8
for SC and ST girs and                   (1.8)             (1.8)
VEC grants
4.         Miscellaneous
4.1  Salaries of Additional           -       72.4       -      72.4
Staff                                   (54.2)            (54.2)
4.2  Operation and             -               5.9       -       5.9
Maintenance                              (4.5)             (4.5)
4.3  Building Maintenance      -      -        0.8       -       0.8
(0.6)            (0.6)
Total                                     -      7.6    186.3             193.9
(6.9)  (158.1)           (165.0)
N.B.F.: Not Bank Financed.
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amount financed by the IDA Credit.



- 50 -
J. AhCCOUNTS AND AUDM
4.42      The project expenditu  incurred by Uttar Pradesh would be subject to the
normal GOI and State accounting and auditing procedures, with the added requirement that
the EFAPB would establish and maintain separate accounts and an accounting system, to
record all project transactions and appropriate support documentation for the transactions.
EFAPB accounts would be subject to audit by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA.
4.43      Audits of Central and State accounts, the Special Account and financial
statements of the project including a separate opinion on Statement of Expenditures (SOE),
would be subject to normal 001 accounting and auditing procedures which are considered
satisfactory to IDA. Documentation supporting SOEs would be maintained at least one year
after the completion of the audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal was made.
The Special Account would show all withdrawal requests disbursed, amounts advanced and
reimbursed by JDA, and balance at the end to each accounting period. The consolidated
audit reports would be submitted to the Association not later than nine months after the end
of each financial year. The audits will cover all project expenditures until such time as the
credit has been closed.
V. BENEFIT AND RISKS
A.    aTS
5.1       The project would deepen and accelerate the basic education reform program of
the GOUP. Specific benefits would be (a) stronger institutional capacity for planning,
management, monitoring, research and evaluation; (b) improved quality of education and
reduced dropout rtes, resulting in an estimated 1 million additional students completing
primary education and acquiring basic litercy sklfls; and (c) access to basic education for an
additional 800,000 students, including 350,000 in nonformal classes. The project would
provide lessons of experience for further investments in Uttar Pradesh and in the nation.
B. RISKS
5.2       While confident that basic education is a key long-term priority for India, IDA
staff and project authorities also recognize the significant risks associated with this venture.
There are financial and implementation risks, as well as the risks inherent in the social and
organizational change elements of the project strategy.
5.3       Financial rsks are both medium and long-term. In the medium term, financial
analysis indicates that the State can commit the budgetary resources needed to implement the
project and should be able to sustain recurent costs when the project is completed.
However, positive trends in the share of State expenditures going to education, and within



- 51 -
this to elementary education, have slowed in the past two years. Ovetall, State finances are
under considerable pressure, and revenue growth is uncertain. In the longer-term, the
capacity of the state to provide the capital investment and recurrent expenditures required to
extend the reform program to all of UP's 63 districts is less certain. The capital investment
required to reach full enrollment by the year 2000 would be more than five times that of the
Eighth Plan; recurrent expenditures would have to increase at a compound rate of more than
11 percent annually to sustain the full investment program. These fmancial targets are likely
to be difficult to achieve without substantial shifts in State budget priorities. Thus the
capacity of the state to implement and sustain the full reform program would depend heavily
on both the pace of economic growth and the ability of the State government to shift
resources from currently less productive purposes towards the social sectors generally, and
basic education specifically.
5.4       Project implementation in Uttar Pradesh has often been unatisfctory. The
bureaucratic structure of the State has tended to operate through directives, with little
participation and ownership. Financial flows to support projects have often been interrupted.
Information on progress and outcomes has been lackdng, maing it difficult to adjust and
improve stategies. These risks pose particular challenges to the proposed project, which
would require effective coordination of decentralized activities reaching down through
districts into communities.
5.5       The project strategy incorporates significant elements of social and organizational
change. Village Education Committees are to be developed to shoulder increasing
responsibilities for basic education, with women and SC/ST representatives gaining voice.
Gender bias and discriminatory attitudes and behaviors with respect to SC/ST students are to
be changed. Teacher motivation is to be improved. New state institutional capacity is to be
developed. These process activities are central to achieving project objectives, but there is a
significant risk that they could be overwhelmed by attention to the more tangible activities of
school construction and repair, and prurement.
5.6       A number of direct measures have been incorporated in the project design to
offset some risks. Annual state budgets and expenditures would be monitored to ensure that
the State maintains its financing obligations to the project. In addition, a comprehensive plan
and financing strategy for the futre extension of the program would be prepared by project
mid-term review. In developing this plan, the State would consider alternative stategies for
reducing costs (such as double shifting), for phaing the program over a longer period of
time, and for mobilizing additional resources.
5.7       To address implementation risks, the 001 and the GOUP have taken a number of
steps to increase owneship in prparing the prposed project Community leaders, teachers,
block and district staff took part in the preparation of district action plans. Project resources
would be earmarked, and a mechanism for advance funding of the EFAPB would be
established to ensure availability of funds. The project would improve the infonration



- 52 -
available to managers by strengthening both the monitoring and resarch capacity of state and
district institutions.
5.8       However, project authonities recogrvze that all risks cannot be dealt with tough
analysis and design, especially for innovative programs in uncertain envroments. Ile
project management structure has thus been consciously designed for risk management. The
EFAPB has access to the highest level of decision making within the State and the GOI. The
annual planning and budgeting cycle managed by the EFAPB gives all parties a voice in the
process of implementation, and provides an opportunity to identy and reinforce at points of
weakness, to shift resources among project components, or even to shift resources to other
districts. The annual cycle would be reinforced by a substantive mid-term review, at which
specified studies and evaluations would be considered. These mechanisms would be
especially important in managing implementation risks and the risks associated with social
and organizational change, all areas of endeavor with high degrees of innovation and little
prior experience to use as a guide.
VI. AGREE MEN1 H1
6. 1      During negotiations, the GOUP provided assurances that it would:
(a)  Carry out by January 31, 1994, Project launch activities consisting of at least a
state level Project seminar, a state level seminar on disbursement and
prourement under Bank assisted Projects, selected district level and thematic
activities satisfactory to the Association (Parm 4.10).
(b)  Appoint key staff to the EFAPB by December 31, 1993 (Pam. 3.16)
(c)  Legally establish SIEMT and appoint the Director and key professional staff
appointed by January 31, 1994 (Pam. 3.17).
(d)  Establish District Education Project Committees in each project district by
January 31, 1994, with membership and terms of reeence satisfcory to IDA
(Pam. 4.17).
(e)  Prpare by October 31, 1996, in consultation with EPAPB and furnish to the
Association a plan for the extension of the basic education program in Uttar
Pradesh (Pam. 3.18).
(f)  Appoint the principal and core staff of each DIET by January 31, 1994, and
complete staffing by June 30, 1994 (Par 3.20).



- 53 -
(g)  Replicate the assessment program in aU 10 project districts, and one control
district, during the first (by December 31, 1994), third (1996) and sixth (1999)
years of the project and report results to IDA during annual, midterm and prqect
completion reviews (Pan. 3.25).
(h) Select research studies to be carried out in accordance with criteria satisfactory to
the Association and establish a Policy Research Advisory Committee with
membership and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association (Para 3.26).
(i)  Establish and maintain VECs in all villes where the Project is carried out and
ensure that at least one woman would be a member of each VEC (Para. 3.28).
j)  Complete annually, in conjunction with the GOI, evaluations of VEC
effectiveness, including female membership, for discussion with IDA (Pam.
3.29).
(k)  Complete a study of factors, including incentives, that contribute to the
willingness of teachers to accept and persist ir posts in rural primary and upper
primary schools, and discuss the results with IDA at mid-term review by October
31, 1996 (Para. 3.34).
(1) Appoint females to 50 percent of new primary school posts and posts arising
from vacancies, and that it would monitor, in conjunction with the GOI, the
appointment of female teachers and discuss the results annually with IDA (Para.
3.42).
(m) Ensure that the autonomy and national program guidelines of Mahila Samakhya
would be maintained in the program in Uttar Pradesh throughout the life of the
project GOUP also provided assurances that the EFAPB would enter into an
agreement with the Mahila Samakhya Society, on terms and conditions
sasctory to IDA, for implementing the Mahila Samakhya component of the
project (Para. 3.43).
(n)  Carry out, in conjunction with the GOI, pilot tesU and evaluations of the
following innovative strategies for discussion with IDA at mid-term review in
October, 1996:
(i) the introduction of ECCE programs (Paras 3.30)
(ii) the scholarship program for SC girls (Parm. 3.47)
(iii) the girls' work experience program (Pam. 3.47)
(iv) the non-formal primary and upper primary education program (Pan. 3.54)
(v) community libraries (Par. 3.47)
(vi) the learning achievement of tribal children (pam. 3.48)



- 54 -
(o)  Implement in project disticts pilot tesu of innovative programs in accordance
with criteria and procedures satisfatory to the Association, including criteria for
selecting recipients of stipends and awarding stipends and for selecting NGOs for
participation in project acdvities (Puar. 3.47).
(p)  Prior to implementing the project in blocks with more than 5 percent ST
enrollments, conduct: (i) a study of the educational needs of ST students under
ter.s of reference acceptable to IDA and the GOI in the first year of the project;
(ii) a pilot test of appropriate intervention strategies initiated in the second year
of the project; (iii) an evaluation completed for discussion with IDA at mid-term
review; and (iv) thereafter implement the project in accordance with procedures
and delivery strategies set out in IDA's policies goveming implementation of
IDA-assisted projects affecting indigenous peoples (Pam. 3.48).
(q)  Ensure that community schools under the project are constructed, established and
operated through VECs and provide, in conjunction with the GOI, a report on
community school construction to IDA by January 31 of each year (Pama. 3.51).
(r) In conjunction with EFAPB: (i) review annually with IDA, progress in Project
implementation over the preceding twelve months; (ii) discuss with IDA by
December 31 of each year, annual work plans and budgets for the next twelve
months; (iii) carry out, by Ocber 31, 1996, along with IDA, a mid-term review
of the Project; (iv) discuss with IDA during such mid-term review the plan for
the extension of the basic education program in Uttar Pradesh; and (v) take into
account the comments offered by IDA during such review, in the course of
further implementation or the Project.
6.2       There would be no conditions of project effectiveness.
6.3       Recommen. Subject to the above assuances, the proposed project
constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 116.5 million (US$165 million
equivalent) to India at standard IDA terms with 35 years maturity.



- 55 -
Page 1 of 13
UTAR ra SH: DAS  MC8IO PROJECT
MWeAWi BU UWDh] StaiZk
1.        Education statistics in India provide, at bes, a notional indication of the coverage
and overall efficiency of the basic education system for children age 6-14, which consis of
primary and upper primary schooling and nonformal pimary education. School stascs are
maintained by hand at the school level by the teacher. They are aggrted at the school
cluster, and further at the block, distict, regional (in some states) and state level. Annually,
states prepare and submit a "September 30" report to the GOI. This report shows
enrollments by type of education (primary, upper primary, nonformal), with detailed
breakdown by gender and by Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Trbe (SC/ST) sus. Reeition is
reported, but dropouts are not. Cohort data (annual enrollments in each grade) are generally
not maintined beyond the distict level, and are not reported in state or national summares.
2.        Developing an eficient educational management information system for a
country the size of India will take a decade, or more. Work is underway. The National
Institute of Educational Plnning and Adminon (NIEPA) has developed and tested a pM
fann for collecting stastics at the school level in connection with the code system for
education planning (see Annex 11 for details). India has established a nationwide
computized infirmation system (NICNEI), which connects all districts with state capitls
though satellite uplinks. Thus the framework for a national system is being put in place.
3.        The difficult part of the task lies in the many systemic weaknesses within the
state systems. At the school level, there is considerable administtve pressure to increase
enrollments; it is also in the interest of teachers to do so, as the number of teachers assigned
(and hence individual workload) is determined by reported enrollments. This results in
children being listed as enrolled in the first grade when they are not, and in the mantenance
of their names on school registers long after they have dropped out.
4.        In moststas, aggregation is done by hand all the way up to the state level.
Staff at aggretion points have bad litde training, and frequently work without adequate
basic equipment in badly lit facilies, crowded with piles of hand-prepared data submissions.
The potential for er  is great Unformnately, no systematic evaluations of these systems
have been done, making it impossible to estimate the size of the er. The GOI itslf
discounts reported enrollments by 20 percent as a rough way of correcting for both over-
reporting and errs in data entry.



- 56 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 13
5.        Data on educational expenditure are not systematically recorded. Most esimates
of educational investment are based on five-year Plan allocations and annual budgets in the
states, with GOI allocations added on. State Plan and annual budget formats vary from state
to state in format and level of aggregation, making it difficult to disaggregate anticipated
expenditures much beyond broad types of education (elementary, secondary, higher,
technical). No system exists for aggregating school level expenditures. And because
planned, not actual, expenditures provide the most comprehensive data base, the frequent
changes in allocations during budget penods, as well as under- and over-spending, are
difficult to track in any detail.
6.        Until these weakness are corrected, enrollment statistics can be used only as
rough indicators of relative change over time in gross enrollment ratios, and in the share of
enrollments held by girls and minority students. It is difficult, for example, to reach reliable
estimates of per pupil spending, or the composition of these expenditures. Official statistics
cannot be reliably used to establish baselines for assessing the effectiveness of project
interventions.
Thorough monitoring of such interventions will, for the interim, need to rely on sample
surveys.
7.        Available educational statistics are reported here for India, the State of Uttar
Pradesh, and for the 20 UP districts in the prcject (initial and reserve). As discussed, the
data should be used cautiously.



- 57 -
Page 3 of 13
BASJAEfllCAQ     STAINfll'TW[I
T.   INDIA
H.   UTIAR PRADESH
M.  PROlECI DISTRICIS
Unls noted, all data for India and Utar Pradesh are tn from: S
BfA   aL tisfa 101. Ministy of Hunan Resource Development,
Departent of Education, New Delhi, 1992. Da on prqect districts are from the
GOP and Mission estimats.



- 58 -
Page 4 of 13
A. Percent Literate Above Ae 7(1991)
Total                                  52.11
Male                                   63.85
Female                                 39.42
B. Pima  (    6-11) 
1. Total cohort opulation (1990)            98U111.300 (10 
Males                                 50,390,900 (51.3)
Females                               47,720,400
Scheded Casts (SC)                    1I.452.260 (15.2)
Males                                  7,936,600 (51.3)
Females                                7,516,000
Scheduled Tribes (ST)                  7,613.400 (07.7
Males                                  3,910,300 (51.3)
Females                                3,703,100
2. Primar =WIlmet                           99.118.320 (1OO1
Males                                 58,094,716 (59.4)
Females                               41,023,604
Schedled Castes(SC)                   1579427fl59)
Males                                  9,736,924 (61.6)
Females                                6,057,503
ScheduledTribes (ST)                   7.868.187 (07.9
Males                                 4,957,611 (63.0)
Females                                2,910,576
3. Gross Enrollment Raios (GER)
Male                                  115.29
Female                                 85.97
Scheduled lWaste                      iQ.21
Male                                  126.78
Female                                 80.6)
Scheduled Tribe                       103.35
Male                                  126.78
Female                                 78.60
4.    Number of Sihools                      558,392 (pimary and upper primary
combined)
5.    Number  Teachers                      n.a.
6.    Enrollments in Primary NFE             n.a.



- 59 -
Page 5 of 13
C. Um        Prdmary (Ase 1114)
1. qTOW cohort opulation (1990)              55S320    (100!
Males                                  28,405,800 (51.3)
Females                                26,966,600
Schedulgd Cats (SC)                    JL71.IgQ (IS.D
Males                                  4,473,900 (51.3)
Females                                 4,257,200
Scheduled Tribe (ST)l                   4,X6,90  (M-2
Males                                   2,204,300 (51.3)
Females                                 2,092,600
2. ilD  p J  Enrollmens                      32282-999  (100
Males                                  20,844,291 (62.8)
Females                                12,438,708
Scheduled Caes (SC)                     4160.526 ll2.4)
Males                                         2,747,J00 (66.0)
Females                                 1,412,416
Scheduled Tribes (ST)                   1.706,906 (05.1?
Males                                         1,131,388 (66.3)
Females                                  575,518
3. Gross Enrolmet Ratios (GER)
Male                                   73.38
Female                                 46.13
Scheduled Caste                        47.70
Male                                   61.40
Female                                 33.17
ScheduBledibe                          39.72
Male                                   51.33
Female                                 27.50
4.    Numbe gf Schools                        n.a.
5.    Number of Tecers                        n.a.
D.    aII        Statistis
1.    Drop out, Grades I-VIM (1986/87)       Male: 51 %
Female: 67 %
Source: 1986 All india Survey



- 60 -
Pae 6 of 13
H. UIIARPRADESH
A. Percent IJterate Above Aen 7 (1991)
Total                                    41.71
Male                                     55.35
Female                                   26.02
B. PrIMar (Anfe-in1
1. Total cohort pouladon (1990)               1I127.=I (1)
Males                                    9,016,600 (52.6)
Females                                  8,110,600
Schedued Castes (SC)                     3.624.1O  21.1)
Males                                     1,907,900 (52.6)
Females                                   1,716,200
.Scheduled Tidbes (ST)                     35,900  (0-2)
Males                                       18,900 (52.6)
Females                                     17,000
2. Pdimary enrollments                          13,94000f  (100)
Males                                    8,889,785 (63.4)
Females                                  5,050,215
Scheduled Castes (SC)                    2429290 (1.)
Males                                           1,753,066 (72.1)
Females                                    676,244
M.-" adue 1Tribes (ST)                   _34.209  (0.2
Males                                             21,584 (63.0)
Females                                     12,625
3. Gross Emllment Ratios (GER)
8LZ2
Male                                     98.59
Female                                   62.26
Schleduled Cate670
Male                                     91.80
Female                                   39.40
Scheduled Tribe                          9502R
Male                                     1 14.20
Female                                   74.23
4.    Number of SchooIs (1991)                  76,734 (GOUP data)
5.    Number of TeachZ64,713 (18% female)
6.    Enrollments in Primary NFE              1,500,000 (GOUP estimate)



-61 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 13
C. UWper Prim= (Ae  11-
1. Total wohot gUI^t  (1990)                 9,4810°   (10)
Males                                  4,993,900 (52.9)
Females                                4,454,200
SheduleC     (SC)                      1.999.2Q110
Males                                  1,056,700 (52.8)
Females                                 942,50
Schedule siLt  (ST)                       19.X  (0,*1
Males                                    10,500 (52.7)
Females                                   9,400
2.  epper-Ma  EnrAIlmen                       4.470.013 (lOD1
Males                                  3,240,428 (72.5)
Females                                1,229,583
Scheduled Castes (SC)                   420.046 oh).*
Males                                   337,523 (80.4)
Females                                  82,523
Sgheduledbs(SI)                           (6k987W.2)
3Males                                    5,353 (76.6)
Females                                   1,634
3. GssEnrollmentRios(GER)
Toaw                                  47.3
Male                                  64.88
Female                                 21.15
Scheduled CasteML
Male                                  31.94
Female                                08.75
S-heued lk5
Male                                  50.90
Female                                 17.38
4.     Nuber of Schools                      14,687
5.    Number of Teachm                       95,562 (24% female)
1' Source: S&kd Educatnal StaUscs j9I.l Minitry of Human Resource
Development, Department of Education, New Delbi, 1992. Esimated figures.



- 62 -
Page 8 of 13
MB. PIRQIFEC  Dll$l ClE
ENILTEN DIsrlcTs
Table 1: Pkmary Age Cohort Eo       ntl, ti Dictb
Emlnands (000)                GER             NFE Enrolments (OW0)
DISMIUCTS    Tota  NMale   Fmale   Total  Male  Fenale  Tobd  Mable  Fenmae
1. Vafnas      331     215      116      67      82      S0      44     19      25
2. Gonakhpur    187     126      61      47      60      40      37    13       24
3. Allahabad   366     235      131      58      70      44      56     29      27
4. Banda        159     114      45      67      90      41      18      9       9
S. Etawah       256     156     100      94      107     78      27     11      16
6. Sitaur      281      177     104      77      91      60      35     19      16
7. Aliga&h     320     222       98      76      99      49      28     12      16
B. Saharanpur    211    150     61       72      96      44      22     7       15
9. Paui         98      49       49      114    106      123      7      3       4
10.Nainital    162      93      69       81      87      74      19     9       10
Totals         2,371   1,537    8        67      82       0      293    131     162
Totd Age Cohort 6-11:      3,521,000       Number of teawhes:            61,504
Tota Not in School:         1,149,400      Percent teachers hfmlde:          18
Male                  330,300
fenale                819,100      Average number of techesu
per school:                     4.16
Not in school or NFE:        856,000
Number of priuary schools:    14,752



- 63 -
PAe 9 d 13
Table 2: Uppw Nhary Enrot, lniial Discts
EntoUnents (000)                  GER
DISTRICIS       Totl  Male  Female          Total  Male   Female
1. Varanasi     184    128      56           49     64       32
2. Gorakhpur     46     35      11           19     27       09
3. Allahabad    184    105      79           48     51       44
4. Band          32     25       7           22     32       10
5. Etah          53     37      16           32     41       20
6. Sitbpu       101    66       35           45     56       33
7. AligRh       117    91       26           45     56       33
8. Saharanpur    110    83      27           62     88       32
. Paud           45     31      14           88     112      59
10. Nainital     69     42      27           57     66       48
Totals           4298                        4      5        30
Total Age Cohort 6-11:     2,136,000       Number of teachers:           15,915
Total Not in Schol:        1,192,200       Percent teachers female:          48
miale                 493,000      Average number of teachers
female                701,100      per school:                      4.73
Number of upper prmary schools: 3,365



- 64 -
Page 10 of 13
Tabe 3:  Populabon and Educationa    ltuos Initi Districts
1991                                                           Nonforal
Populaion       Primay Sdols              Upper Primay Schools  BEducaion
DISTRICrS        (000)     Ruml   Urban   Total          Rund  Urban   Total    centes
1. Varanasi      4799       1489    317     1806          423    123    546         1800
2. Gorakhpur      3967      1165    164     1329          240     7       247       1395
3. Aflahabsd     4960       1676    228     1904          292     92      384       2100
4. Banda          1851      1277     64     1341          283     29      312       700
S. Etawah         2128      1094    170      1264         244    105      349       1100
6. Sitqpur        2846      1660     70     1730          402     36      437       1300
7. AJigadh       3297       1355    162     1517          390     4       394       1100
8. Ssaranpur     2298       934     201     1135          118     41      159       900
9. Pauli          666       1315     45     1360          212     9       221       1200
10. Nainital     1557      1222    144      1355         266      49     315        900
Total            28,369    13,187  1,565   14,741        2,870   495    3,364      12,495



- 65 -
Pape 11 of 13
Tabe 4:1 Pdmary Age CE_t Ermllmemts, Resve Disricts
Baolut _    00)           OUR                          NFlE8zlnct (_    0
Totd    Mba      Femae  Totld    Mau        Flmale Totld      Mae    Femade
1. UilS                            184       115     79       64       75      53        35       22       13
2. Douia                           342       232     110      60       77       41       36       12       24
3. Baraich                         230       154      76       65      82       46       41       23       18
4. Barsbankj                       226       147      79       72      89       54       20        6       14
5. Subanpur                        351       207     144      88       98       55       40       12       28
6. net"i                           268       170      98       76      91       59       34       18       16
7. Ebah                            255       ISO      75       88      98       55       24       11       13
S. Piibht                           91       62       29       56      71       38       10        6        4
9. Ranp4ua                         116        90      26      61       S8       29        7        3        4
10. Tehi                            75       55      20       100      141     57         8        4       4
Totds                              2138      1382    736       73       89      54       255      117      138
Told Age Coboat 6-11:               2,921,000                 Number of teaces:             41,737
Totd Not in Schoo:                    782,800                 Pesunt tesches female:            15
male                         167,700
fenaue                       635,100                 Avemre inambe of teachers
per school:                     3.0S
Not In school ot NFP:                 527,800
Number of prmary school:               13,654



- 66 -
Page 12 of 13
Table 5: Upper Prima  Enrollm s, Re rve Disricts
Enrollmens (000)               GER
DISTRICTS    Total  Male Female         Total  Male  Female
1. Ballia      66    46       20         37    49       24
2. Deoria      118    92      26          34    50      16
3. Bahraich     63    44      19          29    39      18
4. Barabanki    63    48      1S          34    48      17
S. Sultanpur    72    60      12          36    56      13
6. Hardoi       82    64      18          38    56      18
7. Etah         88    66      22          51    71      28
8. Piibhit      30    24      6           30    45      13
9. Rampur       23    13      10          20    21      18
10. Tehri      26    21       5          57    85       25
Total          631   478    153           36    51      18
Total Age Cohort 6-11:    1,770,000           Number of teachers:   15,622
Total Not in School:    1,140,100            Percent teachers female:   15
Male               466,400             Average number of
female             673,700             teachers per school:  4.63
Number of upper primary
schools:                    3,373



- 67 -
Page 13 of 13
Table 6:  Population and Educatdonal Isitutions, Reserve Districts
1991                                                               Nonfonmal
Ppulation        Pimaiy Schools              Uppr" PFimay Schools     Educaion
DISThICIS         (O00)      Rura    Urban    Tota           Rural   Urban   Total      Cet=s
1. balla           2250      1207      49      1256           382     17      399        1400
2. Dooro           4427      2101      64      2165           539     323      862       2030
3.  ablrich        2748       1522     35       1S57          223     21      244        1300
4. Ebrabanki       2433       1523     98       1621          306      18      324        800
5. Suhanpur        2561       1566     30       1596          285     315      316       1600
6. Hardoi          2739       1588     121      1709          387     36      423        1300
7. Etah            2240       1109     110      1219          317     41      358         900
8. Pilbit          1277       730      32      7625           111     21       132        400
9. Rannpur         1498       6325     101      733           110     25       135        300
10. Tcbr    _      575        1021     15      1036           174      6      180         400
TOW               22,748     18,692    655     20,517        2,834    823    3,373       10,430



-68 -                       ANNEX 2
UTTAR PRADESH BASIC EDUCAT10N PROJECT
Wc Education Syste
0
OX PEUNIE  CONTINUING           ADULT
25       HIGHER             UNIVERITY'1    EDUCATIONI         EDUCATION
24     EDUCATION                          LIFE-LONG
23
22                                        EDUCATION
21
20
19e
17
16     SECONDARY              OPEN
LL14        EDUCATION             SCHOOL
:k 13       UPPER          R  ON08t
PRIMARY D  l
12      SCHOOL            ami    I
10                        NON-FORMAL
4 h ~EDCUCATION
9  PRIMARY~~~RIAR
9      PRIMARY            1LEL  S,
8       S
7
6
v ~~PRE-
SJ ~PRIMARY
i1 ~EDUCATION



- 69 -
Page 1 of 4
UiTIAR lRAlDESH BASlC EDUlCATION PRQOECT
Nonformal Education
1.        Nonformal Education (NFE) has a very specific definition in this project. The
NFE component provides an alternative primary school education to children who are not
served by the formal school system. Some of these children have attended primary school
for a year or two and dropped out, but the majority have never attended school. Some of
these children are needed at home to assist the family, some work, some have parents who
do not let them attend school, and some do not feel welcome at school.
2.        The NFE primary school curriculum prepares students in two years to pass the
class five achievement test. Some students do appear for and pass the test, but they represent
a small proportion of the total. Most students who attend the classes for more than one year
acquire basic reading, writing and math skills but do not appear for the test.
3.        NFE classes are usually held in the home of the teacher or in a nearby structme.
Students are recruited from the immediate neighborhood and the teacher is known to the
parents. Teachers from religious, caste, and socio-economic groups similar to those of the
students are more successful than those who are from very diffet groups. Both women
and men can be successful teachers. Teachers who have passed class eight can teach the
classes successfully but officially a class ten graduation is required.
4.        Since the NFE component offers employment at the village level for educated
unemployed, it is maldng use of a neglected resource that has been built at some expense to
the government. In the case of women, scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and minorities,
the opportunity to use the skills acquired in school for paid employment sets an example
which may help motivate parents to send their children to school. Research in South and
South East Asia appears to show that when there is acceptable employment for educated
women, families are more likly to make the decision to invest in girls education (Hanna
Papanek, "Class and Gender in Education Employment Linkages," Comdn Education
Review, Vol. 29, No.3, August, 1985), and NFE teaching is acceptable employment for
educated village women.
5.        Each NFE class is provided with text books, blackboard, pencils, copy books, a
lamp with a stipend for kerosene, and some instructional aids. The classes meet six times
per week for two hours in the late afternoon. Student attendance varies with the season, and
most classes eventually have a range of students from those who have just started to those



- 70 -
Page 2 of 4
who are quite advanced. Some students complete the course in two years, some in thee,
and some drop out after they have gained basic reading, writing, and math skills.
6.       In 1992, a NORAD evaluation of the NFE program uncovered many
weaknesses. The texts were judged to be of poor instructional quality; provision of texts,
instructional materials and teacher salary were found to be delayed up to 18 months; and
supervision and training were considered weak. Because of these findings, the NFE program
was discontinued.
7.        The NORAD evaluation found the teacher to be the key to success in NFE
classes. Classes fail completely when teacher attendance is low and students, therefore, stop
coming to class. Low teacher attendance could be caused by poor selection or ineffective
monitoring. Under the project, selection and monitoring of teachers would be done by the
Village Education Committee. Payment for teachers would go from the State government to
the District Education Office and from there to the Village Education Committee. The
Village Education Committee would pay the teacher directly. This puts the power to stop
payment in the hands of local authority. The GOUP agreed to consider ways to reward
successful teachers, as well. The Village Education Committee would also decide on the
venue of the NFE classes to ensure that it could be observed and monitored.
8.        The management system that provides text books and other materials to the
classes would be improved under the project. The student and teacher materials would be
provided as kits that are procured by the State government and provided to the District
Education Offices. The Districts would pass the kits on to the Block level Project Offices
which are staffed by a full time Project Officer and two support staff. The Project Office
would pass the kits on to the Village Education Committees who would ensure that they are
provided to the students and teachers.
9.        The NFE materials used under the previous GOUP NFE program were a
simplified version of the formal primary school texts, but these proved inadequate. The NFE
materials prepared by Literacy House using the Improved Pace of Content and Leaming
(PCL) system are excellent. The SCERT is preparing a new text, and the NCERT has a
model text as well. The GOUP would select texts from among these.
10.       The project would support NFE classes. Since each class of 25 stdents runs for
two years, the total population to be served is 362,500. Within the 10 project districts at
least 3.5 million 6 to 14 year old children are not in school and do not have a grade five
education. Most of these children probably have less than two full years of school or no
schooling at all. Though the project will be increasing access to formal education and
decrmasing the drop-out rate, NFE probably offers the only opportunity for an education to
most of these 3.5 million children during the project period.



- 71 -
ANNE-X 3
Page 3 of 4
11.      The cost of implementation for one class of 25 students for one year is Rs. 7500
(RS. 300 per student). These costs include teacher salary, lighting, materials, training,
supervision, equipment and instructional materials.
12.      There is some concern that, since NFE provides a less expensive alternative,
students may be drawn away from the formal prmary school. There is no indication that
this has happened, but competition between NFE and formal school would be monitored
during the project. Entrance into the formal primary school should be a goal of the NFE
system, and encouraging parents to send their children to formal school, even after only one
year of NFE, should be part of the NFE component. The GOUP has agreed to investigate
ways in which NFE students could be brought into the formal primary school system in a
grade equivalent to their individual skill level.
13.      The technical assistance and training resources at the state level to address NFE
are housed in the SCERT. In 1992, there were only five NFE positions in SCERT, and only
two of which were filled. Since Literacy House has adequate NFE capacity, the GOUP has
agreed to use Literacy House as a resource for NFE while the SCERT builds its capacity. A
capacity to provide technical assistance, training, research, and evaluation at the district level
would be developed in the DIETs as well. At the State level, the EFA would have
professional staff whose resonsibility is NFE.
14.      The NFE monitoring system would focus its efforts on determining teacher and
sdent attendance which would be collected monthly at the village and sent to the Block
Project Office. The Project Office will send this information up to the District on a quarterly
basis. The Block Project Office would also keep records of training, materials delivery and
salary payment to ensure that these goods and services are being provided.
15.      Villages where there are insufficient educated people willing and able to teach
NFE present a special problem. During the first years of the project these villages would not
be served. Provision for experimentation that leads to effective models to provide NFE to
villages with few educated people would be made within the project.
16.      The pre-service teacher traini-g follows an experiential model developed by the
NCERT. This model begins with a two week preservice session followed by regular short
trainings each year for a total of 30 days the first year and 20 days for each year thereafter.
The schedule and venue of the training is adjusted to serve the needs of the teachers who
may, if they are women, be unwilling to attend residential training. Each teacher is provided
with a manual for reference after the training.



- 72 -
ANEX 3-
Page 4 of 4
17.       NFE is an inexpensive, temporary alternative to the fonnal school system; it
should loose its target group during the proect period. The NFE system, though, will build
an effective and usefl block level institution with trained and experienced teaches and
administMors. The project would experiment with new tasks that could use this capacity in
the future. NFE upper primary classes are one possibility, but others such as adult
education, vocational education, post-literacy services, after school tutoring for disadvantaged
students and other educational activities could be considered.



73 -
ANEX -4
Page 1 of 14
UP BASIC EDUCATION PROQET
Baseline Benficiary Assessments
Introduction
1.        Baseline studies were conducted in three project districts (Varanasi, Sitapur and
Nainital). They were the first phase of the Assessments of Learning Achievement which
would be supported through this project. Assessments conducted in years 1, 4 and 6 of the
project would replicate these assessments in all respects.
2.        The studies comprise a large-scale multipurpose sample survey to assess
learning outcomes of class S students in rural govemnment primary schools, and a qualitative
study of beneficiary impact using focus group discussions in selected villages. The baseline
studies were used to assess a number of parameters of importance to the project, such as
differences in achievement and attendance between boys and girls, and Scheduled Castes and
other groups; the dropout and repetition rates in the primary classes; inadequacies of basic
reading and nurneracy skldls in lower prmary classes; the reasons for non-participation in
schooling; the availability of teaching materials and physical facilities in the schools;
perceptions of parents about schools and the interaction between the community and the
school, in particular the functioning of the Village Education Committees.
3.        Preliminary findings of the baseline survey were presented at a workshop in
Lucknow on March 3 and 4, 1993. The aim of the worlshop was to discuss the findings and
implications for project targets and strategies in the different distrcts with all those
concerned with the delivery and consumption of educational seices. A brief report of this
workshop is presented at the end of this Annex.
Assessment of Learning Outcomes
4.        The major objectives of the baseline survey were assessing the extent of learning
of the Class 4 curriculum in maths and language, by students who had passed cdss 4 and
were currently in class 5, and analyzing the school and home background factors that
contributed to explaining differences in academic achievement. Some of the major reseach
questions were: how important are school-level factors in explaining the variation in
achievement? Do differences in gender, caste, parental occupation and educational status,
participation in paid or unpaid labor, and pre-school participation explain the differences in
pupil achievement within schools? Which important school variables explain the differences
between schools? To what extent have children in class 2 mastered a few basic competencies
literacy and numeracy expected at fte end of class 1? Is low achievement in lower primary
classes a factor inducing dropout and repetition, and/or related to achievement in higher classes?



- 74 -
Page 2 of 14
5.        A large-scale sample survey was used to assess the leaming outcomes of class 5
students in ural primary schools. Three of the ten project districts were chosen purpoively
to reflect the wide variations in educational and socio-economic development in Uttar
Pradesh. Of these three districts, Nainital is a hill district, while Sitapur and Vannasi are in
the plains, but differ considerably as most development indicators.
6.        In each district, two stage random sampling was used to select blocks and
schools. At the first stage, 3-4 blocks were selected using simple random sampling; the
number of sample blocks constituted about one-fifth of the total number of blocks in each
distnct. The total number of sample schools for each district was proportionately allocated
to selected blocks within the district. The sampling frame within each block comprised aU
rural primary schools run by the Basic Shiksha Parishad, where Hindi is used as the medium
of instruction, since this constituted the population of main interest to the project.
7.        In Sitapur and Varanasi, in each block, schools were sttified into two saa,
based on the class S enrollment. ITe two strata were denoted as 'high enrollment' (where
class 5 enrollment exceeded 30 pupils) and 'low enrollment' (where class 5 enrollment was
30 or less). From each strata schools were selected using simple random sampling in
proportion to the number of schools in each strata. No stafication was used in Nainital, as
there were very few large schools (as defined above). Schools were selected fron within
blocks using simple random sampling.
8.        In each selected school, all class 5 students up to a maximum of 25, were tested;
where the number of students exceeded this, 25 students were selected using systematic
sampling with a random stat
9.        In each school, a small sample of 5 students who were enrolled in class 5, but
absent on the day of the survey, was also randomly selected and tested/interviewed. Due to
shortage of time, this sample was necessarily resticted to pupils who lived in the same
village in which the school was located.
10.       A sample of ten class 2 students was selected within each school, using
systematic sampling with a random start.
11.       The total sample size for the three districts consisted of 120 schools, 2031 class
5 students, 430 absent students and 1147 class 2 students. A total of 399 teachers (including
headteachers) were also surveyed.



- 75 -
ANNEX 
Pge 3 of 14
12.       Tests designed by the National Council of Educational Research and Taining
(New Delhi) were used to assess achievement in maths and reading comprehension. These
tests were developed for use in the country wide survey on Primary School Attainment
conducted by the NCERT in March 1991, and were based on the Class 4 curriculum.
However, as the survey was conducted in the middle of the academic year, these tests were
administered to class 5 students. In the maths test, all English numerals were converted to
Devanagiri numerals, as it was found that most schools, as well as the state textbooks, use
the latter. No other modification was made to either of the tests.
13.       A very simple test, based on competencies expected to be mastered by the end of
class 1, was used to assess the achievement of class 2 children. The test consisted of
reading ten letters, ten words, recognizing the smaller/larger numbers in a pair of onedigit
and two-digit numbers, and adding/subtacting two single digit numbers. The test formed a
subset of a battery of tests developed by the NCERT as part of the Primary Education
Curriculum Renewal. All selected class 2 pupils were individually administered the test by
the field investigator.
14.       Students who were absent from class S were adminisred a very short and
simple literacy/nmneracy test. The literacy test consisted of reading 5 simple sentences of
5-10 words each and answering 8 questions of simple comprehension. The numeracy test
consisted of 8 questions on the four fundamental opeaions involving one or two digit
numbers only. In tenns of level of difficulty, these two tests were simpler than the content
of the 2 textbooks in Basic Shisha Parishad schools.
15.       Students of class 5 (both those who were present and those who were absent on
the day of the survey) were also interviewed using a sudent schedule. Absent students were
individually tested and inteviewed, generally at home. Data was collected on a large
number of background variables, including prior schooling activities, monthly attendance and
family background. Each student was individually interviewed.
16.       Teachers and headteachers were interviewed using the teacher's schedule.
Information was collected on the teachers' age, experience, qualifications and training, the
availability of aids and other chacteristics.
17.      Information on enrollment, repetition, dropout, physical facilities, school
expenditures and other school charcterocs were collected using the School Record
Schedule. The records of the school kept by the headteacher constituted the source of
information.
18.       All instuments were field tested and revised as needed. The schedules were
translated into Hindi and translated back into English to ensure accuracy of the   tons.



- 76 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 14
Field Work
19.       The field work was conducted from November 12 to January 27. Due to
disturbances within the State, imposition of curfew and so on, the survey was disrupted on
several occasions.
20.       Field staff were intensively trained for a period of 10 days prior to the survey.
A detailed field manual, translated in Hindi, was also prepared for use by investigators and
supervisors. Teams were supervised by a first level supervisor, a district supervisor and
monitored occasionally by the research team in Delhi. Every attempt was made to get
accurate information, and, in particular, to ensure that the test results were not influenced by
either teachers or school administrators.
Qualitative Study
21.       In order to assist in the design of district specific project strategies, a qualitative
study of 35-40 villages was carried out to identify the reasons for lack of participation and
the community's perceptions about schools and education. The basic methodology involves
using focus group discussions with representatives of the target groups, especily of the
disadvantaged sections (women and scheduled castes).
Samle
22.       The study was conducted in a sub-sample of the villages which were selected for
assessment of learning outcomes. Three or four villages were selected in each block using
the following criteria: one school with high levels of enrollment for girls and scheduled
castes in Class 5, and one school each with low levels of enrollment of girls and scheduled
castes respectively in Class 5.
Methodology
23.       Representatives of the target groups were identified and brought together in a
discussion. A special effort was made to ensure that participants included members of the
Village Education Committee, women and people from Scheduled Castes. Each focus group
discussion was led by two trained field investigators, one of whom posed the questions and
led the discussion while the other took notes. The discussions were taped in most villages
and transcribed and compared with the field notes.
24.       Questions put to the group focussed on the following areas:
(a)  parents perception/expectations of primary education and aspirations for their
children;



- 77 -
ANEXA4
Page 5 of 14
(b) parents' assessment of the education being provided by the school, their
perceptions about administrators and teachers;
(c) the reasons for failure to enrol and for irregular attendance of boys and girls
separately; and
(d) the extent of community involvement in the past and suggestions for improving
them.
Key Fthdings Of Base Line Survey (Preliminary Results)!'
Achievement in Class S in Maths and Readin! ctreprehension.
25.       Average scores in Mathematics in all three districts were very low. The mean
scores were about 10, 13 and 15 in Sitapur, Nainital and Varanasi respectively, out of a
possible total of 40 marks.
26.       Average scores in reading comprehension were also low -- 12 in Sitapur, 16 in
Varanasi and 18 in Nainital (out of a total of 44 maiks).
27.       Since the tests measure competencies that correspond to the Class 4 curriculum,
these average achievement levels indicate that pupils nearing the end of the primary school
cycle perform well below the curriculum requirements. The situation is especially
worrisome in arithmetic. Tests of comparison of district meak scores reveal that there are
statistically significant differences between districts, with Sitapur lagging behind the other
two districts in both maths and language. However, of greater importance is the fact that
overall achievement levels are low in all three districts.
Achievement in simple literacy/numeracy tet of Class 5 absent students.
28.       These extremely low levels of achievement are confirmed by the scores on the
extremely simple literacy/numeracy tests, which were administered to a smaller sample of
Class 5 students who were absent on the first day of the survey9.
11These results are based on preliminary analysis of all sample schools in Nainital and
Sitapur and only 20 schools of Vaanasi.
2/     Results for Varanasi are awaited.



- 78 -
A.NNEX 4
Page 6 of 14
29.       About 34% of the absent students in Nainital and 50 percent of those in Sitapur
scored less than S marks on this extremely simple literacy test, which as pointed out earlier
was less difficult than the class 2 textbook curriculum. The arithmetic test, which involved
only the four fundamental operations with single and two-digit numbers, showed that many
students couldi only add, but could not do any of the other operations. 50 percent of these
absent students in Nainital and 55 percent of absent Sitapur students scored less than 5
marks in arithmetic (out of a total of 8). In Sitapur, there are a large number of pupilS who
demonstrate no knowledge of these basic skldls: 26 percent and 29 percent of pupil got either
zero score or only one answer correct in the literary and numeracy tests respectively.
30.       These results point to unacceptably low levels of performance. It is worth
stressing that most of these absent students were in fact not long absentees, and had attended
school during the previous month. This sample of students is therefore comparable to the
larger sample to class 5 students who were administered the full test. The results therefore
suggest that most of the low performing students in the bigger sample of Class 5 students
also probably do not possess very basic literacy/numeracy skills. after 5 ye  of schooling.
Achievement Levels in Clam 2.
31.       Results of the Class 2 test reveal that over half the pupils have not mastred
simple competencies expected by the end of Cls 1. A surprisingly large number of these
pupils could not read any word or recognize the larger/smaller number in a pair of numbers.
32.       Most students could read at least 8 out of ten letters, but less than 40 percent
could read at least 8 out of ten words. Forty-one percent in Nainital, 44 percent in Varanasi
and 60 percent in Sitapur could read fewer than five of the ten words. Twenty-two percent
of the pupils in all districts taken together could not read even one word.
33.       In arithmetic, pupil scores are extremely low. In Sitapur, as many as 75 percent
of pupils could not correctly indicate larger/smaller numbers in all the six pairS of (mostly
single) digit numbers; in Nainital and Varanasi, just over 60 pement could not do so. Only
25 percent of pupils in all three districts demonstaed mastery in adding/subtracting two
single digit numbers. About 23 percent of students in all three districts could not do MY
single digit addition or subtraction.
Differences between boys/irls and SC/ST and others
34.       Performance differences between girls and boys are statistically significant in
arithmetic, both in class 5 and in class 2, but not in language. Girls have a lower mean score
in arithmetic, and this is true of aU three districts although the effect size varies.
35.       The performance of scheduled caste/tribe students is significantly lower both for
language and arithmetic in class 5 as well as class 2, when compared to tha of other stxdents.



- 79 -
Page 7 of 14
36.       These differences are more pronounced in class 2 . For instance, the proportion
of girls and SC/ST who got 'O' score in arithmetic is almost double the proportion of boys
and other students respectively.
37.       This section oudines the charcteristics of key school and out-of-school vaniables
that influence school functioning and learning outcomes.
38.       Preliminary analysis reveals that achievement in lower primary classes is
strongly correlated with mean class 5 achievement in both language and arithmetic. Schools
where class 2 students had a higher average score also tended to have a higher mean score in
the class 5 test.
39.       Variance components analysis shows that the between school component of total
vaation in Class 5 scores is substantal - between 25 percent and 50 percent for different
districts and tests. Thus, there is substantial variation between schools and school practices or
contextual variables which contnbute to differences in average performance.
Teacher Qult
40.       Teachers skills are clearly important in influencing student performance.
However, as in other studies, teacher characteristics which are easily measured, such as age,
experience, years of general education, etc. do not show up as significant predictors of
achievement. This does not mean that teachers and their skldls are not important, but that the
usually measured charteristics are not associated with better performance. Measurement of
achtal classroom teaching practices which directly affect performance is difficult in practice.
41.       Nearly all teachers in the sample had pre-service raining, but less tha 10
percent had any in-service taining in the last five years. The majority of teachers in Sitapur
and Varanasi had no in-service training at all. However, the number of days of in-service
training was not significantly correlated with the average performance, reflectdng the fact ta
most in-service trainig consists of a few days of general orientation, with litde direct impact
on classroom teaching.
42.       Over half the sample teachers in Sitapur and Varanasi were over 45 years of age,
compounding the problems in upgrading teacher quality, both in subject matter mastery and
teaching "l's. Further, a substantW number of teachers wait over 5 years before being
recruitd by the Basic Shiksha Parishad.



- 80 -
ANNEX 
Page 8 of 14
43.       Field observations indicate that low levels of teacher attendance and actual
teaching time contribute to the abysmally low levels of learning. While attendance and
teaching time in Nainital are more or less in line with regulations, teacher absenteeism is
very high in the other districts, and in many schools estimated teacher time in the school is
only about two to two and a half hours a day.
44.       Teacher time apart, deficiency of teaching skills is another factor. Sixty percent
of the teachers felt that they required additional training (of the remainder who did not
indicate further training, most were those who were due to retire in a few years). Subjects
indicated for training were teaching lower primary classes (classes 1 to 3) and multigrade
teaching; a large number of teachers also expressed preference for classroom training over
training at an institute.
45.       Teachers' use of textbooks is limited, although an overwhelming majority of
teachers said that they relied almost exclusively on textbooks for imparting instruction. Apart
from language and mathematics textbooks, other textbooks are rarely used, and when used, it
is mostly for language instruction (dictation, etc). Teachers also felt that the textbooks were
difficult in subject matter.
46.       Basic teaching aids such as teacher's guides and dictionaries are not available to
the majority of teachers in Sitapur and Varanasi.
47.       Operation Blackboard teaching aids were available in the schools, but were
apparently rarely used. Due to security reasons, these materials were often kept locked up in
the headteacher's house. Without training in using the maths and science kits, most teachers
felt ill-equipped to use the aids in classrooms. Teacher's reported that they used other books
(additional reading material for children) most frequently.
48.       Teachers are also not equipped to assess their pupils' progress. Although most
teachers report giving half-yearly or annual tests, these tests do not enable teachers to form
an accurate opinion of actual learning gains. Survey data showed that teachers' assessment
of their pupils' achievement levels was consistently and substantially higher than actual
performance. For instance, teachers felt that about 60-75 percent of class 5 pupils could
read a short passage and answer simple comprehension questions on it. This compares with
the fewer than 20 percent of pupils who could score at least 50 percent marks on the reading
comprehension test. The discrepancy was most notable in Sitapur, where less than five
percent of pupils scored more than 50 percent of the marks.



- 81 -
ANESE 4
Page 9 of 14
Textbooks
49.       The class 2 test results reveal that a large number of pupils have not mastered
the minimum language competency of reading single words which is expected of them at the
end of class 1. Pupils are therefore unable to read the class 2 textbook which contains
overly difficult sentences and words. At the time of the survey, teachers reported that they
were teaching chapters from the class 2 textbooks, which on average contained 20 words per
sentence. Similarly, in arithmetic, while a substantial proportion of Class 2 pupils have
difficulty in recognizing larger/smaller numbers, teachers are supposed to be teaching
division (including the concept of the divisor). Field observations reveal that most pupils in
lower primary classes are unable to use their textbooks, especially the arithmetic textbook
where abstract concepts are presented and the language skills (vocabulaiy, etc) required for
comprehension are well beyond those taught in class 2.
Student attendance
50.       Irregular pupil attendance is a serious problem in Sitapur and Varanasi districts,
mainly on account of household dudes. In Nainital, by contrast, pupil attendance is more
regular, and absenteeism is largely due to illness.
S1.       Actual student attendance (on the first day of the survey) was just over half of
reported enrollment in class 5 in Sitapur and Varanasi districts and about 80 percent in
Nainital. This reflects partly irregular pupil attendance and partly inflated enrollment
numbers in Sitapur and Varanasi.
52.       About 25 percent of students in Nainital and 28 percent in Sitapur reported that
they were absent for at least one day in the previous week in which the school was open.
(Data for Varanasi had to be adjusted for unscheduled school closures due to repeated civil
disturbances and could not be analyzed in time). Illness was the most frequently cited reason
in Nainital followed by household work and social functions. In Sitapur, students cited
household work as the most common reason, followed by illness and social functions.
53.       About 40 percent of pupils in Sitapur and 50 percent of pupils in Varanasi
reported that they had not attended school sometime during the year to help with household
duties or family work. Only 17 percent of Nainital pupils said that they had been absent to
assist the family.
Girls's partkipation
54.       The proportion of girls in the Class 5 sample pupils gives an indicator of girls's
participation. Girls constituted only 33 percent of the sample in Sitapur and 38 percent in
Varanasi compared to 45 percent in Nainital. This reflects the higher level of dropout
among girls in the lower primary classes in the former two districts.



- 82 -
AM=E 4
Page 10 of 14
Pimis' bome backg nd
55.       There are important differences between the three districts in the economic and
educational status of households, which are expected to affect schooling outcomes.
56.       Data from Nauiital indicates that pupils come from more literate households and
have higher educational aspirations. Especialy noteworthy is the comparatively high rate of
literacy among mothers -- over 50 percent compared to just 25 percent in the other two
disticts.
57.       Over 75 percent of pupils in Nainital, among them a substantial proportion of
girls, expressed the desire to study up to class 12 or beyond. In Sitapur and Varanasi about
half the pupils, mainly boys, said they would like to do so, while about 40 percent of girls
said that they would study only up to class 8.
58.       Seventy percent of the pupils from Sitapur were from small cultivator and
agricultual labor households, compared to 62 percent in Nainital and 47 percent in Varanasi.
In Nainital a significant proporton of households (one-third) worked in the organized sector
(private industry or public sector). In Varanasi, the second main occupation was petty trade
and services in the unorganized sector.
PrhoolWg  and availability of educational nerh
59.       A negligible fraction of pupils had attended pre-school in the three districts.
Private tuition outside the school was also reported to be rare. Virually all pupils had all the
textbooks required in Class 5, as well as notebooks and pencils/pens.
Dropout. repetition and school statics
60.       Data on dropouts was collected from the recoords maintained in the school. Many
schools, especially in Sitapur and Varanasi did not maintain consistent data on student
progression, repetition and dropout by class and gender. Further, the estimates made in the
study are based on enrollment figures given in the records which do not adjust for students
who have not been struck off the rolls due to long absenteeism or who have transferred to
other schools.
61.       Based on a rather small sample of schools for which the data could be
reconciled, the dropout rate between classes 1 and 5 for Nainital, Sitapur and Varanasi are
45 percent, 55 percent and 25 percent respcively. Field observtions indicate that the
lather low figure for Varanasi can be attributed to highly inflated enrollment figures. The
highest rates of dropout occur in classes 2 and 3.



- 83 -
ANNEX 4
Page 11 of 14
62.       A large proportion of Class 5 pupils in Nainital (37 percent) said that they had
repeated at least one year, compared to 20 percent in Sitapur and 10 percent in Varanasi.
School records, however, do not provide reliable data on repetition.
63.       Statistics maintained in the school registers are woefully inadequate. Field
observations reveal that neither the pupil attendance nor the teacher attendance registers are
maintained with accuracy and data are highly unreliable. For instance, a number of pupils
marked present on the day of the survey were actually not in school. The Bal Ganana
registers, containing village level data on children in the 6-14 age group, are also unreliable.
As a rule information could not be obtained on the 11-14 age group, while the population of
6-11 year olds was not only often below the total enrollment in the school, but unbelievably
low (for example, figures such as 6 or 10 children were recorded!). The Bal Ganana register
provides information only on the village in which the school is located, and not on other
villages which the school serves.
64.       These problems made it impossible to compute the gross enrollment ratios and
estimate the number of children out of school. The unreliability of school-level and village-
level statistics has serious implications for management information systems and educational
planning.
Benefciary Assessment - Focus Group Discussions
rdmuiEducation
65.       Most participants in the discussions recognized that education was a necessity in
modern society and felt that all children, including girls, should be educated at least up to
class 5. However, most of them could not articulate what they expect at the end of 5 or 8
years of schooling in terms of leaniing outcomes. Some expressed the view that the child
should be able to read and write and do simple arithmetic, but the majority said that they
either did not know or that children should know tall that is taught to them." They also
placed emphasis on non-academic outcomes and cultural values, such as 'children should be
well-behaved," "they should show respect for elders," "they should have self-confidence,"
etc.
eJni lto PaJaio
66.       All participants felt that nearly all children in their village entolled in class 1, but
they could not be sure about children from the other villages that the school served. They
were able to identify children in their neighborhood who had stopped going to school or who
were irregular.



- 84 -
ANNEX 4
Page 12 of 14
67.       In Nainital district, participants did not feel that there were any barriers for girls'
education and that they would allow girls to study up to whatever class they liked or are able
to study. Distance of the school from the village was the major reawon for discontinuing
education at an early stage, as this leads to higher costs (for boarding or transport) or creates
problem of security. Parents also stated that they did not usually hold back children from
attending school to help with household duties; absence was mainly due to illness.
68.       In Sitapur and Varanasi districts a substantial section of participants said that
they would not educate girls beyond class 5, mainly because of social reasons. Upper
primary schools are not located in every village which means travel, and social factors do not
permit girls to travel unaccompanied. Marriage was also cited as another reason for holding
back girls.
69.       Parents in these two districts expressed the view that education beyond primary
classes was not of much use, as children are most likely to work only in agricultural
occupations or the family trade.
70.       A few parents said hat the reason for discontinuing education was due to the fact
that children did not learn very much in school. There is a common perception however that
in general it is the child's interest and ability which determines how much he or she leams
(provided there is a school and a teacher). Parents are not able to relate deficiencies in
learning to what the school does or does not do.
School functioninz
71.       Participants did not have a detailed knowledge of activities within the school. A
minority of parents said that they met the teacher or headteacher to enquire about their
child's progress, but even this was in the nature of chance encounters in the village. Rarely
did parents make conscious efforts to go to the school and meet the teachers. Nor did
teachers in general make follow up efforts with parents if a child was not attending regularly,
had dropped out or was performing badly in school.
72.       However, the community was well aware of the pattern of teacher attendance in
the local school. In most villages of Nainital, participants expressed satisfaction with the
regularity of teacher attendance. In Sitapur, many participants noted that the teachers take
turns to come to school, they come late and do not keep the school open for long. Similar
views were expressed in Varanasi. Participants felt that it was the duty of teachers to come
to school, because only then could children have a chance to learn. .
73.       The discussions showed that, in general, communities felt that they did not have
the right to enquire about school functioning, neither did they feel equipped to do so.



- 85 -
ANNlX4
Page 13 of 14
Community involvement
74.       Most participants in Nainital and Sitapur had no knowledge about the existence
of the Village Education Committee. In general, only the members of the VEC, namely the
headteacher, pradhan and selected members were aware of it. The latter reported that
although regular meetings were held, the topic was usually the distribution of scholarships
etc, and very rarely the problems related to school administration, management or student
performance.
75.      In Varanasi, although a large number of participants claimed to know of the
existence of the VEC, nobody coul4i state what the VEC did or discussed. Since most of the
group discussions were called by the village headman, the field investigators feel that he may
have informed the participants about the existence of the VEC just prior to the Focus Group
Discussion; as in the other districts, in, fact, there is little knowledge of or participation in
the activities of the VEC.
76.       On the question of community involvement in the monitoring of schools, most
participants expressed the view that they were not equipped to do so. Being largely illiterate
and uneducated themselves, they felt that they did not know how to monitor enrollment and
attendance statistics or pupil performance. However, they appreciated the need to do so and
said that it could be done with some training and using some simple indicators of school
functioning.
3WorkMshoD on Presenting the Results of the Baseline Surve=
77.       As part of the program of involvement of beneficiaries in project
implementation, a workshop was organized in Lucknow on March 2-3, 1993, under the title
"Sharing Experiences and Review of Preliminary Results.' The objective of the workshop
was to share with the users of the baseline survey (GOUP, GOI, the state Department of
Education as well as the communit)) the methodology adopted for executing the study and to
discuss some preliminary results.
78.       Participants in tne workshop included senior GOUP and GOI administrators,
research staff of the SCERT and NCERT, as well district and block education departnent
officials, community leaders, teachers and the field staff who conducted the survey.
79.       A specific aim of the workshop was to begin the process of involving the users
and providers of educational services in defining district-specific problems, setting targets
and deciding on strategies for program implementation. The workshop was therefore
designed to provide, in an easily comprehensible manner, feedback to the community,
teachers and school administrators on various aspects of the functioning of schools, enable
them to discuss the study and its findings with the research team and the field staff and
provide qualitative impressions and views that are not easily captured by survey instruments.



- 86 -
Page 14 of 14
80.       The workshop was inaugurated by the Principal Secretary, Education of the
GOUP. After the resch team presented an outline of the manner in which the survey was
executed and managed, the first day of the workshop was conducted in the form of group
discussions. The participants were the field investigator/supevisor, the district and stae
officials of the education departnent, teachers and community leaders. Five groups were
formed to discuss 1) Schools and Facilities 2) Teachers, Teaching and School
Administration 3) Attendance, Enrollment and Dropout 4) Students' Performance 5) The
Community and its Paricipation. These groups were conshtited from members across
districts to fiacilitate sharing and understanding of district diffetences and problem areas.
These discussions enabled participants to put questions to the field staff direcdy, as well as to
share their experiences and opinions about the problen areas and possible solutions. Each
group discussed a set of important questons that are of concern to the project. Views about
the problem areas and their possible solutions were reported back to all the participants at the
end of the day.
81.       The second day of the workshop began with presentaion and disussion of the
preliminary results of the survey and the Focus Group Discussions. Following this, hee
groups were formed for each of the survey disticts, consisting of the partipants, field staff
and community leaders of the respective district. The discussions were led by the district
official of the Education Department. The groups reviewed the results for teir districts vis a
vis the district plans and the specific issues that need funher consideraton in terms of prqject
planning, setting targets and evolving concrete strategies to solve the problems.
82.       The two day session was summed up by the Director of Basic Education, GOUP.
He noted that many of the findings confirmed commor. knowledge, and the issues would be
addressed in the project as proposed. However, he said that in addition to establising a
baseline for measuring progress, the sti had additional implicabons for the design of the
project. The following implications for alterations project design were noted and accepted:
(a) Early priority should be given to creating simplified learning materials in
language and mathematics for grades 1-3.
(b)  Teacher in-service training focused on teaching reading and math in the early
grades, and on multi-grade teaching, should have equal early priority. It should
be delivered to teachers in their schools.
(c)  Communcation and training for VECs would need to begin immediately.
83.       Additional discussions are to be held when the complete report is ready in
May, 1993.



- 87 -
Page 1 of 2
MlNIA
UTA EBV=E DUCAnON PROJC
DPTotIm S on  E
1.        The primary education system in Uttar Pradesh does not operate at a high level
of efficiency. As a result of high rates of repetition and dropout, the number of school years
required to produce one graduate is well beyond that implied by the number of grades.
RepWtion of the first grade of schooling uses resources which might have been used for
additional entrants. In all classes it results in larger groups and a thinner spread of resources
contributng to lower quality. Total costs will increase to the extent that repeaters require
additional resources to those already in the classroom. Dropouts lower the efficiency of the
system since they reduce the number who eventually complete a cycle and utilize resources
without achieving the objectives of the system.
2.        Several activities of the project can be expected to reduce the levels of repetition
and dropout. These include progams to improve young children's readiness to leam,
existng physical fcilities, teacher effectiveness, curriculum and textbooks and scholarships
to support girls' schooling. Some of the effects will be felt across the whole state (eg. the
establishment and outputs of SMEM, some acro  the whole of the project districts (eg.
from the Dlr's, the ECCE progams, the widespread upgrading of school facilities,
itservice teacher training), some by specific communities witiin project districts (eg. though
the constrction and staffing of new schools), and some within schools (e.g. through teacher
raining). Roughly speaking, those activities which will have an impact across the State as a
whole have been listed in the project under "Building Institutional Capacity" and account for
around 8 percent of total expenditure; those benefiting specific communities within project
diticts are listed under "Improving Access" and account for 48 percent of the total; and
those affecting all pupils across the project disticts are located under "Inproving Quality and
Completion" and account for around 44 percent of the total.
3.        Currendy, 18.4 million and 3.4 million children are enrolled in primary znd
upper primary schools across the State and project districts respectively, and around 450,000
additional school places will be provided by the project. Using base cost estimates, the
investments being planned to raise quality and compledion rates will cost roughly Rs.700
($23) per pupil across the project districts over the seven year period. This is equivalent to
one sixth of the current cost of a primary school cycle.
4.        Data on the degree of repetition and dropout in the primary schools both across
the comtry and in the Stte are sparse and those which exist re unreliable. Two recdy
published esimates suggest that dropout rates across the country are between 47 and 51
percent during the frst cycle of primary schooling and between 62 and 68 percent for the full



- 88 -
ANNEXS
Page 2 of 2
eight year cycle. Girls' rates appear to be 6 to 8 percentage points higher than the boys'
over the first cycle and 9 to  11 over the full cycle. In Uttar Pradesh previous studies had put
the dropout rate for boys and girls at 40 and 60 percent respectively. First results from the
pre-project baseline studies in three districts suggest dropout rates of 25, 45 and 55 percent
for the first cycle. The surveys also reported repetition rates by grade for three districts.
The average level of repetition was 14 percent in one district and 9 percent in the second; a
third district had a repetition rate of 37%, but this is considered an anomaly based on district
deviation from State-wide practice.
5.        To demonstrate the impact of successful programs to reduce dropout and
repetition a student flow model along the lines devised by the Bank's Population and Human
Resources Division was utilized1l. On the basis of an assumed 12 percent a year repetition
rate and a set of dropout rates implying an overall 50 percent rate, the number of years
input per graduate was calculated for the five-year cycle of primary school. The result was
8.67 years, which provides an input output ratio for this five year cycle of 1.73. In other
words inputs per graduate are 73 percent higher than they would be if there was no dropout
or repetition. A similar exercise was undertaken with projected repetition rates halved to 6
percent and dropout rates reduced to provide an overall 25 percent rate. Under these
assumptions the number of years input per graduate fell to 6.33 years giving an input output
ratio of 1.26. On the (simple) assumption of constant unit costs, total costs per graduate
would fall from the current Rs.4161 to Rs.3038 - a reduction of 27 percent. All such figures
are, of course, highly tentative. Taking them at face value though implies that a one sixth
increase in inputs per primary pupil (para 3) achieved under the project will lead to a one
quarter reduction in inputs per graduate if the completion rate targets are met. This is in
addition to the efficiency gains expected in upper primary schooling and the overall higher
quality of learning which is also anticipated.
Cuadro, Ernesto and Fredriksen, Birger (1992). Scope for Efficiency Gains Resultng
From Reduction in Repetitipo and Dropout: A Simulation Exercise. Education and
Employment Division, Population and Human Resources Department.



- 89 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 6
UTAR PRADESH BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Textbook Producion
Curriculum
1.        Curriculum is prepared under the control of dte SCERT. Specialist teams prepare
draft curricula and these are eventually approved by the Basic Shisha Parishad. Curriculum
is not altered more often than necessary. Normally not under five years from its introduction.
The planned introduction of Minimum Levels of Learning (MLL) within the life of the
project will involve major alterations to the curriculum.
Textbook Authorship
2.        Textbooks (with the exception of Art, Craft and Commerce) are prepared also by
the SCERT. Again, this work is done by specialist teams who make sure that the material
matches the requirements of the curriculum and that every topic is adequately covered.
Some of the same people who are involved in the preparation of curriculum are sometimes
also involved in textbook authorship. Drafts of textbooks are vetted by the Basic Shiksha
Parishad and then revised to take into account their comments. After a second vetting and
the inclusion of final comments they normally receive final approval and are ready for
production. -
Revised Editions
3.        Books are revised in accordance with changes in the syllabuses and minor
changes are made as agreed after receiving comments from teachers, inspectors and DEOs.
Ten textbooks were revised in 1992 for Classes V and VII. In December 1992 further work
was being done on them to take into account comments from the Basic Shiksha Parishad.
They will need to be completed by July 1993 at the latest. It is planned that the remaining
books for these two classes as well as all the books for Class VIII will be revised in phases
in the coming years.



- 90 -
Page 2 of 6
Manuscripts
4.        Textbook manuscripts are delivered to the Textbook Office in the form of typed
texts with indications where the illustrations are to go and what form they are to tale.
Reference may be made to illustrations that have appeared in other books and, when
copyright legislation allows, existing illustrations may be reproduced unchanged. At this
point in the production cycle the exact number of pages that the material will fill is not
known.
5.        The Textbook Office has one artist on its staff. He/she prepares camera ready
artwork in line with the requirements of the textbook authorship teams. Sometimes the
publishers/printers who are chosen to prepare 'dummies' prepare camera ready copy of the
illustrations themselves and sometimes the camera ready copy is made simply by reproducing
an existing illustration. Publhshers/ pnnters can call on a number of freelance illi'stators to
pktpare artwork for dummies. As far as is known none of them employs illustrators full
time.
Page Lavout and Book Deig
6.        The Textbook Office gives a group of its better printers the task of preparing
dummies. The printers are not paid for doing this work but are rewarded by being given a
greater number of books to print than those printers who do not prepare dummies. The
Textbook Office indicates to the printer what page size should be used and what size of type.
The first proof that the pnnter provides is in page form. It is proof read and returned to the
printer for corrections to be made. At this point the positioning of text and illustrations is
finalized by the Textbook Office. The printer then produces one hundred copies of the final
dummy. This is printed on good quality paper since it will be used as camera ready copy for
both letterpress and offset printing by all the printers of that title. If the book is to be
printed in more than one color a series of separated color proofs are included with the
dummy so that the printers do not have to make separations. These proofs are prepared in
the final printing colors which sometimes makes their reproduction difficult.
7.        The offset printing process is gainig in popularity with the printers of Uttar
Pradesh. This means that the pages of the dummy as well as the sepanated proofs of the
illustrations can be photographed for platemaling purposes. Since the printing plates are a
faithful copy of the original material there is little room for mistakes to occur. This is not
the case however when books printed by letterpress. The printers have to set the type to
match that of the dummy and have to make printing blocks of the illusations. The printers
tliemselves check for errors in their typesetting as does the Textbook Office. A printer who



- 91 -
ANEX
Page 3 of 6
delivers books with a maximum of five eors in them is not severely penalized but recives
a smaller allotment of books to print the following year. If more than one printer/publisher
prints a paricuar tide by letrss  each has to set the type afresh and to make a set oi
printing blocks. The risk of errors ncurring is therefore greater than it is with the offset
process, but according to the Textbook Office their various checks reduce them to a
m=nimum.
8.        Any publisher or printer in Uttar Pradesh can apply to print textbooks. He has to
fill in a detailed form which asks for details of the slruchiu ' of the company, the directors,
its previous experience in printing textbooks, its equipment and so on. The forms are vetted
by the District Education Officers who are asked by the Textbook Office to visit the plants
and check the facts. Plants are also subject to spot checks by the staff of the Textbook
Office. Once the application forms have been analyzed, a league table is prepared in which
printers and publishers are given ratings from a high of A to a low of D. Printers who arx
rated D do not get any orders. Publishers have to give details of their publications and say
who Ciey will use to undertake printing. No firm can receive an order unless it has been in
business for at least three years and can show that it has paid its taxes. In all approximaty
1284 printers and publishing houses were used to print textbooks for 1991-1992. There is a
fiir degree of overlap between the various companies who receive orders. Publishers are
also printers, printers are also publishers, wholesalers have printing subsidiaries and
publishers/printers have branches in several cities. The total number of entities involved is
closer to 200 than 1200 and most of them are to be found in 8 or 10 of the largest cities in
uttar Pradesh.
Allocation of Work to Prhners
9.        Normally a printer receives an order to print a maximum of 60,000 copies of one
textbook. Printers who have been commended for the quality of their work the previous year
receive an increase in their orders of 5,000 copies. Orders given to printers who pripare
dummies are increased by 60% for new titles and by 40% for reprints of existing titles. The
greatest number of copies that one printer or publisher can be asked to print is 101,000.
Those printers who are chosen to pe    dummies are becoming increasngly unhappy with
their rewards. The potential profit that they can expect to make from the greater quantities
that they are entitled to pnnt seemingly does not cover the costs that they incur in praring
the dummies.
10.       Various factors have to be taken into account in allocating work to printers. The
major points are: the equipment that the printer has (ie is he equipped to print color?), where
his plant is in UP, what his quality rating is, what the quality rating is of the book that he is
to print. It is also essential ta he should not have printed the sane book before since he
would be able to use old films or blocks and would be able to save money. The reason that



- 92 -
ANME 6
Page 4 of 6
no printer is given more books to print than the maximum figure of 101,000 is that the
Textbook Office does not want there to be monopoly suppliers because this would be seen as
unfair by the smaller ones who did not receive orders.
11.       There is considerable behind the scenes co-operatih between the many
publishers and printers who are involved in the production of Uttar Pradesh's textbooks.
Offset printers lend their negatives to one another to avoid wasteful duplication of effort.
Typesetting houses set type for several printers involved in the production of the same title.
Smaller firms sub- contract production of their titles to larger firms who are then able to
group production runs of the same titles. Offset printing plates are sometimes made by
specialist suppliers and binding is contracted out.
Book Pricing
12.       The selling prices of different textbooks, of which there are 84 in all, is
proposed by the Department of Basic Education and finalized by the State Government. The
prices take into account, amongst other things, the number of pages and the number of colors
as well as the general level of pricing of materials and printing. The opinions of the printers
and publishers themselves are sought in arriving at revised prices for the textbooks each
year. Printers and publishers can expect to receive 91.5% of the cover price for aU the
copies that they sell, this figure allows them a profit margin equal to 7.5% of the cover
price. Seven percent of the cover price is allocated to the retailer and 1.5% has to be paid
by the printer/publisher to the State Government in the form of a royalty. The relationship
between the cost of manufacture and the selling price of a book is therefore 84:100.
Book Specificatlons
13.       The trimmed page size, number of colors and quality of paper are determined by
the Basic Shiksha Panishad with advice from the Textbook Office. Printers and publishers
have to fc1ov. these specifications. An allowance of 1.5% per impression is allowed at
present for paper wastage. Printers/publishers have to show copies of the invoices that they
have paid for paper and the quantities have to match. The paper specified is 64 gsm A grade
Cream Wove quality made of virgin pulp. The sheet size is 84.1 x 59.4 cms which should
give a final trimmed page size to the books of 14 x 21 cms, although cQpies are frequently
trimmed smatler than this. Cover paper is 175 gms.
Book Quantiiet
14.       The Textbook Office settles printing quantities on the basis of the school
enrolment figures from the previous September. Because experience shows that children in
school for the first time do not take care of their textbooks the Textbook Office generally
orders 100% more than the enrolment figure for textbooks for Class I. For higher classes it
orders progressively fewer books and for Upper Primary classes it only orders 90% of the



- 93 -
ANEX 6
Page 5 of 6
enrolment figure for reprints and 110% for new titles. Sometimes more books are printed
than are required. The cost of such books has to be carried by the publishers/printers since
if they are then unable to sell copies on to the wholesalers. In fact an informal network of
publishers/printers, wholesalers and retailers keeps a very close watch on the market and
adjusts printing numbers to make sure than overstocks are minimized. As long as there are
no changes to a title, copies can be sold the following year. The Textbook Office carry out
field studies every year to determine how much stock remains unsold from the previous year
and taks great care to inform interested parties when new editions of textbooks are planned.
QualCnl
15.       Every publisher/printer has to submit three finished copies of the textbook that
he has printed to the District Education Officer. The quality of these samples is checked and
when satisfied tle DEO allows the publisher/printer to put his books on sale and sends his
report along sample copies to the Textbook rOfficer. Each year, once production of
textbooks is complete, an evaluation committee checks various aspects of the quality of
manufacture of each printer or publisher's output. The clarity of the printed image, the
registration of the colors, the accuracy and strength of the binding are all examined and as a
result a printer or publisher can be commended or reprimanded. The reward or punishment
akes the form of an increase or a reduction in the number of copies that that particular
supplier is asked to produce the following  ar. When the quality of production is
particularly bad, it is occasionally necessary to stike a supplier off the list. Suppliers are
graded from a high of A to a low of D. These grades are not the same as those that are
given when a supplier first applies to be recognized.
Cover Printing
16.       All covers for nationalized textbooks for Classes I to VIII for Uttar Pradesh are
at present printed by the Government Press. This has five plants in various parts of UP.
When a publisher/printer receives an order to print textbooks he is also required to receive
an authority to collect the necessary printed covers from the Government Press after fulfilling
specified requirements. The reason for this procedure is to cut down on the opportunities for
printers to produce spurious or pirate copies of textbooks.
17.       Each printer is allocated a code. This code has to appear near the spine of every
section of the books that he prints. This system enables the Textbook Office to see who has
printed their books well or badly and supposedly also cuts down on the risk of spurious
copies reaching the market, although in fact 'pirates' simply use the names and codes of
legitimate printers.



- 94 -
ANNE6
Pae 6 of 6
Thdn
18.       Books are required for term which begins on July 1st. Although the targeet date
for comr,pletion of manufacture is technically 15 June, it is not necessary for all bools to be
manufactured and distributed by that date because sales continue throughout July and also
into August. Orders are pked by the Textbodk Office at the benning of May. The
production dmetable is kept to a minimum to leave little opportunity for printers to produce
spurious copies of the textbooks. It also assists the cash flow of printers and publishers.
19.       Distribution is the entire responsibility of the publishers/printers. Most of them
make advance arrangements to sell their production to particular wholesalers with whom they
have cooperated in previous years. The wholesalers then sell on to snaller wholesalers or
direct to retailers. In very rare cases a pnnter/publisher finds that he is unable to find an
outlet for his production. Field surveys are undertaken by the Textbook Office in the lead up
to the beginnin of the school year in order to monitor potential shortages and District
Education Officers are asked to report if there are difficulties in their districts.
Other Tasks of the Textbook Ofce
20.       The Textbook Office has been asked this year to coopeate in the selection of
tides for secondary schools under the centrally soored Science and Math scheme. It has
also helped to purchase books for DIET libranes and general reading books for the Opaion
Blackboard scheme.
21.       The system does not have to be subsidized by the Government of Uttar Pradesh
and is designed to reduce the risk of corruption to an absolute minimum. No money passes
from the textbook office to the printers and publishers. The only money that passes from the
publishers and pnnters to government is the refundable Caution Money that has to paid when
applications are made to be included in the list of approved suppliers and the 1.5% royalty
fee that is payable for every book produced. The risk of large scale producers dominating
the market and putting smaUler competitors out of business is mmnized and the work is
shared between all interested and competent suppLers throughout the state.
22.       The system makes textbooks available to parents and children in all parts of the
State at prices that range from Rp 2.05 to Rp 9.80. This i substantially less than the selling
prices of equivalent books from both public and private sector publishers. There is scope for
some improvement both in the way in which the system is operaed and in the books
themselves, but in general Uttar Pradesh children are extremely well provided with
textbooks.



- 95 -
ANNE7
hge 1 of 18
UTTIAR PRDES BAS1Q5CEDUATl[N ER-Q,=RT
Financing Education In Uttar Prdsh
1.        The system of education finance in Idia is complicated both because of general
issues of fiscal federalism and the specific procedures and terminology used in the country.
Essentially, however, state govenment revenues finance upwards of 97 percent of total
government spending on prmary and secondary schooling and 65 percent of universites.
Public expenditures on primary education, then, essentially depend on the heal of state
govemment finances and the stucture of total expenditures. This annex briefly considers
some of the issues of state finances in generd and of Uttar Pradesh in particular, analyses the
size, growth and structure of the State's education expenditures since 1985 and provides
some illustrative assessments of the financial mplications of univerlising primary
schooling.
Rcnt Trends In State Gvenment Finance (AU India)
2.        State governments currently raise around 35 percent of tota state and central
government revenues and account for 58 percent of total revenue expenditures. Since 1987-
88, dissaving of a considerable magnitude has appeared on the combined sts' revenue
accounts:
1987-88 Rs. -1088 crores
1988-89 Rs. -807 "
1989-90 Rs. -3682 n
1990-91 Rs. -5445 n
3.        The deficit for 1991-92 is projected at Rs. 4000 crores - equivalent to 4 percent
of GDP. Surplus' on the capital account, largely through increased loans from the Centre
have led to lower, but incrasing, overaa budget deficits. In recent years these have been:
1987-88 Rs. -66 crores
1988-89 Rs. +380
1989-90 Rs. -161
1990-91 Rs. 429
1991-92 Rs. -1781



- 96 -
Page 2 of 18
4.        The 1991-92 deficit would have been Rs. 2714 crores had not additional tax
measures been implemented by states and the Centre during the year. These deficits have
occurred in spite of cuts in approved Plan outlays in each of the past few years. In 1990-91
these totalled Rs. 1856 crores. The overall resource gaps in budgetary operations of the states
have grown even more dramatically. Gross fiscal deficits over the 1980s were:
1980-81 Rs. 3712 crores
1985-86 Rs. 7520
19Q0-91 Rs. 19540
1991-92 Rs. 20140
5.        Budget deficits have led to increased loans and indebtedness.The outstanding
dbLt of state governments grew from Rs.21,600 crores, equal to 17.6 percent of GDP, in
1980 to Rs.91,000 crores equal to 23.0 percent of GDP in 1990. As a result, levels of
interest and capital repayments are high and increasing. For all states combined these were
equal to 15.7 percent of non Plan expenditures in 1989-90 rising to 17.9 percent in 1991-92.
6.        Another important trend in states' finances is the increasing share of central
government grants as Table 1 demonstrates. Within three years (1989-90 to 1991-92) the
contribution from grants rose five percentage points and their nominal annual rate of growth
averaged 28.9 percent. Given the increased detenination of the Central Government to
reduce its own budget deficit, it is unlikely that such growth rates can be sustained into the
future.
Table 1: Sources of Revenue: All States: 1989-90 to 1991-92 (percent)
Average
Annual
Source                      1989 90   1991-92   Increase
States own Taxes              46.0      44.0      10.4
Share in Central Taxes        23.2      20.5       7.0
States Non Taxes              15.8      15.0       9.8
Grants                        15.0      20.5      28.9
Total                        100.0     100.0      12.3
Source: Reserve Bank of India Bulletin. April 1992, pp.627-30.



- 97 -
ANNEX
Page 3 of 18
Itecent Trends in Uttar Pradesh State FSqane
7.        Uttar Pradesh State Government deficits on the revenue account were Rs. 1410
crores in 1990-91 and Rs. 1353 crores in 1991-92. These were 26 and 34 percent
respectively of the combined deficit of all states in those years. Consequently, interest
payments and payments of debts as percentages of total non Plan expenditures in the State
are significantly above the national average - 22.8 percent in 1991-92 compared to the all-
states average of 17.9 percent. These payments further fuel increases in total state
expenditues. The State's finances are also much more dependent on Central Government
transfers than are the average state's and the dependence has grown as Table 2 demonstrates.
Transfers grew from 33 percent of the total in the late 1960s to 45 percent in the late 1970s
and to 52 percent in the late 1980s. While the State's share of total tax income distributed to
the states as a whole has fallen slightly (from 17.0 to 15.8 percent between 1987 and 1991),
its share of total grants increased from 10.3 to 15.4 percent.
Table 2: Sources of Total State Revenues. Uttar Pradesh. 1965-1990 (percent)
Source          1965-70  1971-75  1976-80   1981-85   1986-90
Share in Central Tax      19.1      28.7     27.3       30.1      32.9
Central Grants            13.7      12.7     18.0       20.1      19.2
Total Central Transfer    32.80    41.40    45.30       50.20    52.10
Total State-Own Income    67.2      58.6     54.7       49.8      47.9
Source: Bajaj and Agarwal, State Finances In Uttar Pradesh 1965-90, p. 347.
8.        The dramatic change in the relative shares of the internal and external sources of
revenue partly results from the relatively slow growth of the State's own-tax revenues. Table
3 compares Uttar Pradesh's revenue performance with that of the fourteen other most
populated states up to the late 1980s. On each measure the State comes near to the bottom of
the all-state rankings. More recently taxes and the rate of growth of tax revenues have
increased but they start from a relatively low base.



- 98 -
Page 4 of 18
Table 3: State Revenue Performce
Index of     Average per capta Tax    Tax to
Own Tax 1986-7     Revenue 1982-7      SDP1%)
State           1960=100              Re.            1986-87
Uttar Pradesh            2661               97.9              5.7
All 15 States            3167               172.4             8.5
Rank(outof 15)            11                 12               13
Source:   Bajaj and Agrawal, p.349.
Note:     SDP Is State Domestic Product.
9.        The trend in capital receipts also suggests increasing dependence on centr
sources of finance. While the overal proportion of the capital receipts in the form of loans
and advances from the Centre is roughly the same in Uttar Pradesh as in the rest of the states
(around 60 percent), their recent growth in this State has been much higher. Between 1989-
90 and 1991-92 the growth was 69 percent against 31 percent for all states.
10.       Revenue generation problems have existed in Uttar Pradesh for some time.
Oveall shortfalls in real Plan expenditure were equal to 19.0 percent of the platined levels
during the Sixth Plan and 9.1 percent during the Seventh Plan. Projections of the Nimth
Finance Commission for the overall revenue account position for the State (aftr all Central
transfers) were:
1990-91 Rs.-759 crores
1991-92 Rs.-675  a
1992-93 Rs.-565  n
1Q93-94 Rs.458  0
1994-95 Rs.428  n
1990-95 Rs.-2886 n
The next highest cumulative deficit was Rs. 960 crores for Rajasthan. Trends in state
finances in Uttar Padesh (and across all states), suggest the need for some significant
restructuring of revenues and expenditures.



- 99 -
ANNEX 7
Page S of 18
UTttar Pradesh Education Expenditure 1985 to 1992
Pla E,x=dkure
11.      Plan expenditures on the educational system since 1985 are shown in Table 4. In
addition to those made through the Ministry of Education, allocations are also made by the
Ministry of Social Welfare for scholarships to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Trbe children.
The period 1985 to 1990 covered the period of the Seventh Plan. In 1990-91 and 1991-92
there were Annual Plans only. The Eighth Plan is intended to cover 1992-93 to 1996-97.
Ovall, the share of Plan expendiures devoted to thc, education sector has increased, from
4.0 prcent during the Seventh Plan period to 4.5 percent in the two annual plans, and the
prjections for the Eighth Plan period suggest an acceleration of this trend to 6.5 percent.
Including scholarships, during the Seventh Plan 5.0 percent of total expenditures were
devoted to education and 4.9 percent during the two annual Plans of 1990 and 1991
percent.In the Eighth Plan the share is projected to be a total of 7.3 percent.
12.      Increas   in allocations in real terms can only be calculated approximately. Over
the period of the Seventh Plan the rae of inflation averaged roughly 6.5 percent a year. In
1992 prices, therefore, Eighth Plan expenditures on education are projected to be over double
(116 percent) the size of expenditures during the Seventh Plan. This compare to an overall
Plan increase in real terms of only around one third. Education's share of Plan ependiture
has traditionally been small but is projected to increase substantially.



- 100 -
ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 18
Table 4: Plan Expenditures: Education Sector. Uttar Pradesh 1985 -1992
Eighth Plan
Level      1985-90  1990-1  1991-2  1992-3    1992-7
Elem              2952    1009       834     897        7037
(NFE)              173       62      101      55         242
Second             570      180      414     426        2207
Higher             258      102       67      61        1760
Adult              508      109      161      135        232
Other               43        6      107      48         321
Tech               491      144      208      221       2724
Total Ed          4823    1551    1792    1788         14281
SC/ST/B            1164     101      170     297        1743
Educ--- 
TOTAL ED          5987    1652    1962    2085         16024
+ SC/ST/B
TOTAL PLAN       119487   32082   41580   42444       220050
TOTAL ED AS %       4.0     4.7      4.3      4.2         6.5
OF TOTAL PLAN
TOTAL ED
+SC/ST/B            5.0     5.1      4.7      4.9         7.3
AS % OF
TOTAL PLAN
Source: GOUP Ministry of Finance, Budget Books for 1985-6 to 1992-3
GOUP State Planning Institute for Eighth Plan period.
Note 1: SC/ST/B Is Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Backward classes
- almost all the SC/ST/b allocations are for scholarships.
13.      In addition to State Plan expenditures financed directly through State revenues of
one form or another, there are also the Centrally Sponsored Schemes, financed by the
Central Govemnment. Some of these also involve some state funding, some do not. Where
they do the State contributions are already included in the figures for State Plan expenditure
in Table 4 above. Table 5 documents expenditure on Centrally Sponsored Schemes in
education by the Centrl Government since 1985 and those envisaged over the Eighth Plan
period. During the Seventh Plan education expenditures under the Schemes were equivalent
to 25 percent of State Plan spending on education. Most focused on primary schooling, non-
formal education and literacy programs. Central Govemnment spending on these programs



- 101 -
ANNEX 
Page 7 of 18
was equivalent to 35 percent of the State's spending on them. In the Eighth Plan the share of
the Centrally Sponsored Schemes devoted to education programs has been reduced compared
to the previous Plan (3.6 and 4.9 percent respectiva1y). Even so the allocations to education
programs are still equivalent to around 17 percent of State expenditure on edkcation and for
primary and adult education programmes are equivalent to 27 percent of the State's planned
allocation.
Table 5: Uttar Pradesh:Centrally Sponsored Schemes In Education 1985-92
and Over the Eighth Plan Perod
(Rs. million)
Central Govemment Expenditura
Programs     1985-90  1990-91  1991-92  1992-3  8th Plan
Education CSS     1213      276       476     606     2440
Elem Educ          630       155      335     332     1272
(NFE)              302       139      177     172      315
(OB)               316        10      150     150      917
Adult Educ         351        82       61      84      422
Rural Funct Lit    309       65        35      56      280
All CSS          24633     8723    11025   12192    67309
Programs
Education %        4.9       5.6      4.3     5.0       3.6
Source: GOUP Draft Eight Plan Volume IlIl
Note: NFE is non Formal Educaiton, OB is Operation Blackboard
CSS is Centrally Sponsored Schemes
The components of the education program do not exactly add up
to the education total.
14.      The total value of the State's Eighth Plan was originally set at Rs.280000 million
and has since been revised to Rs.220050 million - a reduction of 21 percent. The General
Education program has been reduced to Rs.11577 million from Rs.13775 million - a
reduction of 16 percent. Table 6 compares the Drft and Revised Eighth Plan allocations for
education and scholarships. The overall share has risen very slightly with the reductions in
technical and scholarships being countered by the increase for geneial education.



-102 -
Page S of 1i
Table 6:  tar Pradesh. Allocatons In the Draft and Revie Eighth Plans
(Rs. millon)
Draft    %   Revisd   %
General Ed       13775   4.9   11557  5.3
Elem              8385   3.0    7037  3.2
Technical Ed      4000   1.4    2724  1.2
SC/ST/B           2493   0.9    1743  0.8
Total           280000          220050
15.      The data for expenditures coverng 1985-6 to 1992-3 in Table 4 were taWen from
the audited budgets. These cover expendites fom all sources of income which in one way
or another flow through the budget and include spei one-ff allocations such as those
recommended by the Pinance Commission for school buildig in Uttar Pradesh in 19V-90
and 1990-1 (Rs.696 million and Rs.456 million respecdvely). The Eighth Plan allocations, in
contrast, cover only those which arise from the Stat's revenues, including own revenues,
shared tax revenues and cental Plan assstance. Projected Plan expendithes, then, tend to be
below those actually budgeted (so long as the Plan is acally achieved). Projected Eighth
Plan outlays for 1992-7 and Annual Plan oudays for 19934 for education are now presented
in greater detil in Table 7. In both fime periods, Elementary eduation is projected to
receive over 60 per cent of the total. As a percentage of total ongoing expenditur,
Elementary is to recive 45.4 percent. Of new expenditures, the sub sector is expected to be
allocated almost 92 percent of the total. 'New' Plan exenditres in the other sub sectors are
very small indeed.



- 103 -
&M 
Page 9 of 18
Table 7: Eighth Plan and 19934 Annual Plan Outlays on Education (Rs.lakhs)
Level                      Eighth Plan    %   1993-4    %
Elementary
Ongoing                    32140           6088
New                        38227           9433
Total                      70367  60.8  16521   66.0
Secondary
Ongoing                    20288           4423
New                         1779            355
Total                      22067  19.1   4778   19.1
University
Ongoing                    17939           2575
New                          212             45
Total                       17605  15.2   2620   10.5
Adult Educ
Ongoing                      819            108
New                         1503            277
Total                       2322   2.0    385    1.5
Other                           3414   2.9    721    2.9
Total                         115775 100.0  25025  100.0
Elem as % of Total Ongoing      45.4           57.2
Elem as % of Total New          91.6           93.3
Source: GOUP State Planning Institute, Annual Plan 1993-94.
Note: Rs. 1000 million has been added to the original 1993-4 allocation
for "new' activities In elementary education to that originally proposed.
The overall implications for the whole Eight Plan period Is not know but
the allocation to total Elementary Is likely to rise by at least Rs. 5000
million and the share to 62.4 percent.
16.      Estimates of the share of El3ementary education planned over ;the Eighth Plan
period compared to shares in the Seventh Plan perod and m the intervening years are shown
in Table 8. Over the combined Seventh Plan and two Annual Plan periods to 1992
Elementary education received an average of 56 percent of Plan allocatons to General
Education. During 1989-90 and 1990-91, however, the State received two ad hoc transfers
from the Cental Government for primary school buildings. Subtratg these, the
expenditures on Elementay education were 49 percent of the total. During the Eighth Plan
period the projected share for Elementary is 61 percent. Already, however, the allocation for
1993-94 is Rs.100 million above that anticipated. Deducting the loan and assuming that the
additional Rs. 100 million is maintained though the Plan period (as expected) the share would



- 104 -
ANNEX: 
Page 10 of 18
additional Rs. 100 million is maintained through the Plan period (as expected) the share would
remain constant. Given that the overall share of Education in the Plan is projected to increase
quite significantly (from 4.1 percent to 6.5 percent), and that the share for Elementary
outside of the loan is planned to remain constant, non loan expenditures should increase
significantly and the loan can be regarded as financing additional expenditures. In 1993-94,
the overall proposed Annual Plan allocation for elementary education, including the Project,
is 66 percent of the total and around 53 percent after deduction of the loan.
Table 8: Shares of Plan Expenditure in Education by Level and Time Period
(percent)
Level     Seventh Plan  1990-92   Eighth Plan
Elementary       59          52         61
Secondary        22          24         19
UniversitV       13          13         15
Adult             3          2          2
Other             3          9          3
17.       This somewhat optimistic picture of education Plan financing requires some
reservations. While the shares of total Plan expenditure allocated to General Education in
general and Elementary in particular may be increasing they remain low. In addition it is
important to view Uttar Pradesh in the national context. Problems in resource generation
have led to lower than average Plan expenditures. Table 9 presents Plan expenditures for the
State as a proportion of the total expenditures of all states for each of the past four Plan
periods, beginning in 1970, and the period 1990-92. Over time the share has fallen from
15.2 to 12.7 percent.
Table 9: Plan Outlays. Uttar Pradesh and All States. 1970-92.
(Rs.million)
State Plans      Fourth    Fifth    Sixth  Seventh   1990-92
Uttar Pradesh   11630   29090   65190   112110       62110
All States      76750  195710  484820   845670   488140
% UttarPradesh    15.2    14.9    13.4      13.3       12.7



- 105 -
ANRX7
Page 11 of 18
18.       The Eighth Plan allocations to major activities, and the shares, are documented
in Table 10 together with the shares over the Seventh Plan period. The major change is for
the Energy sector where the share increased from 23.7 percent to 32.2 percent. Almost half
of the total aUlocation is devoted to Energy and Irrigation. To allow for the increased share to
Energy the allocations for all other major activity groups have been reduced. With regard to
Social Services as a whole, the share has only fallen slightly and the increased share for
Education, documented above, can now be seen as one of very few activities which has been
able to increase its share. Putting Education's share in another perspective, however, the
allocation to 'power transmission and distribution' alone is two and a half times greater.
Table 10: Seventh Plan and Proposed Eighth Plan Expenditures by Major Actlvities. (percent)
Major Activity         Seventh Plan   Eighth Plan
Agriculture                 10.2          9.7
Rural Development            8.9          7.3
Irrigation                  17.5         14.7
Energy                      23.7         32.2
Industry                     5.8          2.7
Transport                   10.7          9.5
Economic Services            0.7          2.9
Social Services             20.5         19.4
(General Education)       (3.8)        (5.3)
(To'ehnical Education)    (0.8)        (1.2)
Other                        2.0          0.6
Non Plan E*penditure
19.       Non-plan expenditures in the education sector are several times larger than Plan
expenditure. During the Seventh Plan period the ratio was approximately 11:1. In 1990-91 it
was 13:1 and in 1991-92 11:1. Table 11 documents non Plan expenditures from 1986-7 to
1992-3. The particularly large increase in 199(1-91 resulted from a major salary review and
the backpayment of increases. Changes in total State expenditures have varied considerably
over the period (a 43 percent increase in 1989 and an 8 percent decrease in 1992) resulting in
the shares for Education being rather volatle. The underlying trends, however, appear to
have been upward in the late 1980s followed by somewhat of a struggle to maintain the
resulting higher levels over the recent years.



- 106 -
Page 12 of 18
Table 11: Utter Pradesh: Non Plan Educaffon Expenditures 1986-1992
(Rs. million)
Level       1986      1987      1988      1989      1990      1991     1992
Elem        4130      4223      5830      8789    11108      9819      9943
Second      3049      3608      4350      5938     6238      6520      3806
Higher       669       756      1006      1269      1539      1738     1755
Technical    185       240       209       321       381      361       379
Other         21        21        24        27        98        79       82
Total       8054      8848    11419    16349    19021        18187    18665
Education
Total      46802    53385    53141    76281    97593   104029    96060
state
Expend
Total Ed     17.2      16.6     21.5      21.4      19.5      17.5      19.4
% Total
3tate
Source: GOUP Ministry of Finance Budget Books
Note 1: 1986 to 1990 data are actual expenditures, 1991 are Revised Estmates and 1992 are
Budget Estimates
20.       Focusing only on elementary, secondary and higher educaton, some substantial
differences in the gwth rates and changes in these can be seen. First, however, the shar of
elementary in total general educaton expendiures through time is calculated. The shs
were:
1986  1987  198   1989  1220  1921  12
52.6  53.9  52.1  59.6  58.8  54.2  53.7
At least part of the bulge in 1989-90 and 1990-91 resulted from the payment of salary
arrears. Apart from these years the average share of elementary in the total is around 53
percent with recent years slightly above those for earlier years. Table 12 below descnbes
various growth rates of expenditure by level.



- 107 -
AN7 
Page 13 of 18
Table 12: Unar Pradesh: Average Annual Rates of Growth of Non Plan Education
Expendite by Education Level 1986-92
(Percent)
Level       1986-92   1986-89   1989-92   1992-93
Elementary    23.5      37.6      4.4        1.3
Secondary     20.2      27.6      5.3        4.3
Higher        20.3      18.8     12.8        1.0
Total         23.0      31.3       5.0       2.3
Source: Table 11
21.       Rapid growth rates in the first years of the Seventh Plan period have tmned into
much lower rates in the past few years, particularly for elementary and secondary educsition.
Inflation rates during the latter half of the 1980s were around 6.5 percent and have hovered
around 10 perront in the last two years. The proposed growth rates in expenditures for
1992-93 are very low for each level and only 2.3 percent overall. The lower rates of
expansion reflect the increasing budgetary problems which are facing the State (and most
other states).
22.       Teacher salaries dominate the non Plan costs of education. Of 'the total allocation
to elementary education, emoluments comprise 97 percent of the total. Although changes in
salaries have occurred throughout the country since, in 1989 primary school teachers in Uttar
Pradesh received lower salaries than in any other state and for trained graduate teachers
salaries were lower in only four of the 25 states (Second Report of the Ninth Finance
Commission 1989). However, as multiples of state per capita income (3.0 and 4.5 times
respectively) they were higher hn in states such as Maharashtra and Haryana.
Total Plan and Non Plan Expenditures
23.       In assessing the overall contrbutions of the states to educational provision in
India, both Plan and non Plan expendiures need to be aggregated. Table 13 below is based
on such an aggregation over the whole period 1977-77 to 1990-91 for Uttar Pradesh. The
table documents the changing shares of expenditure by level of education and the oveall
shares of educational expenditure in total State govemment expenditure. A companson of the
latter is made with the average for the fourteen major states in India.



- 108 -
AM 
Page 14 of 18
Table 13: Uttar Pradesh: Education's Share of Total Govemmen Expenditure
and Allocation by Level 197617 to 199011
(Percent)
Educadton
a % of
Period    Elem  Second Higher Other Tech   Totl  14 Major States %
1977-79   49.9  34.3  11.1   2.0   2.8    15.2        16.6
1980-82   48.8  35.3  10.6   2.6   2.7    14.0        15.5
1983-85   49.1  35.6   9.8   2.4   2.7    15.2        16.3
1986-88   49.5  35.4   8.7   2.5   3.9    15.7        16.7
1989-91   54.6  32.2   8.0   2.3   2.8    19.1        18.2
Source: Tables prepared by the National Institute for Public Finance and Policy,
New Delhi
24.       The data in Table 13 indicate a distinct upward trend in the share of total
educational expenditures devoted to primary education over the past decade but particularly
since 1989 in Uttar Pradesh, compensated through reduced shares initially to higher and,
more recently, also secondary education. Equally stiking is the gradual increase in the share
of total State Government expenditure which has been directed towards education, rising
from 15.2 percent in the late 1970s to over 19 percent at the turn of the 1990s. Since then
the share has been above the average. The message appears clear. In recent years
elementary education has been receiving an increasing share of a larger share of government
expenditure. This conclusion needs to be tempered by the understanding at the increases in
shares appear to have recently stalled, the overall Mte of growth of government expenditure
has slowed and that even activities which are given prority by Government are not
necessarily significantly increasing their control over real resources.
25.       Another way of viewing resource flows across major activities is provided by the
Reserve Bank of India which aggregates total state expendihues on the revenue and capital
accounts. Around 80 percent of the total are in the former. The most recent presentation of
these expenditures supports the cautious statement above. It details actuals, revised estimates
and budget esfimates for 1989-90, 1990-91 and 1991-92 respectively. These suggest some
disturbing trends. Expenditures/alocations to the Social Services in general fell from 38
percent to 29 percent and to Education from 24 to 18 percent The most prominent increases
were for interest payments and administrative services.



- 109 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1S of 18
26.       Some comparisons between Uttar Pradesh and the rest of the country are
interesting. Compared to the averages for all major states, prior to 1988 Uttar Pradesh was
spending a smaller percentage of its total Plan and non Plan expenditures on education. Since
then the share has been above the average. Through the 1980s the growth rate of total state
govemment real expenditures in UP was 7.0 percent and for the social services, 8.2 percent.
For all the states the respective growth rates were 6.8 and 8.5 percent. The similarities in
growth rates, however, hide somewhat the absolute differences in expenditures between
states. The Ministry of Human Resource Development has recently published data on the
amounts of education expenditure per capita across states for 1989-90. In Uttar Pradesh,
Bihar and Madhya Pradesh expenditures were between Rs.90 and Rs.99. In the other twelve
major states the range was from Rs. 135 to Rs.227 with an average of Rs. 166. In general,
Uttar Pradesh State appears to have been attempting to increase resources for education in
general and elementary education in particular in recent years. However, the earlier years of
neglect and the States' low income and revenue base results in absolute expenditures
remaining very low.
it Cos
27.       Dividing the non Plan budget for 1991-92 by total enrolments in the primary
schools gives an average cost per year per student of Rs.533. Since around 97 percent of this
budget is for salaries and the student teacher ratios are officially 51:1 in primary 1-5 classes
and 32:1 in primary 6-8 classes, a child in the higher classes costs roughly 60 percent more
than those in the lower. Unit costs are around Rs.480 for primary 1-5 and Rs.768 for
primary 6-8. Total recurrent costs for non formal schooling are estimated at Rs.6925 for a
class of 25 children and non recurrent costs at Rs. 1500 (covering a three year period). This
gives a unit cost of around Rs.290. The rough unit costs of Primary 1-5 of Rs.480 and
Primary 6-8 of Rs.768 compare to Rs.2157 in secondary schools and Rs.2850 in higher
education resulting in ratios of 1: 1.6: 4.5 : 5.9.
Future Financing of Education
28.       Since the Education sector as a whole apparently consumes the largest portion of
non Plan expendiures and the Elementary sub sector absorbs over 50 percent of the total,
any aspirations to expand these activities need to examine various aspects of the wider State
financial scenario alluded to in the early sections of this Annex. Considering the number and
types of sources involved, forecasting future State revenues is very problematic. The Ninth
Finance Commission for 1990-95 forecast a 7.5 percent annual increase in revenues for non
Plan expenditures in Uttar Pradesh. This was considerably below the growth rate of the
1980s but sfill well above the expected rate of growth of the economy. An interesting attempt
to examine finances across states in the future has recently been made by members of the



- 110 -
ANEN7
Page 16 of 18
National Institute of Public Finance and Policy.' Utilising revenue and expenditure growth
rates of the 1980s and the assumption that revenue budget deficits will have to be eliminated
by the year 2000, the attempt was made to descrbe the altemative revenue and expenditure
growth paths necessary. For Uttar Pradesh, if revenues continue to grow in the 1990s at the
rate they grew in the 1980s (15.2 percent), expenditure growth will have to faU from 18.3
percent a year to 13.2 percent. Alternatively, if txpenditures continue to grow in the 1990s
at the rate the grew in the 1980s (18.3 percent), the revenue growth will have to increase
from 15.2 percent to 20.4 percent - the highest among all states.
29.       The structure of budgetary expenditures is also intefesting to note. A functional
classification shows that while expenditures in real terms across all states increased at 8
percent a year in the 1980s, subsidies increased by 12.6 percent a yearY' Among
departnental enterprises, the losses incrred in Irrigation are the largest (1987-88 working
losses of Rs. 1500 crore and including depreciation Rs.5200 crore). Regarding budgetary
support for non departmental enterpnses, in most states these mainly arise from elecicity
and road transport corporations. In 1990-91, in only one state was the Electricity Board
generating a surplus once interest payments were accounted for. In Uttar Pradesh the implicit
budgetary subsidy was estimated to be Rs.6620 million, or around two thirds of non Plan
expendiures on Elementary education. Total total operating cost of supplying one unit of
electricity was just over one rupee in 1989. The average rates charged were 64 paise overall
and 23 paise for agriculture.
30.       Any further significant expansion of primary schooling will have to occur within
the financial context briefly described above. An illustrative calculation has been made of the
costs involved in moving to a situation whereby al children enter and complete prmary class
I and transfer to upper primary schools for a further three years. 1990 population figures and
the unit costs presented in section D above are the basis of the calculation. The major
assumptions involved are that 10 percent of boys and 30 percent of girls currently do not
enter class 1 and that eliminating dropouts has no total recurrent cost implications but results
in a fall in unit costs ftrough the reduction of the decline in class size. Eliminating a
situation such as one where for illustrative purposes, dropouts result in the average class size
falling gradually from 40 to 26 would reduce the unit cost over the cycle by around 25
percent. (There will of course be some costs involved in the programmes which lead to
increases in demand and reductions in dropouts but these are ignored here).
lJ R.Chelliah et al, Issues Before Tenth Finance Commission. Economic and Political
Weekly, November 21 1992.
W G.Rao, Proposals for State-Level Budgetary Reforms. Economic and Political
WkIl. February 1 1992.



- 111 -
Page 17 of 18
31.       Summansig, the annual additonal recurrent cost of enrolling all children in
lower primary is roughly Rs. 1200 million and in upper primary Rs. 3200 million: a
combined total of around Rs.4400 million. The 1992-93 non Plan allocation to Elementary
schooling was Rs.9943 million. Universalizing lower primary schooling would require an
additional 12 percent and upper prinmay an additional 32 percent: a total of 44 percent over
the existing allocation. These figures are based on the 1990 population figures. Assuming a
growth rate of school age children of 3 percent a year the recurrent cost of providing them
with a full primary schooling by the year 2000 would be around Rs.4200 million.
32.      These approximate figures suggest that non Plan allocations for Elementary
education would need to increase (at constant prices) from Rs.9943 million in 1992 to
Rs. 18,500 million in 2000 if universal primary schooling was to be achieved across the state,
requiring a compound rate of growth of just over 8 percent a year. Given the in-built
increases in the salary bill resulting from teachers' movements along salary structures, the
required real incse would be closer to 11 percent. This does not take into account extra
expenditures required for quality increases (or increases in salary levels). Since the non Plan
budget is unliky to increase at this rate in real terms (real expenditures in all states rose 8
percent a year during the 1980s), the share of Elementary education in overall allocations
would need to increase. However, these very approximate calculations suggest that the
objective is not totally out of reach.
33.       Capital costs may present more problems. To universalize lower and upper
primary schooling by 2000 while tking the growth of the population into account would
eventually require around 18 million additional places. On current estimates of Rs.2200 per
school place this would require a total of Rs.39000 million. The Eighth Plan allows for
around Rs.7000 million. Obviously, it will not to possible, in terms of both finance and
absorptive capacity, to create the required number of places in the next decade or so. One
option would be to increase class sizes. If the dropout rates can be reduced, however, class
sizes will already be high in most schools. Coincidentally the total number of new places
required for unversal schooling is almost equal to the current official level of enrollments n
primary and upper primary combined - almost 18.5 million. Some thought could be given to
double shifting. For much of the year classes are held outside with the classrooms used only
during the monsoon period, lasting around 10 weeks. This allows for some flexibility in the
way in which two 'schools' on one sight might operate. Double shifting is common in many
African countries. Even in Malaysia where the per capita income is several times that in
India, and where there has been a strong Government commitment to umiversalize schooling,
double shifting is very common and is currently experienced by a majority of upper primary
students. Given that the financial constraint on a rapid expansion of primary schooling in
Uttar Pradesh appears to be more one of capital costs than recurrent costs, this option may
justify further consideration.



- 112-
Page 18 of 18
34.       The steps currently being taken to expand and improve primary school facilities
in Uttar Pradesh are significant and demonstrate a serious commitment. The desired results
will be to increase learning, reduce dropout and expand access. The Project, however, covers
only ten of the 64 districts in the State and may be seen as the first stage in a process to
accelerate the coverage and quality of the system. To continue the process will need, among
other tiings, significant increases in resources. Options have to be developed and trade-offs
made. The rough analysis above has demonstrated that universal primary schooling is not an
impossibility from the viewpoint of recurrent costs. Their provision, however, would require
tough decisions and reductions in some of the other activities in which the State government
is involved. Providing the necessary capital expenditures to replicate current modes of
provision would be more difficult and may require changes in these modes.



- 113 -
IND1LA
UlTAR PRADESH: BASIC EDUCATION PlROECT
Project Phasing
Prolect Year
Component/Activity              1     2      3     4     5      6     7
Building Institutional
Capacity
1.  Establish EFAPB             X
2.  Proj. Monit. Dev't.         xxx
3.  MIS System Dev't.           xxxxxxxxxxxx
4.  Establish SIEMT                 xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
5.  Develop DIETS               5     5
6.  Block Resource Centers    50    60    64
7.  Learning Assessments        8            12                 12
8.  Studies/Evaluations               xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Improving Quality and
Completion
1.  VEC Training                500   1000  3000  5000  5000  2000  2000
2.  ECCE Program                      100   200   300    400
3.  Cluster Resource Tchrs    200   300   400   600
4.  Residential In-service            1000  2000  5000  5000  5000  5000
Teacher Training
5.  Grade 1-3 Materials         XXXX
Development
6.  1-3 Materials to Schools          5000  9000
7.  MLL Curriculum Dev't.             xxxxxxxxxxxx
8.  New textbocks written                   xxxxxxxxxxx
8.  Revised books to schools                             X
9.  Headteacher training              500   2000  4000  4000  4000  4000
10. Expand MS (districts)             2     2      3
11. Facilties Rehabilitation        xxxxxxxxxxxx
12. Pilot Programs                          xxxxxxxxxxxx
13. Innovations
ST students              xxxxxxxxxxxx
NGOs                            xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Improving Access
1.  Community School              979 1191   959
Construction
2.  School relocation              29   71
3.  Tchr. Induct. Trng          1600  2800  3200  500   500
4.  Open NFE classes            1000  2000  2000
PROJBCT MID-TERK REVIEW                                XX



- 114 -
ANNEL2
Page 1 of 12
UTTAR PRADESH BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Management
Illtroduction
1.       The proposed project is unique in the planned scale of operations and the
comprehensiveness of its educational conception. Effective management of the multiplicity of
interventions envisaged at the state, District and Village level would require an organizational
structure that combines three elements:
3    State level responsibiiity for ensuring coherence and consistency with State basic
education priorities;
o    Decentralization of operational responsibility to ensure responsiveness to
expressed local needs and conditions;
o    Flexibility to adapt to unforeseen events and incoxporate lessons from experience.
2.        The central responsibility for implementation is at the State level and would be
vested in the Department of Education, Government of Uttar Pradesh. The capacity of the
Department to implement the program would be strengthened by the U.P. Sabhi Ke Liye
Shiksha Paniyojana Parishad -- UP EFA Project Board (EFAPB). Through its General
Council, its Executive Committee and its State Project Office, the EFAPB would oversee,
guide and coordinate overall project implementation, allocate funds to approved programs,
maintain project accounts, coordinate procurement and monitor implementation progress.
Operationally, implementation would be decentralized to several Cooperating Agencies (CA)
involved in the project: ten District Education Project Committees (DEPCs), the SIEMT, the
SCERT, and the MS Society. Flexibility would be ensured through an iterative process of
review and funding for the Annual Work Programs and Budget Estimates (AWPB) for the
project related activities of the CAs. The preparation of these AWPBs would be structured
in such a way that they respond to the needs of beneficiaries, reflect local conditions and
incorporate lessons from experience.
3.        EPA Poect Board would serve as a project management structure, under the
Directorate of Basic Education, for the implementation of the State's basic education
development program, worldng together with VECs, DIETs and block and complex lead
school staff. At the State level coordination of the activities of the PB with those of Basic
Shiksha Parishad (BSP) and the Directorate of Basic Education (DBE) would be insured by
having the Director of Basic Education, who is ex     Chairman of the BSP also serve as



- 115-
AM4UL2
Page 2 if 12
a officio State Project Director of the Project Board.1t The functions of these three
agencies are distinct and complementary, as summarized below (for organization charts see
attachments 1-3):
BSP is an autonomous statutory body, established by the 1976 UP basic
education act, in charge of the administration of elementary education in the
State. Its Board considers policy initiatives developed by the DBE, has title to
the schools and their property, and pays teachers through a system of accounts
that reaches to the block level. The Director Basic Education is ex-officio
chairman of the BSP.
DBM is, under the overall guidance of the State Government, responsible for
strategic planning, policy making and quality control of formal and non-formal
education. In carrying out these tasks DBE currently relies on two operating
organizations: SIEMT for assessment and evaluation, planning, policy analysis
and management issues and SCERT for curriculum and p.- iagogical research.
EFA Project Board would have the overall responsibility for the implementation
of the State's basic education development program by funding, coordinating,
and supervising all project activities. Initially its responsibility would limited to
the implementation of the ]DA funded project; at a later stage its responsibility
could be broadened to encompass education programs funded by other funding
agencies. The Director Basic Eduction would be e  State Project
Director with the Board.
4.        The responsibility of the project implementing agencies in the framework of the
project would be as follows:
SCERI: Curriculum research and development, textbook revision. teacher
training and technical support to the DIETs.
SIEMT: Policy and Evaluation Studies, achievement assessment and training in
planning and management for administrators and professional staff throughout the
system.
' The State department of Public Works would be responsible for the implementation
of major civil works; the State Project Office would ensure the coordination with
PWD and the beneficiary agencies.



-116-
ANINEX9
Page 3 of 12
DBE: Under the overall guidance of the State Government, is responsible for
strategic planning, policy making, development and mai2tenance of MIS based
school statistics. In carrying out these tasks the DBE currewly relies on the
SCERT for curriculum and pedagogical research, and would rely for assessment
and evaluation, planning, policy analysis and management issues on the SIEMT,
which would be created under the project.
MS Society: Implementation of women's empowerment program.
DEPCs: Review of requests for project support from VECs and other local
organizations (including NMOs), preparation of district AWPB, supervision and
monitoring of implementation progress. In addition DEPCs would provide
technical support for the establishment of the MIS based school statistics
program, the implementation of community civil works, VEC development, and
the design and delivery of in-service teacher training program.
'YCs: execution of civil works, and oversight of schools and nonformal
education programs.
Principles of Implementation
5.        Project funding would be made available through the GOUP budget for eligible
activities included in annual work programs and budget estimate (AWPB) submitted by the
project's operating organizations to the Project Board for funding. For the district AWPB a
similar process of funding of activities at the different levels of the district school system
would be established.
6.        State level. The Project Board would every year review the AWPBs and closely
scrutinize them for consistency with the general eligibility criteria and compliance with the
established standards for construction, adequacy of proposed training activities directed at
VECs, teachers, principals and DIET staff, and adequacy of the supervision, evaluation and
reporting arrangements. Specifically, funding approval would therefore be contingent upon
the AWPBs:
-     consistency with the overall goals of the UP EFA program;
-     consistency with the GOT/UP/IDA credit agreement.
-     cost-effectiveness of the proposed interventions, including compliance with
agreed standards for civil works;
-     balance between proposed investments in physical infrastructure and
educational interventions;
-     effective integration of lessons from implementation experience to date;
-     adequacy of implementation arrangements;
-     evidence of effective implementation performance in the previous year.



- 117-
Page 4 of 12
7.        The Board would review its comments on the annual work programs with each
of the CAs seeking funding from the project, and suggest revisions as necessary. The Board
would also seek the views of IDA and GOI on the progress of project implementation and the
AWPBsl'. On the basis of the conclusions of this process of review and consultation the
Board may decide to (a) fully fund the program; (b) fund a scaled down version of the
program; (c) provide funding contingent on the fulfillment of certain conditions; or (d) deny
funding. The tentative allocation of funding included in the project documentation can be
modified by the Board at the mid-term project review in consultation with the GOI and IDA,
to reflect the implementation performance of the operating organizations. An outline of the
contents of an AWPB is found in attachment 4.
8.        State Level Operating Organizations. Each year the SCERT, the SIEMT, the
DBE and the MS Society will prepare an AWPB covering their activities under project.
SCERT and SIEMT will prepare their AWPB in anticipation of the analytic and training
tasks that they are expected to undertake under the project. These tasks are specified in the
project documents. As SCERT and SIEMT gain experience, their AWPB would increasingly
be designed to meet specific training demands from DEPCs for project implementation
support.
9.        The MS Society would develop its AWPB on the basis of the overall national MS
policy and program guidelines, and on the schedule of program implementation agreed with
the Project Board and IDA (see Annex 14).
10.      Annual District EFA programs. Each district's AWPB will be built up on the
basis of application for funding from government or non-government organizations interested
in the implementation of eligible project interventions. AWPBs would be expected to
comprise a proposal to fund a coherent set of activities to be implemented at the village level
(e.g. constraction of facilities, VEC training), at the complex level (e.g. in-service teacher
training), at the block level (e.g. head teacher training) and at the district level (e.g. support
to and training of DIET staff). The development of the AWPB will therefore have to be
based on a consultative process overseen by the District Education Project Committee, and
managed by the District Project Office in close cooperation with DIET staff. Selection of
activities for inclusion in the AWPB will be based on criteria similar to those that will guide
the review of the AWPB by the Project Board.
'IDA would try to schedule its annual review of project implementation in such a way
that its comment feeds in the annual work program and budget approval process.



- 118 -
ANP{E 9
Page 5 of 12
11.       For the community school construction program, VECs would be requested to
subnit proposals that would provide proof of site availability, willingness to provide
community contributions, and of the establishment of a separate post-office or bank account,
as well as a proposed schedule for completing the work. Proposals would be reviewed by
District project officials. This review would include a site visit by the supervising block
junior engineer. Furthermore, VECs can submit requests for funding for special training
and technical support, non-fonnal education and innovative programs. Assistance to VECs
in the preparation of these proposals will be provided by the Cluster Resource Teacher
(CRI) of the complex lead school and the block non-formal education officer.
12.      In the early years of the project it is expected that the DEPC wil be very
actively involved in the initiation, preparation and implementation of local funding proposals.
As experience is gained VECs would be able to take a role of increased responsibility for the
process. Especially important in this process of localy managed instructional improvement
is the role of the a specily trained senior teacher - the Cluster Resource Teacher (CRI) -
of the complex lead school. She/he will be the link between school, block and district level
activities by providing instructional leadership to teachers and technical support to VECs.
She/he is central in the projects communication strategy by informing head teachers and VEC
members of the opportunities available to them under the project and providing feedback to
block and district level officials about local concerns and implementation problem: hat would
require special assistance. In the light of these specific responsibilities, the CRT in the
complex lead school would be freed from his/her teaching duties, with the exception of
occasional substitute teaching tasks in one of the complex schools.
13.       Organization and Staffing. The EFAPB has been established as a registered
society under India's Societies Registration Act. The Board will have 21 professional/junior
staff at the state level, 4 in each of the 10 districts participating in the project and one junior
engineer for every two blocks of the 174 involved in the implementation of the community
construction programv. The EFAPB has a Council and an Executive Committee. It would
have a State Project Office and 10 District Project Offices .
14.       The Council is chaired by Chief Minister with about 90 members, comprising
senior UP government officials, a broad representation of State and District education
officials, representatives of the GOI, teachers and administators, representatives of voluntary
agencies and distinguished educators. The State Project Director is the Secretary. The
Council is the apex authority for the project and would provide overall policy guidelines and
direction for the implementation of the project, review annual accounts and progress reports
and amend the by-laws as necessary.
IThis ratio would be increased to one junior engineer for each block by the second year
of the project.



-119-
Page 6 of 12
15.      The Executive Committee comprises 27 members. Its Chairman ex-officio is the
Chief Secretary, GOUP and the Principal Secretary Education, GOUP the Vice-Chairman.
The Executive Committee has 27 members representing the GOUP, the G01, senior state and
district education officials and representatives voluntary of organizations. The Executive
Committee has all ad.ministrative, financW and executive authority to achieve the objectives
of the Project, including power to establish positions in the Project Board and make
appointments. It has under its control the management of all the affairs of the Project Board.
The Executive Committee may delegate to the Chairman, the State Project Director, any of
its member or a committee such powers as seems proper. To speed up the decision making
process, it is expected that the Executive Committee would establish an perational
Management Committee chaired by the Director Basic Education and comprising the
Additional State Project Director as its secretary, and three other Senior UP education
officials as members. This OMC would meet weekly and have the power to decide on
financial and administrative matters within the limits defined by the executive committee. It
is also envisaged to establish a Policy Research Advisory Committee comprising specialists
who would advise the Executive Committee on the merits of policy research proposals that
are considered for funding.
16.      'Te State Project Office (SPO) would responsible for the day to day
administration of the affairs of the Project Board. The Director Basic Education would be
the ex fflo State Project Director. The Additional State Project Director would hold a full
time appointment and be directly responsible for managing the SPO.
17.      The SPO would be organized in fivt, units: Q1) Finance and Ac6ounting; (ii) Civil
Works; (ill) Formal education;(iv) Non-Formal Education; and (v) Planning and Monitoring.
Each of these units would be responsible for review and implementation support of the
various programs funded und- the project in their area of responsibility. Responsibilities of
the planning and monitoring unit would include the project MIS system, the preparation of
quarterly reports and the EFA newsletter. Each of the units would be headed by a senior
expert supported by at least one additional expert.
18.      At the district level a District Education Project Committee would be established.
The DEPC would be chaired by the District Magistrate and comprise representation of
persons directly involved in the implementation of the project as well as distinguished
educators. The DEPC would be responsible, under the overal guidance of the State Project
Board, for aU maters relating to the project at the district level. The Chief Development
Officer (CDO) will function as the District Project Officer. He/she will ensure that AWPB
is prepared on time and according to the guidelines established by the State Board and that
project programs are implemented efficiently and monitored closely. He/she will also ensure
that the reimbursement schedule is submitted to the Board, the funds are managed and
accounts maintained in accordance with accounting procedures established by the Board.



- 120 -
ANNEX
Page 7 of 12
19.       The CDO will be assisted in his task by a project office comprising six officers
of the Project Board: (i) a professional officer who will be responsible for coordination of the
overall implementation of the education programs; (ii) an assistant engineer who will monitor
physical and financial progress of the community construction program; (iii) a junior
professional who will be responsible for the collection of data on the progress of project
implementation; he will work closely with staff of the District Education Office to develop
the school statistics that need to be collected and prepared for inclusion in the national MIS
Statistical data base; (iv) a financial officer who will work out the financial requirements of
the district, review procurement arrangements, get funds released to the implementing units
and maintain disbursement information; and (v) two accountants who will be responsible for
maintaining the project accounts in accordance with established procedures.
Supervision and Monitoring
20.       Effective arrangements would be made for the supervision of implementation,
monitoring the progress of civil works and educational project objectives and assessment of
the longer term impact of the project. Project monitoring indicators ar discussed in Annex
18. The project would support the collection of information at the district and at the state
level in several ways:
Direct supervision of implementation by junior engineer for civil works at the
block level and the junior professional officer (M&E) at the district level.
District and block level (for civil works) supervision would be continuous and
state level staff would ascertain the adequacy of district level supervision
arrangements through regular spot checks on the implementation of the civil
works and the education programs.
Quarterly progress reports in standardized formats, suitable to be entered in the
project MIS system, summarizing the progress of physical implementation and
the delivery of the education interventions at the district. These progress reports
will be synthesized and completed with information on the implementation of the
state level programs, by the Board staff. The State quarterly reports will be sent
to IDA within three months after the end of each quarter.
MIS. School statistics system managed by DBE will provide regular data on
enrollments, atendance and other key school data and the project MIS system
will track data on the implementation of project in terms of commitments and
expenditures, physical progress of civil works and actual delivery of education
interventions. It will provide all the basic information for the preparation of the
quarterly reports.
Assessment of Learning Achievement. Effects of the program on student
learning will be monitored by assessments of learning achievement.



- 121 -
ANNEX9
Page 8 of 12
Studies. Special policy, evaluation and curriculum studies will provide the
foundation for strategic policy decisions during and after implementation (Annex
12).
Information feedback. To ensure that implementation information is fed back to
all involved in project implementation the Board will issue a quarterly newsletter
to all participation institutions and persons in project implementation reporting on
progress achieved and lessons learnt to date. SIEMT will by the third year of
the project publish a bulletin summarizing the conclusions from the policy and
analytic studies that SIEMT, SCERT and other institutions involved in the
project have conducted for the benefit of education managers and professionals in
UP.
Project Launch
21.       As soon as the project becomes effective several project launch activities will be
undertaken to ensure that the whole UP education community is aware of the project, the
strategic policy directions it entails and the opportunities it presents, as well as to provide
initial training of State, District and Complex staff directly involved in project
implementation on their responsibility and accountability under the project. Project launch
activities will include:
State level proiect seminar. This seminar would be the occasion for a high
visibility launch. The participants would the members of the Council and the
Board staff, the directors of state implementing agencies and the district
education officers and project directors and other persons involved in project
implementation. It would organized by the State Project Office.
State level procurement and disbursement seminar. This seminar would prepare
Board staff for effective procurement and disbursement operations. It would be
delivered by the World Bank Resident Mission Procurement and Disbursement
Unit.
District level activities. The state level seminar would be followed by district
launch seminars, organized by the District Project office, which would attended
by all members of the DEPC and other key persons in the district involved in the
project. These would be followed by block level project launch, organized by
the Block Education Project Advisory Committee with the assistance of the
district project office. All block level launch activities would be completed
within three months of project effectiveness.



- 122-
A!NE)X 9
Page 9 of 12
Thematic activities These would be intended to introduce the education concepts
underlying the project strategy to the groups of professionas involved. The most
urgent priority would be the development of curricula and intervention strategies
for in-service training, incorporating national and international relevant stateof-
the-art experience, MIS training and research training.
CONTENTS OF AN AWPB SUBMISSION TO THE STATE PROJECT OPPICE
1.        Objectives pursued by the AWPB proposal. These objectives should be specific
and linked to the UP EFA program supported by the project.
2.        Progress realized to date with funding from PB. This should assess progress
towards the objectives specified in earlier AWPBs in terms of implementation of
civil works and delivery of educational inputs.
3.        Commitments of funds, actual expenditures and explanation of unspent balances.
4.        Analysis of implementation difficulties encountered to date and proposals to
address them.
5.        List of specific interventions and justification by linldng them to the overall
objectives proposed under item 1.
6.        Cost of proposed interventions and explanation for deviations from estimates in
project documents. These cost should include an estimate of total cost for multi-
year interventions and of the cost expected to be incurred in the year covered by
the AWPB.
7.        Requests for support from other operational organizations involved in the project
(e.g. SIEMI).
8.        Schedule of implementation of proposed activities.



- 123-
Page 10 of 1l2
Ea  Md &dQu                        Ms
EFAPB EIIIE
Cbief Uinister
Cbief Mnistr, President 
Educadon nster, Vce Prsident                 Minister of Education
Chief Scretty, Member
Principal Secretary (Education),
Member                                       Chief Secretary
Dirtetor, Basic Education, Member
dOI Reprsentativesl
001 R.presentaiives               Princia Secrtay (Education)
EFAPE
Exectiv  Committee
Chief Secretalry, Chairman
Principac Secretary (Education)
Vice Chairman
Director. Basic Education. Member
00! R CoP mmentatee
Ste Project Dietdor
Director, Basic Education                  Diretor. Basic EdMcation pembe           auk Edugatioa
ex officio



- 124 -                            AN         9
Page 11 of 12
EEAPB
Council
Executive Committee
Mahila                    State Project Director               SIEMT
Samakhya
Society
Formal                    Nonformal
Education                 Education          SCERT
r                                  I
Accounts         Planning &          Civil
Monitoring         Works
District                       District                         District
Implementation                 Education                        Institute
Unit                           Project                          of Education
Committee                        & Itaining
I                               I
Block                          Block                            Block
Coordinator                    Advisory                         Resource
Committee                        Center
Sahayogini                                                      School
Cluster
l                                                            Complex
Mahila                       Village
Sangh                        Education
Committee



- 125 -
Page 12 of 12
DL$trict Jnnlementatlou Stnidure
State Project Director         Director,
Basic Education
Regional
Director
District Education          District Project Director     District Education   Nonformal
Project Committee           (District Development         Office              Education
Officer)
Chief Magistrate, Chairman
Program          Accounts        School Inspectors
Monitoring
District Development
Offiver, Project Director                 Civil Works
Members:
District Education Officer
Principal, DIET
ibacher Representatives
NGOs
MS Coordinator
Local Govenment Officials
Program Subcommittee
Finance Subcommittee
Block ProJect                           Education            Sub-Deputy      NFE
Advisory Committee                      Junior Engineer      Inspectors      Supervisors
Block Pramukh,
Chairperson
BEC Chairpersons
Teacher Representatives                    Block Resource Center
NGOs
Block Resource Center
Coordinators                                    School
Cluster
Complex
I
Village Education  _- - - - - - - - - -   _ _ _  Schools _ - -  - _ _ Nonformal Classes
Committees



- 126-
Page 1 of4
IlNDIA
IlRm llE$18[I BASIC DJCAMNEQTM
Policy Analysis Evaluadon and Re h Capacit Delopment
1.        A strong capacity for generating emcal evidence and lessons from experience of
the UP Basic Education Prqject's achievements in 10 disticts will be crucial for improving
education in the remaining 53 disticts of UP and in India more broadly. Specifically, the
project will need to strengthen capacity in UP for (a) monitoring project and system
effectiveness, (b) assessing student leaming achievement, (c) implementing special policy studies
and analyses, and (d) carrying out curriculum development stxdies and evaluations.
2.        The project will seek to strengthen capacity in four ways, by: (a) providing clear
lines of institutional rposbility for the promotion, sporship and conduct of policy analysis,
research and evaluation (Annex 9), (b) idenfifying key studies to be completed Juring the project
(Annex 12 and Annex 4), (c) supporting a range of training, twinning and practical experiences
designed to build new institutions and to deepen strengths of existing institutions, and (d)
providing a framework for dissemination of results to appropriate audiences (Annex 11). This
Annex deal with issues related to (c).
sdUnd
3.        According to a recent study, many institutions in UP have some capacity for policy
analysis, research and evaluation; a few have applied these scills to educationl'. Thirty-three
institutions in UP (fifteen universities, three other institutions of higher education, eight ICSSR
institutions, two Department of Education organizations and three other UP government
organzations) engage in empirical research; of these, only four presently cany out work directly
related to educationl.
' National Institute of Educational Planning and Adminisaion (1993). Institutional
Responsibilities and Capacity for Monitoring, Evaluation and Research: A Study. (Draft,
February)
Z These are: (i) University of Lucknow, Department of Education, (ii) University of
Allahabad, Dpartment of Education, (iii) Banas Hindu University, Department of
Education, and (iv) State Council of Educational Resch and Training.



- 127-
Page 2 of 4
4.        These institutions vary widely in their experiece of i aplementing any one of the
four types of data collecdon and analysi called for in the prqojf'. No institution engages in
all types of analytic work. For example, university education departments and the State Council
for Education Research and Training conduct basic education research. The Economics and
Statistics Division of the State Planing Institute conducts sample surveys, the Evaluation
Division of SPI conducts evaluation studies and NIC conducts secondary analyses of large-scale
data bases.
5.        The independent review of the research capacity of these institutions notes that
SCERT has considerable experience and expertise in conducting formative evaluations related
to curriculum development but that most SCERT reseach has concentad on the secondary
level. For education policy analysis, research and evaluation, the review indicates that relevant
experience is limited in all insttutions presently linked with the Education Department of UP,
including the nine institutes compisng SCERT and the DIETsv'. For example, the report notes
that "the available staff [of SCERT) lack qualifications for research work. As a consequence,
their potential for undertaling research on a systmatic basis is fairly limited."(p. 23)
Similarly, the report notes that "the DIETS are still not adequately functional. Adequate staff
[have] not been provided. Their potential in undertaing basic education research, evaluation of
satuents achievement and monitoring of the project activities is fairly limited." (p. 24)
6.        To strengthen educadonal research capacity in UP, the project proposes, first, to
build on existing strengths of SCERT to conduct basic education research and formative
evaluation related to piimary level curriculum developnent and, second, to establish a State
Insdtute of Education Management and Training (SID3f) which would have among its
responsibilities to: (a) promote, sponsor, and conduct research in areas related to education for
all, and (b) undertake evaluative studies of various progams and activities related to the project
areas. These activities would be coordinated under SIEMT Departnents of Policy and Planng
Management, Research, Evaluation and Educational Inovation, and Management Iformation
Systems.
1' These are: (i) basic education research relatd to curriculum development and teaching-
leaming processes, (ii) sample surveys to assess learning achievement statewide, (iii)
evaluation stdies of innovative progams, and (iv) quantitatve analyses of data from the
school statistics system.
2' NIEPA (1993, Febnrary)



- 128-
ANX 10
Page 3 of 4
Capacity Development
7.        Capacity development would entail six activities: (a) a thematic project launch
seminar on research and assessment, (b) support for a Policy Research Advisory Board to
monitor the quality of research supported through the project, (c) twinning SIEMT and SCERT
with na' onal institutions for research collaboration, (d) assistance ,r. replicating baseline
assessments of learning achievement, (e) short and medium-term training in education policy
research methods for SIEMT and SCERT staff, and (f) support for SIEMT and SCERT staff to
participate in seminars on policy analysis and research.
8.        Capacity development for basic education research on curriculum development and
teaching-learning processes would concentrate on SCERT. Capacity development for education
policy analysis would concentrate on SIEMT, which would be established before project
effectiveness, with professional staff in place at that time. SIEMT staff would be recruited on
the basis of merit and relevant qualifications for the roles to be filled; staff profiles
(qualifications and job descriptions) would be prepared before negotiations.
9.        Project launch seminar on research and assessment. As part of the project launch
seminar to be held immediately after project effectiveness, a special session on research and
assessment would be held. This seminar would be designed to orient the various groups to
elements of the project related to research and assessment. For example, it would describe the
results of the baseline Assessment of Learning Achievement, the research and evaluation studies
program and the curriculum development formative evaluations that would be sponsored under
the project. It would also inform the research community broadly about the opportunities for
obtaining support for special empirical policy studies required for mid-term project review.
10.       A Policy Research Advisory Committee would be constituted to identify research
training needs for SCERT and SIEMT staff, monitor the quality of research supported through
the project, and sponsor seminars on the results of the studies program. The PRAC would
report to the Project Board and would meet twice yearly to review proposals for studies and to
review research products for technical quality. Research seminars would be held annually to
report policy relevant finding from sponsored research. Nominations to the PRAC would be
made jointly by the GOUP and the GOI; two-thirds of the members would come from UP and
one-third from outside UP. All would be senior policy researchers.
11.       Twinning. Twinning is an effective means of transmitting research tools from one
institution to another, through joint collaboration on research activities. Both SCERT and
SIEMT would be twinned with research institutions outside UP, principally NCERT and NIEPA,
respectively, for research collaboration. The twinning arrangement would support travel and
per diem for SCERT and SIEMT staff to facilitate joint research planning and implementation.
The GOI would ensure the research participation of NIEPA and NCERT for at least one policy
study each per year.



- 130-
AN= 1
page 1 of 16
llP BsABIE IDUCA15ON  l
Plan for MIS System Development
1.        The first major component of the Uttar Pradesh Education for All Project is
Building Institutional Capacity, which includes strengthening the mechanisms which provide
information for educational decision-maldng. One important objective of this component is
to design and implement a computerized  anagement I ation System (MS) - also called
school statistics or educational statics - houghout the basic educational program. This
MIS would be the GOUP's tool for educational A=m monitoring; it is different from a
separate set of miect monitoring activities, as descrbed in Annex 18. the project would
support installation of the MIS in ten districts and stae-level activities required for eventual
state-wide use.
2.        The current MIS can be strengthened in several respects. Not all schools report
the exact same sets of data, data are not always totally reliable, data are not always reported
in a timely manner, and data are often aegated into unnecessarily large groupings as they
move toward the state level. In addition, data analyse often involve only simple compila-
tions, making these analyses less thm optimally useful for decision-makdng.
3.        The GOUP is well aware of these opportnities and has developed the following
plans for the new prqect: (a) a step-by-step description (dcsign) of the functioning of the
MIS, (b) a deailed listing of each of the specific    acdvika necessary to move
from the present system to this new MLS, (c) a year-by-year ghuing of when each implemen-
tation activity will be conducted, (d) a year-by-year breabdown of the oosts of each
implementation activity, and (e) details of the various types of ainjng needed by different
persons involved in the MIS and how each type of training will be provided. Each of these
plans is discussed below.



- 129 -
Page 4 of 4
12.       Coaching for baseine ALAs. The independent research organization that carried out
the first three baseline assessments of learning achievement would provide assistance in their
replications in the remaining seven project districts and one comparison district. This support
would involve (a) providing a package of materials and training on how to carty out the
assessment and a software package for data entry, cleaning and analysis; (b) orienting the
SIEMT ALA team and assisting SIEMT train field interviewers; and (c) spot supervising data
collection and data entry for quality control and makdng themselves available on a consultancy
basis. Support for this coaching would be provided under the Japanese Grant as a continuation
of project preparation, to install the capacity for assessment in the new SIEMT ALA team.
13.         ang. Short and medium-term training would be provided for SIEMT and
SCERT staff by both UP and national institutions. Support would be provided for tuition, travel
and per diem. Training in education policy research methods would be provided for SIEMT and
SCERT by NIEPA and NCERT through their regular courses or through tailor-made courses
offered in UP. The content of the training would emphasize: (a) research management, (b)
large-scale research and evaluation field studies, (c) quantitative analysis using computers, and
(d) dissemination to multiple audiences. In addition, other coures could be provided locally.
For example, specialized training in survey research methods could be provided in Lucknow by
the Economics and Statistics Division of the State Planning Institute and training in computer-
based data analysis could be provided in Lucknow by the National Informatics Center (NIC).
A training program for research capacity building would be developed by the Policy Research
Advisory Committee in the first year of the project.
14.       Travel. The project would also provide support for SIEMT and SCERT staff to
present the results of their studies at national seminars on education policy analysis and research
and at international seminars on a case-by-case basis.



- 131 -
ANEX11
Page 2 of 16
4.        One important featue of these plans is the decision to adapt and implement an
appropriate version of the COPE system (Computerized Planning for Education) which has
been developed by the National Institute of Educational Planning and Administration
(NIEPA). COPE is both a philosophy of educational management and a technological
package. As a philosophy, COPE believes that "a reliable information systeni must meet
planning and information needs at all levels", especiaUy the district level. With this in mind,
COPE studied the information needs of various levels before deciding what data to capture
and how to report the resulting infcrmation. As a technological package, COPE provides (a)
a standardized pm forma (adaptable to the needs of different states), (b) an integrated set of
computer software for data entry, dabase management, and report generation, (c) training
for staff at all levels of the system, and (d) continuing technical support after implementation.
flsln of the Propged MIS
5.        The new MIS would include nine separate steps: (1) gatherinf data at the school
level, (2) verifying data at the local level, (3) forwardinf data to the district level,
(4) entering data into district computers, (5) sending draft data to the local level for
verification, (6) transmiting data to the state level, (7) managing data at the district and state
levels, (8) analyzing data at the district and state levels, and (9) reporting information to
users at all levels. Page 3 llusates the flow of these MIS data from primary and upper
primary schools to the State Basic Education Direorate.
Step #1 - Gather data at the school level
6.        During Year 1 of the project, regular data will be gathered from each of the
approximately 1,500 primary schools and 340 upper primary schools in each of the 10
project districts. Once this system is operating smoothly, the MIS will be expanded in later
years to include other educational institutions such as non-fonnal education centers, adult
education centers, post-literacy centers, and/or Early Childhood Care and Education centrs.
7.        After considering the needs of educational planners and administrators at all
levels, the GOUP has decided to gather data on six separate aspects of the educational
system: (1) basic school data such as location, source of funding, etc. (2) off data such as
number and sex of teachers, etc. (3) stdent data such as number, sex and caste status of
students enrolled, average student attendance, number of repeaters, etc. (4) waWination data
such as numbers of students who appeared for and passed last year's exams, etc. (5) facilities
data such as the condition of the building and the availability of drining water, toilets, etc.
and (6) Wipnment data such as the availability of primary science kits, textbooks, etc.



132 -
ANNEX Il
Page 3 of 16
8.        Head teachers in each school will provide these data by filling up a standardized
p-rfo   r  on a regular basis and delivering this p  LQfom  to the appropriate inspections staff
at a meeting at the lead school. The GOUP has decided that most of these data will be
gathered annually, probably immediately after 30 September, and that other data (c.g.,
student attendance and dropouts) will be gathered quarterly, on a schedule yet to be deter-
mined.
9.        After comparing three existing 12 formae currently used in India - the current
GOUP pro forma, the S-series gr forma used to computerize data in many states, and the
pro forma developed by COPE - the GOUP has selected the COPE p forma to form the
basis of the MIS system. This =  foInn will be modified to delete certain items it currently
gathers (e.g., equipment data on a quarterly basis), to add certain items not currently
gathered (e.g., average student attendance), and to revise other items to make them more
appropriate for the U.P. system.
Step #2 - Verifv data at the local level
10.       One critical issue, however, is to ensure the accuracy of the data reported on this
pvr forma. One top GOUP official acknowledges that "the basic difficulty is the reliability
of the data", and baseline assessments in three project districts confirm that current MIS data
are often inaccurate. From an efficiency perspective, the MIS will run much more smoothly
if extra efforts are devoted to ensuring that data are accurate from the beginning (a preven-
tion approach) rather than revising these data later (a orretion approach).



- 133 -
ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 16
FLOW OF MIS DATA
FROM SCHOOLS TO STATE BASIC EDUCATION DIRECTORATE
MANAGEMENT LEVEL
STATE                         DIRECTORITB OF
I EDUCATION (BASIC)
REGIONAL                              I                     (Not involved in
upward data flow)
DISTRICT                      DISTRICT BASIC
EDUCATION OFFICES
BLOCK                                                       (Not involved in
upward data flow)
LEAD SCHOOL                    LEAD SCHOOLS
(CLUSTER SCHOOLS)
VILLAGE                    [
PRIMRY AND UPPER
PRIIGW  SCHOOLS



- 134 -
Page 5 of 16
11.       The GOUP has listed several possible stategies for improving these data. One
critical determinant of the success of this new MIS will be the extent to which these possi-
bilities are developed, pilot tested, and implemented effectively:
*   The GOUP might make explicit plans for ensuring that the new pM fgwm
rW1aqes existing forms, thereby lowering the reporting burden on teachers and
increasing their incentive to complete this pm fQi.
o    The GOUP might simplify as much as possible the data to be repoted and the
fornats for doing so - 'basic data in a basic format" - so that head teachers do
not misunderstand instructions or make inadvertent errors of computation, etc.
o Persons at all levels might be tmined on the reasons for the MIS, the importance
of using the m a,m how to complete the pmfara, what to do if they have
questions, etc.
*    Viliage Education Committees (VECs) might verify each pm fwn= before it can
be forwarded through the system. This requirement would be compatible with
the GOUP's overall strategy of devolving more control to the VECs.
o    Local officials of various linds might be required to sign their verification that
the reported data are accurate.
*   The reported data might be publicized as widely as possible, including postng a
copy of the , finma outside each school and postng lead-school and block-
level summaries outside the lead school and the block headquarters. This would
allow students, parents and others to compare the reported data with their own
experiences.
*   Inspections staff might be programmed to visit schools on an unannounced,
random schedule and to compare detailed school-level records with those data
reported. In addition to coreting individual school data, these visits could
provide the basis for developing an overall correction factor" for estimating the
"true" data from the reported data.
*    Alternatively, a NGO might be contracted for these random visits to schools.
*    Users at all levels might be encouraged and tained to use the reported data in as
many different ways as possible. The resulting pressures when inaccurate data
lead to inappropriate decisions might develop pressures within the systm to
ensure that data become increasingly accurate.



- 135 -
Page 6 of 16
Ste #3 - ForwEad dMa to tl e diit  exel
12.       Curently each school sends its statistics up the orgaonal hierarchy to the
lead school, where the headmaster of the lead school aggrets the data from each school
and forwards school-complex data to the block level. At the block level, a sub-deputy
inspector in turn aggregates the data from each school complex and sends block-level data to
the distict level. Thus, the data received at the district level is no longer disaggregated into
schools or even school complexes, but is now distinguishable only by blocks. This reduces
the time and effort involved in reporting staistics, but it also reduces enormously the useful-
ness of the data for management purposes at the district and state levels.
13.       The GOUP will avoid these constmints in the new MIS by diminating all data
aggregations at the school complex or block levels. The onginal pro na flom each school
wi1 now simply be collected and sent directly to the MIS cell of the District Basic Education
Office for input into district computrs (see next secton).
14.       One unresolved a=, however, is how quickly these d L
will reach the district level. According to top GOUP officials, the second most serious
difficulty with the current system is the long delays before data are available for their
decision maling. Since management information can be time-bound, the GOUP recogzs
that it must plan a strict timetable for the new MIS, especially for staightforward activities
such as this.



- 136 -
ANNEX 11
Page 7 of 16
Step #4 - Enter data at the district level
15.       The district is a key management level for all aspects of the project, including
the new MIS. Of the 10 existing GOUP staff who will be assigned responsibility for
monitoring and evaluation activities at the district level, at least three (3) will be "wholly
absorbed" in MIS duties. These three staff will receive raw     forma, enter their contents
directly into each district's new computer, transmit a copy of the data to the state level, and
manage and analyze the resulting databases (see sections below).
16.       New facilities and equipment will be made available in each district for this
purpose. A proper environment (possibly including a dust-free room, autonomous air
conditioning, and an uninterrupted power supply) will be built and physically secured, and an
appropriate computer, three or more terminals, printer, copying machine, telephone, fax, and
related furniture will be purchased and installed. The procurement list in Section F of this
plan details the exact equipment needed, but the proper maintenance and servicing of
equipment is a common problem throughout India, especially of sophisticated equipment and
especially outside of major cities. For this reason the GOUP - based on near-unanimous
advice from a variety of experts - has decided to contract with an experienced private-sector
firm for the all-important maintenance and servicing of all equipment.
17.       Computer software for entering data, managing the resulting database, and
generating reports will also be needed, and one strong feature of the COPE system is that a
comprehensive package of user-friendly software has already been developed and can be
installed immediately. This software has built-in safeguards which will not allow data to be
omitted or grossly incorrect data to be entered.
18.       One critical issue, however, is the training for district-level MIS staff. Since the
current system is entirely manual, the GOUP staff assigned to MIS duties will initiaUy have
no computer experience. These persons will need to be trained in aU aspects of data entry,
database management, and analysis. Fortunately, the COPE system has already developed
and tested training modules for these functions, and COPE staff have already trained district-
and state-staff in at least two Indian states.



- 137 -
ANNEX 11
Page 8 of 16
S-ten LS --Send draft data to the losal levd fo eriiat
19.       After each pro forma has been entered into the district computer, MIS staff will
produce a set of printouts of the data gathered from schools in each school complex. These
printouts will then be sent to appropriate local-level staff, who will take these printouts to
each lead school and discuss them with head teachers from each school. After all omissions
have been added and errors corrected, these printouts will then be delivered back to the
district MIS staff for final changes to the database.
20.       One concern, as mentioned earlier, is that this step represents an effort to corre
data after-the-fact, as opposed to Step #2 which attempts to 9rvynt omissions or inaccuracies
from reaching the district level in the first place. A fear is that this second procedure will
have a doubly-negative impact by (a) consuming a substantial amount of time and effort and
(b) undermining the perceived importance of Step #2. Head teachers might feel "If the data
can be corrected later, why use my previous time to make it accurate now?" However, the
GOUP currently feels that both steps are needed within the U.P context, and the MIS design
currently includes both steps.
Step #6 - Transmit data to the state level
21.       Under the current system, each district aggregates the school statistics from each
of its blocks and forwards district-level data to one of 13 regional offices throughout the
state. The regional level in turn aggregates the data from each district and sends region-level
data to the state level. This system takes time and means that the data received at the state
level is distinguishable only by regions.
22.       Under the new system, a district will enter data into its own computer and then
send a floppy disk with these data files diretly to the MIS cell of the Directorate of Educa-
tion (Basic) in Lucknow. This will streamline the process, speed the arrival of data at the
state level, and allow top decision-makers to have the immediate capacity to receive routine
information and to "query' the system about issues of interest. In effect, this new procedure
will integrate the MIS much more directly into the Directorate's day-to-day decision-making
processes which the MIS is designed to support.



- 138 -
ANNEX 11
Page 9 of 16
Step #7- Mngedata t the distict ad ate levels
23.       Each district will be responsible for entering, managing, and analyzing a
considerable number of data items per year, and these responsibilities will be obviously much
higher at the state level. As noted above, this will require the appropriate facilities, equip-
ment, computer software, staff, and training.
24.       Under the COPE system, the computer software itself has been developed to
manage the database automatically. At the district level, corrections can be made to
individual school data without disturbing the data from other schools, data from additional
schools can be added to the district file, data from later reporting periods can be entered and
accessed without affecting previous data, and all data can be backed up for safe-keeping.
25.       At the state level, data from individual schools can still be accessed and revised
if necessary, and data from aU 10 project districts can be consolidated easily and rapidly.
No special computer skills are necessary to accomplish any of these tasks, since the COPE
software is menu-driven and especially developed for staff with minimal training.
Step #8- Analyze data at the district and state levels
26.       The data from the current system is used for simple compilations such as
frequency distributions of enrollments by gender, by SC/ST status, etc. The new MIS will
provide these same compilations, plus much more useful
analyses of data over time, across geographic sections of the state, across physical locations
of schools, across combinations of these factrs, etc. In addition, by merging the data from
the MIS with other data bases, even more analyses will be possible.
27.       In general, two different types of analyses will be conducted. First, routine
reports will provide ceain types of information on a regular basis. Each aspect of these
reports - their contents, formats, periodicity, etc. - will be detrmined by GOUP officials and
revised whenever needed. The COPE software which has already been developed produces a
variety of routing reports automatically with a few simple commands. This will allow
district staff as well as state staff to produce useful reports.
28.       Second, special analyses to pursue interesting management questions will be
conducted on an ad hk basis as the questions arise. Some of these questions can be
anticipated in advance and built into the computer software as special options; in fact, the
cufrent COPE software has a "menu" of optional analyses from which decision-makers can
select as they wish. Other analyses which have not been anticipated can still be conducted,
since the data will remain disaggregated at school levels, but COPE staff at NIEPA will need
to modify the software accordingly.



- 139 -
ANEX1
Page 10 of 16
nte #9 - Repr lnfonmation to uers at al level
29.       The GOUP recognizes that proper data properly analyzed can be a useful
management tool, and that such reporting is the reason for developing the MS in the first
place. Their proposal states that
"the MIS will be so designed as to provide  fomaon to onl the
kve!s from where intervenion can be made (1) to accelerate the
pace of progress, (2) to solve the problekm, (3) to remove hurdles,
and (4) to suggest adaptation/modifcaions.
30.       More specifically, the GOUP is planning for many different audiences for MIS
reports. Some of these audiences (parents and students, head teachers, VECs) will receive
their information from the district-level MIS, other audiences (regional and state officials,
state parliament, 001, World Bank) will receive information from the state-level MIS , and
still other audiences (Block and Distict Educatifc Officers, DIETs, District Magistra) wm
receive MIS information from both levels.
31.       The GOUP will also give permison for resource oganizations to analyze the
MS data on a case-by-case basis, provided these agencies (a) share their ful results with the
GOUP, (2) highlight any questions that arise about the MIS data itself or about any MIS
findings which have been reported previously, and (c) provide specific suggestions to the
00UP for improving the data and its analyses.



- 140 -
ANNEX 11
Page 11 of 16
I1PLEMENTATTON ACTIVITIES, PHASING9 AND COSTS
32.       The attached table presents three types of information regarding the imple-
mentation of the new MIS. First is a detailed listing of the 53 specific implementation
activities necessary to move from the present system to the new MIS. These 53 activities are
listed under the nine chronological steps in the MIS design, and they de!cribe the detailed
actions which the GOUP will be taking to implement the MIS.
33.       Second, the columns to the right of each implementation activity show a year-by-
year phasing of when each implementation activity will be conducted. Blank columns
indicate that this particular implementation activity will not occur during this particular time
period, while columns containing 'NIC" or a rupee figure indicate that this implementation
activity will occur during this time period. To further enhance its planning process, the
GOUP has divided the first year of MIS implementation into activities to occur during the
first six month (la) and during the second six months (lb).
34.       Third, the specific rupee figures listed in each column provide a year-by-year
breakdown of the costs of each implementation activity. The total life-of-project cost of the
MIS is currently estimated at approximately two crore rupees, or approximately US$
670,000. However, the costs of several implementation activities have yet to be calculated,
so the total figure will almost certainly rise as the final estimates are prepared.
35.       By adding these figures across rows and down columns, the GOUP can also
calculate the costs of each implementation activity, the costs of the MIS per year, and all
combinations thereof. The currernt estimate is that almost exactly 50% of MIS costs will
occur during Year 1, with 48% of total costs occurring during the first six months. This
schedule may prove to be too ambitious, and the percentages may change as the GOUP
prepares its final plan.
TRAWING PLANS FOR ALL PERSONS IVOLVED IN THE MIS
36.       Training in MIS operation would be provided for four organizational elements:
(a) school clusters, (b) district project teams, (c) DBE and EFAPB staff, and (d) professional
staff in DIETS, SIEMT, and SCERT. Trainers would initially be drawn from NIEPA
(where the COPE system has been developed), the UP Development Systems Corporation,
and the State Institute of Planning. Professional staff from NICNET (the satellite-linked
district monitoring system) would assist with computer literacy training.
37.       The first training activity would be an overview seminar for senior DBE, District
and Cooperating Agency staff. This would be followed by a series of skill-specific training
for each organization unit. These basic progms are outlined on the next page:



- 141 -
ANNEX 11
Page 12 of 16
A.   Overview Seminar
Objectives:  (a) familiarity with the software system
(b) knowledge of basic reportir.n formats
(c) understanding of plan for full system development
Participants: 30 senior state and district officials
Trainers:    NIEPA, NICNET
Location:    DBE
Time:        3 days
B.        District Project Staff
Objectives:  (a) familiarity with the software system
0b) ability to enter data accurately
(c) ability to generate basic reports
(d) knowledge of data management and storage techniques
(e) knowledge of data collection protocols
(f) knowledge of reliability check procedures for
school records
(g) ability to train cluster resource teachers
Participants:  District Project Staff
DIET staff
Trainers:    NIEPA, NICNET
Location:    At district headquarters (where software installed)
In school cluster to practice taining
Time:        5 days



- 142 -
A,NNEXS 11
Pae 13 of 16
C.        School Clusw Training
Objectives:  (a) familiarity with system charcterisfics
(b) knowledge of data collection protocols
(c) knowledge of reliability check procedure for
school records
Participants: Newly appointed cluster lead teachers in batches of 30.
Trainers:    Distct Staff
Location:    nitially in district offices; eventually in BRCs.
In schools for practice on reliability checks
Time:        3 days
Number to be trained: 1500 over 4 years
D.        Headteacher Training
Objectives: (a) appreciation of the value of accurate school statistics
(b) recognition that accurte records are a factor in
performance evaluations
(c) knowledge of registers and protocols
(d) knowledge of methods of checking reliaty
Participants: Head teachers in batches of 30
Trainers:    Cluster resource teachers and District staff
Location:    School cluster or BRC for serving teachers
Integrated in induction course for new headteachers at
DIETs and BRCs
Time:        3 days
Number to be trained: 14,500 over 6 years



- 143 -
ANEX 11
Page 14 of 16
E.        lJr Training
Objectives:  (a) abiity to generat systen reports on key
indicators
(b) ability to inepret data
(c) ability to formulate appropriate montonng
questions
Pardcipants:  Academic and planning saff from DBE, EFAPB, SIEBMT,
SCERT, DIErs in batches of 20
Trainers:    NIEPA, NCERT initially; SIEMT staff in middle stages of
project
Locaffon:    DBE or SCERT; eventually SIEMT
Time:        10 days
Number to be trained: 100 in two years
38.       Other programs would be developed as needed. Refresher training at the district
and cluster levels woud be offered in the second half of the prqject.



ANNUAL IMPLEMENTATION ACTIVITIES AND
ASSOCIATED COSTS FOR TlYE MANAGEMENT INFORUMTION SYSTEM
COSTS FOR EACH YEAR OF THE PROJECT (Re. 000)                              LIFE-0F-
SPECIFIC ACTIVITIES NEEDED TO TAPLERENT TUE SYSTEM                                                                                                             PROJECT
la         lb         2          3          4          5          6          7           COSTS
Step #1: Cather data at the sebool level
R Revise COPE Pro foraa to use for gathering data
t  Provide secure storage facility at each block level              1740                                                                                        1740
*  Print pro forma at each district level                            250                   250        250        250        250        250         250          1150
*  Store pro forma at eaeh district level                            200        N/C        200        H/C        200        H/C         200         /C           800
s  Train ali District lasic Education Office (DEDO)                   20                    20         20          20         20         20         20           140
staff re t.    fora
s  Distriibite Pro  Aorma tc each block level                                    S7          87         87         87         87         87         87           696
*  Train all inspection staff re Pro forma                                       87          87         87         87         87        817         87           696
*  Distribute  ro forma to all  IcKools                                          30          0                                           30         30           210
t  Train all  -eidmasters and teachers re Pro foria                  U/C        N/C        N7C        D7C        N7C         N/C        H/C        N/C           N/C
*  Withdraw all previous, outdated profTorae froa use                N7C       NRC                                                                               N/C
Step #2:  Verify data at the local level
t  Assigp  staff to saintain raw vro forma. at eacb bloek            NCC
t  Provide sufficieat advance travelTling eapenditures               1 4                   174        174         174        174        174        174          12i8
tor iospection staff
t  Train each VEC re importance of school statistics                 N/C        U/C        N/C        H/C        I/C        R/C         N/C        N/C           N/C
sad how to verisT data reported on pro forma
Step #3: Forward data to tbe district level
*  Establish HIS unit in each DBBO                                  1500                                                                                        1500
P Provide extra accomodations for NIS at eacb DIBO                  1000                                                                                        1000
t  Provide secure storage facility at each DIEO                      500                                                                                         500
*  Assign staff to saintain raw pro formae at eacb D35O              H/C                                                                                         H/C
Step #4: later data into district eomputers
*  Obtain extert technical advice re nomputer needs                                                                                                               ?
at both district and state )eels lequipsent,
environment, staffing, etc.
*  Develop speeifications for all eomputer equipment                  ?                                                                                           ?
*  Develop specifications for all computer environnents               ?
s  8uild the required computer e#virofmeat at each D3BO              500                                                                                         500 S
Stoy the required comptqr equipment, materials                      2000                   500        500        500        500         500        500          500
'  Provide for  reliable natntenance of all                          200                   200        200        200        200         200        200          1400
COmpUter equipment and environments                                                                                                                                            _
0btassin the reued c        eomuat  softare t  ea0                                                                                                           100 I  H
Stuy the required coaputer furniture                             500                                                                                        S00
t  luSySi tbe reurd  opter staft to each 811B0                                  N C                                                                              NC c      
t  Train  all assigned computer staff                                            50                                                                               50
*  Develop quality control mechanisms for data entry                             S0                                                                               50



COSTS FOR IACO TEAR OF THE FPOJECT (Rs. 04V)                            LIFE-01-
S?ECI?IC ACTIVlIIIS  2IDOD 70 UIPIINJT TUR  SISTER                                                                                                        PROJECT
ls        lb         2          3         4          5          6          I          COSTS
Step tS: Seod draft data to blosk level for verification
s  Obtain software to produce school-level printouts
b Determine how corrections will be submitted                      NCC N/C
s  Train all inspections staff on how corrections are              N7C        R/C                                                                           N/C
to be made
Train all beadnasters and teachers on how corrections           W/C        N/C                                                                           N/C
are to be made
Step #6: Transmit data to the state level
E tstablish NIS unit at Basic Edueation Directortte (13D)          400                                                                                      400
$  Build the required computer environment at BI/MIS               100                                                                                      too
s  Buy the required eomput#r equipment, ea erials                  400                  200        200        200       200        200        200          1600
t  Provide tor reliable maintenance of BID hIS eomputer             40                    40        40         40         40        40         40           260
equipment and eavironment
t  Provide secure storage facility at BDD/HIS                      100                                                                                      100
s  Obtatn the necessary bilinfr.al*software                                    20                                                                            20
B Buy the required computer furniture                              100                                                                                      lEO
t  Assign the required computer staff to BED/HIS                              N c7C
T Train all agsirned tomputer staff                                            10                                                                            l
s  Connect BID/NI  computer to state NIC computer                               5                                                                             5
Step #7t asnate data at the distriet and state levels
t  Develop explicit procedures, timeframes and                      ?                                                                                        ?
t* nction al responsibilities for data management                                                                                                         I
*  Obtain software for data management  ma e
tTrain 0810 and BID/IVS staff in. data management??
t  Conduct sample testing and design                                ?                                                                                        ?
Step II: Asalnte data at the district and state levels
E Establish what routine reports arl needed,
*  Assign responseiblity for conducting special analyses
s  Obtain software for analyses                                     t                                                                                        1
*  Train 9810 and BED/hIS staff in data analysis
Step #9: inmort information to wserg at all levels
E Establish parameters of routine reports                           ?                                                                                        ?
t  Obtain software for geteratin# reports                           I                                                                                        s
s  Train DBBO and BUD/UlS staff in report generation
ANNUAL COSTS                                                   9,7244      439       1,788      1.588      1,788     1,588      1,788      1,588       20,291+
Note -  ERch cell of tMie table contains one of three possible entties; (8    ) a ruptq  amount indicates that implementing this particular activity for
this particular time period will cost this amount, (2) the symbol   tC   to-Cost   inditatel that this particular implementation activity will
occur durin3 this time period but will not require any etpenditures from project tunds, and !3j a blank cell indicates that this particularT
implementation activity will not occur during this time period.



- 146 -
Page 1 of 7
Rleah and Evaluation Studmoh a
1.    A key objective of the UP Basic Education Project is to provide lessons that can be used
to furter imprve basic education in the rening 53 districts in the state and in India more
broadly. The Research and Evaluation Studies Program will provide empirical evidence to
inform these lessons and support program and project monitoring activities. Four categonies of
special studies will be financed through this program:
Category 1. Secial analyses of data from the MlS-statistics sysUM. These studies will
typically be conducted by analysts within the UP Ministry of Education (Department of
Basic Education), State Institute of Education Management and Training (SIEMI), or
Project Board using data extracted from the MIS system. The project will provide
technical assistance and training for these analysts in how to extact and analyze data
using simple statstical techniques for this purpose. Regular reports from COPE will
comprise many of these analyses in the later years of the project. Eight Category 1
analyses are required annually or semi-annually for project monitorig. (See attached
list: la, lb, lc, ld, If, li, lj, Ik)
Category 2. Specal analyse of data from the state assesmnt f learning acievement.
These studies will typically require more advanced data analysis skilis than will be held
initally by MOE data analysts, and may require that data be released to outside
researchers for analysis. The assessment of research capacity in UP has idendfied four
institutes (Indian Institute of Technology, Gir Institute of Development Studies,
UPDESCO, National Informatics Centre) with the capacity to carry out such special
analyses. The project will provide resources for contracting out such analyses to
appropriate institutes in the state. Four Category 2 anayses are required for prject
monitoring In Years 1, 4 (mid-term review) and 7 of the project. (See attached ist:
2a, 2b, 2c, 2d)
Categy 3. Spia! emDirical polic stdi   These studies will typically require new
data collection activities, and can cover both quantitative and qualitative methods. The
assessment of eserch capacity in UP has identified four institutes (University of
Allahabad, Giri Institute of Development Studies, G.B. Pant Samajik Sanstan, State
Planning Institute) with the capacity to carry out empirical studies. The project will
provide resources for contacting out such studies to appropriate institutes in the state.
ave Cateory 3 anals ar required for mld-term review. (See attached list: 3a, 3b,
3c, 3d, 3k)



- 147-
Pae 2 of 7
Category 4. Sp audi of icuriiulum and taining. These studies also will require
new data collecdon activities. On the basis of the assessment of reach capacity,
SCERT is likely to assume  sponsibility for canying out curriculum and taining
evaluadons, and the prqject will support SCERT's incremental costs assciated with
conducting tiese studies. DIETs will likely be involved in the implementation of these
types of acdon research studies and evaluations.
l[d qolcl  ml Researc ProifrtE and Ibfiuional I ity
2.    Tbe Project Board will have the principal sonsibility for identfying policy questions
with highest priority to receive support. The Policy Research Advisory Board, compised of
educational planners and researchers, would advise the Project Board on methods for
opationalizing these questions and studying them empirically. This is necessary in order to
guide the assembly of evidence that is likely to provide clear conclusions and meaningful policy
direction. The PRAG would also pare terms of reference for studies, review research
proposals for technical quality and recommend resource allocations for research.
3.    General piorities will flow from the needs to monitor accompLishments of the project
(imputs and outputs), to answer policy questions for which evidence is not presently available,
and to evaluate innovative progams. Analyses of data from the MIS (Category 1) and
assessments of leamning achievement (Category 2) that are required for project monitoring will
have first piority. Second priority will be given to poicy questions that can be answered
empirically through special studies (Category 3). Third priority will be given to evaluations of
innovative programs, with the exeption of the special assessment of ST children's leauning
achievement, which is a "first priority" (Category 4).
4.    The Project Board will need to establish two procedures: one for selecting the most
important questions to be supported and one for selecting the appropriate insitution(s) to carry
out the research. During the first year of the project, the Board will establish the Project
Research Advisory Committee and procedures it would follow in both areas. Identification of
suitable institutions for acually carrying out the studies will be based on the results of the study
of research capacity in UP (NEEPA 1993). If more than one institution has the capacity for
carrying out a particular study, the Board will establish a procedure for determiniing which
institution should do the worl. This procedure could include (a) requesting technical proposals
for the research work to be prepared by each institution and awarding a contract based on the
quality of the proposal, 0b) awarding the work to more than one insdtition, (c) pre-qualifying
institutions for specific types of studies. The technical quality of the studies will be ensured
and/or improved by peer review procedures and technical assistance, principally through the
PRAC. A specific mechanism for consideration of research proposals, review and release of
funds would need to be developed in the first year of the project



- 148 -
ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 7
5.    The number and type of studies that can be carried out under the project will depend
upon the actual implementaion of the various elements of the project and program monitoring
system. Computerized statistics will become available after Year 2 of the project; assessment
of learning achievement data will be available after Years 1, 4 and 7 of the project. Special
studies in Category 1 depend to some extent upon the availability of computefized statistics,
those in Category 2 depend upon availbiity of assessment data, while those in Categories 3 and
4 can begin in Year 1 of the prqect with new studies initiated during each project year (fable
A15. 1).
6.    F3r example, in Year 1 of the project, only manual data will be available from the
MIS/statistics system; special studies requiring data extracted from a computerized data base will
not be possible. Similarly, in Year 1, special studies entailing secondary analyses of the student
assessment data collected in three districts in Year 0 will be possible, but secondary analyses of
the data collected in seven districts in Year 1 will most likely be undertaken in Year 2.
Table A1S.1                 Plmplemeon Plan for Research and Evaluation Studies Program
YrO   Yrl   Yr2   Yr3   Yr4   Yr5   Yr6   Yr7
MIS-Statistics"
Manualdata                  x      x      x
COPE data                                       x      x      x      x      x
Assessmentsk'
Project Districts           3      7             10                  10
Control Districts           0      2            2                    2
Special Studies!
Category 1                         8     8      8      8      8      8      8
Category 2                         4     0      0      1      1      4      0
Category3                          0     3      3      3      0      0      0
Category4                          2     2      2      2      2      2      2
W Type of daft available, by year
b' Number of district assesents of learning achievement completed, by year
f Number of special studies initied (numbers for Categories 1, 2 and 3 denote studies required for project monitoring
and mid-term. review), by year



- 149 -
Page 4 of 7
Financinag Reseh and Special Studies
7.    The present system for supporting educational research and policy studies for Basic
Education in UP has two elements, both of which provide a limited vehicle for the support of
policy relevant analytic work:
(a) budgetary support for the research programs of the State Council for Education
Research and Training (SCERT), which amounted to Rs. 5,338,000 in plan and
non-plan budgets for 1991, or 7.3% of the total SCERT budget from all sources;
and
(b)  donor grants for research and studies managed by the Basic Shiksha Parishad, an
autonomous statutory body chartered to receive such funds.
8. However, both systems are relatively inflexible and neither provides a sustained financial
base for research to support policy and planning. At present, there are no funds within the
MOE structure that are specially designated to support research or that can be used to
commission studies, apart from the resources budgeted to SCERT. In order to cafry out the
policy relevant studies and analyses required for monitoring the UP education system's
effectiveness, a different str    for supporting special studies will be established.
9.   The project will establish a special line for research, administered through the EFA
society. Up to $100,000 (Rs. 2,800,000) per year will be earmarked for special analyses and
studies. This amount includes the Rs. 5,000,000 (Rs. 700,000 per year for seven years)
designated for the evaluation of innovative programs. Tediretcosts assomated with ggb=g
data through the MIS/statistics system or through the Assessment of Learning Achievement are
not included in this amount.
10.  For research in category 1, the project will provide funding for technical assistance to help
analysts in the MOE (Department of Basic Education), the Project Board and SIEMT analyze
data from the computerized MIS/statistics system. It will also provide support for statistical
software packages needed to carry out the analyses. Much of the software and technical
assistance would be provided at no cost from NIEPA (Annex l1).
11. For research in categories 2-4, the project will provide funding for the incremental costs
of the research. This furAing will include support for technical assistance as needed, salaries
for professional and non-professional staff as needed, salaries for part-time field and data entry
staff, travel and per diems as needed, and materials.
12. The project will also strengthen, through the vehicle of the Policy Research Advisory
Committee, the capacity of the Project Board to frame policy questions that (a) can be addressed
with existing data bases (MIS/Statistics and Assessments of Learning Achievement) and (b) will
require additional data collection. In addition, the project would support a variety of capacity



- 150 -
Page S o7
building awivities for strengthing policy analysis, evaluatiout and reseh capacty in UP
(Annex 3).
13.  A preiminay set of high priority policy quesaons, derived from the project proposal, has
been idtified and categorid. Each question provides the basis for a stdy. A preliminary
scheduing of study topics, by proe  year, is atached and indicates studies to be iniiatd in
each year of the project and estimates of their costs. The questions are Listed as follows (*
desgnates analyses required for projet monitoring; @ designates analyses required for mid-term
review; # designates analyses that would be routinely produced in the COPE system).
Category 1. Analyses of daa fom  the MIS-statistics system, to answer the folowing
queston:
*(a) Are SC and ST children more disadvantaged than other groups of children in terms
of prmary school participaton (Ienrollment and attdance) and completon of
gade S?
*(b) Are girls more disadvantaged than boys in tem  of pnmary school pacipaton
(tenrollment and attendance) and compledon of grade 5?
*#(c) What are cufrent levels of shtdent repetiton and dropout in pnmary school?
*#(d) Is student repeition and dropout declining in project districts?
(e) What proportion of prmay   schools offer pre-pimary education?
*#(f) How many school-age children attend NFE classes?
(g) What proportion of school-going children attend private schools?
#(h) What is the profile of the teaching force, in terms of age, qualifications, gender,
training, salary?
*(i) Proect evaluation: Is teacher attendance improving in project districts (separately
by gender)?
#*) Project evaluation: Are stipends for scheduled caste and scheduled tribe students
increasing in project districts?
*(k) Project evaluation: Are expenditur  for school dewlopment funds increasing in
project districts?



- 151 -
ANE 112
Page 6 of 7
Category 2. Analyses of data from the State Assesmment of Learning Achievement to answer
the following quesdons:
*0b(a) What is the overa}l level of  aning achievement (literacy and numeracy) of
students in grade 5 in the ten project distdcts?
*(b) Project evaluation: Has the level of learning improved in the ten project districts
over the cours of the project?
*@(c) Are SC and ST children more disadvantaged than other children in terms of
leaning achievement (literacy and numeracy)?
*0(d) Are girls more disadvantaged than boys in terms of lening achievemtent (literacy
and numeracy)?
(e) Project evaluation: Has the project resulted in lower repetition and dropout rates?
(f) Does participation in pre-primary education im     children's school attendance
and learning achievement (liteacy and numeracy)?
(g) What proportion of NFE students trnsfer to reguar primary schools and what is
their learning achievement?
Category 3. Special Policy Studies to answer the following questions:
0(a) Evaluation of ECCE rooms: How are ECCE rooms utilized? What types of
teaching-leaing is prcticed in ECCE rooms? Do they imprve school attendance
for primary school children? Are children who have ateded ECCE classe better
prepared for Class 1? Do children who have attended ECCE class have higher
leaning achievement in primary school? Do ECCE rooms/ICDS progrms increa
female attendance in primary school? Does participation in pre-pimary education
mrve children's school attendance and leaming achievement in areas other than
litracy and nunmacy?
0(b) Evaluation of scholarship progrm for girls: Does the scholarship progam incre
female school enrollment, attendance and achievement? For what purpose do
parents/girs use the scholarship? (see Annex 15 for details)
0(c) Evaluation of girls' work epeience program: What work experience skills are
tmaght in upper primary school? What are the consequences for girls of the work
experiene  program? Does the work program generate income? Does the.work
aeperience program increase female school attendance at upper pimary school?
Does the program increase girls' motivation and self esteem? Do gaduates of the



- 152 -
ANNIEX 12
Page 7 of 7
work experience program utilize the skills they learn in income generating
activities? (See Annex 15 for details)
@(d) Evaluation of NFE: How successful are NFE classes? What factors lead to their
success? How have districts acted to improve the implementation of NFE classes?
What state and district support structures support NFE classes?
@(e) Evaluation of community libraries: Are community libraries utilized by both
children and adults? (See Annex 15 for details)
@(f) Evaluation of nonformal upper primary education: How effective are nonformal
upper primary classes in raising enrollments, improving attendance and boosting
leaming achievement? Are they particularly effective for girls? (See Annex 15 for
details)
@(g) Evaluation of tribal children's learning achievement: What is the level of learning
of tribal children? What intervention would communities, teachers and education
officers suggest be implemented to improve education for ST children? Wh2t is the
effect of the intervention on ST children's enrollment, attendance and learning
achievement? What are the factors that affect the learning achievement of
scheduled trbe children? What are the barriers to leaniing for these children?
(h) Project evaluation: Has the project improved the level of learning in areas other
than literacy and numeracy and for students other than grade 5 students?
(i) What are the barriers to male and female school participation (social economic,
school, physical, health barriers)?
0j) What are the causes of high teacher absenteeism?
Category 4. Special studies of curriculum and training to answer the following questions:
(a)   What are the effects of innovative programs on children's school participation,
motivation, learning achievement? (See Annex 15 for details; one study for each
innovative progrm)
(b)   What are the effects of teacher in-service training programs on teacher's attendance
and pedagogical practices?



- 153-
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 6
llNIA
UTITAR PRADESH: BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Ixaing Plans
1.    Developing the competency of various categories of staff and stakeholders is centrally
important to the project's institutional development and educational improvement strategies.
The categories and estimated numbers of persons to be trained over the life of the project
are:
A.   Primary and Upper Primary Teachers
(i)   New                                  7,346
(ii)  In-service                          23,000
B.   Headteachers
(i)   New                                  2,052
(ii)  In-service                           18,500
C.   VEC Members                                 18,500
D.   NFE Instructors                              5,000
E.   School Cluster Staf                          3,000
F.   ECCE Facilitators                            1,000
G.   District/Block Trainers                       525
H.   Administrative/Professional Staff             350
I.    Mahila Samakhya                             1,588
J.  NGO Leaders/Activists                          500
2.   In sum, approximately 82,000 persons would receive training and orientation. In
some categories, such as teaclrs, individuals would benefit from multiple training
opportunities. This would be a staff development program without precedent in Uttar
Pradesh, or in India.



- 154 -
an=E 13-
Page 2 of 6
Principles of Tra ginE Pogm  ManageWm
3.    The GOUP would approach this task incrementaLly in order to build training capacity.
Five pnnciples would be followed in developing the training program: (a) setting priorities in
terms of direct contributions to improved student learning; (b) implementing a practical
training needs assessment and design process; (c) phasing activities to permit creation of
training materials and delivery structures early in the prqject, with consolidation and more
rapid implementation in later stages; (d) modular training structures and materials; and (e)
inclusion of gender sensitization training in all programs.
4.    Priorities. Initial priority would be given to developing materials and delivery
systems for in-service and induction training for primary teachers, head teachers and non-
formal instructors, focused on the competencies needed to improve instruction in reading and
mathematics in the early grades. This effort would be launched intensively in the first project
year (see paragraphs below). Second priority would be given to training for VEC
members, with development work in the first year followed by start-up implementation in the
second year. Training in MIS for school and cluster level personnel would be integrated into
both in-service and induction training. MIS training for district staff would be conducted
during the first and second years of the project (see Annex 11).
5.     These programs have priority because of their direct linkages to improved learning,
and to development of the information system. The programs for teachers, headteachers and
instructors would also carry the largest burden in terms of number of persons trained; they
thus need to be developed early in the project in order to ensure efficient delivery during the
middle stages of the project, freeing training experdse to work on other training and
development programs and activities.
6.    Training Needs Assessment. With support from NCERT, GOUP has developed a
training needs assessment process based on workshops involving representatives of learners,
potential trainers, administrators, and training support institutions. The first TNA workshop
has been completed and the results are the basis for the first year's training plan. In the
process, small groups representing the various stakeholders first idendfy the competencies to
be learned and associated training objectives. This is done first in pairs, then in the small
group. Small group reports are discussed and reconciled, and priorities among competencies
set by the full group. Small groups are then reconstituted to design training content,
activities, and delivery structures through the same mechanism.
7.    This process, augmented by both informal and fomal evaluation of taining programs
would be repeated periodically throughout the project, both for the design of new programs
and re-design of ongoing efforts.



- 155 -
ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 6
8.    Phasing. In order to build replicable and sustainable training delivery systems,
activities would be phased to pernit development of prototype training materials,
organization and training of trainers, and incremental expansion of delivery geographically to
permit early experience to inform and improve later implementation.
9.    Mular          . Training modules will be developed for each level of taining.
For end-users (teachers, NPE instructors, headteachers, VEC members) these modules would
serve both as learning materials and reference manuals for use on the job.
10.   Materals would developed in such a way that each successively higher level of
training would incorporate the modules from all lower levels. For example, the module
structure for in-serice training of pnmary teachers and headteachers would be:
School    Teacher   Headteacher
Level     Modules   Modules
Cluster    Teacher   Headteacher    Cluster Resource
Level     Modules   Modules        Team Module
Master    Teacher   He_dteacher    Cluster Resource    Master Tfainer
Trainer    Modules   Modules       Team Module       Module
11. This structure of materials would ensure that, at each level, all personnel would
master the skills to be taught at lower levels. Modulariation would facilitate efficient
continuous revision and reprinting of materials. For example, additonal teacher modules
could be added without necessarily revising Resource Teacher modules. In service teacher
modules would also be integrated into induction training for newly appointed teachers. The
modular approach would also provide a taining strucure for individuals promoted from one
level to the next.
12.  CnM& SasifiLi. As a first priority, a core module on gender sensitivity in the
teaching-leaning process would be developed as an integral component of teacher in-service
and pre-service trining. This module would reach nearly 60,000 teachers, headteachers,
cluster and block resource staff. In addition, a module on gender sensitvity would be
developed an integrated with all training for administrative and professional staff. This
module would focus on gender issues in the work place.



- 156-
ANNEX 13
Page 4 of 6
Work Pror   for the Zu Two Years
13.  The inial taining plan for the first two years of the project is summadzed below.
Details on the competencies to be aquired by teachers, cluster resource teachers, master
trainers and VEC members are summarzed in Attachment 1.1'
14.  Teac     adtecher training. The highest priority in the first year of the project is to
develop, test and implement an in-service taining program that would provide confinuous
support to teachers and headteachers at the school cluster level, and which could be
integrated with induction training for newly appointed teachers. The system would provide
in-service teachers and headteachers with an annual intensive 6-day training program at the
block level, iniftally in the facilites of existing schools, and eventually in Block Resource
Centers. This program would introduce the project, the training programs to be made
available, and the classroom teaching and school management techniques to be developed
through sub-squent conffnuous in-service tuiing.
15.   Subsequent to initial training, teachers and headteachers would altnatively
participate in fortnightly workshops at the cluster lead school, lead by the Cluster Resource
Teacher (CRT) and the Lead School Headteacher (LSH). These workshops would focus in
first stages on the introduction of the initial core competencies. Teachers/Headteachers
would exchange experiences, and consult with the CRT and LSH on problems encountered.
The CRT would follow-up with teachers in the classroom following each workshop. In later
stages, this structure would be used to introduce new modules, as well as revised textbooks.
16.  Training materials would be modularized (see paragph 10 above), and would be
developed by SCERT with support from NCERT. The dehivery system would be developed
in the following stages:
(a) Mast Tminers. District training teams would be developed from faculties of
DIETs and Teacher Training Institutes. Trainer-training would be provided by
faculty from SCERT, NCERT and NIEPA. Training would take place in DIETs
and Trs.
(b) Cluster Resource Teachers/Lead Scilaol Headteachers. These two person teams
would be trned at the block level by District Master Trainer Teams. Block
Resource Teachers, Assistant Deputy Insector, and Non-formal Education
supervisors would also be trained in these activities. The training would be
phased to coincide wit the opening of Block resource centers.
Competencies and program designs for headteachers and MIS training will be
developed during the second TNA workshop, tenatfively scheduled for July, 1993.



- 157-
AD          3-
Page 5 of 6
(c)  Tea,chesl eadteachers In-srvice, Intensive taining and subsequent fortnightly
workshops would be delivered at cluster lead schools; during the initial phases of
the project, when school complex facilities are not yet constructed, these
programs would be conducted in other block-level facilities, during vacation
periods or, in exceptional circumstances, in upper primary or secondary schools
that would operate on a reduced schedule for the training period.
17. New teachers appointed from the reserve list are Hlely to have passed 6-10 years since
completing the Basic Training Course. These teachers would be provided with an initial
three-week induction course focused primarily on content, followed by the one week initial
in-service training provided to seving teachers. Upgraded and newly appointed headteachers
would be experienced teachers. They would be provided with a separate three-week
induction course focused on school management, MIS, and community relations. This
training would be conducted at TTIs and DIErs. Subsequently, teachers and headteachers
would be posted to communities where new schools are being constructed or to existing
schools. They would thereafter participate regularly in in-service activities.
18. District Master Training teams would be developed sequentally, beginning in two
districts. Teams would begin their work at the cluster level immediately on completion of
training. Training activities would be monitored and the findings used to modify training
materals and acivities as the program expanded across the districts. All District Master
Training teams are epected to be in place by the end of the second year of the project.
19. YEC NMmb. Baseline surveys reveal that, in most villages, the functions of VECs
are not understood by the community at large. Moreover, relatively few VECs are active in
the full sense - that is, with balanced membership, regular meetings, and active oversight of
school activities. In these circumstances, the most important development activities are
information, moblization and support. Developing the competencies of VEC members to
provide stronger and more effective support for schools and non-formal education classes
must be embedded in mobilization activities, at least in early stages.
20. Mobilization efforts would need to take into account existing patterns of community
social and political organization. This would in turn require that a variety of approaches be
tried out in different localities. A common first activity would be organization of discussion
groups in each village to inform residents of the legal and administrative responsibilities of
the VEC, and of the support that would be provided by the project. An equally important
objective of these meetings would be to identify constraints on VEC mobilization as seen
through the eyes of community members and leaders. These meetings would be led by
Cluster Resource Teachers and school headteachers at the begnning of the second year of the
project. District and block-level staff would participate in a sample of these discussions.



- 158 -
ANEX13
Page 6 of 6
21. Based on these meetings, a broad and flexible list of developmental activities would be
designed. These would likely be addressed to the kinds of competencies identified through
the first TNA workshop (see Attachment 1). Delivery of follow-up mobilization and skill
development activities would be approached in a vanety of ways, depeding on the
circumstances in each district and block. Where present, successfil NGOs would be
provided with core taining materials and financed to deliver services. Where NGOs are not
present, follow-up activities would be organized by Cluster Resource Teachers and
'Headteachers, with support from Master Taining Teams.
22. Annual reviews of VEC mobilization and development activities would be conducted,
and the results incorporated into subsequent year activities.



- 159 -
ANNEt  13
1
Page 1 of 4
I. ldelar  hk&rdm Tece l h  Comodcdo
1.       The competency statements outlined below are cumulative. Staff at each
successive level would acquire the competencies of the preceding level as well as
competencies specific to their level.
2.        Training at all levels would include an orientation to the UP Basic Education
Project and the role that participants would play in achieving its objectives.
A. Competencies for Ea-Service Teachers: Inial Phase
3.        Teaching: (a) reang, (b) counting, and (c) addition and subtaction of
numbers.
4.        Organizing structured groups for promoting pupil participation in learning,
including multi-grade situation.
5.        Organizing different learning activities including securing support for teaching.
6.       Identifjing and using local materials to p   teaching aides.
7.        Continuous assessment of pupil learning and use of results as feedback for
improving pupil's leamning performance.
8.        Affeciye. undersanding of special problems of girls and SC/ST students;
willingness to address these in classroom interactions.
*Note: Addidonal competencies in MIS record keeping, school/community relations, etc,.
would be introduced in later phases.
V Developed by the First Training Needs Assessment Workshop, Allahabad, April 14-16,
1993.



- 160 -
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 4
B. Additional Competencies for School Cluster Support Team
1         Organizing seminars and workshops
2.        Monitoring classroom and co-curricular activities
3.        Monitoring micro-planning
4.        Collecting and disseminating information on classroom practice
5.       Identifying local resources and expertise, making linkages, improving resource
utilization.
6.        Establishing rapport with communities and teachers
7.        Communicating effectively with teachers/communities
8.        Reviewing MIS performance for accuracy.
9.       Identifying and solve instructional problems
10.       Conducting small scale action research on instructional problems
I1.       Affee. Understanding of gender bias in the work place.
C. Additional Competencies for District Master Teachers (DIET facultY)
1.        Using a variety of training techniques
2.        Planning and evaluating taining activities
3.        Using a range of teaching/leaning techniques
4.        Giving and receiving positive feedback
5.        Conducting action research using sampling techniques, assessment instruments,
survey questionnair., and case studies.
6.        Affe ve. Understanding of gender bias in the work place.



- 161 -
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 4
D.        Competencles for Induction Training (in Additon to A. Above)
1.        Understnding of new content in language, science, mathematics, and
environment, as well as the 10 point National Curriculum.
2.        Familiaity with child-centered teaching methodology, including continuous
assessment, using local materials to develop teaching aides.
3.        Understanding of new concepts in contemporary Indian education, including
Minimum Levels of Learning, Nonformal Education, role of DIETs.
4.        Using classroom techniques for girls and SC/ST students.
5.        Completing school reisters and records.
6.        Strengthening community cooperation through VECs, including skills i
completing household surveys and building contacts with guardians and community members.
II. flPrlry VEC Mobfizintion -ad RffAQMLopen Objectives
Mobilization
1.        To discuss the value of education and literacy for children, especally girls.
2.        To discuss constraints on attendance and learning in pdmary schools, and to
explore the possible roles of the VECs in improving both.
3.        To review the statutory and administative responsibilities and powers of VECs,
their membership, and their access to administaive and technical support.
4.        To discuss the project, with a focus on its objectives and the improvements to be
brought to village schools and nonformal classes.
5.        To choose members of VECs according to project criteria.
6.        To identify specific competencies and support activities reqwred to strengthen
VEC operations.



- 162 -
ANEX 13
Attacbmeu 1
Page 4 of 4
7.        Monitoring school and NFE activities, including teacher and instructor
attendance.
8.       Identifying scholarship recipients and distributing stipends in accordance with
GOUP procedures.
9.        Carrying out micro-planning exercises, including identification of the special
needs and constaints of girls and SC/ST students.
10.       Supervising school construction and rehabilitation activities.
11.      Purchasing educational materials and supplies.
12.      Establishing effective communication relationships with school personnel and
community members.
13.      Maintaining accounts and records.



- 163 -
ANEX 14
Page I of 6
UTTrAR 1PRADESH BASIC EDUCATIONP lESEOHECT
Girls' and Women' lEducatio
Bsic Female Education Statistics for U.P.
1.        By most educational indicators, girls and women in Uttar Pradesh lag
considerably behind their male countexparts.
2.        Low enroDment In Pimary School In 1990 the Primary School Gross
Enrollment Rate for girls was 81 per cent; for boys it was 98 percent11. Discounted for a 20
per cent repetition rate, the GERs were 65 per cent for girls and 80 per cent for boys.
3.        Among Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (SC/ST) children, enrolment rates
at the primary level, discounted for repeaters, are estimated to be about 30 per cent for girls
and 73 per cent for boys, a yawning gap.
4.         08          . In 1986-87, earollment in Class V was about 52 per cent of
enrollment in Class I for girls in rural U.P. and 64 per cent for boys. These figures indicate
that almost half of all rural girls and over one-third of rural boys do not complete five years
of education.
5.        Low enroilment In Uppr Nhnarv. Upper Primary GERs were 28 per cent
for girls and 64 per cent for boys. For SC/ST children the rates were nine per cent for girls
and 32 per cent for boys.
6.        Low cmnleion of JUpr  1M.   Only 23 per cent of rural girls in U.P.
who enroll in Class I are enrolled in Class VIm. For boys, the comparable figure is 45 per
cent. Thus, about 77 per cent of girls in rural U.P. drop out within the eight-year cycle and
55 per cent of boys.
7.        Low iku=. In 1991, women's literacy was 26 per cent while overall literacy
was 55 per cent.
These enrollment figures include children who are over the expected age, i.e. they
are either later enrollers or repeaters. This masks the true extent of schooling of
the relevant ate cohort. It is estimated (by GOI) that about 20 percent of enrolled
students a  repeaters.



- 164 -
ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 6
8.        Hleigh proportion of low-literacy disticts. Of U.P's 63 districts, 30 had
female literacy rates of less than 20 per cent. Eight of the ten project districts fall below the
average female literacy rate of the state as a whole (26 per cent), and two have a rate of 27
per cent. All the ten additional project districts have female literacy rates below the state
average.
Determinants of Female Education
9.        Both demand and supply factors are implicated as determinants of low female
education in U.P. 'Demand-side' factors that affect girls schooling more significantly than
boys include child labor, the direct costs of education, and socio-cultural norms. Supply side
factors are perhaps less important than demand side factors for girls, in contrast with boys,
because natal families do not 'see' the benefits of their daughters' education. On the whole,
the low value attached to female education is a reflection of the low status of women in rural
U.P. society (as in other parts of India, particularly in the north). Scheduled caste girls are
certainly the most educationally disadvantaged in the state.
Socio-Demo ranhic Correlates of Female Education
10.       Female literacy and educational status correlate inversely with several social and
demographic indicators, including nuptiality, fertility and infant mortality, and positively with
the sex ratio. U.P's birth rate of 37 per 1000 population is the highest in India. Its 1991
infant mortality rate of 118 per 1000 live births, was 30 per cent higher than the national
average and the second highest among the states. Its sex ratio, 880 females for every 1000
males, is the second lowest in the country.
Implications for Overall Education Levels In the State
11.       Approximately 10 per cent of the school-age cohort in U.P. does not have
physical access to a school. Of those who enroll, more than half (45 per cent of the age
cohort) drop out within five years, before acquiring basic liteacy and numeracy skills.
'Drop-out' is even more important than 'lack of access' among girls compared with boys;
and, on the whole, failure to complete the primary cycle has a much greater impact on
overall levels of education within the state than does lack of access to a school.
Provisions for Girls' Education In the Project
12.       Several project components are directed at increasing girls' completion of at least
five years of education and some at encouraging completion of the eight-year cycle. The
vaious activities aim specifically at: (a) increasing enrolment in primary and upper primary
schools; (b) ensuring continuation in school (c) enhancing learning achievements; (d)
providing alternative strucures for basic education; (e) providing functional literacy to adult



- 165 -
ANE= 114
Page 3 of 6
women; (f) addressing constraints to demand for female education; and (g) addressing gender
bias in education. The specific activities directed at each of these objectives are:
13.      Increasing enrolment in rima   nd   r  gimary schools. Enrollment rates
for girls as a whole and for SC/ST girls are proposed to be increased by 50 per cent over
baseline estimates. The main strategies to do so are:
(a)  Provision of Eary Childhood CAre and Education ECC) Centers near
schools. These are to be run by the Integated Child Development Services
(ICDS) program or by the Department of Education, in concert with school
timings. These centers will have the dual effect of encouraging school enrollment
as a result of 'headstart' pre-school education as well as by providing the
alternative day care arrangement for chLdren (usually girls) who do not attend
school on account of sibling care responsibilities.
ICDS already operates in 74 of the 174 Project blocks. in these blocks, the
Department of Education will provide a room in the primary school for the
center, wherever possible.
The Deparments of Education and ICDS will evolve strategies to make ICDS
and Primary School timings parallel. These will include coverage by a suitable
person (eg. an ICDS Helper, school functionary or person designated by the
Village Education Committee) of the additional time that anwadis must
renmain open in order to match school timings. The Prtect provides for a small
honorarium to be paid to such a person for this purpose.
Where ICDS does not currently opeat, the Dearmt of Education will
establish ECCE centers in primary schools on a pilot basis. The Project proposes
to establish about 1000 ECCE centers in non-ICDS blocks (eg. about 40 centers
in each of 25 selected blocks in different regions of the state). These centers will
be run by a local adult woman, trained for the purpose and supervised by the
school headteacher. The Departnents of Education and ICDS will collaborate in
the training of these workers and in the development of ECCE matials.
(b)  Provision of stipends to SC/ST girl. The Project prposes to give Rs. 144 per
year to SC/ST girls in primary schools and Rs. 240 per year to SC/ST girls in
Upper Primary schools to off-set the costs of school uniforms, books and
materials. These stipends are the same as those being given to SC/ST girls by the
Department of Welfare under a limited scholarship scheme (20 children per
Primary School and 24 per Upper Primary School). The Department of
Education will initially pilot test the scheme in 100 schools; a decsion on
expansion would be based on evaluation of the impact on enrollment and
attendance.



- 166 -
ANNEX 14
Page 4 of 6
(c)  Increasing the Roorion of female teachers. Cufrently, 13 percent of teachers
in rual areas and 18 per cent overall are female. The Government of U.P. is
committed to ensuring that 50 per cent of new teachers appointed in Project areas
are women in order to increase the number of female teachers. This is to be
done by raising the proportion of females admitted to teacher training (BTC)
courses to 70 per cent, and by purposive selection of women at the time of
recruitment to teacher posts. They will attempt to ensure that female teachers
are equitably distributed across regions and in rural/urban areas. The number of
female teachers and women in management positions will be closely monitored
through the Project's Management Information System.
14.      Ensuring continuation in school. "Drop-out rates at the piimary and upper
primary level are proposed to be reduced by 50 percent in comparison with baseline
estimates. Sttegies a) to c) above would also serve to retain girls in school. Increased
proportions of female teachers are especially relevant at the Upper Primary level.
(a)  Enhancingleaming achievements. Grade V learning achievements (for both girls
and boys) would be improved by 50 percent over baseline levels.
(b)  Providing alternative structures for basic education. It is proposed that non-
formal education centers will be established for drop-outs and working children
at the primary level. Fifty per cent of these centers are intended to be exclusively
for girls.
15.       .mMzwdng women The Project proses to expand the '"MA
program (MS), a women's empowerment program which forms village women's groups that
are a forum for discussion and action on problems confrontng village women. Women are
provided education on their legal rights, on public services available to them.
16.      Some of the key principles of the MS program are that:
(a) project functionaries and officials are facilitative and not directive;
(b) planning, decision-maldng and evaluative processes are accountable to the
collective of village women;
(c) women participants deternine the form, nature, content and timing of all
activities in their village, and that staff selection processes are participatory; and
(d) the program is not hurried and does not have 'targets,' but is a self-paced
process, built on existing knowledge and women's own priorities for learning.



-167 -
Page 5 of 6
17.      MS has been run by an autonomous society, and will continue to be so in the
project. Appropriate clauses will be included in the Project's legal documents and a
Memorandum of Understanding will be framed between the Project's EPA Society and the
MS Socety. At the district level, the MS structure will interac in a strctured way with the
district education machinery to coordinate program implementation. At the state level, the
MS State Project Director will be a member of the General Council and the Executive
Committee of the EFA Society. Funds for the Mahila Samakhya program in the seven
Project districts not currently covered by MS will be routed through the EPA Society and
advanced to the state MS Society Office on an annual basis against a budget estimate and
agreed activity plan.
18.      The expansion of MS in the Project will be phased in a manner appropriate to its
principles and methods of operation. In the first year of the project, MS will concentrate on
filling staff positions at the state and district levels and vitalizing the program in the four
existing districts (three of which are Project districts). It wil also plan for expansion to the
'second year's' districts, identifying suitable staff for the District Implementation Units. In
the second year, MS will begin operation in two additional districts; in the third year, in two
more and in the fourth year, in the remaining three Project districts. At the field level it is
proposed that one block (about 100 villages on average) be takn up in each district during
the first three years of operation, and an additional block in the second three-year phase of
the project (as appropriate and feasible). The total number of villages covered is not
expected to exceed 1400 during the life of the Prject, and no targets are to be set for
numbers of villages or blocks to be covered. MS will orient and sensitize relevant block and
district-level development and education personnel whenever it begins work in a new
block/district.
19.      An independent annual evaluation system is being worked out by the Central MS
Project Office which will include the MS progam m the Project districts. The evaluation
reports will be made available to the Bank's Supervision Missions. A mid-term appraisal of
MS is envisaged in the fourth year of the Project.
Addres   constaints to demand for female education.
20.      In the MahSma   progam, many groups choose to address girls'
education as a priority area for action, motivating fimilies to send daughters to school as
well as putting pressure on school authorities to cater to the needs of girls.
21.      In addition, the IaiMEduation Cnmitees are expeted to ie  y
instruments in increasing demand for girls' education as well as in achieving objectives (a)
and (b), and contributing to non-formal education in (d) above. The VECs are to include
female members and SC/ST representaives. VECs which are successful in improving
enrollment and retention of girls and SC/ST students are to receive awards.



- 168 -
ANX 4
lPage 6 of 6
22.       An experimental program to provide part-time earning opportunities, 'Wo
=xdu3erlncQ' for       in upper primary schools could partally offset the costs of their
education, thereby reducing parental resistance to girls' education and incrasing girls'
retention in school. The expenment will be conducted in approximately 5 schools in one
block per district during the middle phases of the project and will be carefully evaluated for
its effects on girls' education and skills enhancement.
AdwudiLg mer bas Ina
23.       Review and revision of textbooks to eliminate gender bias. Primary school text
books used in the state have been reviewed by NCERT for gender bias and the state
government proposes to act on the comments received, making the necessary changes in the
text-books. Non-formal education materals will be similarly reviewed and revised. Gender
bias is also to be eliminad through curriculum reform.
24.       Gender sensitization of school managers and teachers. Gender sensitization
uaining will be incoporated into the overa taining plan for all levels of school
management personnel and in the pretin-service training of teachers.
MIamemen  ot omno's education.
25.       The GOUP proposes to recruit and place female officers in positions of
responsibility at all levels of the system rather than establsh separate 'women's cells' for the
project. This approach would avoid the problems of isolaton that have plagued previous
women's cells in the State.



- 169 -
ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 5
INDILA
-U[TTA  PRDESH8 B8A,S,£lC 2UCN   E
Pilot and Inmovaive gPmma
1.       In addition to mounting a core development program focused on existing basic
education delivery systems, the project would support experimentaion and innovation in
order to test additional selected strategies and widen the scope for new approaches to be
identified. The Plot Pgrams element would test a number of already identified strategy
options. The Innovations element would call for proposals from NGOs and community
groups for new, small scale approaches to basic education delivery. All pilot and innovative
programs would be evaluated, and the results discussed with IDA.
Pnot aolm==
2.        Four pilot projects would be undertaken beginning in the third and fourth years
of the project: scholarships for SC/ST girls, work experience programs for girls, community
libraries, and nonformal upper primary education.
3.        Scholarship programs for SC/ST girls. The Departnent of Welfare (DOW)
currently provides 20 primary and 24 upper primary scholarships annually to boys and girls
whose families are below the poverty line. The amounts are Rs. 144 at the primary level
and Rs. 244 at upper primary. These stipends are intended of offset the costs of textbooks,
stationery and school bags. These scholarships are distibuted by Vidlage Education
Committees.
4.        Significant expansion of the scholarship program would have major implications
for the State's recurrent cost budget, and for fiscal sustainability. However, the possibility
exists that additional tareted scholarships for SC/ST girls could provide sufficient incentive
for enrollment and attendance so as to make the investment economically sound. The project
would support a pilot test of an additional stipend program for SC/ST girls in ten schools in
each of ten blocks (one per district). All SC/ST girls not receiving other scholarships would
be given scholarships in the same amount as provided that year by the DOW. The program
would be publicized, and elighility according to GOUP criteria determined by the Viage
Educatioka Committee in consultaion with the elected village chief (Gram Pradhan). The
stipends would be presented to the guardians of the children in the presence of the members
of the VEC. Approximately 2,000 stipends would be given annually for two years, financed
by the project. A list of scholarship recipients would be posted in the school. Guardians
would be asked to provide receipts to the VEC within one month of receipt of the stipend
showing purchases of textbooks, educational supplies, or school uniforms equivalent in value
(or greater) than the amount of the stipend.



- 170 -
ANEX 15
Page 2 f 5
5.        A comparison group of 100 schools chosen randomly in adjacent blocks will be
studied along wi the scholarship schools. Baseline levels of enrolment and attendance will
be measured in all schools at the start of the first school year. Subsequent surveys would be
done in the middle and at the end of each school year. The end of year survey would be
accompanied by focus group discussions with guardians, teachers and students.
6.       WDk    rc         gms fo         The GOUP beieves that part-time eaning
oppotunities for girls in upper primary schools would help offset direct osts of education to
parents, and develop attitudes toward work which will encourage girls to enter the labor
market after completing schooling. Limited work experience progrms would be introduced
on a voluntary basis in upper primary schools. Handicraft products that can be sold within
the school cluster (mats, school bags, chalk) would be the primary products, although locally
appropiate agricultural activities could also be eligible. Loca artsans would be engaged on
a temporary basis to provide skill training. Students would be paid a fixed allowance for the
work, and proceeds from sales would be use to offset opeating costs. individual school
programs would be financed by the District Education Project Committee on the bass of
proposals certified by the VEC and the school inspectorate. Grants would be for six months,
and renewable on the basis of performance. The project would finance student allowances,
smanl tools and equipment, and raw material.
7.        The pilot project would be initiated in one upper primary school per block in 30
blocks. Thirty comparison schools would be chosen at random in adjacent blocks. Baseline
levels of enrollment and attendance would be measured in expeintal and control schools,
and repeated twice a year for two years. A follow-up tracer study of girls in both
xperimental and control schools would be completed in the third year to identify any impact
on post-school activities.
8.        Commimi  libsratie. The dearth of reading materials in mral villages in UP
poses a barrier to retention of literacy skills for both children and adults. The project would
experiment with the placement of smal libraries in selected primary schools to include post-
literacy reading materials for adults. The libraries would be managed by the head teacher in
conjunction with the VEC. The progam will begin in two schools in each block in the firt
year. If evaluation shows that the materias are well utilized, the program would be extnded
in subsequent years with a final target of ten sites per block. The prqject woudd finance the
costs of books and subscriptions for newspapers and periodicals.
9.        NionfoQnral urprimarm education. Evidence of growing female demand for
upper primary education is found in the increasing number of boys upper primary schools
that have been authorized to form a girls section when there are 15 potential female students;
in such cases, a female teacher is assigned and the classes are crowded into existing
facilites. The GOUP would experiment with an upper primary version of nonformal
educaton, using science kits that have already been developed and are in production (with
FRO assistnce), and existing upper primary textbooks. Classes would be held after hours in



- 171 -
Pae 3 S5
schools or other convenient public places; instructors would be selected from among
education local prsons and trained. The pilot project would be implemented in ten schools
in each of four blocks (two districts) in order to concentrate training and supervion
resources. Evaluation would focus on enrollment, attendance, and learing outcomes.
Jboaftwi Plrae
10.       Children with special needs, or in difficult to reach areas, may need small scale,
innovative programs. These activities provide a natual opportnity for NMOs to be involved
in the program. The GOUP has identified the very small number of tribal children as an
immediate priority in developing innovative progams. Additional programs would be
identified through compedtive application and selection according to pr-establshed criteria.
11.       Tribal childr. There are about 34,000 tribal children in the 6-14 age cohort in
UP. In 1991/92, there were about 12,000 ST children, all in Nainital district. Gross
Enrollment Ratios for both male and female ST children exceed those of scheduled caste and
other children in the Stae (Annex 1). However, the educational needs and aspirations of the
ST communities need to be studied and the results taken into account in detmining an
aoriate s         for basic education, particularly with respect to learning achievement.
12.      The GOUP would undertake a special learing assessment study, including focus
group discussions with communities, during the first year of the project. This stdy would
use the instruments developed and tested in Project Baseline Beneficiary Studies. The resuts
of the study would be discussed with communities, teachers and education officers, and an
appropruiae intervention saegy designed. Both the study and the design would be discussed
with IDA.
13.       The intervention would be implemented for he years begnning in the second
year of the project. Evaluation would focus on enrollment, attendance, and learning
achievement as compared to baseline levds.
14.       Othe Innovations. Opptunities in the project for the support of innovative
activities would be publicized at the state and district levels. Prposals would be initally
evaluated by District Education Project Commitees (DEPC) as part of lhe annual work plan
and budgeting exercise. Proposals cleared by DEPCs would be again reviewed by the
BEFAPB as part of the annual review of district plans. Approved pwposals would be
financed as part of annual district plans, and managed and Monitored by DEPCs.



-172-
Page 4 of 5
15.       The ctiteria for selection of proposals and   nitions would be:
(a)    M
(i) clearly identified beneficiary group consident with the objectives of the
project;
(ii) feasible objectives consistent with those of the Project; and
(iii) a feasible stgy for achieving obectives.
(b)
(i) legal stats as a regitered society under UP law; and
D) a record of sucessf implemen      of voluntary sci seice delivery
in the district, with basic education expefience prefeed;
(di) exerience and training of staff to work on the project, as demonstrated by
resumea; and
(iv) standing in the community as judged and attested to by DEPC staff.
(i) meets norms established by the EFAPB;
(ii) does not provide for the purchase of equipment valued at more than
Rs. 30,000;
(d)      uing and Evaluation
(i) proposal provides an adequate method for monitoring and accounting for
activities and expeditures, including the esbhment of a separate bank
account exclusively for project funds; and
(ii) proposal provides an adequate mechanism for evaluaig both
implementation pcesses and outomes.
16.       The GOUP would encourage the formation and legal regston of NMOs where
the eadsting stock is inadequate.



- 173-
ANMEX 1S
Page 5 of 5
17.       Financing would be on the basis of an initial quartely advance, renewable on
submision of acceptable documentation of expenditu.
18.       EDA   sio. IDA would monitor proposed Innovative acdvities as part of
it's annual superion and review of project work plans and budgets.



- 174 -
ANNE 16
Page I of S
UI  AR  DER I: B8ASIC 1MDUCAllL[ON P0p
1.        The scale of the proposed investment in physical infrastructure for prmary
schooling is massive, and without precedent in the Bank. At a total estimated cost of more
than $60 million (31% of total project cost) about 450,000 new school places would be
created in more than 3000 sites, about 1500 existing schools would need new classrooms or
major rehabilitation, and in as much as 10,000 schools minor repairs and/or provision for
basic amenities (toilets and drining water) would be provided. Much of the infrastcture is
to be built in remote rural areas.
2.        After unsuccessfully trying a number of strategies for the implementation of rural
consruction, including force account operations implemented by the UP Public Works
Department as well as private contractors, the GOUP has implemented since 1987 a program
of community managed constrcon. Head teachers were appointed at the beginning of the
construction period. Standard designs were followed. Funds were released to Village Chiefs
and VECs on the following basis: 1/3 to begin work, 1/3 on completion of foundation, and
1/3 on completion of walls. Funds were kept in a separate VE' bank account, with the
village chief and the school headmaster as co-signatories. A site record book was
maintained, showing receipt of funds, purchases of materials and labor, and the comments of
visiting Block Junior Engineers from the RUral Engneering Service.
3.        A total of 13,000 classrooms were constructed this way, faster and at much
lower cost than alternative constructing methods. This is a remarkable achievement;
however, the quality of many of these community built schools is below standard. A
facilities survey conducted as part of project preparation found that many suffer from leaky
roofs (with consequent safety problems), insufficient lighting and inadequate ventilation.
Many of the problems are attibuted to ineffective technical assistance from busy RES Junior
Engineersy.
-t' Uttar Pradesh Development Systems Limited. EPimr School Buildings
Constructed in Uttar Pradesh. Lucknow, December, 1992.



- 175 -
ANE 6
Page 2 of S
4.        The Bank has supported community constucdon of school buildings in several
projects, most notably in Africa but also in South Asia. Many of these ran into difficulty
mostly because the design called for construction techniques unfamia to local caftsmn
and could only be implemented by providing intensive supervision and training. In response
altenatve solutions were tried, limiting community contributions to site preparation and
building the foundations, with the remainder of the buildings to be constructed by
experienced contactors. The cost of providing technical support services often exceeded the
savings associated vwth community construction whereas a mixed contractor/community
resulted often management problems and litte cost savings.
5.        The following lessons have been incorporaed into the UP community civil work
program:
o    only locally available materials would be used;
3    several improvements would be introduced in the existing designs to address
quality and safety problems, most notably with roofing designs;
   but, only construction techniques familiar to villagers and local craftsmen would
be used;
*    it would build on and expand a successfully implemented program;
*    it would provide for regular technical supervision.
6.        The result would be a simple two classrom brick building, with a covered
veranda, which effectively can serve the community basic education needs, and which, at the
same time, is sufficiently low-cost ($7500) that large scale replication would be affordable.
Furthermore, community construction is important as part of the overall GOUP and project
stategy which aims at 'giving the schools back to the community".
p, Mn_ DtLdMnnk
7.        Site list and school maps have been completed for all new
school construction sites. Sites have be  selected based on Government of India distance
norms: for primary schools, within 1.5 klometer for sudents; for upper primary schools,
within 3 kilometers. These norms can be modified due to geographical barriers (rivers,



- 176 -
APNNEX 16
Page 3 of 5
mountains). A model survey of rehabilitation needs and costs done for one block has been
completed, and additional surveys launchedl. Design drawings have been completed.
8.        Under the project management structure (Annex 9), District Education Project
Committees (DEPC) would propose one-year community civil works activities and costs as
part of annual work plan and budget submissions to the EPA Project Board. VECs would
apply to the DEPC, providing evidence that the site is available, willingness to provide
community contributions, the establishment of a separte postal or bank account, and a
proposed schedule for completing the work. Proposed sites would be visited by engineering
staff prior to their approval for inclusion in the year's program.
9.        Regular visits and reports by block-level engineers would provide the information
for monitoring progress (pam. 12). These reports would be entered into the Project
Monitoring System at the district level. Quarterly progress reports, and an annual report to
IDA, would be provided. ITe District Engineer would supervise on a random spot-check
basis. IDA supervision missions would also on a random basis spot-check progress against
site lists maintained at the district level.
Supervision and Technical Assistance
10.      The supervision of construction sites, under the Village Education Committee
(VEC), would be handled by the VECs, through the heads of villages and schools
headmasters, with technical support delivered by junior engineers from PWD and/or Rural
Engineering Services (RES) posted at the Block levels with activities and responsibilities as
described below:
11.      A Junior Engineer would be posted for 3 or 4 years in each of the 174 Blocks
under the project. However, during the first and fourth years, only a Junior Engineer would
be assigned to handle the sites supervision in 2 blocks as the consruction load is lighter than
that of the other years. The Junior Engineer would be hired on deputation either from PWD
or RES. He or she would have a minimum of 5 years experience in construction and site
supervision of the rural area.
12.      The Junior Engineer's responsibility would be to assist the VECs in the initial
inspection, evaluation and selection of sites. He/she would assist the Village Read and the
School Headmaster in the execution process, checking on the quality of materials, plotting
the school building on site, advise on the natWe of soil, excavations and foundations. He/she
would advise on the execution of construction technique and explain and clarify construction
Public Works Department, Government of Uttar Pradesh. A Survey of Existing
Primary and Higher Primary Schol Buildn of Blk Sidauli District Siaur
and Cost Estimates for Remedial Masues. Luckow, Febray, 1993.



- 177-
Page 4 of 5
details. He/she would ensue adherence to specificaions and apprpriate consruction
method and check on quality. He/she would be physically present for all roof construction.
He/she would record hi/her observation and recommendation in the site record book.
He/she would fect visits to al the Block sites with an aveage of 2 to 3 visits a month to
each site where new schools and classroom extensions are being built. A Junior engineer
would be supevising an avere of 8 to 9 new schoos, 3 classroom extension sites, 8 to 9
rehabilitationlrepuir sites, and about 2 school complex contuction sites. He/she would be
able to move from one site to the other by means of available motrycles.
13.       Ihe Junior engineer, posted at the Block and opng at the vilage level, would
report to the Assistant Engin  posted at the District The Asstant Engineer is also under
deputation. He/she is in charge of the consrdon in the Blocks of his/her Distict. He/she
provides advice on planning of consbtucdon advities, technical support to his/her junior
engineers. He/she monitor the supervidon process, the progess in implementation of
constrction sites and the perfnce and the qualty of wors under each junior engineer.
He/she also visits sample sites and efects particular visits to problem sites requiring his/her
direct intervention. Finally, he/she also compiles the junior engineers repot on construction
and submits a monthly report to his/her chief, the Executive Engineer posted at the State
level.
14.       The Executive enginee is also on deputation from the PWD or RES to the EFA
Project Board. He/she is rspondble for the project construction activities in the Disticu
under the Project. He/she is responsible for all physical and financial aspects, compiles the
Assistant engneers' reports and preares a comprehensive report every six months and
submits it to the State Project Director, who in tum submits tie rport the State Govemment
and the World Bank. Ihe EPA Project Board Executive Council is also provided a copy of
the report thrugh the State Project Diror.
ID)A Disbuseents
15.       For school conuction, IDA would disburse against rtdficadon of the
completion of each stage of the work, as signed by both the block and district engineer. For
rehabilitation and repair, IDA would disburse against cefcates of completion.



-178 -
Pae 5 of 5
16.       Under the Community Construction Program entusted to the VECs, the number
of supeviion staff years needed would be as indicated in the following table:
Staff          1993/94  1994/95   1996/97  1997198   Total
Junior Engineer (JE)     87        174       174      87      522
AssistantEngineer (AE)   10         10       10       10       40
Executive Engineer (EE)   1         1         1        1        4
17.       7te total costs of supervion of consruction under the VECs would be as
illusftated below:
Rs.
Rs.          Rs.       Opeadon       Rs.         Rs.
Total No of Staff   Salary/    Million     Expenses/   Million     Million
Years          IL          Ttaw          Y          TAW1       191
JE - 522           60,000        31.32       24,000      12.53       43.85
AE - 40            84,000        3.36        36,000       1.44       4.80
BE - 4            120,000        0.48        36,000      0.14        0.62
Total                          35.16                   14.11       49.27
The base cost is Rs.49.27 million or Rs.64.7 million including contingencies or US$1.8
million (based on calculated average rate of 1US$=35.9 rupees).
18.       The total cost of the community civil works program, including school
construction, extension, and repair, is estimated at Rs.1876 million base costs, or Rs. 2463
million including contingencies. The cost for PWD supevision of this program at standard
rates (16 percent) would be Rs. 394 million, or US$ 10.97 million based on the same
calculated average rate of 1US$=35.9 rupees. The savings in supervision costs flowing
from the community approach would thus be approximately US$ 10.1 million.



- 179 -
Page I of 3
INDIA
MS 't000)
__                                                  _ .                                                          c
Wm=                nnw                        mom G           n  =
WAun 10 MEU= nST   Cm US AG   MM M=    nmTA  mmL
srwn ==nU   Lt    1cO3 T  ==a  t:;'236   = w C                                                              ma 3 m tuU=S                         TvI4
- - --    _   - _  - 
R. lTRW- W M
A. cmL MMI                                 104#1000- 6h000                                                                   0,0.00M O           -               0440.0                   49 .O04
D.    ISe.x SW=                             0.4040              -                   67.300.0              -              -  300.30               - -5t00.00 -    17:W.00
e. Fa8lm                                     2s40.00  -. 0                    *       .40.00                                                7-o0o.00        - -    0.80.0 -                 7leoo.0
D. EUJ7IUff                                 S5*00 40 MUM ee              A00                                             -   12.000.00    139.10            -             -          *      60,.1940
L.     IUMn  Wm   iMaM           wAs        42e,0.1    29,400.00      1400.0c               -         2c.0      10.oo  a .00   7,500.00   2  0O5.0    2           44200.0 52,400.00    35*305.00
F. V8 1                                      260o.0      2soe.5               -             -             - -                        -.   45.0 1s.40.                     *          -  -600.00
o. Om                                         eoo.o             -                                  -                         30- oee.OM!   X.a.oo           -      32400.00                 72-a6.00
. 1LA  mU.       M                                 -   n2ao0.ee                      -             -             -                   -  924.2.40            -             -          -      13So0OO0
.1- Ul    rfflm8*                                              -             -             -   155400.00        26,000.00           -   14,000.o0   3700.00              -   9.240.00    213.340.0
:  caM                                             -    a14 e                 -             -            -             *-      -           *                --                       -      210.00
8. 1    _ T   00U         fl3              Po.e0-0-0- -                                            -                   -             -          -                         *                P.0000-  -
?.tEl 0fl71?        I                        2     0.00    0     40      36400.00    73 0.00    1.43.00            134400.0  425400.00  174,949.10   54q00.00   ss0o0.00   640.00  3.06U4.10
It-. no CrnS
4.001*18 W et                F ime 110eeO.- 21e0.4                      2.-                                     40,100.00  7240.x   90,60.00   U.60.    1,44,0.006 2 0A   2e03400.e3
S. 07 1St               3                   41Ms760.00    4700.00    16*400.0              *        500.0e              *  29400.00  S51e10.00   1240m.00         5,00s .0 o              Ue 060m.0
C. mum lt   1      E                       5s20ee.e                          *      1400.00             -               -   9,000.00           -           -      5000.00           -     20ec00.e
Tota           costs0  I01310,600                          am"0.0        3200.0         14300.00    120,90.00       40,10.00  :1.1440.00  14%#7060  4.00      00UP    1,456400.0   62.30.00  2.2346000
Ilowa SIKU    CamT                             353,10.0   15310.0         69.00.0     751040    294.3254            *74.04000  53600.00  724#.641   1124000 2.40#104000  124,140.00 1.36.74.10
Ptowng  Cmt*.ug.cia                          26*M9000    9,94000        5,261.0      7216540       14.217.*       14*1210    4047.00   19,64.91    7,30.0         182115.00   0,00.00    3?74t0.41
PMa CmtlANMaea                               90.0141    4.05.0         29,30.4      X&206.39       84,240.0       1.02.1, 171,117.01   939=047   27,70.0    747.86146  30440.15  1453.1.14
-            -                                                                              -    -   m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 -- - - ";
tans                                         60U.i50      5.652-56      5400.6       20.10.7*          24.13       2,61.34   19,706.14   5.671.60    1,69700    25,73.07    153.76    W115,14.06
Foals iketai                                 68,A0.91    ZULU.0        34,024.60    26,2.2             4.0        1,3o9.37  153,1.0     18.52249   5,93.01   325t.3999   9,674.61    91550.99
isa _ 1   13 14.10



- 180 -
Page 2 of 3
(RS '000)
P.sffm mom.eat cw  ta
gmZ t"
053 '000)
93/4      94/95       95/9        969        97no0      0/99     99/100        i5     (13  '000)
m Ms mm 9M MM -"m 
4. K3L111 fSTITUI L cnr
1. S6lRu15                                 047 47   75.:S0.47   7747.5    49414.09 WO*4.64    29.64 17.205.41   =.40.00   A.1.3
2a 0 ATna5                                 36495.69   2243043    2.50.57    3.91S3    2.734.72  27454.3  12#8.49    M.00   S.2.21
l.A-ToW   ULDWI  TI       L TI   FYm to       64.066   9542"60   90*14.26   4.72.06 6"877 6..643  29*x 4.90   50.31040   MCA:4
D. DPW=  02n7 PA  CGIT
1 11G  0IE RDWIMS TO LEM                    6S 6.4      7.69.6      MU31M      96g19.04  104Z.3  12,014  t2,975S40   6494S.C0 0           . 2.5t
2. F9I612 511 T?                          t234 13.90  175 185.14  215.5 564  173256-50  X.=246 :s.747.4:  6.540.15   751.90000  2Z6O.M7
a 1     1 TEACIERS WID 8T.F CWIIl          30h.14  3CA6.70   3  C.07-S 3b=.a.  424264449.62.0  5,27 .SSa4M    2543.0  1041.40
4.b £0IG0 CMICLUM" TLXOA       O           610o06470   3t.709.1U4  1U     2   19.40t2.   1t.1    6,56.74  6M.7224        3740-000  6U64412
5.  PW=  swim AmL                          80.649.2    6,3741   65497.04   67,54-16  9.402.0 64496.16  22.3.62   563.000  20469.47
6. 1a6= 00807?                             U2.29.2   41.63.74   542.40   5m.92  0*41.17 S056.96 501034642   322,649.10    ,39.19
7. 1ATS3     PF1                            62t4.78   134.79   23.7420   19#124  S9*243  19*sO1   S19U427   122*5000   405.77
l.A-TGWt   M=PA          is1911117   U127    32#1.06  294.42 S9  441441.10   MMOX404270.60Ls 239.00412  410.43  2.263.34.10  64,34.42
C. 131Ci13 .A.
1. C aR   0E4ON                           1464:.49  25053X.37  506040a.46  6           .310M.0 4 322=1711 *422.92 2.418,300.00  9%1.9964
2. MIr3JIA  MI0AT713                       10#4*49.    16#330.59   U1.994     17,71746  174216.9  19,39749  21.657.07   124#140.6    *721
-O.:         a    A                          156999   374541.95  527 .7   4u44403 3*19.95341,42.034979.9 253t4440.00  963.3
Total 66t111=TS                                59s4a37. s749.1u 105029A3   M*1112.75 674sa  3,23405615.22  5.3"4674.10 202*21.91
PhvsluC*ntiA.Cnp                             52,393.45   74M009.1    * '69   70007.61 4C.3           3025t4.81 3254.13   37002.41   1S103.30
Price .e.tian"c                              4.cu.t7   143.53   277929.59  3s00440.13254.5 27hX263.04 M2706797 1.503903.14 -236.54
tetl OIC*7                                               Io3S  6369.t64-et11744.421*424m.761 1.56B4149740115.15  947.741.49 M7* = 9. 2 675759.45 193,e63.67
sommosmom                                          mm                              mma
Tis..                                       U1.4O.30    42.07.1   25.56.1t   21et.2 10=909.87        .2   5141.30   1'5: 354.06   3' X.t5
Tot.. Luba" 89,279.-3   2079.17  25,742.47  12495  77n42.61 535.76 25428.65   915#71097   '80 .45
b.ch 17, 1993 14:10



- 181 -
Pag 3 of 3
IMM  ERAOM  RAW '000)                                PRJEC                    . _
4    9M               s          %7    WM              o        "A0   7Toa            2 
1. IW 
CVIL am    1                          W00.0   41t03.0  M51.              M7653115.I27.    65.5.24 UX 1-4.C1,591.7004    25.0164474.60
L. FsOuM         Vi                    20a4e   4s95.9    54t0   V0.20  M.M                     6o.70    I.5MA     MM.    1.  2510A.
C.F  a IUkt                            1236   124s74.11   130s.6          S3.39   147.20  506.44  12.    72o.1.0M       0     9.0 6439.0
. 15111f                               13#7.91   I.9          1090.0t hW50   &40.   54                  W     S   d6071940  10 4740
t. W11167    1 D   IMI    *11 0I    90,46         66#5.    61.*04         37,079.40 309.2  3,20          16O33  3154500  10.0 3M.0.
r. wuazs                                5t.54       1.073AS  ss              U.u         .        " 52    u.U      *04   90          740M O
L MM                                    6, 1        MC402.4A t            11.746t2 12,U00.74 311.   16 .2.    725040 10.0  7,265.00
LI. lL FUlfuuIPS                       121.25   16S34.91   3427L2   14*796.  171.591S  47.P  14.4 0 1J                300     0.0      0.0
I. uXLr  3a112                         3*9163    31s192.dSl3,41             46  336.2 20.33412.0  209M.90    23,40.0 00                0e L.e
J. £7131                                3.000A0    3,00.00    30410A    3,00.0   3,00000  2.010,00  3400.0    21,000.0    0.0          0.00
L. guy _U t7      IATN=                 1,142.96    7142.      714 7t4U2.U  714                1142.06  714L6   5t0.00   0.0           0.0
TOW a     WDoom  W                      5 M0   096.96   6526.6  ISD29  2 51.0. 601354.950 . .7 U7 9.9 o .u4e  17.7 1sM741.1
a.    Ilip, 023M
IL WNA    9 4r 0n .M   n  5Ma.0                  15764   27 4t1.t  346313.42 m114.24 410.9               41.433L26 . 25 2 40040   0O  0et:
D. O910       a 754    3              V.050.49   21.346    02e00    19419.02 32,0A.46  29.924  191.A61    470404A     L0  B,3tt
t. 3A1  wNIN                             72.1       26.2        464.5    2*20.40  344591  S476           1.7n    340O.       LO  1.0.0
tdtal 11M    711                          2,141.3   177927.   D2931        367.342542.1446t        1.9 4 iWs.34 21960.0    04  9,0.00
tal BIEees75                             59 M4W 3     1499*1.05 14.29.0    984.112.716MM. a54 3M2ff9.       51.95.2 S,   74.10  10.4  51u3e8.3
usa l         C Ctlzinoda               6393.65   74,0945   S315A9   731.  434360  3163441  3.254*23  .M024   1.  b5
PrI c atiwaint                          4M0.542    15.43645  2Th929.    300.445.152634253V4#2"6 3.45.1*W         .513.96.     19.4 30969.5
tOW  FIO=t mm                              63461 407 .3?5.2V42 t4tX7MU 1u.:540.1  9071 5.2 W19 49.1 79071*629.291,291.0645  12.6 92710.9f
-  inmmi                                                                         -           m
Tas                                   t16604    247.0l   23543.11   21t.X   190.0   0,624947  51t43   115.4PA6   0.0                   040
futf_t Esibeam                         113US279   205.7997"    2511762.4   1MM494.95 77,420.6  054.76   ,405.65  %5710.9   0.0          0.6
Match 17. 1903 t1410



- 182 -                           U
Page I of 2
(US$ '000)
5 t11w        STAll V UTTM
ASUCATION         F"=2             1o41
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~oa -                                   beAl. hUn 2
-uet    2       Awnt    2        #eM       S    Far. EWh.    Ts)          TOM
ma-                    -        -       -      mmum 
A.  1L330 IJIITImwL 01PACIT
1. STID                                     1U2.C 68.184  1,695.04 13.16  12elo.S  6.64   1t,9.5    3@sM.34   246.5
2. DWIITION                                   4*846.18 06.12    7.77 13.0    54.95   2.10         604.70     4.86341    1344
M.Tta wnUNI  IITITU  WiI1                      1626  86.4   2.475.42 1348   180504.51  9.5          *54.3    1549548    404.0
8.D Iin iin  B 144IIU   I1E
.13W    =  f10A    510 1 2L22.43 63.s                          446.9  16.50   270943  1.40        899.0      1,669.76     o.n
2. F    T    IIWPEliT                        2.715.93 90A5  2M.95 7.15  2,337*  14.62   7,191.57    20 .S64   M7.6e
31 101 6                ID  tiWfF $ FhW I    863 0 C.L0       MO4M.79 1.U44  1032.3   5.7           1.23    10P.029        0.9
4. WU00        WAUZ   U   'W E                5.590.71 60.09    75.4  11.71   6346.  3.27         467.43     5796.02    60.9
5.101L  U IHa                                17,797.27 8.09  240.5911.9   20,1.M   10.42   4s12633    15.5465   S2.6
6. SN  i Tn                                  10,20.67t 7.33   1.468.61 12.47  114.#4   S.9         32.07    10,957.76   149.42
7. D0M1    PIANO                             3,660.74 84.35    66.70 15.56   4363.44  2.2         117.07     4161.50    44u.
- -- - - '- I   - -.. 
-T. blD 0aU l N        Ylil WcODm              74061.56630 9a499.32 11.37  63*510.6  4322   13327.70    46804.60  1.716.38
C. 1910013 mm5
I.5s 964    EMATU                           7139901.50  146145.44 180   67,9-.43 45.42   6,904.99    7734.0   M.5
2.   lB        MAT=M 3752.99 t3.42    745.86 16.58   4.49645  2.2                                 2.41       4,209.51    3.73
8T-g   BIIWM                                   74.666.1.6   14.01.40  9770.26 44    9,14.60                    61,04.39  1,869.
tellr _svut                                     164,997.24 05.11 2,#066.414*1 35,61.t6 t10.0t   2490.    15734.43  3,142.l
_.d i,.  *m  1ata



- 183 -
(US$ '000)
wm.u,s1N   51*11 C UflAl
_ASOCI*TIOM  FI&EU  Total    Locd  (cal. Dut"e 8
qUst    I       tbtZt    :        "At    2    tot, W.    Tu)              TM"
iCnL 616V                                64u31.l10 so.00  7446.57 10.00  71*46.6  364a6  a8,a5.4    D1.4.5  2.14037
8. F3WFI*  S7M     M                      700.1  100.00        0.00 0.o   7,006.0   3.61   1,23.92         5,72.66 
. U                                       2M3M40 90.e0    266.0  10.00   2660.9   1.3           26.C       2,310.35    #.22
no. 0U 1                                  2421,79 90.00    269.31 I0.0    2,493.10   1.39   2.*1043         264.19   26S9
L. DUW IML #Al COWUALElM           S     U1 460.5  90.00  12.,9510.00   15329.49   6.a6   1*62.41    11*4019   25.79
r. SIU                                      278     90.0      30.93 10.00     309.3    016       32.32      23.32    21.5
O. 33                                     2677.34 93.00       54.64 2.00   2.731*.    1.41      341.42     2.4 93    54.64
N, Lam  FQL     S                         39.0 100.0             -    - 3,966.e90  2.06             -       ,986.90       -
Is LAd 1      1                           U     2 100.00         -    -   81.9S    4.21           *        6,2532         -
J. 3031                                     7       410.00       -    -       7.42   0.28           -       75.43
L 1        1        Ulil 1M  W1A2N=000                           -    -   1,751.02   0.te           -       *7 5.e2 0
Toa owS          coo.     92.3                           0     0.M40 7.92 W     o14*37  Wt  241 506.3    VA1.   2807.3
it. UCW  C83
A.   LiiOF ADAS1 L M                       1A.2S1.45 75.o0 18,092.  .00  7275. 273                 - n2 .9 -*
al Mt 3 in Kt1i                          4#4607 75.01,486.7 25.00    5747.11   3.07            7MS        SIM2.N    2ma3
co 8IDII NIRM E                            560  750         W962             75M7.42  0.3       40.4        6.13    307
fowlo) KOmISCOTS                            5.3094   750o 19,7.9 25.s0   79,079.80   0.7t         4.1        m7.47   32.
Ioal IlOhu t                                164*7*.24 3.11 2366.43 14.8  In,63.9 100.00  245.3   16.A343 3,142.
-     wm a   smomg -                     -sma   am    amsm-          
hatch 1V 1993 14310



- 184 -
u. . 1BAS6 E           TUCATJQN1
Effl=of g iti=ad lU
Expkas                      D _                         Smeste
IDAntsr                     Sbrneg  CunuLgve  Cwnvlallve    from
Fiscal Yea   dS                                                     As % of   Appraisal
Smester               -U- US$ million                                ToW         Date
Ena
Jul 93-Dec 93 
Jan 94-Jun 94      11.30       11.30           10.13     10.13W        6          1
EM
Ju 94-Dec 94       11.30      22.60            11.81     21.94        13          2
Jan 95-Jun 95      15.27      37.87            11.81     33.75        20          3
£XM
Jul 95-Dec 95      18.27      63.14            15.04     48.79        29          4
Jan 96-Jun 96      19.00      72.14            15.04     63.83        39          5
Em
Jul 96-Dec 96      19.00      91.14            15.38      79.21       48          6
Jan 97-Jun 97      16.56      107.70           15.38     94.59        57          7
El
Jul 97-Dec 97      16.56      124.26           12.07     106.66       65          8
Jan 98-Jun 98      12.14      136.40           12.07     118.73       72          9
EFY9
Jul 98-Dec 98      12.14      148.54           9.76      128.49       78          10
Jan 99-Jun 99      11.81      160.35           9.76      138.25       84          11
Jul 99-ec 99       11.81      172.16           9.07      147.32       89          12
Jan 00-Jun 00      10.85      183.01           9.07      156.39       95          13
Jul 00-Dec 00      10.85      193.86           8.61      165.00       100         14
Closing Date: September 30, 2000
d Including Special Account and Retroactive Financing.



«Q   r    t3 lz   2lt  1:3  1   1 1  -;
,   ]j!X  @    10s 1C  bI|  1313- {' ai
0l    0    li   3    s   1 1      i    l l;a; t
z  t  tt  lsla}203 j: ltltlt   tal: 4E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vajs ~U. iI
U-'       saEo,
8fl|gj~~~ iit           l



- 186 -
AN2X1
ftge 1 of 9
ESAEMJM BASE
1.        The Wic  monitoring system would be developed in conjuncton with the
establishment of the broader basic education VM&m    monitoring ytem for the state, which
would be first developed and tested in project districts. The   m     moniring sytem
would condst of thtree related elements: (a) school statistics, (b) assment sdies, and
(c) specal research and evaluation studies. EPreit momtong will utilize the infnaton
developed from these three elements to track progress aginst outcome indicators for each
projet component (see Attachment A for monitoring indicators). In addition, ct
monitorng will include measures to monitor project inputs (civil works, pr eent,
tahning) and resource flows (expenditure and disbursements).
2.        All dat would be reported on a district basis. Annual rePot would cov  both
project districts and, for school statistics, the sate as a whole.
3.        Outcome indicators for each component of the proect cmpris a set of standard
enrllment and completion indicators, indicaton of student learning addevement, and
indicators of progress in the development of institutional capcity.
4.        &hwl &Mgis. Data on enrollment and completion would be compiled on an
insreaingly frequent basis as the school st cs element of the progam monitoring system
is put in place. This is expected to take about two years. Thus baseline figures for thae
indicators will be esumated from the assessment studies that will be conducted in each
district. It is anticipated that theschool sastics system would be functional by the end of
the secnd year of the project, pemitting quaterly reot on key indicators thereafter.
5.        Assents. School satsics would be augmented by sample-based assessments
at approximately three year intervals. These assessment studies will yield data on student
learning achivement, and provide an indeendent check on the reliability of school statistics.
6.          a. Spcial evluation setdies would be conducted on key
program effectiveness issues as needed. Key topics alredy identified are Lted in Annex 12
(Research and Evaluation Studies Program).



- 187 -
Page 2 of 9
_tect   Os and Resoue FLw
7.       Input indicators focus on both infrastructure (civil works, equipment
procurement) and human resources (staff appointments, training). Indicators for resource
flow comprise both standard IDA expenditure and disbursement indicators and indicators
unique to the project's disbursement system.
Project LRoultorfi   Wf1
8.        Overall responsibility for project monitoring and reporting would be placed with
the EFAPB. A specal cel would be created to monitor the civil works program, including
especially the community school construction and rehabilitation program. The EFAPB may,
in turn, delegate portions of monitoring responsibilities to SIEMT, SCERT or other qualified
agencies.
>=WNp  l Schedule
9.        A prelimnuary project reporting schedule follows. This would be adjusted by
mutual consent depending on progress in establishing the program monitoring system.
(a) Annually (January 31 of each year);
fi) Comprehensive Proj: Progrss RZeport on outcomes, inputs and resource
flows. Assessment data reported in years when studies have been
completed. This report will summarize progress, and identify outstanding
problems that need resolution, together with suggested solutions.
(b)  Quarrly (April, July, October, January)
(i) School StatistickSummm
(ii) Inpts Summar
(iii) Expediture and Disbursiement Repgor



- 188 -
&2  2
Plop 3 of 9
I.
A. EManDing Access
Boys Girls Toal
(a) Enrollments
(b) SC/ST enrollments
(c) Gross Enrollment Ratio
(d) SC/ST GER
(e) Nonformal Enrollment
(f) SC/ST Nonformal
Enrollment
(a) Enrollments
(b) SC/ST enrollments
(c) Gro8s Enrollment Ralio
(d) SC/ST GER



- 189 -
Page 4 of 9
B. Zmipm LQaIIand
Boys airds Total
(a) Dropout rte
(b) SC/ST dropout rate
(c) Lea ming acbievement
Grade V
(d) SC/ST Leaing
achievement G1?4e V
(a) Dropout S
It) SCIST Oropout rt
(c) Learning ahievemet
Grade V
(d) SC/ST Leamning
alchivemenit Grade V



- 190 -
Page 5 of 9
C.    Im dG. Em m Pning MMO                   n   r&soa
(a) Status of EPA Society
(b) Satwu of SIEM'T
(c) Status of Sate EPA Plan
(d) Staus of MLL currculum
ievision
(e) Status of SCERT curriculum
development processes
District-level
(a) Status of DIETS
(b) Status of district
plans
D.  ImMoving Information for Planning, MlngMUM=  and Professional uor
(a) Status of MIS sysm
(b) Status of assessment system
(c) Number of research and evaluation stes done
District-level
(a) Status of monitoring cells



- 191 -
ANNEX 21
Page 6 of 9
II. InpuitIndici
A.  imDrnying Acs
Prim=x
(a) Number of schools started
(b) Number of schools completed
(c) Number of extensior.s started
(d) Number of extensions completed
(e) Number of new teachers appointed
(f) Number of new teachers receiving induction training
(g) Number of new headteachers appointed
(h) Number of new headteachers promoted
(1) Number of new headteachers trained
()   Enrollments in new schools (M/F, SC/ST)
(k) Number of nonformal classes established
(1) Enrollments in new NFE classes (MIP, SCIST)
I       Prmarim
(a) Number of schools started
(b)  Number of schoc:Z completed
(c) Number of extensions started
(d) Number of extensions completed
(e) Number of new teachers appointed
(t)   Number of new teachers receiving induction taining
(g) Number of new headteachers appointed
(h) Number of new headteachers promoted
(i) Number of new headteachers trained
(j) Enrollments in new schools (M1F, SC/ST)
Lists to be provided:
1. Schools started and completed by district, site
2.   Training programs completed (dates, number of parficipants, locaon)



- 192 -
B. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ph.7o 
Ps. Impron QualB and Cbnaht1
Early Childhood Education
(a)  Number schools with functioning ICDS linkge
(b) Number ECCE Rooms constructed
(c)  Number of ECCE insDtr       trained and appoited
(d)  Proportion ECCE classes with adequWe materials
Prim=w and U=pe Prim=x
(a)  Number of toilets & dtdng water
fcilities completed
b)  Number of renovations completed
(c)  Number of schools receiving reaing collectos
(d)  Numoab of schools receiving equipment colectus
(e) Number of headteachers posted in existing schools
(d)  Number of headteachers tained in existing schoos
(e)  Proportion of newly appointed teachers fmale
(t) Status of Mahila Samakhya
(g)  Number SC/ST girls reeiving scholarships
(h)  Availability of revised MLL textbooks in swhols
(Q) Number of teachers receiving in-seavice Waining
(k)  Number of schools with acdve VBCs
(1)  Udlization of school clustes
(m) Utilization of Block Resource Centes



- 193 -
PS& 8 of9
C.  _ LmtEZM   Mt
(a)  Stus of SIEMT civil wwok
(b)  Number of staff appoitd
(c)  Prportan of post fied
(d)  Number of staff tained
(a Nmct-leeds
(a)  Number disaict staff inod



- 194 -
EX 21
Page 9 of 9
m. EDndinrL  and DiWbm=ndia
A.   E      d
(a)  Quartey expenditures by Coopeating Agency (Including Districts)
(b)  Quarterly expenditures by prqet component
(c)  Quarterly expenditu  for community civil works
(c) Fund replenishments received
(d) Balance available in prqject fund
(e)  Tenders released
(f) Value of tenders released
(g)  Status and value of procrent under SOE procedur
B.     Mbsements
(a) Number of disbursement requests submitted
(b) Value of disbursement requests submitted
(c) Elapsed time fiom submission of request to receipt of
disbursement



- 195 -
Fiee 1 of2
XT E$B B£wdli mEn 
-inaxKEto                       *xpected staff                       Wek
.DfikmL....;.  Ag Ltx             Resuiremen."                     ti"
FY 94  (1)        supervision       Task Manager                         18
(Project          Sociologist
Launch)          Architect
WID Specialist
Textbook Specialist
Management Specialist
WY 94  (3)        supervision       Task Manager                         15
Architect
Training specialist
Textbook specialist
WID Specialist
wY 9s  (2)        Supervision       Task Manager                         15
sociologist
Architect
WID specialist
Management Specialist
WY 95  (3)        Supervision       Task Manager                         15
Architect
Training specialist
Textbook specialist
WID specialist
rY 96  (2)        Supervison        Task Manager                         15
sociologist
Architect
WID Specialist
Management Specialist
VY 96  (3)        supervision       Task Manager                         15
Architect
Training specialist
Textbook specialist
WID specialist



- 196 -
AEX 22
Plge 2 of 2
FY 97  (2)        SuperviLdon        Task Manager                         15
Sociologist
Architect
WID Speciallt
Kanagmunt Specialist
FY 97  (3)        Mld-Term           Task Manager                         21
Revlew            Sociologist
ArchLtect
WID Speclalist
Textbook specLalLst
Management Speclalist
Training Specialist
PY 98  (2)        supervision        Task Manager                         15
SocLologist
Architect
MID SpecLalist
Management Specialist
PY 98  (3)        Supervision        Task Manager                         15
Architect
Training specialist
Textbook specLalist
WID Specialist
PY 99  (2)        Supervisoon        Task Manager                         15
Sociologist
Architect
VID Specialist
Management Specialist
PY 99  (3)        Supervision        Task Manager                         15
Archltect
Training specLalist
Textbook specialist
WID Specialist
FY 00  (2)        Supervision        Task Manager                         15
Sociologist
Architect
WID Specialist
Management specialist
FY 00  (3)        Supervision        Task Manager                         15
Archltect
Training specialLst
Textbook specialist
VID Specialist



- 197-
UTAJ 1^DM B6MG EDUAM   0
Category                       1      2     3     4      5     6     7
Manag2mqnt
EFAPB                           41
SIUT                            40
SCERT                             1
District EPAPB Staff           100
SRC Coordinators                50    60    64
Cluster Resource Teachers      200   300   400   600
Primary Schools
a)  Head teachers               660  1000   392
b)  Assistant teachers                 660  1000   392
a)  Additional ass't tchrs                   400   200  200
d)  Headteacher upgrades       2262
e)  ECCE instructors                   100   200   300  400
UDDer Primarv schools
a)  Head teachers               250   500   327
b)  Assistant teachers         1000  2000  1294
Non£orma1 Bducatlon
a)  Instructors                1000  2000  2000
Nahila Samakhva
a)   District team                       8     8    12
b)   Sahayogini                         40    40    40
c)   village                           400   400   600
*Number of new appointments annually.



UTrAR P113SI BASIC EDUCATIO
C_ SPullon  II                                                                                                            tt
1"O1~~~~~c    wat   G nS N Tm
19931994           Vwavesu    GaresIdpr  Ahhabad   9wWa   Etewob   Sltapu    ANgef   Shwsavya    Pour   Nd,dt   LOWe    Total
1. P*lmaySobod                 s0         118        100      So        78      121       .52         25      3S       39              6s
2lUpperPdt_                     2S         60         s0      20        se        44       20          5      23       16              314
3. RdooIonUd )               12.1) U                       14+1)                   -    (5+0)      (0+2   (5+11  (5+81              (21 6+) 8
4. Roow        _PoconPslme      19         3s         28      40        55        30        9         30      48       22              3 814
vLReons.UppwPay                  8          7         14       6         6         4       14          1      32        2       -       94
L Extenion                                                     See Extensions Program
7. Rep*r                                     - .       .        .
8. sbool Cope                                .         .        .         .        .                    .       .        .        
9. ts                            1          1          1       1         1         1        1          1        1       t      1         10
10. SIEMT                        .          .          .          .      .                                                  19%           1
11.1MockReswohCenter           22          19         28      13        14       19        17         11      16       11              173
it aN  Mond figuree busomeat p*mev Nad upper p11ev r_w    *y.
I!S



U2TM FMADEM-A6=NHA EUToIQr.
Civil Wox.cdonsrtruction
Constn  AdtVty                                                                                                    Stab
1994-199S         Vamn      Gorakhpur  Alshabd   Bends   Etowah   Sitepur   Afdu  8hamnpr   t.ud   NdultI LW6    Total
1. P*nmySchol                 se         74       118      S7       93      14S       65         40      42      47             739
2. Upper lpMY                 47         12        SO      39       96       34 08               10      31      31             452
3. Rdwooadon (is )         (2+0)    (22+1)    (3+0)  (2+0)   (18+0)   (3+0)   (6+1)    (4+0)  (2+0)   (+0)                   (69+21     
4. Rentmadon Pdmmv            28                   44      29       86       43        14        14      71      32             361
S. R.oon. Upper Pdnwy          6          7         7      1        217       3        10         3      23       1      -       102
S. s                                                       See Extensions Program
7. Rqirs                      57         8        283    213        se       72      236         9S    214      114      -    1,436
S. ShoolConl                  es         41        67      24       33       48       30         13      25      12      -      374
9.                              - .       .         .       .         .        .        .
10. SIEMY                      -          -         -                -                  -         -                   389%        1
11.   kSesobOnto               -         .          .       .        .        .        .         . 
R riot end _sootid fgwee mpi m- pdmey and uppw pdmeoy ropvow.
Tm



ConstrMutn Ao*My                                                                                                    Strto
1995-1996         Vraewds  Gordalbp    Alatdh*d   Bands   Etah   Stapur   Algwh   Sharapur  Paur   Ndali   Lofad   Totd
1. Pdnwyalofto                55         73        109      45       80      120        54        37      36      39       -      S4
2. Up>P" P*My                  U2        20         57      20       63       44        24         7      2S      16       -      311
3. Rocaton  ba)   *                          *         *  ,   ,  , ,
4. RooonsnuctlonPdmary         38          -        19      16       45        61        8         7      47      43       -      284                g
S. Roono.UpporP*tuay           9           -         9       6       10        8        11         2      22               -       74
6. Extof                                                     See Extensions Program
7. RpIro                       64        94        318     239       76       81      264        107    241      129       -     1,613
8. Schd Ccn*pox              64         42         67      24       32       48       37         24      24      12              374
9. DOh                                      .        .       .         .        . 
10. SIEMT                       -               -         .                                  -                      -  42%          1
11.8hxokRo soCComner            .                    .       .         .        .        .         .       .
IIB



NDU
UTrR-PA DI  BASIC nD ZDr=  L
Consttuom Advt                                                                                                      Se
19907-1997198        Varal  Goakhpw   AUuh.be   Bwld   Etamh   Siepur   Algawh   Shatpw   Pad   Nadbt    Level   Tot
1.  -y                          -          .         .       .         .                 .          .      .        .
2 Upper pdwy                    .          .         *       .
3. R        h_00*4              -          .-        .       .         .        .                                          .         .
4. Re tmetn Pdamy               -          .         .          .      .        .        .          .       ,4
L. Rooen.. tIpepr Pd-I                     -                                                                               -
7. R.                           .   . 
L. Bohd Cenvhs
1n10 7                 04         41         07      25       32       48        37        24      21      13              376
1967-99                 0         41         87      25       32       48        37        24      2        13             37
9. OGeto                                   -         -       -                  -        -                 -        -     -          -
10.SIEMT                        .          .         .       .        .        .         .                         .      .
I1. Bock Resrar  Ceter
II 



INDU
UTAR PlAED RA   1CTPO LE
(1993-1998)
Constwulem Actity                                                                                                   Stat
1993-1998         Vria   Goalpuw  Alahboad   Sands   Eawak   Skhpr   Alau"h   Shewp    Pani  NartdA  Lewd   Total
1. P_nrySohol            163        262        327       152    251        386      171       102       113   125               2,052
2. UpperlP*wy            104        82         173       78      214       172      82        22        87      3      -        1,077
3. Rdocaon oJiben)       4+1        22+1       3+0       6+1    18+0    3+0         11+1    4.2         7+1   12+3   -          90+10 
4.Rltruotloadmwy   85               36         91        8S      186       134      31       51         164   97                859
L. Reeor.UppMPdmI y    23           14         30        27      43        12       35       6          77    3        -       270
6. Exten-ons                                                 See Extensions Program
7. Rspar                 121        178        001       452     144       163      0oo       202       456   243      -       3,049
S. SeohooC_mIx           257        165        26        98      129       102      147      9S         99    50              1t500
9. Dbts                  1          1          1         1       1         1        I         1         1      1                10
10. SIEMw                                                                                                              100%    1
* First ad seoond fwas repesen pibriry * and uppa pinawy epvdy.
IIS



- 204 -
ANNEXW2
Page 1 of 3
UITIAR PRADESH BASIC EDUCATION PRQLECT
Supervision of Construction and Provision of Technical Suppor
1.       It is relevant to enumerate the different parts of the civil works construction
program so as to facilitate the understanding of the supervision structure proposed by the
Department of Education, GOUP. The scope of work encompasses (i) the construction of
4458 primary and upper primary schools including relocation and reconstruction;
rehabilitaton/repair works for 3049 existing primary and upper primary schools; extension of
1464 classrooms; 1500 school complex and the installation of 10161 toilet/latrines, the
execution of al of which is entrusted to the Village Education Committees (VEC), the Heads
of Villages and the Schools Headmasters; (ii) the construction of 174 Block Resource
Centers, the SEMT compound and the extensions to 10 DIETs the implementation and
construction management of which are entrusted to the State Public Wors Department
(PWD), and (iii) provision of 5240 tubewells and installation of water hand pumps to be
executed by Jal Nigam (Water Works Corporation) a specialized State Organization for the
purpose. For additional numerical details of the construction program see Annex 24 page 6.
2.        The sites supervision responsibility is, subsequently, divided among those in
charge of implementation of the different construction programs i.e. a technical team of Jal
Nigam will supervise the installation of water tube wells and pumps; the PWD will provide
supervision to sites they are incharge of (see (ii) above) against a fee of 16% of the costs of
civil works. (This fee includes all designs and designs development, preparation of al
drawings and written documents pertaining to the construction program under the
management and implementation of PWD, and as stipulated in the agreement between the
EFA Society and PWD.) The supervision of construction sites, under the Village Education
Committee (VEC), wil be handled by the VECs, through the heads of villages and schools
headmasters, with technical support delivered by junior engineers from PWD and/or Rural
Engineering Services (RES) residing at the Block levels with activities and responsibilities as
described below:
3.        In principal, a Junior Engineer will be posted for 3 or 4 years in each of the 174
Blocks under the project. However, during the first ane. fourth years, only a Junior Engineer
will be assigned to handle the sites supervision in 2 blocks as the construction load is lighter
than that of the other years. The Junior Engineer will be hired on deputation either from
PWD or RES. He will have a minimum of 5 years experience in construction and site
supervision at best in the rural area.



UrUAg MUMIE BASIC IDlUCAnON LR
On. C_aeoom                  Two C      _aeoon                 ToilR                        Tube Wel
OhtdCt            93194   94195   96196          93194   94195   9S196        93194   94195 6SS196          93194   94U3S   95196
1.Varu                I1       6        6            0       8       8          102      361    380            52      122      122
2. Goerktqur           9      la       l8           10      20       20          92      293     203            60     116      115
3. Aihhebd            27      37       36           10      10       10         199      709     703           16S     3S4     353
4. 901do              33      24       23            3       6        S         280      412     412           170     176      178
S. Etowah             2S      13       12            2       4        4          115     404     404            7s     159      15s
a. Sltwu              76      S0      49             S       a       8          161      573     572           138     299     298
7. Aiggh              10      1S       IS            S       S        S         104      369     368            78     169     16s e
8. Shlanpur           35      33       32           10      20      20           90      312     312           90      188     188
9. Pud                48      85       8S            0       0       0          155      553     SS2           16S    337      336
10. Ndnid             28      74      73             4       4       4          113      402     401           B1      174     174
Toteleby Yar                PfA                                     a Iit                        =                   ARMS
Total by Item                                                                         1
IIk



- 205 -
Page 2 of 3
4.        The Junior Engineer's responsiblity will be to assist the VECs in the initial
inspection, evaluation and selection of sites. He will assist the Village Head and the School
Headmaster in the execution process, checking on the quality of mateas, plotting the school
building on site, advise on the nature of soil, excavations and foundations. He will advise on
the execution of construction technique and explain and clarify construction details. He will
ensure adherence to specifications and appropnate construction method and check of quality.
He will record his observation and recommendation in the site record book. He will effect
visits to all the Block sites with an average of 2 to 3 visits a month to each site where new
schools and classroom extensions are being built. A Junior engineer will be supervising an
average of 8 to 9 new schools, 3 claoom extension sites, 8 to 9 rehabilitation/Repair sites,
and about 2 school complex construction sites. He will be motorized to move from one site
to the other by means of available motorcyles.
S.        The Junior engineer, posted at the Block and operting at the village level, will
report to the Assistant Engineer posted at the District The Assistant Engineer is also under
deputation. He is in charge of the onstrucon in the Blocks of his District. He provides
advice on planing of construction activities, technical support to his junior engineers. He
monitors the superviqion pocess, the progress in implementation of construction sites and the
performance and the quality of works under each junior engineer. He also visits sample sites
and effects particular visits to problem sites requinng his dirt intervention. Finally, he
also compiles the junior engineers reports on construction and submits a monthly report to
his chief, the Executive Engineer posted at the Stat level.
6.        The Executive engineer is also on deputation from the PWD or RES. He is
responsible for the project consructdon activities in the Districts under the Project. He is
responsible for all physical and financial aspects. He als compiles the Assistant engineers'
reports an prepares a comprehensive report every six months and submits it to the State
Project Director, who in turn submits the report the State Government and the World Bank
The EPA Society is also handed a copy of the report through the State Project Director.
costs of Supervison of Construction
7.        Under the Community Construction Program entrsted to the VECs, the number
of supervision staff needed will be as indicated in the following table:
Staff            1993/94    1994/95    1996/97    1997/98   Total
Junior Engineer (JE)         87         174        174       87        522
Assistant Engineer (AE)      10         10         10        10        40
Executive Engineer (EE)      1           1          1         1         4



- 206 -
Page 3 of 3
The total costs of supervision of construction under :he VECs is as illustrated below:
Rs.         Rs.          Rs.         Rs.
Rs.      in Million   Operation       in         In
Total No of         Salary/      Total      Expenses/     Million     Million
Staff                 Yr.                     YL          JZa         I"
JE - 522           60,000      31.32       24,000       12.53       43.85
AE - 40           84,000       3.36        36,000        1.44        4.80
EE- 4             20,000       0.48       36,000        0.14        0.62
Total                        35.16                     14.11       49.27
The base cost is Rs.49.27 million or Rs.64.7 million including contingencies or US$1.8 million
(based on calculated average rate of 1US$ =35.9 rupees).
Other Profesional rvices Fees
8.        PWD will be in charge for the preparation of designs for the BRCs, the
extensions to the DIETs, and the SIEMT. They will develop the designs and prepare
architectural and working drawings, construction details, structural, plumbing and electro-
mechanical drawings, specifications, bills of quantities, and cost estimates. PWD will also
be in charge for the implementation of the civil works listed above, the management and
supervision of construction sites against a fee equals to 16% of the cost of construction
works. In addition to the preparation of designs, drawings and written documents listed
above, the fee includes PWD services for the invitations for bids, assisting the Tender
Committee in the evaluation of bids and the recommendation for contract awards and the
finalization of related contracts. For the prurement of civil works, PWD will use bidding
documents acceptable to IDA.
9.        It is estimated that PWD's professional services feed based on 16% of the
updated construction costs of SIEMT, 174 BRCs and extensions to 10 DIETs will amount to
about US$800,000.00. Thus, the total cost of supervision of all construction works will be
US$2.60 million. An additional US$1.85 million would be required should the execution of
the school complex be also entrusted to PWD, which would bring the total cost of
supervision to about US$4.5 million.



UTTAR PRADESH BASIC EDUCAON PROCT
Civil Works Implemenion Plan
Item           Total  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999                  Remarks
New Primary and Upper    3129   1127  1014   988    -       -      -      -   Completion by
Prifmkary Schools                                                              March 1996 for primary and
upper primary schools
Reconstruction of Primary  1329   437   534   358    -      -      -      -   Completion by
and Upper Prima                                                                March 1996.
School Complex         1500    0    374   374   376   376    -            -   Completion by
March 1998.
Block Resources Centers    174    174   (phased)     -      -      -      -   Completion by March 1996.
DlETs                    10     10      (phased)     -                        Completion by
June 1995.
SIEMT                    1       0    19%   38%   43%       -      -      -   Completion by
December 1996.
Extension of classrroms
to existina schools
(a) Single classroom   1003   300   355   348                                 Completion by March 1996.
(b) Two classrooms      217    49    84    84                                 Completion by March 1996.
This Include 346 classrooms for
Upper Primary Schools.
Renovation/Rewairs
(a) Primary Schools    2859      -    1070  1430   359                        Completion by March 1996.
(b) Upper Primary Schools  190         70    95    25                         Completion by March 1996.
Latrines               10161   1411  4378  4372                               Completion by March 1996.
Tube wells and Dumps    5240   1054  2095  2091    -                           Completion by December 1995.



- 208 -
ANPNE 26
Page 2 of 7
U1TAR PRADESH BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Civil Works Plan
Item                  Activity and Status      Targetted Starting and
Completion Dates
(A) Sites Identification
(a-I) Rural Primary         (a-i) All are already       (a-i) Completed.
Schools                    identified.
(a-2) Extension of one      (a-2) Locations of Schools  (a-2) To be identified by
and two classrooms.         to received extensions.     December 30, 1993.
(a-3) Building Repairs     (a-3) Locations of schools  (a-3) To be completed by
requireing repairs not yet  Negotiations.
identified.
(a-4) DIETs                 (a4) All are identified.    (a-4) Completed.
(a-5) SIEMT                 (a-5) Not yet identified.   (a-5) To be identified by
December 1993.
(a-6) School Complex.       (a-6) Not yet identified.   (a-6) To be identifed by
Negotiations.
(a-7)Block Resource        (a-7) Not yet identified.    (a-7) To be completed by
Centers.                                                Negotiations.
(a-8) Water and Toilet     (a-8) Not yet identified.   (a-8) To be identified by
Facilities.                                             Negotiations.



-209 -
ANNEX-26
Page 3 of 7
Item                         Activity and Status          Targeted Starting and
Completion Dates
(B) -Sites -AMisition
(b-1) Rural Primary          (b-i) Acquisition of sites   (b-1) By December of
Schools.                     has started and completed    each year as of 1993 sites
for the first year           would be acquired for the
construedon program.         following year's
construction program.
(b-2) DIETs                  (b-2) Exisiting sites.       (b-2) Not applicable.
(b-3) SIEMT                  (b-3) Not yet acquired.      (b-3) Site to be acquired
by December 1993.
(b-4) Complex Schools        (b-4) Not yet acquired.      04) By Negotiations,
Acquisiton of sites for the  sites, for the first year
frst year construction       construction program is to
program has slarted.         be completed and by
December of each year
sites for the following
year construction program
must be acquired.
(b-5) Block Resource         (b-5) Acquistion of sites    (b-5) To be completed by
Centers                      has started for all 174      Negotiations.
B R Centers.



- 210-
Page 4 of 7
Item                         Activity and Status          Targeted Stting and
Completion Dates
(c-l) Rural Primary         (c-i) Right after sites are  (c-1) To start immediately
Schools                      acquired, they are to be     for sites under the first
surveyed and                year construction program
topographical plans         and to be completed by
prepared.                   Negotiations. by
December of each year as
of 1993 surveys for sites
scheduled for the
foliwoing year's
construction programs
must be completed.
(c-2) DIETS                  (c-2) Existing surveyed     (c-2) Not applicable.
sites.
(c-3) SIEMT                  (c-3) Site to be surveyed    (c-3) Acquitions of site is
right after acquisition.    to be completed by
December 1993.
(c-4) Complex Schools       (c 4) Site survey to be       (c-4) Site surveys for the
undertaken right after      first year's construction
acquisition.                program are to be
compelted by
Negotiations, and by
December of each year
surveys must be
completed for sites
scheduled under the
following year's
construction program.
(c-5) Block Resources       (c-5) Site surveys to be     (c-5) To be completed by
Centers                      prepared immediately for     Negotiations.
sites acquired.



- 211 -
ANEX26
Page 5 of 7
Item                         Activity and Status          Targeted Starting and
Completion Dates
D.Survey of lpair Work
(d-l) Exisdng Primary        (d-l) PWD is already         (d-l) To be completed by
Schools                      preparing the survey,       Negotiations.
specifying the major and
minor repairs and related
cost estimates.
E. Designs
(*-1) New Primary            (e-l) Prelimiy  designs      (e-l) Completed and final
Schools                      are being prepared by the    drawings by effectiveness.
Institute of Engineering
and Rural Technology
(IERT).
(e-2) DIETs Extensions       (e-2) Preliminary designs   (e-2) Final drawings are
for the DIETs extensions    to be ready by
are being prepared by       effectiveness.
PWD, Design
Department.
(e-3) SIEMT                  (6-3) Preliminary designs    (e-3) To be completed by
are being prepared by       December 1993 and fia
PWD Design Departnent.      drawings by June 1994.
(e4) Cluster Schools         (e-4) Pteliminary designs    (e-4) To be completed and
are being prepred by        final drawings made ready
IERT.                       by effectiveness.
(e-5) Block Resource         (e-5) Preliminary designs   (e-5) Final drawings to be
Centers                      are prepared by IERT.       completed and made
ready by Project
effectiveness.



- 212 -
Page 6 of 7
Item                        Activity and Status         Targeted Starting and
Compledon Dates
(F) Cmsliaado.i
(f-i) 3129 Rural Primary    (f-l) 1127 schools          (f-i) srng after
and Upper Prmary                                        effectiveness and to be
Schools                                                 completed by March
1994.
- 1014 schools              stting January 1994 and
to be completed by
December 1994.
- 988 schools               starting January 1995 and
to be completed by March
1996.
(f-2) Schools               (f-2) 437 schools           (f-2) starting Janaury
Reconstruction                                           1993 and to be completed
by March 1994.
- 534 schools               starting January 1994 and
to be completed by March
1995
- 358 schools               starting January 1995 and
to be completed by March
1996.
(f-3) 1500 School           (f-3) 374 units             (f-3) starting January
Complex                                                 1994 and to be completed
by June 1995.
-374 units                  starting January 1995 and
to be completed by
December 1995.



-213-
Page 7 of *
Item                        Activity and Status         Targeted Startng and
Completion Dates
- 376 units                 staring January 1996 and
to be completed by
December 1996.
- 376 units                 starting January 1997 and
to be completed by March
1998.
(f-4) Block Resources       (f-4) 174 centers           (f-4) Constuction will
Centers                                                 start in January 1994 and
comple-.in by March
i996.
(f-5) 10 Extensions to      (f-5) 10 extensions         (f-5) start after
DIETs                                                   effectveness and will be
phased and completd by
June 1995.
(f-6) SIEMT Building        (f-6) Complex of            (f-6) sring by April
Buildings                   1994 and 19% to be
completed by March
1995, 38% by March
1996 and 43% to be
completed by Deember
1996.
(f-7) Extensions to 1220    (f-7) To build a nge        (f-7) starting after
existing schools            class to 363 existing       effectiveness and to be
prmay schools and 640       completed by March 1996
upper primary schools,      at the me of about 1/3
and two classroom to 44     each year.
exisng pirmary schools
and 173 exising upper
primar schools.



- 214 -
Page I of4
UWAR rRADFSH            EDUC1I.ATION1RQJ=~
BenficaryBnimAmtin
1.         All distdcts in Uttar Ptadesh are poor, and all disticts fall below he naonal
average female literacy rate of 39 perent. Thus the beneficiaries of the projet will
overwhelmingly be poor children. However, there is special focus on girls and SC/ST
stdents, both through strategies to reduce pimary dropouts by 50 percent by the end of the
prect and to increase access through construction of new school places and expansion of an
improved nonformal education program.
2.          Bnefisu tO Girls. Table 1 shows the esmated impact of project intrventions
on primary ad upper primary gross enrollment ratios for both boys and girls.
Table 1:     ad  Prject Inpact By Gender (00
1991                          Impact      Projected
____________   new Places of Reduced .
Enrol.  GOR       Created     Dropout    Enrol.       GER
primary
Female      835      50       123         360         1318        71
Male       1536      82       123         135         1794        85
Primar
Female      298      30       108         315          721        64
male        644      57       108         220          972        76
Sources GOUP statistics and estimates that are not consistent with GO! data.
Notet Dropout gains calculated as 40 percent of children not in school in
1991, with the assumption that 10 percent lack access.
;



-215-
ANNEX27
Page 2 Of4
3.    This esdmate assumes that there is no drpout in new schools, that girls gain half of
the new seats (half of the new upper primary schoos will be single-sex girls schools), and
at targets for reducg dropouts by 50 percent are reached. Because of the much larger
number of girls than boys out of school, success in the straegis to reduce dropout would
have a dispopotonately positive effect, enabling tiem to make more rapid progress  an
boys. The estimates suggest that more that at the primay level about 475,000 girls would be
added to tie system through new facilities and reduced dropouts; at the upper primary level,
the comparable figure is
about 420,000.
4.    These estimates must be used cautiously, particularly at the upper pimary level,
where access to schools is much more limited. However, they are suggestive of the reative
impact of different project strategies, and suggest high, but achievable, outcones.
5.    Girls held 55 percent of nonformal places in 1991. The project would support the
creation of 5000 improved nonformal classes. Assuming 100 percent efficiency in the
program, about 362,500 children would complete the two year program during the project,
of whom about 200,000 would be girls.
6.   Benefits to SC/ST Students. Age cohort data on SC/ST students in project districts is
not yet available from the 1991 census, so esfimates of benefits are even less precise. GERs
cannot be esmated. However, assming that SC/ST sudents benefit equally from project
acvities, the effects would be as illustd in Table 2. Stawwide average GERs in 1991
are given as a basis for comparison.
7.          The estimates indicate that scheduled caste girls would make rapid progress
under the project at the primary level, given the aumption of equal benefit. Since severa
projct stategi are targeted to SC girls, including an experimental scholarship program,
this asumpton appear reasonable. Progress relative to boys is less apparent at the Upper
Primary level. Here, however, conservative assumptions about the impact of drpout
reducdon on enrollments were takn  in view of the absence of cohort data and the very low
baseline enrollments.
8.          The number of scheduled tribe children is so small tat estmation is very
difficult. However, it is estimated that the combination of increased access and dropout
reduction could lad to an emated 25 percent increase in primary and upper primary
enrollments over the life of the project, beneftting somewhat over 2000 girls and 2000 boys.
9.          If 1991 enollment patems hold in the nonformal proam, approximately
50,000 SC girls and 44,000 SC boys would complete the two-year program during the
project, as would somewhat more than 1000 ST boys and about 700 ST girls.



- 216 -
ANNELk7
Page 3 of 4
Table 2: ll;ted Piroject hmpact, SC/ST ad Gendr
1991             Impact      Projected
Now Places of Reduced
Enrol.  GBR*    Created    Dropout    gnrol.    GOR
Primr
Female     180      39        32         140         352         71
Male       400      91        32          20         452         109
upper
Primary
Female      84      09        22         100          206        22
Kale       296      32        22          70          398        43
Scheduled
Primary
Female       5      114       0.2S        1.0         6.25       na
Male         5       74       0.25        1.0         6.25       na
vppr
Primary
Female      3       51        0.2         0.5          3.7
Male         3      17        0.2         0.5          3.7       na



- 217 -
T                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 27
Page 4 of 4
10.         Although lack of accua  dat makes estimat  onpcse, the analysis
indicates the that by the end of the project  n aSy 895,000 additonal girs and
576,000 additional boys will be in school if pogect ps    sueed. Of dune, about
294,000 would be scheduled caste gir and about 154,000 scheduled caste boys. In additon,
200,000 girls and 162,500 boys coud benefit from non-foral oducaon. Fifty thousand
female NFE completers would be SC girs.
11.         The total number of poor cildren who would b   firom the project is thus
estiated as about 1.8 million. The eseim e, howev, rest n a variety of assumptions
regarding project implementaion. Specific target would be establihed for each district
based on the findings of basine bendiciay  sem ts to be completed duing the first
year of the project. At that time, these esdmates of benefit would be revised.



- 218 -
Page 1 f 2
UTTIAR IERSE BA EIDU CATQIO PROJECT
Selected Documents in Project Files
A. GEERL REPOIES   M                 D DATA COLLEO-NS
A-1  Aggrwal, Yash (1992). Education and Training in India: A Stu Review. New
Delhi: National Institute of Educational Planning and Adnistrtion.
A-2   Aggarwal, Yash and Sarika Sibou (1992). E ng Scheduled C       New Delhi:
National Institute of Educational Planning and Administration.
A-3  Kurrien, John (1992). Providing Basic Education for Poor Girls and Women in
hdia Issues and PEosp . Pune: Centre for Learning Resources
A-4   Ministry of Human Resource Development (1992). DMWpmts of lEducation
in India199092. New Delhi: Ministry of Human Resource Development.
A-S   __     _                               (1992). Sected EdoS
tatistics 19991. New Delhi: Ministry of Human Resource Development.
A-6  N,*ional Council of Education Reseach and Tinin (1992). Fifh AlU-ndia
Educationa l &M.  Volumes I and II. New Delhi: NCERT.
A-7   Nayar, Usha (1991). UMESCO Sponsored Study on Universal Primar Eduationof
Rural Girls in India. New Delhi: National Council of Educional Research and
Training, 1991.
A-8 Raza, Moonis, Aijazuddin Ahmad, and Sheel C. Nuna (1990). &JM1 ducation in
indha: The RggQ Dimension. New Delhi: National Institute of Educational
Planning and Administration.
A-9 Tilal, Jandhalaya B.G. (1991). Financing Education in India - A Review of Trends.
nmblemsand sPec. National Institute of Educational Planning and
Administrton. October, 1991.



- 219 -
ADM 28
Page 2 of 2
D.   PROJECT I   R{QlSAL& AND PLANS
B-1   Government of Uttar Pradesh. Utlar Pradesh Education foQ All Proect.
Lucknow, August, 1992.
B-2                               . Distict Basic Education Plans. Volume I:
Strategy and Volume II: Work Plans and Budgets. Aligarh, Allababad, Banda,
Etawah, Gorakhpur, Nainital, Pauri, Sahanpur, Sitapur and Varasi Dstricts.
C.  ERQ= I1BARATION QSTAIUS
C-1  Bashir, Sajitha and Vimla Ramalkishnan. Results of Baseline Beneficiary Studies in
he  Districts in Uttar Pradesh. April, 1993.
C-2   Cohen, Philip. Textbook Production in Uttar Pradesh. Febrary, 1993.
C-3   Comings, John. Outo£School Comgo=. October, 1992.
C-4 Hendricks, Michael. Suggestions for Developing the MIS. October, 1993.
C-5   Hinchliffe, Keith. Financing Education in Uttar Pradesh. October,   1992.
C-6  Institute of Engineering and Rural Technology. Pxim= and lb= p LZrimax=L chl
Building Designs. Alhabad, February, 1993.
C-7   Lockheed, Marlaine. AgXasal gf R    , Evaluation ad Monitring
October, 1992.
C-8   Martinez, Himelda. School Clusters and Magement in Sitapur. October,  1992.
C-9   National Institute of Educational Planning and Administtion. nstintiona1
Reponsibilities and Capacities for Monitoring. Evaluation and Research. New Delhi:
NIEPA, February, 1993.
C-10 Uttar Pradesh Development Systems Corporation Ltd.  dm= School Buildings
Constructed in Uttar Pradesh. Lucknow, December, 1992.
C-11 Public Works Department, GOUP. A Survey of Existing Prima=y and Higher
EPimary School Buildings in Block Sidhauli, SitaMr District and Cost Estimates for
Remnedial Measure. Lucknow, February, 1993.



IBRD 24792
lv                                                      82
HIAfACHAL PRADIfSH
UTTAR KASHI  V                                                 INI
/ )uio  < 9  <                                      ~~~INDIA
't rsxJ              t   ' CHAi 7sUTAR PRADESH BASIC
M#XAMA  °           R                                                EDUCATION PROJECT
3V LZ   >Vt¢-   - s   k          2t  ) iRH    ,                        PROJECT DISTRICTS
S  5  \7, t-   -/ N          64      /                         r -1 F  QOECTDsIRICTS
AiMORA   \                                      1
Al\~    0o                              0\ &  o DiSTRiCT HEADQUARTERS
*  WJZA;AAGAtR 0      H '  K*I%\. w          /                              ,  
1                               -^  KATIONA HIGOAYS
tAMEERUT      <           X NAINITAL                                        BROAD GAUGE RAILROADS
NMI                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
wo5&,J¢-   -  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
RADA^DA SAD ,< /   <-Y                                   -   -STATE OR UNION TRRlORY OUNDARIES
- _> \ I. INTERNATIONA BOUNDARIES
2r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
2V-
r ~      ~~ ,- -b  IS                                                     >}GNZWR  '
ArAAAMADHYA  PRA DIS
XPt~~~~~~~~~~~~A 0 s>f@A
iAMY   PRA                                                               ADYA#AD5H.M
244                                                      ""LI h   baa  -
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r JAUN                           -i
BanT&Oraap Wzs<{Tdaaaiaatoa.a ska.naaI.  °   *0  £0  120  140                \o   f   \
ua d nt Ial,@  -bl    henJ part o l. ed _akQop nc IapalIfO!E
I _  '                       '                            ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1L 199: 



