OFFIC7AL
JDCUWMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 2509 IN
Project Agreement
(Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
and
UTTAR PIJDESH SABHEE KE LIYE SIKSHA PARIYOJANA PARISHAD
Dated                     7, 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2509 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1993, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT SSOCIA ON (the Association) and THE
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH (ACTING BY ITS GOVERNOR) (Uttar Pradesh) and
UTTAR PRADESH SABHEE KE LIYE SIRSHA PARIYOJANA PARISHAD (EFAPB).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (the Borrower) and
the Association (the Development Credit Agreement), the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred sixteen million five hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 116,500,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that Uttar Pradesh and EFAPB agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this
Agreement; and
WHEREAS Uttar Pradesh and EFAPB, in consideration of the
Association's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with
the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble thereto, and in the General Conditions (as so defined in
the Development Credit Agreement) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Uttar Pradesh and EFAPB declare their
respective commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end,
shall jointly and severally carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and educational practices, and shall provide, or cause to


﻿-2-
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
Uttar Pradesh and EFAPB shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
(c)   Uttar Pradesh shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to EFAPB as a grant for the purposes of carrying out the
Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Uttar Pradesh and EFAPB shall carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and
9.08 of the General Conditions applicable to the Development Credit
Agreement (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and  schedules,   records  and  reports, maintenance    and  land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and
that part of the Project carried out by each of them respectively.
Section 2.04. (a) Uttar Pradesh and EFAPB shall, at the
request of the Association, exchange views with the Association with
regard to the progress of the Project, the performance by each of
them of its respective obligations under this Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   Uttar Pradesh and EFAPB shall promptly inform the
Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by each of them of
its respective obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Uttar Pradesh and EFAPB shall maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices their operations, resources and expenditures in


﻿-3-
respect of activities related to their tespective parts of the
Project, and with respect to Uttar Pradesh, of the departments or
agencies of Uttar Pradesh responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b)   Uttar Pradesh and EFAPB shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent    auditors   acceptable    to   the
Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, certified copies of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof, as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV .
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Uttar Pradesh and EFAPB thereunder shall
terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)   the date on which the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall terminate in accordance with its
terms; or
(ii)   the date twenty (20) years after the date of this
Agreement.


﻿-4-
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify the
Project States of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions applicable to the
Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿-5-
For Uttar Pradesh:
Chief Secretary to the Government
of Uttar Pradesh
Lucknow, India
Telex:
535259 CHLW
For Uttar Pradesh Sabhee Ke Liye
Siksha Pariyojana Parishad:
Chairman,
Uttar Pradesh Sabhee Ke Liye
Siksha Pariyojana Parishad
Telex:
535259 CHLW
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Uttar Pradesh may be taken or executed by its
Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as the Chief
Secretary shall designate in writing, and on behalf of EFAPB by the
Chairman of its Executive Committee, or such other person or persons
as the Chairman shall designate in writing and Uttar Pradesh and
EFAPB shall each furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
UTTAR PRADESH SABHEE RE LIYE SIRSHA PARIYOJANA
PARISHAD
Byt/Vh              Reprsen
By                Authorized Representative


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) in
May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)   For  fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
(b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Association, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Association, the Borrower shall use bidding documents
based on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with
the Association.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A(1) hereof, goods manufactured in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.


﻿-8-
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works (other than under Parts B(6) and E of the Project)
shall be procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.
2.    Civil works under Parts B(6) and E of the Project, estimated
to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount of $67,600,000 equivalent, shall be carried out by
VECs through Uttar Pradesh's community school construction program,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Contracts for furniture, equipment, books, and educational and
consumable materials, estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000
or less but more than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to
an aggregate amount of $3,900,000 equivalent, shall be procured on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.    Contracts for furniture, equipment, books, and educational and
consumable materials, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $17,900,000
equivalent, as well as contracts for the purchase of vehicles,
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract,
up to an aggregate amount of $300,000 equivalent may be procured
under quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for civil works and goods
estimated to cost more than $500,000 and $300,000 equivalent,
respectively, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines)
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.


﻿-9-
(b)   With respect to -each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (a) (ii) of the Development Credit
Agreement.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph.4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist EFAPB in carrying out the Project, EFAPB
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981. For complex, time-based assignments, EFAPB
shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard
form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Association, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by
the Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Association, EFAPB shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior
approval by the Association of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each. However, this .exception to prior review by
the Association shall not apply to the terms of reference for such


﻿- 10 -
contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single source
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as
reasonably determined by the Association and to amendments of
contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
above.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
Project Launch
1.    Uttar Pradesh shall by January 31, 1994, carry out Project
launch activities consisting of at least a state-level Project
seminar, a State-level seminar on disbursement and procurement under
Bank assisted Projects, and selected district level and thematic
activities satisfactory to the Association.
Institutional Aspects
2.    Uttar Pradesh shall appoint all key staff of EFAPB by December
31, 1993.
3.    Uttar Pradesh shall establish SIEMT, and appoint its director
and key staff, by January 31, 1994.
4.    Uttar Pradesh shall appoint the principal and key staff of the
DIET in each Project District by January 31, 1994, and shall ensure
that all required staff of DIET are in place by June 30, 1994.
5.    Uttar Pradesh shall establish District Education Project
Committees (DEPCs) by January 31, 1994, with membership and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association.
6.    Uttar Pradesh shall (i) establish and maintain VECs in all
villages where the Project is carried out, with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association; (ii) ensure that each VEC includes
at least one woman member; and (iii) evaluate annually, and discuss
with the Association during the annual review referred to in
paragraph 18 of this Schedule, the effectiveness of the functioning
of VECs, as well as compliance with the norm for minimum number of
women VEC members set out in this paragraph.
Construction of Schools
7.    Uttar Pradesh shall (i) ensure that schools under Part E(1)(a)
of the Project are constructed, established and operated through
VECs   in  accordance  with   arrangements  satisfactory  to  the
Association; and (ii) provide to, and discuss with, the Association
by January 31 of each year a report on construction of such schools.


﻿- 12 -
Non-Governmental Organizations
8.    Uttar  Pradesh  and  EFAPB  shall   select non-governmental
organizations participating in the Project in accordance with
criteria and procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Pilot Projects and Innovations
9.    Uttar Pradesh shall, in carrying out Part D(1) of the Project:
(i) implement said Part D(1) in Project Districts selected in
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Association; (ii)
select recipients of stipends in accordance with criteria
satisfactory to the Association; and (iii) provide the stipends in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Gender Aspects
10.   EFAPB shall, prior to the implementation of Part C(2) of the
Project, enter into an understanding with the Uttar Pradesh Mahila
Samakhya Society, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, providing for the implementation of said Part C(2) by
said Mahila Samakhya Society.
11.   Uttar Pradesh and EFAPB shall ensure that Part C(2) of the
Project is carried out in accordance with the Borrower's national
Mahila Samakhya program guidelines and shall, in carrying out the
Project, also ensure the autonomy of the Uttar Pradesh Mahila
Samakhya Society.
12.   Uttar Pradesh shall, in primary schools in the Project
districts, appoint female teachers to fifty percent of posts: (a)
created in new and expanded schools; and (b) arising from vacancies.
13.   Uttar Pradesh shall discuss with the Association annually
progress regarding increased appointment of female teachers in
primary schools.
Tribal Peoples
14.   Prior to implementing the Project in any block with a
Scheduled Tribe population, or by the dates stipulated below,
whichever comes first, Uttar Pradesh shall (i) conduct by January
31, 1995, a study of the educational needs of Scheduled Tribe
students with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association;
(ii) carry out by January 31, 1996, a pilot test of appropriate


﻿- 13 -
strategies for delivering education services to such tribal groups;
(iii) discuss the results of the study and the pilot test with the
Association at mid-term review of the Project; and (iv) thereafter
implement the Project in such areas in accordance with procedures
and delivery strategies set out in the Association's policies
governing implementation of Association-assisted Projects affecting
indigenous peoples.
Planning; Studies
15.   Uttar  Pradesh  shall by   October   31,  1996, prepare   in
consultation with EFAPB and furnish to the Association a plan for
the extension of the basic education program in Uttar Pradesh in
conformity with the Borrower's national education policy and its
District Primary Education Program.
16.   Uttar Pradesh shall, by October 31, 1996, complete a study,
with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, of the
factors that contribute to, and the means to enhance, the
willingness of teachers to accept and retain posts in rural primary
and upper primary schools.
17.   EFAPB shall (i) select research studies to be carried out
under Part A(2)(d) of the Project in accordance with criteria
satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) establish a Policy
Research Advisory Committee with membership and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association to assist it in planning and
undertaking such studies.
Monitoring and Review
18.   Without limitation to the generality of any other provision of
this Agreement, Uttar Pradesh and EFAPB shall:
(i)   review annually with the Association progress in
Project implementation over the preceding twelve
months;
(ii)   discuss with IDA by December 31 of each year,
annual work plans and budgets for the next twelve
months;
(iii)   carry out, no later than October 31, 1996, or
such  later   date  as  the   Association   shall


﻿- 14 -
establish, along with the Association, a mid-term
review of the Project;
(iv)   discuss with the Association during such mid-term
review the plan referred to in paragraph 15 of
this Schedule; and
(v)   duly take into account the comments offered by
the Association during such review, in the course
of further implementation of the Project.
19.   Uttar Pradesh shall   (a) conduct evaluations of Project
activities by October 31, 1996, with particular reference to (i) the
introduction of ECCE programs; (ii) the scholarship program for
girls belonging to Scheduled Castes; (iii) the girls' work
experience program; (iv) the non-formal primary and upper primary
education program; (v) community libraries; and (vi) the learning
achievement of tribal children; and (b) discuss the findings of such
evaluation with the Association during the mid-term review referred
to in paragraph 18 (iii) of this Schedule.
20.   (a)   Uttar Pradesh shall carry out a systematic assessment of
learning achievement in all Project Districts, as well as in one or
more districts other than the Project Districts selected with the
prior agreement of the Association, using the sampling plans, test
instruments, interview schedules and field data collection
techniques that were used in the baseline assessment studies carried
out in Nainital, Varanasi and Sitapur districts in 1992-93 in the
course of preparation of the Project.
(b)   Uttar Pradesh shall carry out the assessment referred to
in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph three times, with the first
assessment being completed by December 31, 1994, the second by
December 31, 1996, and the third by December 31, 1999, respectively.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


