Report No. PID7330
Project Name                     Solomon Islands- Health Sector (@)
Development Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Basic Health
Project ID                       SBPE58358
Borrower(s)                      Solomon Islands
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Health and Medical Services
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                September 30, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         October, 1999
Projected Board Date             January, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Sector Issues. Despite improvement since independence in 1978, Solomon
Islands ranks below most Pacific Island countries in overall health status.
Infectious disease, especially malaria, and maternal and infant conditions
remain the dominant causes of mortality and morbidity. Non-communicable
diseases constitute a small but increasing part of the disease burden. The
population growth rate of over 3.0w per annum is a major barrier to social
and economic development, but awareness of this issue is low among political
and community leaders. With an estimated total fertility rate of 5.4 births
per woman and increasing numbers of women entering childbearing age, the
present population of about 420,000 is projected to increase 50t by 2011.
Results of the 1999 census, due early in 2000, will provide more accurate
estimates. Acceptance of birth spacing is low due to gaps in service
provision as well as lack of information and conservative.
The Government is the major provider of health services in Solomon Islands,
in coordination with church funded programs in some provinces. There is a
small private health sector in the capital city, Honiara. There is a
functioning rural health network but increasing population, staff vacancies,
reduced supervision, unreliable operating budgets and out of date equipment
have led to reduced coverage and quality of these services. Communication
between rural health centers and provincial hospitals for professional
support and consultation is unreliable. As a result of these difficulties,
and the disproportionate allocation of staff and funds to the National
Referral Hospital, people who can afford it increasingly travel to Honiara
for care, which is an expensive and inefficient solution, and leaves most
people inadequately served.
Health program constraints have been aggravated by the recent fiscal crisis.
Although the health portion of the government budget has remained relatively
high in recent years, at about 13w, funds released in 1998 were 40 percent
below the budget. Inefficient use of available resources is partly due to
the limited capacity of MHMS for program planning and financial management.
There is scope for better use of the private sector, church facilities and



other non-government agencies to conserve government funds and improve
service quality and coverage.   International funds make up about 359 of the
public health budget and are used particularly for prevention and disease
control programs. Coordination of the inputs from different agencies needs
to be improved, and also coordination with the Government's own programs and
budgets.   MHMS is also facing a shortage and maldistribution of trained
staff, with unfilled positions in key professions and in the provinces. The
present training prograsm and the recruitment of overseas professionals,
including volunteers, are not meeting current demand.
Community factors also contribute to low demand and low utilization of
services. These include low educational levels, especially among women, and
lack of understanding of cultural and social factors in family decisions to
seek care or take preventive action. There is also very limited participation
or mobilization of influential stakeholders from outside the health sector in
improving services. Sharing of information on program objectives and needs
with political, civil service and community leaders is infrequent, and there
are no established arrangements for this purpose.
The Government conducted an excellent comprehensive review of health services
in 1996; however some programs have been implemented without analysis of
performance problems or testing of options for improvement. Progress in
malaria control since 1992 has been outstanding, but further analysis and
learning is needed to build on and sustain these gains. In summary, while
Government commitment to health programs has been strong, shortfalls and
maldistribution of funds have occurred and a new effort is needed to improve
the coverage, efficiency and sustainability of these programs.
Government Strategy. The Government's Medium Term Development Strategy
(MTDS) aims to improve governance and productivity in the public sector and
to promote human development through ensuring effective health services and a
population growth rate in keeping with the country's development aspirations.
The MTDS has the following objectives for the health sector:
focus on primary health care as the main method for delivering of health
services.
rationalize curative services through greater reliance on cost recovery,
health workforce planning and regular maintenance of facilities.
establish greater level of partnerships in healthcare with churches, non-
government organizations (NGOs), provincial and local governments and
community organizations.
encourage the development of a private healthcare market.
These objectives would be met through:
improving access to healthcare services and the quality of services
improving healthcare supervision and management, effective allocation and
utilization of resources
improving the quality and amount of human resources available for delivery of
health services
reducing the levels of morbidity and mortality in the country
promoting environmental health and family health education
promoting maternal and child healthcare and family planning
developing partnerships for healthcare promotion
improving financial planning and management capacity in MHMS.
- 2-



2. Objectives
The development objective of the Project is to assist the Government of
Solomon Islands to improve health outcomes of rural communities through
strengthening existing reproductive health and malaria programs, testing new
approaches to reducing these problems, and through improving planning,
management and monitoring of priority health programs.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank's strategy for assistance to Solomon Islands is to support the
Government's policy and structural reform program (PSRP) and Medium Term
Development Strategy (MTDS). The World Bank's economic team also identified
health sector support as a high priority in the present financial crisis. On
this basis, the World Bank and the Government agreed to prepare a health
sector development project.
4. Description
The project has three substantive components covering: (A) improved
reproductive health; (B) improved malaria prevention and control; and, (C)
capacity building in the Ministry of Health and Medical Services (MHMS), and
a fourth component (D) for project coordination and support.
Component A.   Improved Reproductive Health.   In this component, MHMS will
improve provincial services for reproductive health with special attention to
training of medical and nursing staff, improved clinical supervision and
upgrading of rural health facilities. A new post-basic course for nurse-
midwives will be piloted. International assessment and monitoring guidelines
for reproductive health services quality and use will be adapted for Solomon
Islands. An instersectoral task force with provincial representation will
provide feedback to MHMS on reproductive health matters. The project will
fund the work of the task force, staff training, clinical supervision and
technical support, upgrading of health centers, staff housing and training
facilities, and necessary equipment and supplies.
Component B. Improved Malaria Prevention and Control. This component will
help to fill funding gaps in the National Malaria Control Program while
improving analysis and monitoring of factors affecting program success, and
testing ways to improve program effectiveness. The project will support a
new intersectoral task force to mobilize stakeholder support for the program
and will fund pilot studies to improve community response and health service
effectiveness. These studies will be conducted by local professionals within
an international training program. Training, supervision and supplies will be
provided to improve prevention and case management in health centers. The
project will fund: incremental costs for program improvement; analysis of
historical information on malaria control; design and implementation of
operational studies and related staff training; and the evaluation and
dissemination of the findings to policy makers and health managers.
Component C.  Capacity Building.    To underpin the current public sector
reform initiatives and reinforce the impact and sustainability of the
priority health programs, the project will help to increase the capacity of
MHMS and participating provinces in planning, with emphasis on improvements
in (i) the health management information system, (ii) monitoring, evaluation
- 3-



and research, and (iii) donor coordination. The project will also provide
support for central level strengthening and pilot new arrangements to
increase service outreach, NGO coordination and community participation.
Component D. Project Coordination and Management. This component includes
the operation of the Project Coordination Committee (PCC) and the Project
Coordination and Implementation Unit (PCIU) (described in para 6 below). The
PCIU, based in the Planning Unit of MHMS, will provide the project support
functions, including financial and procurement management, and liaison with
implementing units in MHMS and the provinces. The project will fund the staff
and operating costs and limited additional refurbishment and equipment.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government                                        0.4
IDA                                              4
Total Project Cost                                4.4
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented by MHMS through a Project Coordination
Committee (PCC) and a Project Coordination and Implementation Unit (PCIU),
set up in the Planning Unit of MHMS. The PCC, headed by the Project
Director, will provide overall direction for the project. PCC membership
comprises key staff of MHMS (including the Permanent Secretary, two Under
Secretaries and Directors of Planning, Reproductive Health, Health Education
and the Malaria Control Program), the Health Directors of participating
provinces, and a senior official from the Department of Finance and the
Department of Development Planning. The PCIU, headed by the Project
Coordinator, will be responsible to the PCC for administration of the project
including procurement, financial management and liaison with implementing
units in MHMS and the provinces, and with the Bank and other partners. The
project will be implemented over a 5 year period, with a mid term review at
the end of year 2.
7. Sustainability
The lessons learned from the analysis and innovations introduced during the
project are expected to be applicable for Solomon Islands in the long term.
The project will finance introduction of new institutional arrangements and
other program initiatives which could be expanded nationwide. The improved
methods of planning and allocation of public resources in the health sector
and the improved capacity for social inquiry and participative approaches are
expected to contribute long term gains, and provide the rationale for
continued budget support from the MHMS.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
This project is the first support of the World Bank for the health sector in
Solomon Islands. Relevant lessons from health projects in other comparable
countries and from education projects in the Pacific include the following:
(a) allowance must be made for limited institutional capacity in project
implementation; application of Bank implementation guidelines must be
realistic with sufficient support in financial management and supervision;
(b) donor coordination in the sector is a high priority; (c) successful
- 4 -



behavior change requires a multifaceted approach, targeting the general
population (through media), opinion leaders, health and other professionals,
and families themselves in different ways; (d) effective monitoring,
learning and dissemination arrangements must be incorporated in the project
design, and supported with technical assistance.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The project is expected to have no appreciable
environmental impact. No resettlement will take place and health facility
improvements would be exclusively on Government owned land allocated for the
purpose. During preparation consultations were held with a wide range of
stakeholders and community groups, and the project design provides for
continuing consultation, survey of health service users, and for community
representation on task forces for the project components.
Contact points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Janet Hohnen
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-1217
Fax:        (202) 522-3394
Note: This is information on an envolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 7, 2000.
- 5 -



