                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR0000142




         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (IDA-33130 JPN-26243)




                                    ON A

                                   CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$4.0 MILLION


                                   TO THE

                             SOLOMON ISLANDS

                                    FOR A

                HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                 June 19, 2007




Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 11, 2007)

          Currency Unit = SBD
          SBD1.00 = US$0.14
         US$ 1.00 = SBD 7.19

            FISCAL YEAR
        January 1 ­ December 31

ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

  ADB       Asian Development Bank
AusAID      Australian Agency for International Development
  CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
DHLY        Discounted Healthy Life Years
    DO      Development Objective
  ECA       Europe and Central Asia
  FMS       Financial Management System
  GDP       Gross Domestic Product
 HMIS       Health Management Information System
   ICR      Implementation Completion Report
   IDA      International Development Association
   IEC      Information, Education and Communication
   LIL      Learning and Innovation Loan
MHMS        Ministry of Health and Medical Services
MTDS        Medium Term Development Strategy
 MUP        Makira Ulawa Province
  NCB       National Competitive Bidding
  NGO       Non-Government Organization
NMCP        National Malaria Control Program
  NRH       National Referral Hospital
  PCC       Project Coordination Committee
 PCIU       Project Coordination and Implementation Unit
  PMR       Project Management Report
  PPC       Project Preparation Committee
RAMSI       Regional Assistance Mission to Solomon Islands
  SOE       Statement of Expenditures
  TOR       Terms of Reference
VBDCP       Vector Borne Disease Control Program
 WHO        World Health Organization


     Vice President: James W. Adams (EAPVP)
    Country Director: Nigel Roberts (EACNF)
    Sector Manager: Fadia M. Saadah (EASHD)
Project Team Leader: Lingzhi Xu (EASHD)
  ICR Team Leader: Lingzhi Xu (EASHD)

                                    SOLOMON ISLANDS
                            Health Sector Development Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1.    Project Context, Development Objectives and Design........................................... 1
 2.    Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .......................................... 3
 3.    Assessment of Outcomes........................................................................................ 7
 4.    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome..................................................... 12
 5.    Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................. 12
 6.    Lessons Learned.................................................................................................... 15
 7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners....... 15
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 17
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 18
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 22
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 23
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 24
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 25
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 26
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 48
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 49
 MAP IBRD 33482

A. Basic Information

                                                                       Health Sector
Country:                Solomon Islands         Project Name:
                                                                       Development
Project ID:             P058358                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-33130,JPN-26243
ICR Date:               06/19/2007              ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:              SOLOMON ISLANDS
Original Total
                        XDR 3.0M                Disbursed Amount:      XDR 2.4M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Project Coordination and Implementation Unit
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        02/01/1999    Effectiveness:          03/09/2000        03/09/2000
Appraisal:             10/05/1999    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              01/06/2000    Mid-term Review:                          06/15/2004
                                     Closing:                06/30/2005        12/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately Satisfactory Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators              (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                    Quality at Entry
                                                                     None
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):


                                               i

Problem Project at any                      Quality of
                          Yes                                    None
time (Yes/No):                              Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                          Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                           13                13
Health                                                      87                87


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Health system performance                                Secondary         Secondary
Other communicable diseases                               Primary           Primary
Population and reproductive health                        Primary           Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                        Secondary         Secondary


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                     At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:           James W. Adams                Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:         Nigel Roberts                 Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager:           Fadia M. Saadah               Alan Ruby
Project Team Leader:      Lingzhi Xu                    Janet I. Hohnen
ICR Team Leader:          Lingzhi Xu
ICR Primary Author:       Betty Hanan



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objective is to assist the Government of Solomon Islands to
improve health outcomes of rural communities through strengthening existing
reproductive health and malaria programs, testing new approaches to reducing these
problems, and through improved planning, managing and monitoring of priority health
programs.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                           ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
                                                approval          Target         Completion or
                                               documents)         Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Assisted births/expected births

Value           Makira 46%                  Makira 60%                        Makira 60%

quantitative or Guadacanal 43%              Guadacanal 60%                    Guadacanal 60%

Qualitative)    National 41%                National 60%                      National 56%

Date achieved 01/31/1999                    01/31/2000                        12/31/2006

Comments        Although indicators related to reproductive health by the end of the project have

(incl. %        reached the target set at mid-term, the information needs to be read with caution

achievement)    as despite a great deal of improvement, there are still problems with data
                accuracy.
Indicator 2 :   First Antenatal visits/expected births

Value           Maikira 62%                 Makira 90%                        Makira 90%
quantitative or Guadacanal 79%              Guadacanal 90%                    Guadacanal 90%
Qualitative)    National 69%                National 90%                      National 90%

Date achieved 01/31/1999                    01/31/2000                        12/31/2006

Comments        Although indicators related to reproductive health by the end of the project have

(incl. %        reached the target set at mid-term, the information needs to be read with caution

achievement)    as despite a great deal of improvement, there are still problems with data
                accuracy.
Indicator 3 :   Outpatients with clinically defined malaria/1000 pop.

                                            Makira 213                        Makira 213
Value           Makira 294,                                                   Guadacanal 290
quantitative or Guadacanal 292,             Guadacanal 294                    National 293
Qualitative)    National 268                National 223


Date achieved 01/31/1999                    01/31/2000                        12/31/2006

Comments        Although indicators related to reproductive health by the end of the project have

(incl. %        reached the target set at mid-term, the information needs to be read with caution

achievement)    as despite a great deal of improvement, there are still problems with data
                accuracy.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised        Completion or
                                               documents)     Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Slide diagnosed malaria/1000 pop.
Value           Makira 64,                  Makira <127                       Miakira 63
(quantitative   Guadacanal 222,             Guadacanal <300                   Guadacanal 126
or Qualitative) National 143                National <8                       National 162*



                                                iii

Date achieved 01/31/1999                 01/31/2000                          12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %       *This is 2005 data as 2006 data was not available at the time of the preparation

achievement)   of the ICR.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived                DO                         IP                 Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     06/15/2000          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                        0.21
  2     06/19/2000          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                        0.21
  3     12/27/2000          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                        0.30
  4     06/04/2001          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                        0.41
  5     12/12/2001          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                        0.63
  6     06/25/2002          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                        0.72
  7     01/03/2003        Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                        0.85
  8     06/17/2003        Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                        0.93
  9     12/23/2003        Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                        1.03
  10    06/25/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                        1.48
  11    12/21/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                        2.31
  12    05/04/2005     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                    2.66
  13    06/17/2005     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                    2.81
  14    05/20/2006     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                    3.43
  15    12/17/2006     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                    3.50



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                              iv

I. Disbursement Profile




                           v

1.      Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1     Context at Appraisal

At the time of appraisal, the Solomon Islands (SI) ranked below most of other Pacific
Island countries in overall health status. Infectious diseases, especially malaria, and maternal
and infant conditions were the dominant causes of mortality and morbidity. Women were a
high-risk group with the maternal mortality ratio in 1999 at 549 per 100,000 live births. This
problem was compounded by rapid population growth (estimated in 1999 to be 3% per annum).
The increasing population, declining skill levels of provincial staff, understaffing of health
personnel in provinces, reduced supervision from Honiara, unreliable operating budgets and
outdated equipment had led to reduced coverage and quality of services in the provinces. As a
result, people increasingly traveled to Honiara for care. It was an expensive and inefficient
solution, leaving most people inadequately serviced. In addition to the supply problems of
service provision, there was low demand for services due to low levels of education, especially
among women, and a lack of appreciation of the need to seek prevention or curative care.

The health situation in SI was further aggravated by a fiscal crisis. While the government's
stated commitment to funding of health programs was strong, funds actually provided to the
sector in 1998 were 40% lower than budgeted. During the later stages of project processing, SI
experienced civil unrest. Fighting broke out when the Isatabu Freedom Movement began to
force Malaitans out, accusing them of taking land and jobs. Around 20,000 people abandoned
their homes, with many leaving the Guadacanal province. A rival militia group, the Malaitan
Eagle Force, staged a coup in 200 and forced the then Prime Minister to resign. Given the
situation, it was agreed with the Government that the Bank would provide funding for the public
provision of essential rural health services at a time of budgetary constraint.

1.2     Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The PDO was to assist the Government to improve health outcomes of rural communities
through strengthening existing reproductive health and malaria programs, testing new
approaches to reducing these problems, improving planning, managing and monitoring of these
and other priority health programs. Progress in achieving the PDO was to be assessed using the
following key performance indicators.

    ·     supervised delivery rate
    ·     proportion of pregnant mothers having at least one antenatal visit
    ·     proportion of women of reproductive age accepting an effective method of family
          planning
    ·     incidence of clinically defined malaria
    ·     hospital/clinic admissions for malaria (outpatients)
    ·     incidence of slide diagnosed malaria deaths from malaria (all types)
    ·     incidence of slide diagnosed Plasmodium falciparum
    ·     use of adequately impregnated bed nets
    ·     proportion of houses sprayed in the last year

    ·     daily case load per health worker
    ·     availability of good quality provincial health program reports to stakeholders

1.3     Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

While the original PDO was maintained throughout project implementation, given problems with
collection of data and analysis, the mid-term review (June 2004) agreed on a simplified set of
indicators to be monitored. This set of indicators was systematically monitored and reported on
by supervision missions in the ISRs. In addition, it was agreed that the percentage of births
attended by health personnel and the percentage of first time antenatal visits should be calculated
using as the denominator "expected births", rather than actual births as an accurate number of
actual births was not available. The number of births was estimated on the basis of the
demographic characteristics of the population in SI and fertility rates of similar populations with
reliable statistics elsewhere.

1.4     Main Beneficiaries,

The primary beneficiaries were to be families in rural areas facing a high burden of disease in
malaria and reproductive health, and inadequate prevention and control services. The secondary
beneficiaries were to be rural health staff, whose skills and functional capability would be
upgraded through the project's training programs. Other beneficiaries were to be provincial and
Ministry of Health managers, who were to benefit from the capacity building initiatives, which
were to improve planning, resource use, and monitoring in the sector.

1.5     Original Components

The project was to be implemented in up to four provinces, which were to join in stages during
the first two project years. The project's components were: (i) reproductive health, (ii) malaria
prevention and control, (iii) capacity building in the Ministry of Health and Medical Services
(MHMS)1 and provincial health services, and (iv) Project Coordination and support activities for
the project.

Component A - Improved Reproductive Health. MHMS was to improve provincial services
for reproductive health, with special attention to the training of medical and nursing staff in-
country and overseas, and improved clinical supervision, and upgrading of rural health facilities.
A new post-basic course for nurse-midwives was to be piloted, with oversight by a representative
committee on midwifery services.        International assessment and monitoring guidelines for
reproductive health service quality and use were to be adapted. An inter-sectoral task force with
provincial representation was to provide feedback to the Ministry on reproductive health matters.
The project was to fund the work of the task force, staff training, clinical supervision and
technical support, upgrading of health centers, staff housing, training facilities, and necessary
equipment and supplies.


1 MHMS is referred to in the rest of the document as Ministry of Health (MOH)



                                              2

Component B - Improved Malaria Prevention and Control. The component was to help
reduce funding gaps in the National Malaria Control Program, while improving analysis and
monitoring of factors affecting the program success, and testing ways to improve its
effectiveness. The project was to support a new inter-sectoral task force and fund pilot studies to
improve community response and health services. Studies were to be conducted by local
professionals within an international training program. Training, supervision and supplies to
improve prevention and case management in health centers were to be provided. The project
was to fund incremental costs for program improvement; analysis of historical information on
malaria control; design and implementation of operational studies and related staff training; and
the evaluation/dissemination of the findings to policy makers and health managers.

Component C - Capacity Building. The project was to increase the capacity of MOH and the
participating provinces in health planning, with emphasis on improvements in: (i) the Health
Management Information System (HMIS), (ii) monitoring, evaluation and research, and (iii)
donor coordination. The project was also to provide support for central level strengthening and
for piloting new arrangements to increase outreach and community participation. The project
was to finance costs associated with in-country and overseas training, staff costs and consultants
associated with the HMIS, and monitoring and evaluation.

Component D - Project Coordination and Management. This component supported the
operation of the Project Coordination Committee (PCC), and the Project Coordination and
Implementation Unit (PCIU), within the Planning Unit of MHMS, which was to provide the
project support functions, including financial and procurement management, and liaison with
implementing units in MHMS and the provinces. The project was to fund the staff, operating
costs and limited additional refurbishment and equipment.

1.6    Revised Components

The scope of the components remained the same throughout the period of implementation, but
the number of participating provinces was limited to two for reasons elaborated on below.

1.7    Other significant changes

Two significant changes happened after approval. The first related to the support by the project
of two provinces rather than "up to four". The number of participating provinces was overtaken
by events, i.e. lengthy periods of civil unrest, economic crisis and inability of the Government to
pay external debt, which in turn caused the suspension of disbursements from the IDA credit for
two years. The second related to the decision by the Ministry of Finance in mid-2005 not to
finance under the project rural civil works planned for Makira and Guadacanal provinces
because these works are planned to be financed under other projects.

2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1    Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project design was appropriate and grounded in technical, institutional and social analyses. The
project addressed the key elements of the Government's Medium Term Development Strategy


                                               3

through strengthening provincial services in the high priority areas of reproductive health and
malaria control. The project activities allowed flexibility for MOH to adjust work plans on an
annual basis if grants became available.          During preparation, the national programs in
reproductive health and malaria prevention and control were analyzed by technically qualified
experts and were considered to be appropriate.          The technical analysis recognized a high
standard of technical leadership in these programs within the Ministry, supported by WHO. In
line with relevant international experience, the project design included enhancements to the two
programs. It included specific pilots and training to test and adapt to the local conditions. The
key role of strong donor coordination was rightly identified in all key documents; the documents
acknowledged that funds from the Credit would supplement and not replace grant funds. They
acknowledged the need for flexibility in the allocation of resources to the provinces, recognizing
that certain areas were suffering from civil unrest.

Relevant Lessons from health projects in comparable countries and from the Education Project in
SI were taken into account in the design of the project: (i) allowances were made for
inexperience and limited institutional capacity and the relative size of the operation, (ii) donor
coordination was assigned as a high priority, with provision to adjust financing arrangements as
other funds became available, (iii) flexible arrangements were put in place for the timing and
scope of activities, and (iv) monitoring, evaluation and dissemination of lessons learned were
incorporated in the project design, and supported with technical assistance.

Project was prepared following extensive consultations with a range of stakeholders. It was
prepared under the overall leadership of a Project Preparation Committee (PPC) established in
MOH. The PPC provided active counterparts for consultants engaged in analysis and project
design. Extensive consultations with other development partners were carried out to ensure that
activities to be supported by IDA would complement and not duplicate those of international
partners. MHMS showed ownership and commitment to the design and scope of the project.

The PAD identified well the specific risks associated with the operation, but the ratings of some
of the risks did not reflect adequately the levels of the risk. For example, the risk for civil unrest
in potential project areas was rated "Modest" when there was already ethnic unrest in the
Guadacanal province; indeed the PAD noted that "the planned participation of the Guadacanal
province in the project has been deferred due to civil unrest". Equally, the risk rating for late or
inadequate counterpart funding was rated as "Modest" when it should have been evident at
appraisal that the fiscal crisis was highly likely to result in limited availability of counterpart
funding. The overall risk rating in the PAD should have been assessed as "High". The QAE is
rated Moderately Satisfactory.

2.2     Implementation

The project was implemented during a highly volatile and difficult period, including ethnic
armed conflict and social unrest. Shortly after the Credit became effective (March 2000) and
during the first 3.5 years of project implementation, the country endured widespread ethnic
unrest. The unrest caused a macro-economic crisis, which in turn, made health service delivery
very difficult. The severe economic crisis led to the Government defaulting on its debt service
obligation to the Bank, which resulted on suspension of disbursements. For over two years, the



                                               4

project faced substantial challenges to sustain implementation during the suspension,
reinstatement of disbursements for only two months, and then suspension again from September
2001 to October 2003. The suspension impacted on the work programs from late 2001 through
2003. Thus, implementation of the project during its early years was hampered by the ethnic
disruptions, the decline in fiscal capacity of the Government and its inability to meet its debt
service obligations. Through this period, the balance and pace of activities were readjusted,
shifting the focus to preserving essential services in the provinces, improving the management
and cost-effectiveness of service delivery, and increasing community participation.

The project was implemented directly by the MHMS under the overall guidance of the PCC.
The PCC met regularly to provide policy and operational guidance. The project had only one
Director, the Undersecretary of Health, who was assisted by a small Project Coordination and
Implementation Unit (PCIU) comprised of local contracted staff. No international consultants
were hired to guide implementation. Short-term international assistance was engaged from time
to time to assist with technical matters such as to review architectural designs and help prepare
international competitive bidding documents, including technical specifications and bills of
quantities. Despite the relatively high turnover of staff within the Ministry and in the provinces,
most activities were implemented (Annex 2).           Project implementation has required close
attention to policy and institution building at the central level and in the two provinces supported
by the project. It has benefited from effective interaction with other major health donors,
particularly AusAID and the Global Fund.

The implementation period can be divided into two phases: (i) immediately after credit
effectiveness (March 2000) and up to the mid-term review (mid-June 2004), characterized by
slow progress of activities due to ethnic conflict and macro-economic instability, and (ii) from
the MTR when implementation accelerated considerably.              In the four years from Credit
effectiveness to the MTR, only about 23% of credit funds were disbursed. The expenditures
were mainly for training (in and outside the country), PCIU salaries, and procurement of limited
equipment and supplies for malaria control. No civil works had taken place prior to the MTR.
This first phase was characterized by dedication from Bank staff to provide encouragement to the
Ministry during the suspension and to seek alternative financing from other donors to ensure
implementation of key activities. Some missions visited during the suspension, which is not
typical in such situations. However, there were no missions from November 2001 until October
2003. A virtual supervision was arranged with GSI participation through a video conference
organized from the Sydney WB office in May 2002.

Through strong working relationships, agreement was reached for Australia to pre-finance
priority activities under the project. In addition, as part of its development assistance, Australia
paid the SI's debts to the development banks (ADB and WB), opening the way to the lifting of
suspension and re-engagement. Health indicators deteriorated during the conflict with high
levels of IMR reported and after eight years of successful control of malaria, with progressive
decline in reported cases and incidence rates, an increase in these indicators were reported in
2000-01. Government allocation for the National Malaria Control Program was discontinued in
late 2000. Implementation of the malaria program under the project was beginning to have a
positive impact until the World Bank suspended disbursements. Once suspension was lifted, the
performance of the Program improved a great deal in the two project provinces.



                                               5

Immediately after the lifting of suspension, a high level joint World Bank-Asian Development
Bank mission took place in October 2003 to conduct brief economic and sectors assessments
(including of the health sector). The joint mission concluded that the security situation had
improved significantly since the establishment in July 2003 of the Regional Assistance Mission
to Solomon Islands (RAMSI). The improvement boosted public confidence and reinvigorated
formal business activity, particularly in the capital. After four years of contraction, the economy
expanded in the first nine months of 2003 particularly primary production, construction and
services.   The economic recovery was attributed to a resilient private sector and rapid,
substantive improvement in the law and order situation consequent upon RAMSI's arrival.
RAMSI also provided a significant direct demand-side stimulus to the economy; inflation in
2003 was recorded at around 8%.

The MTR aide memoire (June 2004) noted that the overall macroeconomic and security
situations appeared to be on a path to sustained recovery and stability.             These positive
developments allowed the MTR to consider full implementation of the project, which at one
point had been considered for cancellation. Agreement was reached with the government during
the MTR on the need to extend the Credit closing date until December 31, 2006 (original closing
date was June 30, 2005). The MTR Aide Memoire reported that the health status of the
population had been negatively affected by the period of tension, the interruptions of services in
Guadacanal and the sudden decline in government financing of the sector. Further, it reported
that the incidence of malaria and death in Guadacanal and Makira had risen sharply since the late
1990s and increased again in 2003 and 2004. Maternal mortality and infant mortality rated had
also increased since the pre-tension conditions. Residual house spraying, a key malaria control
activity that had worked successfully, and bed net distribution had also declined sharply during
the 2000-03 period. The ICR rates implementation as Moderately Satisfactory.

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The results framework included a large number of key performance indicators, for which
baseline data was not available. As noted in Section 6.3, at the MTR the modality for
monitoring outcome indicators was redefined and the percentage of births attended by health
personnel and percentage of first time antenatal visits was to be calculated using as the
denominator "expected births", rather than actual births. The first mission after the MTR, in
March 2005, indicated that the agreed indicators in the PAD and the DCA had not been
systematically collected or monitored. Targets had not been set at project launch and had not
figured in project management and supervision. Given the many difficulties with civil unrest
and the disbursement suspension, this oversight was understandable. However, with the Health
Information System (HIS) in operation, a table of simplified project indicators was prepared in
March 2005, including outcome targets. These indicators were monitored and reported on for
the remainder of the project. Although the quality of the data still needs improvement, the
achievements so far of the HIS should not be underestimated. For the first time, MOH has had
data to enable it to make policy decisions and allocate funds according to priorities. M&E is
rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.




                                               6

2.4    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The project [was categorized as C with regard to the safeguard policies, and it encountered no
significant safeguard issues during implementation. No adverse environmental impacts were
associated with the construction and rehabilitation of the limited number of health facilities
supported under the project.

Regarding the Bank's fiduciary requirements, the QSA7 (for FY05/06) rated the supervision of
procurement as Highly Satisfactory and noted that the project could serve as a "best practice" for
procurement supervision. Also, recognizing the size and remote location of the SI and the US$4
million size of the project, the QSA7 stressed the exemplary performance of the project team in
carrying out the procurement based on service to the Borrower, resourcefulness, and pragmatism.
However, looking at the performance on procurement throughout the entire period of
implementation, the ICR finds that considerable delays in project implementation were as a
result of slowed procurement. Delays encountered in the procurement of civil works ultimately
led to the decision by the Ministry of Finance to not approve the rural civil works in the
provinces. While Financial Management complied with the Bank's requirements and FM and
audit reports were presented to the Bank in a timely manner during the early stages of project
implementation, turnover of FM staff resulted in delays and accuracy of the FM information.
Given the overall procurement and FM performance, the ICR rates the compliance with
Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance as Moderately Satisfactory.

2.5    Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The reforms introduced under the project have been integrated on the Government's strategy for
health and are likely to be carried forward under a Health SWAp, currently under preparation
with support from the Bank and AusAID.

3.     Assessment of Outcomes

3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project's DOs continue to be highly relevant to the Bank's strategy in the Solomon Islands.
In terms of design and implementation, however, the Government and its two main health
development partners (AusAID and the World Bank) have agreed to work towards the adoption
of a sector-wide approach for the delivery of health sector development assistance in the future.

3.2    Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project has partially achieved its DOs. Although the government has continued to make
progress in improving the health outcomes of rural communities by strengthening reproductive
health and malaria control programs, especially in the project provinces, considerable and
sustained efforts are still required to expand the progress throughout the country. The Project
assisted the efforts to reduce maternal mortality and incidences of malaria through improved care
in pregnancy and childbirth, increased rates of contraceptive use, reduced hospital admissions
and deaths from malaria through increased use of bed nets, and community awareness of malaria
control. The lessons from the project in the areas of reproductive health, malaria and health


                                              7

management information have been incorporated into national health policy as articulated in the
Solomon Islands National Health Strategic Plan 2006-2010.

Provincial reproductive health have been strengthened, but not to the extent planned due to the
cancellation of construction of the rural civil works. The two key indicators for reproductive
health (as defined after the MTR) were achieved: (i) assisted births/expected births, and (ii) first
antenatal visits/expected births. Data with respect to these indicators show that the project has
been effective in improving reproductive health and enhancing capacity in the use of information
for health planning and management in MOH and the participating provinces. While the project
included only two provinces, the project supported improvements in reproductive health
outcomes in general through its midwifery training program, which trained nurses from all over
the country (62 graduated prior to project closing) and who have returned to the work force in
their respective provinces. (For details of outputs under the project please refer to Annex 2).

The key indicator for malaria control was achieved -- outpatients with clinically defined
malaria/1000 population. Provincial malaria control services were strengthened through the
implementation of a comprehensive malaria strategy initiated with support of the project and
now being supported with support from the Global Fund. The strategy aims at reducing clinical
malaria and preventing mortality, by providing early diagnosis and prompt treatment of all
suspected or confirmed cases, and at reducing malaria morbidity through feasible and sustainable
vector control interventions. The project supported extensive training for lab technicians to be
able to detect malaria more accurately. Malaria staff, field workers and community leaders also
participated in a great number of workshops organized under the project to enhance community
participation and awareness of the disease burden. Bed nets were procured and insecticides to
treat bed nets.

Good progress was made in building capacity in the use of information for health planning and
management in MOH and participating provinces. Through the project, MOH has been
successful in building institutional capacity for planning, managing and monitoring priority
health programs as demonstrated by the design of the HIS and the increased level of HIS
reporting from the provinces thanks to extensive training under the project. The project's
objectives for institutional building, however, were necessarily narrow and did not target overall
capacity building for the Ministry. For example, the project did not target policy analysis and
formulation; these areas were being supported by AusAID. Even in the areas of capacity
building under the project, the achievements are still fragile as the turnover of staff is high.
However, it is necessary to take into account the highly volatile and difficult project context due
to the armed ethnic civil conflict. Despite improvements in the past years, sector capacity is still
weak, but capacity building is a process.

There are several important outcomes derived from outputs under each of the components. In
terms of strengthening reproductive health: First, MOH is committed to sustaining and
expanding the midwifery program and is ensuring its sustainability by financing the recurrent
costs of the Program with appropriate budget allocations in MOH's 2006 and 2007 budgets.
Second, the Midwifery Program has been accredited by the Solomon Islands College of Higher
Education and formal diplomas are being conferred to all graduates. Third, trained midwifes are
required to return to their original place of work throughout the country where they can apply



                                              8

their strengthened technical skills to improve the delivery of health services. Fourth, the project
achieved the attainment of the reproductive health outcome indicators in participating provinces.
Although still fragile, there are other important outcomes: (i) the strengthened outreach services
to villages are now more focused and regular and are beginning to have a positive impact on the
indicators, (ii) the pilots conducted prior to fully rolling out the Family Health Card nationwide
shed light on the reasons for the low level of indicators and have enabled MOH to prioritize
activities aimed at improving performance, and (iii) improved supervision and support of first-
level health workers is playing an important role in helping improve the RH indicator outputs. It
is important to stress, however, that the data should be taken cautiously because the reliability of
data collected in provinces still requires considerable improvement.

In terms of Malaria Control, the project has helped to strengthen a comprehensive control
program in the two participating provinces, which has become applicable nation-wide with the
support of the Global Fund and other development partners (see discussion above).

In terms of capacity building, the high turnover of staff has constrained the impact of capacity
building efforts as several of the staff trained under the project have left MOH's services and
many of them have left the country seeking better opportunities. In several cases, however,
trained staff moved, but remained within the system so that the sector is still benefiting from
their improved skills. Although the project has been successful in building institutional capacity
for planning, management, coordination, procurement, and financial management, MOH
capacity is still limited and will continue to require a lot of attention in the coming years to
expand its base beyond a limited number of individuals. In addition, with the closing of the
PCIU, there is the danger that the capacity for procurement, and to a certain extent, financial
management, which was achieved under the project will be lost.

Linkages between outputs and outcomes. A number of outputs were supported in each of the
sub-components (Annex 2). With the exception of activities that were discontinued in agreement
with the Bank, i.e. rural civil works in the two participating provinces, the project was successful
in implementing most activities, albeit with delays mainly caused by the armed ethnic civil
conflict and the macro-economic/fiscal constraints. There were strong linkages in the design
between outputs and outcomes, for instance: (i) the project supported the design and the
implementation of the successful in-country Midwifery Program, (ii) financed extensive overseas
training for midwives and nurses, including several bachelor and master programs in obstetrics
and gynecology (See Exhibit 1 of Annex 7), (iii) provided medical equipment and supplies,
canoes, outboard motors, and radio communication equipment to enable provincial staff to carry
out their outreach activities and satellite clinics more frequently and regularly. Achievement of
Development Objectives is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.

3.3     Efficiency

No NPV, ERR, or FRR were calculated a priori for the project, and no analyses are available to
assess them as economic or financial results. The PAD presented supporting evidence of
comparative costs of the investment choices considered. The PAD cited a cost- effectiveness
study of project expenditures in terms of discounted healthy life years (DHLY) for Component A
(Improved Reproductive Health) and the cost per malaria case averted for Component B
(Improved Malaria Prevention and Control). The analyses reviewed the rationale for investing in


                                               9

learning and development activities to improve reproductive health and reduce malaria both
during the project period and beyond. It compared the cost-effectiveness of two approaches or
categories: Category I: strengthening of existing health sector operations; and Category II:
learning and innovation through analysis of past program performance and piloting of new or
enhanced methods for reducing the priority health problems.             Under the assumption of
strengthening existing activities, the PAD indicated that the project would sustain the
Government's achievements for the five-year duration of the project, averting maternal and
infant deaths at a cost of about US$394 per DHLY gained in comparison to the approximate
costs of a year of healthy life to the country of US$930 (assuming that the value of a year of
healthy life in SI is approximately equal to its per capita GDP). Averting malaria was estimated
to cost about US$5.80 per case, a substantial bargain in comparison to the approximate cost to
the country of US$465 per case of malaria (assuming each case of malaria costs approximately
one half year of healthy life). In comparison, the benefits of the learning activities for each
component while being less certain were estimated to be potentially much higher -- the cost per
DHLY gained (by averting maternal and infant deaths) could be reduced by 44% and the cost of
averting a malaria case could be reduced by 10% to 20%. The analysis also showed that if
benefits accrued under the project were retained after project completion, they would improve
the efficiency and effectiveness and lower the costs of existing reproductive and malaria services.
Since activities are to be continued after the Credit closing, the benefits derived are expected to
continue, thus improving the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of these services.

3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: The rating of Moderately Satisfactory is justified on the following basis:

  · Throughout the implementation period, the objectives remained highly relevant to issues
     facing the sector in SI, particularly to the reproductive health and malaria sub-sectors.
  · The results of the key performance (output) indicators show that the project contributed to
     strengthening reproductive health and that interventions for malaria control helped to
     strengthen a comprehensive control program in the two participating provinces. However,
     the strengthening of the services could have been greater if the rural civil works were
     undertaken under the project. As planned, the project tested new approaches to reduce
     reproductive health and malaria problems, and helped to strengthen planning, managing
     and monitoring of priority health programs more broadly.
  · Targets on reproductive health and malaria control are potentially problematic, therefore, it
     is difficult to totally attribute or assess the precise impact of the project on the overall
     improvement in these areas. However, the results of the three outcome indicators in project
     areas are better than those of the country as a whole or to other comparator (non-project)
     provinces at the time of project completion.
  · The civil unrest and macro-economic difficulties, and the consequent suspension of the
     Credit, delayed project implementation, which explains why the project assisted fewer
     provinces than originally foreseen, and also delayed the start of important rural civil works
     planned for Makira and Guadacanal.
  · The rating takes into account the highly volatile and difficult project context due to the
     armed ethnic civil conflict from 1999 to 2004, the two-year suspension of disbursements,
     the fact that this was the first Bank-supported health project in the SI, and the
     administrative challenges of keeping implementation moving under extremely difficult


                                               10

      conditions. As noted by QAG, the Bank deserves credit for the hard work put in by the
      supervision Task Team and for sustaining the relatively high costs associated with
      supervising a small project in a small country.

3.5    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a)     Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The operation had a positive effect on community involvement in reproductive health. Both
participating provinces achieved the reproductive health targets prior to Credit closing. Steady
gains in antenatal care and assisted births are evident, while contraceptive use approached the
target. Improved supervision and support of first-level workers have been attained through use
of supervision checklists, radio consultations, and supplemental resources for staff visits. The
provinces achieved improved outreach by health workers through use of the family health card,
following a review and assessment of the card pilot in the two provinces. Data gathered from the
health card exercises shed light on the low level of some reproductive health indicators, the
cultural and behavior factors at work, and how the indicators and behaviors could continue to be
improved. The ICR team visited some formerly conflict-ridden areas (in Guadacanal) where the
Project interventions have played an important role in catalyzing community cooperation for
improved knowledge of reproductive health and use of family planning tools.

Survey data, collected as part of a province-wide survey on the reasons for choice of home vs.
clinic births combined with an awareness-raising tour by reproductive health nurses, indicated
more positive attitudes toward assisted births and better family planning practices.

(b)    Institutional Change/Strengthening)
Implementation has yielded lessons and information that have been incorporated into the
National Health Strategic Plan for 2006-2010.

Training activities supported through the project have been instrumental not only in
strengthening the performance of reproductive health programs, but in raising the morale of
health staff in areas heavily affected by the conflict. Training has been conducted in and outside
the country for midwives and nurses, and in integrated management of childhood illnesses.

The HMIS system has provided lessons regarding the use of data and other information for
planning and policymaking.       Provincial-level planning and supervision systems have been
strengthened as a result of participating in data collection for the HMIS.

The high turnover of staff has constrained the expected impact of capacity-building efforts under
the project as several of the staff trained left the services of MOH or Provincial Health
Directorates. However, in several cases, the staff moved within the system or have continued to
work elsewhere in the country, which therefore continues to benefit from their improved skills.
The project has been successful in building institutional capacity for planning, management,
coordination, procurement, and financial management. These improvements are being scaled up
to help improve GOS's administrative system as a whole and the health sector in particular.




                                              11

Project experiences and materials have been shared with other development partners, including
during a stakeholder workshop carried out as part of the ICR mission, but they should be
disseminated more widely.

(c)     Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The project has contributed to helping to standardize architectural designs for rural health
facilities, which can be easily amended to suit other parts of the country, depending on terrain
and climate.

3.6     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Together with MOH, the ICR team organized a Stakeholders' Workshop in Honiara with the
participation of the Ministry of Planning; Ministry of Health; Vector Borne Disease Control
Program; School of Nursing; Midwifery School; Provincial Health Directors and staff; and
International partners - UNDP, UNICEF, AusAID, JICA, World Bank, and the British High
Commission. The objective of the workshop was for the central and provincial authorities to
present the results of the project and lessons learned from its implementation. The Bank team
encouraged an open discussion and recommended participants to measure as far as feasible the
outcomes and impact of project interventions, rather than concentrating only on outputs.
Presentations were made for each project component sub-component, focusing on results and
remaining challenges. For more details on the workshop, please refer to Annex 6.

4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Limited. At the present time, there appears to be limited risk to sustaining the DOs for
the project, given that lessons from strategies and approaches developed and tested under the
project have been drawn for the development of the National Health Strategic Plans for 2006-
2010, which are to be supported by financing through, among others, the World Bank and
AusAID. However, given the fragile institutional capacity, the risk should not be underestimated.

5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1     Bank Performance
(a)     Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.       Project design was appropriate and grounded in sound
technical, institutional and social analyses. The project design addressed the key elements of the
Government's MTDS in health. The design was modified during preparation to streamline the
components, scope and strategy to facilitate provincial participation and to enable adjustments of
funding in response to the plans of other donors. Thus the project activities, as approved, were
expected to be influenced by the evolving activities of other donors, allowing flexibility to adjust
work plans on an annual basis if and when donor grant funding became available. The national
programs in reproductive health and malaria prevention and control supported by the project
were analyzed by technically qualified experts and were considered to be appropriate. The Bank
team promoted ownership and commitment from the outset and worked hand in hand with
counterparts to ensure that foreign and local technical assistance worked closely with staff.


                                              12

However, the risk assessment did not recognize the extend of the risks given that ethnic unrest
had already started at the time of appraisal.

(b)     Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. The Bank team maintained its focus on development impact.
Because of delays in implementation caused mainly by ethnic unrest, during the MTR the team
agreed on a simplified set of output indicators (see relevant sections). Supervision of fiduciary
tasks was carried out in a timely manner. Supervision missions could have been more regular
during the last years of project implementation. Ratings of DOs and IP were generally fair, but
inadequate explanations were given in ISRs to justify these ratings.

There are two clear phases of project implementation/supervision. The first phase was between
Credit effectiveness and the MTR (March 2000-June 2004). The second was post-MTR until
December 2006 when the Credit closed. During the first period, the Bank team was proactive
and resourceful, continually engaging the government and keeping the PCIU staff motivated by
ensuring continuity of implementation guidance during the difficult and long periods of
suspension. The Bank worked closely with the PCIU to readjust annual work programs on the
basis of limitations and alternative sources of funding. The Bank was successful in catalyzing
other development partners' financing to pre-finance priority activities that could be later
reimbursed under the Credit after the suspension was lifted. Despite the suspension financing
continued for a limited number of activities during the suspension period, such as in-country and
overseas training and the salaries of the PCIU staff. Without these efforts, the project could
easily have collapsed as practically no counterpart funds were available for project
implementation during the severe fiscal crisis. Because of the ban imposed by the UN on travel
to SI, the Bank team was not able to visit the country for a period of 2 years. In May 2002 a
"virtual supervision" was organized with the Government team visiting the Bank's office in
Sydney to conduct the supervision through video with HQ.

The project had only 3 TLs during its turbulent implementation period. Staff continuity was a
good feature of the Bank's supervision support. However, only nine (9) supervision missions
took place during the 7-year implementation period; 15 PSRs were filed in SAP; several of them
reflected desk reviews of progress reports and telephone discussions with the PCIU. As noted
earlier, the project was implemented during a highly volatile and difficult period, characterized
by ethnic armed conflict. No missions were possible from November 2001 until October 2003.
The project team ensured continuity by engaging a senior Bank consultant based in New Zealand
to maintain regular contact through telephone with counterparts and helped to identify issues and
provide advice on project implementation. However, more such "virtual supervisions" could
have been organized.

The quality of the supervision (as per Aide Memoires/ISRs) was mixed. During the early stages
of implementation, efforts were devoted to improving the understanding of the project by
counterparts and to clarify procedures and practices. The MTR Aide Memoire was
comprehensive; it argued well for the importance of intensifying the Bank's efforts to bring the
project back on track. During the later period of implementation, however, the documentation
could have been more robust. For example, only 4 ISRs were completed, basically one a year,
although there were more than 4 site visits. Although a region practice, in the view of the QAG


                                             13

(QSA7) panel and this ICR, one ISR a year was not adequate in view of the complex issues
facing the project. In addition, while ISRs included comments from SM, ISR did not include
CM's comments.

The ISRs show that prior to the MTR, the project received "unsatisfactory" ratings for the DOs
and IP; these ratings were upgraded to Satisfactory at the MTR. The MTR's Aide Memoire
recorded the agreement with the government to rebalance the focus of activities away from
training (continued during Credit suspension) towards delivery of health services. After the
MTR, there was stronger emphasis by the Ministry and the Bank on development impact and on
following up on agreed actions. However, the Bank made only 3 site visits after the MTR.

More generally, the basis for the DO and IP ratings in the ISRs could have been better explained.
The first section on Key Issues and Actions for management attention in several ISRs provided a
general overview of project implementation rather than focusing on issues that required
management attention. These comments notwithstanding, discussions with the client revealed
that especially important for MOH was the Bank team's focus on identifying problems and
taking a collaborative approach to finding common solutions, seeking a partnership, and building
trust among all participants. MOH appreciated the Bank's willingness to engage the services of
the Sr. consultant to provide guidance during the period that no Bank missions could take place.

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. Please see (b) above

5.2     Borrower Performance
(a)     Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. (please see justification below)

(b)     Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

PCIU       The project faced big challenges during the 7 years of implementation. One of
           the challenges included maintaining cohesive and effective management and
           supervision of project activities by the PCIU. The project made an excellent start in
           establishing the PCIU and its financial and procurement management systems,
           supported by continued high-level of interest by senior MOH officials. However,
           with rising ethnic tensions and civil unrest, the PCIU lost several of its staff,
           including the project coordinator. After reinstatement of disbursements, there was
           more stability in PCIU staff. During the last year of project implementation,
           however, both the Procurement Officer and the Accountant left the project and the
           Project Coordinator with the Administrative Assistant had to assume
           additional responsibilities, which led to delays in the preparation of progress
           reports, including FMRs. A new accountant was recruited six months prior to
           Credit closing, however, given his lack of familiarity with the FM system and
           Bank's FM/disbursement procedures, FM reporting was also delayed. All in all,
           however, the PCIU should be commended for maintaining a high standard of
           project management and ensuring that the project did not collapse during the
           difficult periods of suspension and civil unrest.



                                              14

(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. It reflects the overall Borrower performance.

6.     Lessons Learned

   · Close      coordination     with   development      partners  to    ensure  coherence      and
       complementarity of activities was critical. Establishing strong working relationship with
       development partners, especially AusAID, was key to ensuring pre-financing and
       therefore continuity of priority activities during suspension of disbursements.
   · Financing some training activities and arranging alternative financing during the
       suspension period was essential to keeping the project going.
   · Stakeholders' involvement throughout project life is crucial. Local empowerment for
       planning and implementing locally developed work plans results in greater ownership,
       commitment and transparency.
   · Ownership and dedication by the Project Coordination Committee, which met on a
       regular basis, demonstrated commitment to the objectives of the project and was essential
       to ensuring that the project did not collapse during the lengthy period of instability in the
       country.
   · Learning by doing, experimenting, carrying out small pilots (for example in the use of the
       family health card) and being willing to make mid-course corrections was critical.
   · For planned civil works and major procurement, it is important to start the process early,
       especially in small countries where competition and capacity is limited.
   · A focus on identifying problems and seeking solutions as a coherent, collaborative Bank-
       client team is important for achieving results.
   · Providing continuous guidance in the context of a LICUS/fragile state context is essential.
       Bank supervision has to be more intensive than normal. Adequate supervision resources
       need to be allocated and staff should remain engaged on implementation progress on a
       regular basis to ensure that implementation is proceeding effectively.
   · Engaging an external consultant to provide day-to-day implementation guidance during
       periods when no Bank mission could take place was a proactive way of ensuring
       adequate implementation guidance.
   · The implementation of the HIS has highlighted clear issues that need to be addressed
       going forward, including: (a) how the roles, responsibilities, and accountabilities of
       provincial staff should be defined and clarified to ensure the systematic collection of data
       and improvement in its quality, and (b) what roles and responsibilities central staff should
       have to oversee the process and carry out the data analyses.
   · Ensuring better networking in the provision of health care services among all
       stakeholders, including the Government, communities, churches, NGOs, and
       international development agencies, and encouraging community participation in health
       promotion and delivery are essential to project success.

7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a)    Borrower/implementing agencies

See Annex 7



                                              15

(b)    Cofinanciers

       NA

(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                      16

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                    Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest
           Components                                                             Percentage of
                                      (USD millions)        Estimate (USD
                                                               millions)             Appraisal

IMPROVED REPRODUCTIVE
HEALTH                                         1.88                 1.89                99

IMPROVED MALARIA
CONTROL AND PREVENTION                         1.21                 0.71                57

CAPACITY BUILDING                              0.34                 0.30                88
PROJECT COORDINATION
AND MANAGEMENT                                 0.44                 0.41                91

                                                                    3.31                86
      Total Baseline Cost                      3.87                 3.31                86

Physical Contingencies                         0.190                0.15                0.00

Price Contingencies                            0.34                 0.30                0.00
      Total Project Costs                      4.40                 3.76                85
Project Preparation Fund                       0.00                 0.00                .00
Front-end fee IBRD                             0.00                 0.00                .00
      Total Financing Required                 4.40                 3.76                85

(b) Financing
                                                         Appraisal     Actual/Latest

         Source of Funds                Type of          Estimate        Estimate         % of
                                      Cofinancing          (USD           (USD          Appraisal
                                                         millions)       millions)
International Development
Association (IDA)                                           4.00           3.76            94


  Category of Expenditure              Allocated            Disbursed              Percentage
                                                                                  of Allocated


  1. Works                                906,114            434,210                    48
  2. Goods                              1,057,133           1,119,583                   106
  3. Consulting Services                  739,993             608,799                   82
  4. Training/Studies/Workshops         1,193,050           1,146,001                   96
  5. Incremental Operating Costs           407,751            288,168                   71
  6. Unallocated                          226,528             160,882**
  TOTAL                                 4,530,570*         3,757,642***                 83



* Amount is higher than approved because of currency fluctuations between SDR and US$
** Represents funds remaining in the special account which need to be reimbursed to the Bank
*** Disbursed amount as of April 2, 2007




                                                 17

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

       Component            Planned outputs at Appraisal               Actual outputs at ICR                       Comments
Reproductive Health        (a) adapt and use international       (a) Partogram health guidelines       (d) provincial rural civil works were
                           guidelines and standards              updated/adapted for local use.        not implemented under the project,
(i) upgrade service        (b) supervision checklists, radio     Obstetrics survey form updated.       these civil works have been selected
coverage and quality       consultation, and resources for staff (b) supervisory checklist             as priority works to be financed
                           visits                                introduced; new radio network was     under the proposed AusAID/WB
                           (c) family health card (FHC)          installed.                            SWAp under preparation.
                           (d) upgrade selected facilities       (c) FHC piloted and introduced in
                                                                 Makira and Guadacanal provinces.
                                                                 (d) Midwifery program building,
                                                                 office, dormitory, and two staff
                                                                 houses constructed. Other rural
                                                                 civil works cancelled by MOF.
                                                                 Canoes, outboard motors, medical
                                                                 equipment and supplies for all
                                                                 clinics in Guadacanal and Makira
                                                                 procured.                             Moderately Satisfactory
(ii) increase professional (a) establish Midwifery Training      (a) program established and running   (a) sustainability ensured through
skills                     Program                               successfully; sixty two trainees      funding from MOH. Operating
                           (b) overseas training fellowships for have graduated from the program.      costs included in MOH's 2006 and
                           doctors/nurses                        (b) Eighteen medical/nursing staff 2007 budget. The program is in
                           (c) upgrade distance learning         benefited from training overseas great demand in all provinces.
                           program for nurses                    (see Exhibit 1 of Annex 7).           Moderately Satisfactory
Malaria Prevention and     (a) case detection and treatment      (a) extensive training was provided
Control                    (b) bed nets and focal spraying       to lab technicians in both provinces
                                                                 to be able to more accurately detect
(i) enhanced support to                                          malaria. Many workshops were
malaria activities                                               also carried out for malaria staff and
                                                                 field workers and community
                                                                 leaders to enhance community
                                                                 participation and awareness of the
                                                                 disease burden.
                                                                 (b) bed nets were procured and
                                                                 insecticides to treat bed nets were



                                                                     18

                                                             carried out from 2003-05 (delay due
                                                             to suspension of disbursements
                                                             prior to 2003).                      Moderately Satisfactory
(ii) strengthened       (a) analysis of historical data      (a) computers and related
monitoring and          (b) creation of a supplementary data equipment were procured to support
evaluation              management team                      the existing SI Malaria Information
                        (c) collection of population-based   System (SIMIS). Upgrade of the
                        information                          software for SIMIS was undertaken
                                                             with support of the Global Fund.
                                                             (b) data collectors were engaged in
                                                             Makira to assist malaria staff to
                                                             improve data collection.
                                                             (c) community mapping was
                                                             undertaken in both provinces; this
                                                             proved most useful.                  Moderately Satisfactory
(iii) Pilot specific    (a) post graduate studies of up to 5 (a) two senior research officers
enhancements to the     researchers                          were funded under the project for
national program                                             post-graduate degrees. Two other
                                                             officers funded by other donors for
                                                             post-graduate degrees.               Moderately Satisfactory

(iv) dissemination of   (a) workshop to discuss lessons      (a) and (b) several workshops have   (a) and (b) malaria control is being
results                 learned at MTR                       taken place to discuss progress with supported by the Global Fund
                        (b) national malaria conference at   malaria control. Dissemination of    which has continued and expanded
                        the end of the project               results was undertaken through the   on activities previously supported
                                                             National Malaria Conference in       by the project.
                                                             2004 where a research paper
                                                             commissioned under the project
                                                             was discussed. Findings of the
                                                             research have been used to train
                                                             nurses in both provinces. Although
                                                             other conferences are planned with
                                                             funding from other donors, no
                                                             malaria conference at the end of the
                                                             project was convened.                Moderately Unsatisfactory




                                                                 19

Capacity Building      (a) Development of Health             (a) HIS was designed and is          (a) and (b) AusAID is continuing
                       Information System Development        operating. This activity has been    support for the HIS. After the
(i) Health Planning    (b) Data analysis for planning and    carried out in close collaboration   Australian-funded Health
                       monitoring                            with AusAID.                         Institutional Strengthening Project
                       (c) Project Monitoring and            (b) four data entry clerks and one   is closed, further support is
                       Reporting                             medical statistician have been       expected with funding from the
                                                             funded under the project             SWAp.
                                                             (b) and (c) project monitoring and
                                                             reporting is taking place regularly.
                                                             The project funded extensive
                                                             training of provincial HIS officers
                                                             in the upgraded version of the HIS
                                                             software and provision of
                                                             computers to provinces. As a
                                                             result, there has been an increased
                                                             level of HIS reporting from the      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                             provinces.
(ii) Health Promotion  (a) capacity building on the basis of (a) five staff from the Health       (a) capacity building is a process
                       a needs assessment                    Promotion Division of MOH            that must continue with or without
                       (b) development of communication      received training, including one     support from external funding.
                       strategies                            staff who attended and received a
                       (c) up to 3 pilot initiatives to      certificate for health promotion
                       strengthen coordination with NGOs. from the Fiji School of Medicine.
                                                             (b) and (c) these activities were to
                                                             be supported with assistance from
                                                             the Asian Development Bank, but
                                                             the assistance did not materialize.
                                                             Support for the activities continued
                                                             through funding selective activities
                                                             such as "World AIDS Day" with
                                                             the participation of village health  Moderately Unsatisfactory
                                                             workers and local communities.
                                                                                                  (a) through (d) the project was
Project Coordination   (a) operations of the PCIU            (a) (b) (c) and (d) the PCIU worked  successful in building considerable
and Management         (b) regular meetings of the Project   well under most difficult            capacity for planning, management,
                       Coordination Committee (PCC)          conditions. Functions of FM and      coordination, procurement, and



                                                                 20

(i) Project Coordination (c) semi-annual progress reports   procurement were performed well.     financial management. These
and Implementation Unit  (d) external audits                Project reporting was carried out in capabilities can be put to good use
                                                            a timely manner. Delays with         in future projects and ultimately for
                                                            procurement of civil works were      improvement of the government's
                                                            due to departure of the Procurement  systems more broadly.
                                                            Officer. PCC met on a regular basis PCCs-type committees are
                                                            and played a key role on guiding     established in many
                                                            policy and implementation.           projects/countries, but often they do
                                                            External audits were conducted       not function as well as the PCC has
                                                            annually and reports were            functioned under this project.
                                                            unqualified.                         Moderately Satisfactory
(ii) Baseline, mid-term, (a) obstetric services survey      (a) survey designed and conducted    (a) conducted with delays. The
and final evaluation     (b) analysis of data on morbidity  in Makira and Isabel provinces.      survey was not conducted in
                         and mortality caused by malaria    (b) data on malaria control,         Guadacanal because of the ethnic
                         (c) survey on health service       morbidity, and mortality have been   tensions there.
                         infrastructure                     collected and analyzed on a          (b) carried out on a regular basis.
                                                            monthly basis to establish disease   (c) priority infrastructure has been
                                                            trends and identify strengths and    selected for financing as a result of
                                                            weaknesses of the program.           the survey.
                                                            (c) survey was conducted in 2005 in
                                                            close collaboration with AusAID.
                                                            In 2006 a review report on rural
                                                            clinics was prepared and issued.     Moderately Satisfactory




                                                                21

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)


   No NVP, ERR, or FRR were calculated a priori for the project, and no analyses are available to assess
   them as economic or financial results. However, the PAD presented supporting evidence of
   comparative costs of the investment choices considered.          Annex 4 of the PAD cited a cost-
   effectiveness study of project expenditures in terms of discounted healthy life years (DHLY) for
   Component A (Improved Reproductive Health) and the cost per malaria case averted for
   Component B (Improved Malaria Prevention and Control). The analyses reviewed the rationale for
   investing in learning and development activities to improve reproductive health and reduce malaria
   both during the project period and beyond. It compared the cost-effectiveness of two approaches or
   categories: Category I: strengthening of existing health sector operations; and Category II: learning
   and innovation through analysis of past program performance and piloting of new or enhanced
   methods for reducing the priority health problems.

   Under the assumption of strengthening existing activities, the PAD indicated that the project would
   sustain the Government's achievements for the five-year duration of the project, averting maternal
   and infant deaths at a cost of about US$394 per DHLY gained in comparison to the approximate costs
   of a year of healthy life to the country of US$930 (assuming that the value of a year of healthy life in
   SI is approximately equal to its per capita GDP). Averting malaria was estimated to cost about
   US$5.80 per case, a substantial bargain in comparison to the approximate cost to the country of
   US$465 per case of malaria (assuming each case of malaria costs approximately one half year of
   healthy life). In comparison, the benefits of the learning activities for each component while being
   less certain were estimated to be potentially much higher--the cost per DHLY gained (by averting
   maternal and infant deaths) could be reduced by 44% and the cost of averting a malaria case could be
   reduced by 10% to 20%. The analysis also showed that if benefits accrued under the project were
   retained after project completion, they would improve the efficiency and effectiveness and lower the
   costs of existing reproductive and malaria services.

   Since activities are to be continued after the Credit closing, the benefits derived from the project are
   expected to continue, thus improving the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of these services.




                                                22

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
 (a) Task Team Members
                Names            Title                  Unit           Responsibility/Specialty

  Natasha Beschorner      ICT Policy Spec           CITPO               ICT Policy Specialist

  Thomas Roderick Burkot  Consultant                 EASHD

  Christopher Chamberlin  Consultant                 EASHD

  Janet Hohnen            TL                         EASHD               TTL, Public Health

  Richard Cibulskis       Consultant                 EASHD               Health Information

                          TL/Procurement
  Lingzhi Xu                                         EASHD               Procurement
                          Specialist

  Rekha Menon             TL/Economist               EASHD               Health Economist

  John Malmborg           Consultant                 EASHD               Facilities, Civil Works

  Junxue Chu              Finance Officer            LOAG3               Disbursements

  Robert Cohen            Consultant                 EACNQ               Financial Management

  Janet Nassim            Operations Of.             HDNHE               Operations Specialist

  Silvio Luculescu        Health Specialist          EASHD               Public Health Specialist

  Betty Hanan             Consultant                 EASHD               Implementation Specialist

  Dorothy Judkins         Program Assistant          EASHD              Administrative Support
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                            No. of staff weeks       USD Thousands (including travel
                                                                           and consultant costs)
Lending
   FY99                                                                              71.02
   FY00                                             32                              116.42
   FY01                                                                               0.00
   FY02                                                                               0.00
   FY03                                                                               0.00
   FY04                                                                               0.00
   FY05                                                                               0.00
   FY06                                                                               0.00
   FY07                                                                               0.00

                              Total:                32                              187.44
Supervision/ICR
   FY99                                                                               0.00
   FY00                                              4                               12.02
   FY01                                              9                               42.83
   FY02                                              6                               72.51
   FY03                                              5                               13.48
   FY04                                             15                              117.68
   FY05                                              5                               51.74
   FY06                                              6                               54.65
   FY07                                              7                               60.28

                              Total:                57                              425.19




                                               23

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)
N/A




                                    24

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Together with MOH, the ICR team organized a Stakeholders' Workshop in Honiara with
the participation of: Ministry of Planning; Ministry of Health; Vector Bone Disease Control
Program; School of Nursing; Midwifery School; Provincial Health Directors and staff; and
international partners - UNDP, UNICEF, AusAID, JICA, the World Bank, and the British High
Commission. The objective of the workshop was for the central and provincial authorities to
present the results of the project and lessons learned from project implementation. The Bank
team encouraged an open discussion and recommended participants to measure as far as feasible
outcomes and impact of the project interventions, rather than concentrating only on outputs.

Presentations were made for each project component and sub-component, focusing on
achievements and the remaining challenges. The Permanent Secretary and Project Director
presented an overview of the project, government evaluation of the implementation, and the
National Health Strategic Plan for the next five years. Each presentation was followed by
sessions on questions and answers, where participants openly discussed issues.

Participants acknowledged the successes, the less positive experiences, and the challenges ahead.
They recognized the strong need to draw lessons from this project to inform the development of
future reforms in the sector, especially experiences with the implementation of activities at the
provincial level that could be scaled up to other provinces and in some cases nation-wide.
Issues of ownership and sustainability of activities were openly discussed. One activity under
the project that has been very successful and appreciated by national and provincial authorities
has been the design and implementation of the Midwifery Program, which has accepted students
from all over the country. This program is being continued beyond the Credit closing date with
financing from the Ministry of Health. Allocations have been provided under the Ministry's
2006 and 2007 budgets. At the time of writing this report, the 2007 Program has been initiated
with the participation of 20 trainees.

The Bank team was encouraged by the expressions of commitment by the government to
continue with implementation of several activities once the Bank financial assistance under the
project ends. An anonymous survey was conducted during the workshop to evaluate the quality
of preparation and implementation in terms of both the Borrower's and the Bank's performance.
The results of this survey were incorporated into the rating on the Government's contribution to
the ICR (Annex 7).




                                           25

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

I.      Background

        The Health Sector Development Project (HSDP) has come this far successfully
notwithstanding operational and implementation challenges during its life span. The original
goals and objectives of the Project were "to assist the Government (MHMS) to improve the
health of Solomon Islands people through better maternal care and family planning, more
effective prevention and control of malaria and improving the capacity of MHMS to plan and
manage provincial health programs and mobilize community awareness and participation."
Whilst the original goals remain valid throughout the Project's timeframe, the situation on the
ground undermined the Project's focus in ensuring health sector development that was conducive
to enable better health outcomes through strengthening of the key components of malaria
prevention and control and ensuring better reproductive health services to the mothers and
children of the country.

        The Solomon Islands has come out of a very futile situation as caused by the conflict and
its aftermath impact to the primary health care services delivery of the country. It is evident that
the most active period of the Project has been the period 2004 to 2005. Whilst the Project begun
as a developmental and enhancement of the existing health care services of the country, the
change of focus was imminent as post-conflict rebuilding of the health services. It, in some ways,
re-emphasises the need for continuation and sustaining the Project's activities in the provinces
(especially in Makira and Guadalcanal). HSDP's role in the health development (legitimately)
turned out to be one of post-conflict restructuring, which was enabled with some flexibility by
the World Bank management team with strong focus on the original goals.

        The Government increased efforts in re-construction and re-establishment of health care
services in 2003-2004 and sustained it in 2005. Other donor partners, AusAID in particular, had
rescued the appalling financial situation of the SIG's health sector. The project components
were specific and very sensitive towards the local context. The surrounding milieu caused by
unexpected event did not curtail the project's focus, and the local drive to ensure that malaria
control and reproductive health programs are implemented both at the national and provincial
levels.

        The HSDP has it own challenges faced during the years of implementation. One of these
challenges included maintaining a cohesive and effective management and supervision of project
activities by the Project Implementation and Coordinating Unit (PCIU) at the Ministry of Health.
The PCIU should be commended for maintaining a high standard of project management. The
HSDP ended successfully on a high note, but with mixed results. The level of outputs of the
project is significant and needs close monitoring towards the desired outputs and impact at a
longer term in ten years time.

        Malaria remains a serious health problem worldwide and Solomon Islands is one of 107
countries where malaria transmission occurs. According to the National Health Report 20052,


2Ministry of Health (2006): National Health Report 2005: MOH/HQ


                                                  26

clinical malaria remained very high. In 2005 clinical malaria and fever were responsible for 28%
of acute care attendances. The rate of malaria in pregnancy has remained essentially unchanged
according to one set of data (Health Information System) and has been found to be higher by
another (Solomon Islands Reproductive Health Surveillance System) approximately 8%.
Nonetheless, the level of Malaria infection remains very high.

        Malaria vector control measures have picked up, but need further improvements in terms
of reaching more to the vulnerable people. The Ministry's Household Income Expenditure
Survey (HIES) Report 20063 revealed a variation in the level of use of bed nets by households.
From the study, the number of people who had a mosquito net in the household ranged from a
high of 98.2% in Western Province to a low of 29.2% in Renbel Province.4 Meeting the
challenge of decreasing malaria incidence needs increased community participation and
understanding of malaria control and prevention activities. Improved health outcomes also need
to include timely treatment and early diagnosis.

II.     Introduction

        The aim of the HSDP was to contribute to the Government's goals of improving the
health status of its people and of keeping population growth in line with the national
development aspirations. The objective of the Project is to assist the Ministry of Health to
improve reproductive health and to reduce illness and deaths from malaria through strengthening
essential aspects of the current health programs and a program of specific learning activities to
improve program coverage, effectiveness, acceptability and utilization.

III.    Project Financing

        The credit agreement between the Government of Solomon Islands and the International
Development Association (IDA) was signed on January 27, 2000. The date of effectiveness was
March 9, 2000 and the original credit closing date was December 31, 2004. The credit had one
extension from June 30, 2005 to December 31, 2006. The IDA Credit was for US$4.0 million
equivalent, but because the Credit was expressed in SDRs, the dollar amount at the end of the
project was US$4.51 million.

Project

Project objectives

        The project's development objective was to assist the government to improve health
outcomes of rural communities through strengthening existing reproductive health and malaria




3Ministry of Health (2006) Solomon Islands Household Income Survey Report: Health Module 2005-2006
4In Renbell, malaria is non-endemic which would account for the low coverage




                                                 27

programs, testing new approaches to reducing these problems, and through improved planning,
management and monitoring of priority health programs.

       Progress in achieving the Project's objective was to be assessed using the following key
performance indicators:

Increased proportion of mothers receiving skilled care in pregnancy and childbirth
Increased acceptance of effective contraception
Reduction of hospital admissions and deaths from malaria
Increased use of bed nets for prevention of malaria
Improved health service utilisation in the provinces
Availability of good quality health program reports to stakeholders
Successful completion of the Project's defined learning program, incorporation of results into
national policy and dissemination to non-project areas.

Project Components

       The Project had three substantive Components covering: (A) Improved Reproductive
Health; (B) Improved Malaria Prevention and Control; and (C) Capacity Building in the Ministry
of Health and provincial health services. A fourth Component (D) comprised the Project's
coordination and support activities.

Achievement by Objectives

       The implementation of the Project assisted the Government's initiative to reduce
maternal mortality through increased skill care in pregnancy and childbirth, increase
contraceptive prevalence rates, reduce hospital admissions and deaths from malaria through
increased use of bed nets and community awareness on malaria control and the incorporation of
the Project's results in the areas of reproductive health, malaria and health management
information into national policy.

Outputs by Components

Component 1 - Improved Reproductive Health ­ Usd2.16m

       MOH was to improve provincial health services for reproductive health, with special
attention to the training of medical and nursing staff in-country and overseas, improved clinical
supervision and upgrading of rural health facilities. A new post-basic course for nurse-midwives
was to be piloted, with oversight by a representative committee on midwifery services.
International assessment and monitoring guidelines for reproductive health service quality and
use were to be adapted. An inter-sectoral taskforce with provincial representation was to provide
feedback to MOH on reproductive health matters.




                                             28

1.1     Upgrade Service Coverage and Quality

        The following innovations were to be supported to improve service delivery in
participating provinces: (a) adapt and use international guidelines and standards for assessment
and monitoring of availability and use of obstetric and family planning services; (b) improve
supervision and support of first level workers, through use of supervision checklists, radio
consultation and supplemental resources for staff visits and (c) improve outreach by health
workers through use of a family health card which has been successfully tested in one province.
An inter-sectoral task force was to be set up to improve communication with non-health sector
stakeholders and provincial community leaders.

        The attempt to adopt and adapt international health guidelines and standards such as the
obstetrics survey form, partogram and supervisory checklists for use in clinics and hospitals in
the country got off to a slow start because in the project's initial year, the country experienced
the peak of social unrest mainly affecting Guadalcanal and Honiara. Many, if not all, of the
Ministry's Reproductive Health Division staff involved repatriated themselves back to their
home villages thus suspending the process indefinitely.

a)     Obstetrics Survey Form

        The design of the obstetrics survey form began in late 2001 and was finally first tried in
February 2003 at Isabel Province with later trials being conducted in most of the clinics at
Makira Ulawa Province (MUP), including Kirakira Hospital from June 2 to 13 2003. The
obstetrics survey form was tried in MUP together with the Family Health Card (FHC).

b)     Family Health Card (FHC)

        The piloting of the FHC for the Project was done at Tawaraha AHC on MUP from 26 to
30 May 2003. Training workshops were held to familiarise nurses in the Provinces with this tool.
The main purpose of the FHC was to assist nurses to identify family health problems at home
and provide appropriate advice or counselling in the privacy of the family home. The late
procurement of registration books for the FHCs was a major drawback to the pilot program in the
MUP as it meant the nurses could not complete registration of FHCs after completing them. The
FHC was later piloted in Guadalcanal Province (GP) in 2005 with follow up visits on the nurses
concerned in 2006.

        The printing and distribution of the FHC was delayed due to two reasons. First the
suspension of disbursements meant that the printing of the FHC and its accompanying
registration books had to be put on hold. Second, when the suspension was lifted and the
printing of the registration books were to be reactivated, the printer lost the original template and
when given a copy they were not able to print the book. The registration book then had to be
sent overseas for printing.




                                            29

c)      Partogram

        The partogram was also another standard health guideline that was updated and adapted
for local use under the Project. Nurses throughout the country have been trained in the use of
this obstetrics tool. The partogram was tried at the NRH, Gizo, Kirakira and Kilu'ufi Hospitals.
More partograms were printed for trials, but printing problems at the local press further delayed
the initial distribution effort.

d)      Supervisory Checklists, Staff Visits, Radio Consultations

        There was a delay in the introduction of the updated supervisory checklist as the RHD
felt certain aspects of the newly introduced nursing tool, the Integrated Management of
Childhood Illnesses (IMCI), needed to be incorporated into the supervisory checklist. The RHD
wanted to see final changes to the nursing treatment and management of child survival programs
in the IMCI before amending the supervisory checklist accordingly. This did not happen until
late 2004.

        A new radio network was installed at the MoH HQ under the AusAID funded HISP with
a contribution of eight (8) radios for MUP clinics under the Project. Most clinics in GP and
MUP are now equipped with two-way radios.

e)      Infrastructure (Civil Works)

       Only the midwifery program's civil works was undertaken and completed by end of 2006.
This began in June 2004 and was completed in October 2005.                 Two staff houses, a
classroom/office block and a dormitory were buildings constructed by a local building contractor.
By the end of 2005 four (4) primary health care facilities together with four (4) malaria storage
sheds and two (2) malaria staff houses were earmarked for construction in the year 2006 as part
of the rural health facilities civil works. This did not eventuate, however, due to delays in the
bidding process and the need to re-tender due to first round bids not meeting World Bank
procurement requirements. The bids received after the re-tender period was in excess of initial
Project budget estimates prepared by the Project Officer which led to a further reduction in the
scope of works.        The untimely departure of the Project Officer further exacerbated the
difficulties already experienced by this procurement process and as time was pressing it was
decided to drop the whole rural health facilities civil works altogether in the hope that the
identified facilities will be included as priorities under the new AusAID/World Bank funded
Sector Wide Approach Program (SWAp).

f)      Procurement

        During the course of the Project, canoes and outboard motor engines (OBMs) were
procured for the RHD of MUP and GP, the NMCP in both MUP and GP and the Health
Promotion Division of MUP. This enabled the staff concerned to be able to carry out their
outreach programs, satellite clinics, school visits and work related programs more frequently and




                                             30

regularly weather permitting.       Medical equipment were also procured in late 2005 for
distribution to all clinics on GP and MUP and Kirakira Hospital in MUP.

       There was also procurement for the midwifery program in terms of textbooks, stationery,
teaching aides, furniture and refurbishments for the program's new buildings and computers for
students use.       In 2006 new air-conditioning units were installed in the program's
classroom/office block.

g)     Midwifery Advisory Committee

       A Midwifery Advisory Committee (MAC) was also set up to assist the RHD and the
Ministry in the delivery of the Advanced Diploma in Nursing (Midwifery) training program. It
played a key role in the support of the curriculum developed and also lent support to the final
designs for the obstetric survey form, partogram and supervisory checklist.

h)     Reproductive Health Taskforce

       The Reproductive Health Taskforce was made up of all stakeholders in this Component
to improve communication and dissemination of information with non-health sector stakeholders
and community leaders. Unfortunately this Taskforce did not function as intended as it has only
met once in the five (5) years of the Project.

1.2     Increase Professional Skills Training and Distribution

       Based on a new human resource plan for reproductive health, the Project was to support
an intensive effort to improve midwifery, obstetric and family planning skills. The Project was
to help the School of Nursing in the Solomon Islands College of Higher Education (SICHE) to
establish a midwifery training program, based in the National Referral Hospital and associated
provincial hospitals. Overseas training fellowships were to be provided for medical and nursing
staff. The distance learning program for nurses was to be improved. The Project was also to
support some costs for overseas health staff to fill provincial posts while national officers were
being trained.

a)     Advanced Diploma in Nursing (Midwifery) Training Program

       The midwifery training program (Advanced Diploma in Nursing (Midwifery)) was
piloted in 2001 with seven (7) students and by 2006 had trained a total of 62 midwives. This is
just under the target figure of 83 as stipulated in the PAD. The distribution of student midwives
by province, from 2000 to 2006 is as follows:




                                              31

Malaita Province                                14
Western Province                                11
Makira Ulawa Province                             6
Choiseul Province                                 4
Guadalcanal Province                              5
Isabel Province                                   4
Central Islands Province                          3
Temotu Province                                   1
Renbel Province                                   1
National Referral Hospital                        8
Honiara City Council                              4
Nursing Council                                   1

        As can be seen in the above listing, the two project provinces came well behind Malaita
and Western Provinces and the National Referral Hospital (NRH) in terms of numbers
participating in the training program. MUP sent six (6) whilst GP only sent five (5). This was
due to the fact that some of the applicants for the course from the two provinces did not meet the
academic requirements to take up the study. As such applicant nurses from other provinces and
nursing institutes were given the opportunity to undertake the midwifery program. All awardees
returned to their original postings with the exception of one (1) who left the country to join her
husband working overseas and another who is currently not practicing due to illness.

        The program has had its fair share of problems with regards to teaching staff. This has
not been helped by the high turnover of teaching staff in the program since its inception in 2000.
In the period from 2001 to 2006, a total of nine (9) qualified midwives were selected and
engaged for the four (4) teaching positions offered in the program. During this time six (6) of
the lecturers/tutors resigned at different times for various reasons. Currently there are only two
(2) full-time lecturers/tutors with a third one currently on study leave. The fourth position
remains vacant since July 2006.

b)      Overseas Training

        Over the six (6) years of the Project's life, a number of doctors, nurses and health
workers received skills development training funded by the Project. A comprehensive listing is
given as Exhibit 1. All awardees returned home to resume duties at either their original posting
or were transferred to other health facilities. The doctor who undertook a Master in Obstetrics
and Gynaecology, however, left to work in an overseas hospital after only one year in the
position of Consultant Obstetrician at the NRH. The leader of the midwifery lecturers/tutors
team who returned after completing her Master in Midwifery course also resigned to join her
husband overseas in 2006 after less than a year back at work. Such departures have stretched the
already limited resources at their work places leaving vacancies that are filled due to
circumstantial need and not necessarily merit. The NRH was without a Consultant Obstetrician
for a while and the midwifery training program suffered yet another blow to its ongoing staffing
problems.




                                             32

1.3    Sustainability

       All the activities funded under the sub-component 1.1 "Upgrade Service Coverage and
Quality" have been implemented and continue to be funded for implementation under the RHD's
budget either under its appropriate budget head within the Ministry of Health's or through other
donors funding. The operational costs initially provided by the Project for MUP and GP for
outreach visits, satellite clinics, fuel and transport repairs and maintenance are now part of the
RHD's annual recurrent costs. The cost of administering the midwifery training program has
also been included in the RHD's budget for 2007.

       As all staff trained under the sub-component 1.2 "Increase Professional Skills Training
and Distribution" came from existing positions within the Ministry's staff establishment, there
was no problem with the continuation of their employment at the end of their studies. The
midwifery lecturers/tutors positions have also been transferred to line positions within the
Ministry staff establishment and should be remunerated by the GoSI from 2007. Every year the
human resource plans of each department or division is revised to capture the staff turnover.

1.4    Lessons Learned

   · Efficient coordination of all donor funded health activities within a
       department/division is critical if goals are to be achieved.
   · Stakeholders involvement throughout Project life is crucial.
   · Supporting committees need to be more active.
   · Credit terms can be subject to adverse conditions not necessarily of the Borrower's
       doing.
   · Local printers may not have the capacity to typeset complex forms.
   · Not everyone who has trained and qualified overseas will be happy with their job.
   · Criteria for selecting applicants for training awards set the tone for who receives
       training, therefore, defining selection of applicants in terms of provincial
       representation is a misnomer.

Expect trained and qualified workers to move on to where working conditions and
remuneration are better.




                                               33

                                 EXHIBIT 1. Overseas training awards funded by the Project. 2000 to 2006.


          STUDENT NAME                           COURSE/PROGRAM                              INSTITUTION                 COUNTRY
               Year 2000
Mrs. Rebecca Betty Manehanitai       Advanced Diploma in Nursing (Midwifery)      College of Allied Health Sciences  PNG
Ms. Niumally Tutuo                   Advanced Diploma in Nursing (Midwifery)      College of Allied Health Sciences PNG

               Year 2001
Dr. Kevin Bisili (2001 ­ 2003)       Master Obstetrics & Gynaecology              Fiji School of Medicine            Fiji
Dr. John Kure (did not complete)     Master Obstetrics & Gynaecology              Fiji School of Medicine            Fiji
Mrs. Alberta Veo                     Comprehensive Basic FP Attachment            Jose Fabella Memorial Hospital     Philippines
Mrs. Christina Qotso                 Comprehensive Basic FP Attachment            Jose Fabella Memorial Hospital     Philippines
Ms. Michelle Lumukana                Comprehensive Basic FP Attachment            Jose Fabella Memorial Hospital     Philippines
Mrs. Smyrna Karibongi                Comprehensive Basic FP Attachment            Jose Fabella Memorial Hospital     Philippines
Mrs. Catherine Piuna                 Comprehensive Basic FP Attachment            Jose Fabella Memorial Hospital     Philippines
               Year 2002
Dr. Kevin Bisili (2001 ­ 2003)       Master Obstetrics & Gynaecology              Fiji School of Medicine            Fiji
Mrs. Jessie Larui                    Bachelor of Clinical Nursing (Midwifery)     University of PNG                 PNG
Mrs. Judy Face                       Bachelor of Clinical Nursing (Midwifery)     University of PNG                 PNG
Mrs. Glance Faka                     Bachelor of Clinical Nursing (Midwifery)     University of PNG                 PNG
Mrs. Edna Titiulu (did not complete) Bachelor of Clinical Nursing (Midwifery)     University of PNG                 PNG
               Year 2003
Dr. Kevin Bisili (2001 ­ 2003)       Master Obstetrics & Gynaecology              Fiji School of Medicine            Fiji
Mr. Makiva Tuni (2003 ­ 2004)        Master in Public Health                      Queensland University of Technolog Australia
               Year 2004
Mrs. Betty Bero                      Bachelor of Clinical Nursing (Midwifery)     University of PNG                 PNG
Mrs. Cherrie Galo                    Bachelor of Clinical Nursing (Midwifery)     University of PNG                 PNG
Mrs. Hellen Marau                    Bachelor of Clinical Nursing (Paediatrics)   University of PNG                 PNG




                                                                   34

1.5     Main Factors Affecting Implementation

        The RHD has a lot of its programs funded by donors other than the World Bank;
therefore, competing priorities often lead to oversight of activities to be implemented under the
Component each year by its responsible officers. It was thought the engagement of a Project
Coordinator for the RHD would resolve this situation, but this has not been so due to the fact that
the position has become an accounting post that monitors and disburses donor funding for the
Division rather than coordinating projects and programs on their behalf.

        The MAC and the RH Taskforce have not met regularly as planned and as such have not
actively contributed inputs that would have assisted the Division to effectively participate in the
Project. The frequent disbursement suspensions imposed by the World Bank too contributed
heavily to the disruption of activities for implementation during the years 2000 to 2003.

        There are two factors affecting the smooth implementation of the midwifery training
program. One reflects the high turnover of teaching staff at frequent and short intervals. This
disrupted, to some extent, the comprehensive delivery of the training program. New lecturers
were coming in with no experience in the administration of the program and were, more often
than not, left on their own to carry on where the last lecturer/tutor left off, without support from
previous staff. This high turnover of teaching staff meant critical milestones like the review of
the curriculum and evaluation of the program could not take place.

        The other factor is that it has not been realistic to allow a higher participation of nurses
from the two pilot provinces, MUP and GP, due to the set selection criteria for admission to the
training program. As such training of more midwives for both these two provinces have been
somewhat hampered due to the academic selection criteria. Another factor that stretched the
human resource plan was the issue of doctors, nurses and health workers that returned after their
training for a short stint at their post only to move on to bigger and better jobs overseas, leaving
gaps in their work positions.

2.      Improved Malaria Prevention And Control ­ USD1.35m

        This Component was to help fill funding gaps in the National Malaria Control Program
(NMCP) while analysing past experience and testing ways to improve the cost effectiveness of
the Program. There were four sub-components: (i) enhanced support to a basic package of
malaria control activities; (ii) strengthened monitoring and evaluation of malaria control in
coordination with the MOH monitoring and evaluation efforts; (iii) pilots of specific
enhancements of the malaria program in five groups of villages; and (iv) dissemination of results
for policy and Program improvements.




                                             35

Improved Malaria Prevention and Control sub-components

2.1:    Enhanced support to malaria control activities

        The Project provided support for key activities of the successful malaria control program
in participating provinces, including case detection and treatment, provision of bed nets and focal
spraying to reduce mosquito populations. An intersectoral task force was set up to improve
communication with non-health sector stakeholders and provincial community leaders.

a)    Case detection and treatment

        The training of community microscopists for each Province was a strategy used by the
Vector Borne Diseases Control Program (VBDCP) to improve case detection and treatment of
the malaria disease. In the past, patients turning up at clinics with fever were treated on the
presumption that they had malaria. Community microscopists, however, would be able to assess
the fever accurately so that nurses can treat patients who have malaria accordingly and correctly.
In the early years of the Project many of the microscopists trained were from MUP. In later
years, however, participants came mainly from GP.               The training of community based
microscopists has not only increased data collection for malaria, but has also meant a more
accurate analysis of data collected can be done. The tables below give some indication of the
key malaria performance indicators for this Component over the period 1999 to 20065.

        The decline may be insignificant, but at best it can be said that the increased participation
of community based microscopists mean there are more data collected now than in the past.
Other workshops for malaria staff and malaria field workers and the community leaders (chiefs,
men, women, youth) they worked with were also held in the years 2001 to 2004 in the Program's
efforts to improve and enhance community participation and awareness of the disease burden.
The workshops were funded by the Project and were on topics geared towards community
awareness and education on malaria prevention and control.




5Submitted by Chief Medical Statistician, Ministry of Health, 22 November 2006.



                                           36

 Malaria Indicators                                        1999  2003  2004 2005   2006
 Malaria Control Program
 1. OPD with clinically defined malaria/1000
   National                                                288.6 367.9 347.1 343.1 283.4
   GP                                                      298.1 347.3 373.0 370.2 251.6
   MUP                                                     300.7 472.2 508.4 486.6 443.2
 2. Slide diagnosed malaria/1000 population
   National                                                156.1 204.3 196.1 162.1 na
   GP                                                      224.6 299.5 382.7 238.0 126.4
   MUP                                                     68.4  137.4 174.1 173.3 63.4*
 Notes: National data 2006 not available
         Figures for 2006 - 2nd Quarter

 3. Deaths from malaria per 1,000 population
   National                                                0.22  0.35  0.69  0.28  0.09
   GP                                                      0.20  0.26  0.26  0.26  0.18
   MUP                                                     0.42  1.64  0.58  0.53  0.19
 Note: hospital data is lacking

b)   Bed nets and focal spraying

       Procurement of bed nets and insecticides for use in the re-treatment of bed nets were
done in the years 2003 to 2005 given the suspension of disbursements from 2001 to early 2003.
In both Provinces, this activity has been implemented but more effectively on GP due to more
stable management in this particular province. Staff management problems in MUP hindered
effective progress of bed net distribution and focal spraying in that Province.

       In addition to the procurement and distribution of bed nets, the construction of storage
sheds and malaria staff houses for MUP was to be undertaken, but had to be shelved due to
limited time and budget.

c)   Inter-sectoral Taskforce

       Two inter-sectoral taskforce meetings were held in Kirakira, MUP over the life of the
Project. These meetings, however, involved stakeholders who were based in that Province.
Only one taskforce meeting was held for stakeholders on Guadalcanal in early December 2005
due initially to the volatile situation in that province from 2000 to 2003.




                                             37

DATA/INDICATORS ­ GUADALCANAL PROVINCE                              2004       2005
Population                                                          64,969     65,951
Annual Incidence rate per 1,000 population                            406         314
Number slide examination                                            53,756     50,817
Number of malaria cases                                             26,382     20,718
Percentage of P. falciparum (%)                                       80.2      79.9
Slide positivity rate (%)                                             49.1      40.8
Malaria mortality rate per 100,000 population                         4.6       27.3
Infant malaria rate (%)                                              41.4       35.4
Number of nets treated per year                                     5,467      14,000
Treated mosquito net coverage by target population (%)                 39          42
Number of persons protected by house spraying                       9,404      19,380
Proportion of population covered by ITN and house spraying (%)         30          60

DATA/INDICATORS ­ MAKIRA ULAWA PROVINCE                             2004      2005
Population                                                          35,488    36,459
Annual Incidence rate per 1,000 population                             169        181
Number of PCD slides examined                                       22,478    26,613
Number of PCD slides positives                                       5,983     6,586
Percentage of P. falciparum -PFR (%)                                  47.6      30.6
Slide Positivity rate -SPR (%)                                        26.6     24.7
Malaria mortality rate per 100,000 population                          5.6         0
Infant malaria rate -IPR (%)                                          16.5     20.2
Number of nets treated per year                                     3,685      8,978
Number of persons protected by house spraying                       3,423     10,295
Proportion of population covered by ITN or house spraying or both (% 25.2      65.2

2:2    Strengthened Monitoring and Evaluation

       The Project was to strengthen the ability of the NMCP to use information to manage its
program, in coordination with other MOH monitoring and evaluation initiatives and to learn
more about individual, household and community aspects of malaria control.           The sub-
component included: (a) analysis of historical data, (b) creation of a supplementary data
management team, and (c) collection of population-based information about behaviour and
attitudes relevant to malaria control.

a)     Analysis of historical data

       An existing Solomon Islands Malaria Information System (SIMIS) also received
assistance under the Project with the provision of two computer sets and accessories solely for
the use of SIMIS for GP and MUP. The upgrade and further development of the software for
SIMIS was undertaken by the Global Fund.




                                           38

b)     Creation of a supplementary data management team

       Data collectors were engaged in MUP to assist the malaria staff at Kirakira to improve on
their data collection.    This activity was funded between 2000 and 2004 and led to an
improvement in data collection in that Province.

c)     Collection of population based information

       Between 2000 and 2001 community mapping was undertaken in both MUP and GP, but
not so extensively in the latter province due to the unstable situation on Guadalcanal at that time.
Collection of population based information for GP was finalised in 2002 to 2003. This proved
crucial for the VBDCP as its aim is to improve community participation in the malaria
prevention and control program and to have communities have a sense of ownership of the
programs and activities being implemented.


2.3    Pilots of Specific Enhancement of NMCP

       To improve knowledge of malaria control, the Project was to test up to five
enhancements to the current control program. The studies were to be conducted in a program of
international post graduate study for up to five eligible local professional staff, with oversight of
the MOH Research and Ethics Committee.

a)   Overseas Postgraduate Research and Training

       A Senior Research Officer, Solomon Islands Medical Training & Research Institute,
(SIMTRI) was sent on a one year Master in Public Health program at the Queensland University
of Technology (QUT), Australia in 2003. His research was on malaria in pregnancy. The
research was done in the Marovo Lagoon area of Western Province. The research paper also led
to malaria staff holding workshops with nurses in both MUP and GP on malaria in pregnant
women. This has been an innovation not undertaken previously and has also given both groups
of health workers the opportunity to update each other on treatment protocol for malaria.

       A second officer opted to undertake a Post Grad. Diploma in Public Health at the Fiji
School of Medicine (FSM) in 2004, but the program went beyond the intended one year period
of study. Project management decided that with competing priorities, the funding for this
officer's training would have to cease in 2005. The officer has continued her training with
funding assistance from the World Health Organisation (WHO).

       Two other research topics that were also supposed to be funded under the Project were
taken up by other funding agencies.




                                           39

2.4     Dissemination of Results for Policy and Program Improvements

        The Project was to finance dissemination of information of study findings at two stages:
(a) a workshop roughly at the halfway point in the Project, to discuss lessons learned to date, and
decide on province wide expansion of the best performing enhancements; and (b) at the end of
the Project, when results will be disseminated to national stakeholders through a national malaria
conference and related activities and publications, and to international audiences through articles
and conference presentations.

        This particular sub-component has not been fully implemented. However, in the Annual
National Malaria Conference in 2004 the research paper on malaria in pregnancy undertaken as
one of the research postgraduate studies sponsored by the Project was presented. The findings of
this research were later used to train nurses in both Provinces on how to handle severe malaria
cases especially in pregnant women.

2.5     Sustainability

        Post graduate training opportunities in the field of research and training have been
available outside of the Project. Other staff from the SIMTRI have had the chance to undertake
postgraduate training through other donors such as scholarships from Taiwan.        As mentioned
above, one of the SIMTRI staff undertaking studies at the FSM in Suva, Fiji has had her
sponsorship continued by WHO.

        These activities have been incorporated into the VBDCP operational plan for 2007 with
budget allocations in the Ministry of Health's annual budget. Other aspects of the Component
have been taken on board by Rotary Against Malaria (RAM) especially on GP. The Global Fund
is to assist those other provinces like MUP and GP whose financial support from aid donors or
funding agencies, for example, the SIHSDP ceases.

2.6     Lessons Learned

    · Inter-sectoral Taskforce Committees must be strengthened and maintained.
    · Staff management issues must be resolved.
    · Data collection and analysis must be rigorously tested given increased staffing and field
        worker trainings.
    · Not everyone undertaking research studies may return to the work place.
    · Individuals undertaking postgraduate studies need to properly identify course structure
        and research fields before taking up studies.

2.7     Main Factors Affecting Implementation

        On GP, the main factor affecting implementation of malaria prevention and control
activities has been years of social unrest that meant malaria field staff could not access most if
not all parts of rural Guadalcanal. In MUP, serious staff management issues created ineffectual




                                          40

leadership of the malaria prevention and control program there leading to impediment of
progress in the implementation of activities and flaws in reporting data.

       Another factor affecting implementation was the fact that it took time to convince
individuals to undertake postgraduate studies at institutions they perhaps were not to willing to
attend. Ironing out differences and difficulties in intended research fields with the proposed
educational institutions added to the delay in securing places for individuals in postgraduate
studies thus all identified training did not happen in the early years of the Project.

3.     Capacity Building ­ USD0.37 M

       To support the current public sector reform and reinforce the impact and sustainability of
the priority programs, the Project was to help increase the capacity of the MOH and participating
provinces in: (a) health planning and management, with emphasis on (i) the health management
information system, (ii) monitoring, evaluation and research, and (iii) donor coordination; and
(b) health promotion and education, with emphasis on improved effectiveness of health
promotion in the priority program areas, and testing ways to improve outreach and community
participation.




                                             41

3.1     Health Planning

        This Component was to improve MOH capacity in relation to the health sector as a whole
and also in relation to the Project itself. It was to assist MOH to use its data to inform key
stakeholders and to promote accountability in service delivery. The Project was to support
activities to: (a) improve the development and use of the health management information system
(HMIS), (b) monitor and evaluate both routine and special programs and initiatives, and (c)
coordinate support from donors and other development partners.

a)    Improve the Development and Use of the HMIS

        Progress was made towards engaging a local HIS consultant to develop software to
upgrade the then current HIS. The Project stopped short of funding the IT consultant as AusAID
decided to take on the activity together with that of improving the National Referral Hospital
(NRH) information system. Staffing for the HIS Unit was improved with the employment of
four data entry clerks and one Medical Statistician Specialist under the Project.

b)    Monitor and evaluate both routine and special programs and initiatives

        The Project funded the training of provincial HIS officers in the upgraded version of the
newly developed HIS software and provided computers to all provinces concerned for this
purpose. There has been an increased level of HIS reporting from all provinces since the training
happened which is encouraging.

c)    Coordinate support from donors and other development partners

        The position of Donor Coordination Officer in the Ministry's Planning Unit was never
filled as requested in the PAD. Despite this, efforts were made at the Ministry's Executive level,
through the Project Director, to coordinate support from donors and other development partners
especially with the development and upgrade of the HMIS and the HIS which the Health
Institutional Strengthening Project (HISP), funded by AusAID eventually funded.

3.1.1 Sustainability

        Three data entry clerk positions and one medical statistician specialist position initially
funded by the Project have been transferred by mid 2005 to line positions within the Ministry's
established employment structure. Only one other data entry clerk position continued to be
funded under the Project from 2005 to 2006.

3.1.2 Lessons Learned

    · Finding an IT Specialist to develop and upgrade existing HIS software has been an
        almost impossible task




                                           42

3.1.3 Main Factors Affecting Implementation

        One of the main factors affecting implementation of this sub-component was that of the
extreme difficulty in identifying an IT Specialist who could expertly handle the upgrade of the
existing HIS software. A local IT Specialist was engaged (funded by HISP), but the software
developed had initial teething problems and still has. Despite these difficulties, the HIS Unit
continues to produce monthly and annual reports.

        Another factor affecting implementation was the incapability of the Ministry's Planning
Unit to effectively monitor and evaluate the Project's progress due to staffing problems in the
Unit. Over the duration of the Project, there were only two staff in the Unit; the Director and a
Human Resources Officer. Additional human resources were only engaged by the Ministry in
2006.

3.2     Health Promotion

        The health promotion function in the reorganised Ministry of Health was to be assisted
through: (i) essential capacity building based on a comprehensive performance review and needs
assessment in the first six months of the Project. It was expected to include improved planning
procedures, technical assistance, training and some equipment; (ii) development and
implementation of communication strategies to support Components A and B, and (iii)
implementation of up to three (3) pilot initiatives to strengthen coordination with local NGOs
and increase community participation in improving the utilisation of health programs.

        As indicated in Exhibit 1, five (5) staff from the Health Promotion Division of the
Ministry of Health benefited in training financially supported by the Project.

3.2.1 Sustainability

        Like the rest of the Components, this sub-component has transferred most of the
operational costs supported by the Project to its budget under the Ministry. It is not clear
whether the performance review will still be carried out or not.

3.2.2 Lessons Learned

    · The process of engaging international technical advisors can be riddled with unexpected
        problems.

3.2.3 Main Factors Affecting Implementation

        The major factor affecting implementation of this sub-component was the failure to
instigate the structural and performance review of the Health Promotion Division. If this
important activity was carried out there would have been a more clearer vision for the Division
hence more appropriate and relevant training of staff undertaken.             Initially the Asian
Development Bank was interested in assisting this sub-component, but when all plans fell



                                           43

through, the sub-component became an ad hoc piece to Component C. As such, support for this
sub-component was in the form of funding once a year activities like "World AIDS Day" only
with ad hoc support for the training of village health workers.

4.    Project Coordination And Management ­ USD0.52m

       A Project Coordination and Implementation Unit (PCIU) was established in the Planning
Unit of the Ministry of Health to provide Project support functions and liaise with implementing
units within the Ministry and provinces. The Unit was responsible for financial management,
non-technical procurement functions and support to implementing units for activities funded by
the Project. The Unit served as the Secretariat for the Project Coordination Committee (PCC)
and the Project Director and handled communications with the World Bank.

4.1    Financial Management

       The Project's financial management system was designed around the four main
components of the Project with their set activities. The expenditure was divided into five (5)
categories namely civil works, goods and equipment, consultants' services, training and
incremental operating costs. Large value procurements in civil works, goods and equipment,
training and consultants' services were also included in these categories.

       The financial management system further comprised five main components: 1) the
commitment system; 2) the payment system; 3) the accounting system; 4) the drawdown system
and 5) the reporting system. Official stationery used in the system were existing forms from
both the Solomon Islands Government and the IDA. The system established manual registers
and files and only managed to translate the commitments ledger in 2003 to electronic form.
       Monthly, quarterly and annual financial reporting was regularly undertaken by the Project
Accounting Officer with assistance from the Project Officer and the Project Coordinator.

4.2    Procurement Functions

       The procurement functions of the Project were guided by World Bank standard
guidelines on procurement of goods and selection of consultants.            These were read in
conjunction with the SIG's financial instructions. Due to the fact that in the early years of the
Project the Central Tender Board was practically non-existent, the PCIU relied heavily on the
World Bank standard guidelines for its procurement functions.

4.3    Support to Implementing Units

       The main support given to implementing units was the coordination of annual work plans
and requests for payments towards each of the four (4) Components set activities according to
the work plans each year. The PCIU also provided much guidance in terms of decision making
for each of these Components and their sub-components especially when bottle neck situations
arose. Often the PCIU found it had to play a leading role when it came to decisions affecting
more than implementing units.




                                           44

4.4      Project Coordination Committee (PCC) Meetings

         The PCIU also provided secretariat support to the Project Coordination Committee (PCC)
which met regularly up to 2005. In 2006 only two PCC meetings were held before the final
close in December. These meetings guided the Project through difficult times and were a
measure of keeping the Project on track.

4.5      Specific Component Feedback
4.5.1 Component A

         The obstetrics services survey was supposed to be carried out in the first year of the
Project, but this unfortunately did not happen due to various reasons, the main one being the
social unrest prevailing in the country during the inception year. An obstetrics services survey
was, however, carried out in late December 2005 at Aola on Guadalcanal Province by the
Reproductive Health Division of that province. The aim of this survey was to assess why more
than 50% of pregnant women chose to deliver their babies at home rather than in the clinics
under supervised assistance.

         The survey was done through individual interviews using a questionnaire. Trained
survey assistants carried out the survey. Of the total 80 individuals interviewed 40 were men
whilst the other 40 were women. The survey was carried out over a period of 14 days from 12 to
20 December 2005.

4.5.2 Component B

         Data on malaria control, morbidity and mortality has been collected and analysed on a
monthly basis to establish disease trends and the effectiveness of the malaria control operations
of the VBDCP. Since the year 2000, there have been monthly, quarterly, some times six-
monthly reports and annual reports produced by the VBDCP not only on the disease trends, but
also on the weaknesses and strengths of the malaria control operations in both Guadalcanal and
Makira Ulawa Provinces. As such, today the VBDCP has been able to regularly report on the
reduction of malaria morbidity and mortality in each of these provinces each year.            The
reductions may be slight, but this indication alone allows the Program to evaluate and
appropriately strengthen its control program in both provinces each year.

4.5.3 Component C

         A survey of health services infrastructure was conducted in 2005 by the Ministry of
Health's AusAID-funded Health Institutional Strengthening Project's (HISP) Infrastructure
Advisor. In May 2006 a review report6 on rural health clinics (RHCs) was prepared for the
Ministry outlining the general state of the 115 RHCs throughout the country. It was found that
the size of the RHCs were adequate except that they lacked space for public health care activities



6Primary Health Care Infrastructure Review ­ Part 2: Rural Health Clinics, Prepared by JTA
International for Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID), May 2006




                                                  45

such as ante-natal classes for example. Delivery rooms were often too small and poorly planned
whilst overcrowding in the outpatient departments were a concern. There was also lack of
storage space in the RHCs.

        The report went on to state that the building condition of more than half the RHCs
reviewed was poor or dilapidated due to lack of regular maintenance, white ant infestation and
old age. Water supply, sanitation, infection control and waste disposal services were also
insufficient. The provision of lighting to these clinics was also poor.

        Each clinic assessed by the review was measured against the utilisation benchmarks7 and
on this basis was rated as having met or exceeded the benchmark for their current designation
(AHC, RHC, or NAP). If this was unclear, it was stated. PHC clinic utilisation of 232 clinics
was compared with the utilisation benchmarks. Of these, 95 (41%) were assessed as meeting one
or more benchmarks, 33 (14%) exceeded the benchmarks for current designation, 55 (24%) met
no benchmarks and for 49 (21%) the situation was unclear.

        A small number of clinics were very poorly utilised and should be considered for closure
as they do not appear to be sufficiently isolated to maintain a full time clinical service.
Identification (tables) and discussion of clinics failing to meet or exceeding benchmarks are
included in the main document.

        Two (2) clinics reached the upgrade criteria for mini hospital (both in Malaita), four (4)
RHCs met the upgrade criteria to AHC (all in Malaita). An additional four (4) were approaching
the AHC upgrade criteria (2 Malaita clinics, 1 Central and 1 in Western. 52% of clinics
exceeding benchmarks are in Malaita province. 78% of clinics identified for upgrade from RHC
to AHC or AHC to mini hospital are also in Malaita.

4.6     Sustainability

        As the Project has come to an end, there is no longer the need to keep the PCIU
functioning. However, it is timely to consider that due to the fact that there are many projects
running concurrently within the Ministry, such a Unit should be maintained within the Planning
Division especially for monitoring and evaluation purposes; an aspect that is lacking within the
Ministry's Planning Division thus making it difficult for the Ministry to evaluate its projects on a
regular and timely basis.

4.7     Lessons Learned

    · Not all staff engaged will have the necessary skills/knowledge to work as a team.
    · Multi-skilling is important and crucial given the short-term nature of projects.


7Primary Source for the Clinic Utilization from: HISP/MOH 2006: in the Solomon Islands National Health
Review ­ February 2006




                                                 46

   · It is better to delegate existing staff rather than employ new staff if only months remain
       before closing project.
   · Skills development workshops to enhance and strengthen staff decision making important.
   · Communications between Ministry and project management need to be improved.
   · Regular stakeholders meetings must be encouraged.
   · Monitoring and evaluation critical to effective delivery of projects.

4.8    Main Factors Affecting Implementation

       The main factor affecting implementation of the Project was the on-and-off-again
suspension of disbursement funding from 2001 to 2003. This set the Project back a couple of
years and disrupted the general flow of activities for implementation. It also caused Project
management to place greater emphasis on training putting the implementation of much needed
rural health facilities on the back burner. This is one of the several reasons for why the rural
health facilities never got off the ground at all. High staff turnover especially in the last year of
the Project also contributed to a less efficient closing of the Project's accounts and disrupted the
process of rural health facilities civil works.

4.9    Bank and Borrower's Performance

a) Bank Performance

During Project Preparation - Satisfactory

During Project Implementation (supervision) ­ Satisfactory

b) Borrower Performance

During Project Preparation ­ Satisfactory

During Project Implementation ­ Satisfactory




                                            47

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Comments from AusAID

Overall the project contributed to improvements in reproductive health outcomes in Solomon
Islands through its support to the midwifery training program and resources for increased
reproductive health outreach service to rural communities. Provincial Health Advisers supported
the project rollout where possible in the provinces. The eventual cancellation of the rural civil
works component of the project, in particular the rehabilitation of clinics in Makira and
Guadalcanal was a great disappointment to the MoH who had raised the expectations of these
developments in local communities, and have no resources to cover this deficit.




                                          48

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Bank Reports

Aide Memoires, management letters during project preparation and appraisal
Project Concept Note (January 21, 1999)
Minutes of PCN (February 9, 1999)
Project Information Document (January 21, 1999)
Appraisal Completion Note (October 14, 1999)
Invitation to Negotiations (October 16, 1999)
Minutes of Negotiations (October 20, 1999)
BTO of Appraisal/Negotiations mission (October 31, 1999)
Status of Negotiations (October 25, 1999)
Project Appraisal Document (December 9, 1999)
Development Credit Agreement (January 27, 2000)
Aide Memoires, management letters, PSRs/ISRs (sequence 1 ­ 15 from June 2000 to
December 2006)
Joint ADB/World Bank Assessment Report (October 2003)
Mid-Term Review Aide Memoire (June 15, 2004)
Letters to government (2000 ­ 2006)
ICR for Education Project

Government Reports

Project Implementation Plan (September 17, 1999)
Government letter confirming fulfillment of Board conditions (November 30, 1999)
Semi-annual Government Progress Reports (2000-2006)
National Health Strategic Plan (2006-2010)
Health Status Reports
Results of various surveys
Borrower's Completion Report (February 18, 2007)
Borrower's contribution to the ICR for the Education Project


UN Reports


Human Development Report 2002
Common Country Assessment ­ April 2002




                                           49

                156°E                              158°E                              160°E                                         162°E                     164°E               166°E                       168°E                 170°E


                     PAPUA                                                     Ontong Java Atoll

             NEW GUINEA

           6°S                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6°S

                                                                              Roncador Reef

                               CHOISEUL
                            Taro Island
                                      Choiseul                                                                                                             SOUTH       PACIFIC
                        Sasamungga                                                                                                                                                                                 SOLOMON
             Shortla n dIs.                                                                                                                                        OCEAN
                                      Luti                                                        M A L A I TA                                                                                                      ISLANDS
             Mono            N e w
                                                                       ISABEL
                Vella Lavella   SosoloG e o r g iVaghena     Kia


                                                 a                       Santa Isabel
                                  Kolombangara
           8°S                                       S o u n d                                          Dai
                       Kundu                                                                                                                                                                                                            8°S
                   Ranongga                                                       Buala
                                Gizo      New Georgia           Dadale
                                                Hapai
             New Georgia                                                              Tatamba
                                                        Vangunu        San Jorge                               Daringali
                  Group         Rendova       Seghe

                                       Tetepare          Nggatokae                                       Auki
                                                                           CENTRAL                                Malaita
                                                                                             Florida Is.
                              W E S T E R N                   Russell Is.           Tulagi
                                                                                                        Su'u
                                                                        Maravova
                                                                                                 Tutumu                   Tarapaina
                                                                     Guadalcanal           HONIARA                            Maramasike
                                       Solomon                     Mt. Makarakomburu
                                                                             (2,447 m)                                                    Ulawa
                                                                                                            Paruru                                                                                  Duff Is.
           10°S                                                                            Avu Avu                                                                                                                                     10°S
                                            Sea                              GUADALCANAL                                 Heuru               M A K I R A                                Reef Is.
                                                                                                                                      Kirakira                           Tinakula
                                                                                                                 Apaora                      San Cristobal                         Noka
                                                                                                                                                                            Lata     Nendo
                                                                                                                            Mwaniwowo
                                                                                                                                                                              Santa Cruz Islands     T E M O T U
               0        50    100     150 Kilometers
                                                                            Bellona           RENNELL AND                                                                                  Utupua
                                                                                           Tigoa     BELLONA                                                                                                                    Anuta
               0            50         100          150 Miles                                                                                                                             Vana    Vanikolo
                                                                                      Rennell          Tinggoa                                                                                                                    Fatutaka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12°S
                156°E                              158°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Tikopia

                                                                                                      Indespensable
                                                                                                      Reefs
                       SOLOMON
                           ISLANDS
                                                                                                                  Coral                        Sea

                               SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                    VANUATU
                                                                           14°S                                                                                                                                                        14°S
                               PROVINCE CAPITALS

                               NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD
MARCH                          MAIN ROADS
                                                                             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                               PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                             shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                      33482
     2005                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                      Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                    164°E               166°E                       168°E                 170°E

