Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3313-SOL
Development Credit Agreement
(Health Sector Development Project)
between
SOLOMON ISLANDS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 27, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3313-SOL
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 27, 2000, between SOLOMON ISLANDS (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
Page  2
1997) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing January 
1 and ending December 31;
(b)
“MHMS” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health and Medical Services, and 
any successor thereto;
(c)
“National Referral Hospital” means the Borrower’s hospital in Honiara;
(d)
“Participating Province” mean a province selected by the Borrower, in 
agreement with the Association, to participate in the Project;
(e)
“PCC” means the Project Coordination Committee;
(f)
“PCIU” means the Project Coordination and Implementation Unit; and
(g)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to three million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
Page  3
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each January 1 and July 1 commencing July 1, 2010 and ending January 1, 2040. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on January 1, 2020 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semi-annual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MHMS with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, engineering, environmental, financial and health 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall take all steps required to include in its budget for each Fiscal 
Year, commencing Fiscal Year 2000 and until completion of the Project, the funds 
required for the Project for such Fiscal Year. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
Page  4
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
 Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of 
this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section for such year as so 
audited; and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such 
audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association 
may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report 
for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
Page  5
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
December 31, 2000, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) 
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for 
the Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by 
said report; and 
(B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit 
during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period 
covered by 
said report;
(ii)
(A) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report; and
(B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely that the Borrower has allocated in MHMS’s budget 
for FY2000, the required Project counter-part funds for such year.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as the 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Department of Finance
Page  6
P. O. Box 26
Honiara, Solomon Islands
Telex:
(778) Bokolo HQP66320
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
SOLOMON ISLANDS
By /s/ Rex S. Horoi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/  Klaus Rohland
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works 
   600,000
80%
(2)
Goods
   700,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
95% of local 
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(3)
Consultants’
   490,000
100%
Page  7
services
(4)
Training, studies
   790,000
100%
and workshops 
(5)
Incremental operating
   270,000
100% 
costs
(6)
Unallocated
 
   150,000
TOTAL
 3,000,000 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means expenditures for travel and 
subsistence allowances for MHMS and Project staff and Project participants for Project 
management, project implementation and supervision activities; and office consumables, 
supplies, and communication expenditures for the PCIU;
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
150,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before 
that date but after October 31, 1999.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) contracts for civil 
works costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (ii) contracts for goods costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent each; (iii) incremental operating costs; (iv) training, 
studies, and workshops; and (v) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
valued at less than $100,000 equivalent each and contracts for the employment of 
individuals valued at less than $50,000 equivalent each; all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to improve high priority 
health conditions through capacity building and the development of new approaches to 
improve program management and increase community awareness and participation.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Improved Reproductive Health
1.
Upgrading of service delivery in Participating Provinces through: (i) the 
introduction of international guidelines and standards for assessment and monitoring, 
improved supervision of health workers, and improved outreach by health workers; (ii) 
the construction and upgrading of selected health centers, construction of staff 
housing for community health staff, and provision of vehicles, medical equipment, 
communications equipment, and selected medical supplies and drugs; (iii) the carrying 
out of pilot activities to involve community members and relevant agencies in the 
improvement of maternal care and family planning awareness and utilization; and (iv) 
the establishment and support of an intersectoral task force for reproductive health.
2.
Strengthening of midwifery, obstetrics, and family planning and management 
Page  8
skills through: (i) the provision, on a pilot basis, of enhanced midwifery training at 
the National Referral Hospital and affiliated clinical facilities, including 
construction of training facilities at the National Referral Hospital; (ii) the 
provision of overseas training for medical and nursing staff; (iii) the improvement of 
in-service programs in reproductive health, program management and program supervision 
for nurses and other health workers; and (iv) technical assistance. 
Part B:
Improved Malaria Prevention and Control
1.
Upgrading of malaria control activities through: (i) improved provision of bed 
nets and focal spraying to reduce mosquito populations; (ii) training and supervision 
of health workers to improve detection and management of malaria cases; (iii) 
activities to improve health promotion and community participation in malaria 
prevention and control; (iv) construction, in remote locations, of housing for malaria 
program staff, and storage facilities for malaria program equipment and supplies, and 
provision of vehicles; and (v) establishment and support of an intersectoral task 
force for malaria prevention and control. 
2.
Strengthening the monitoring and evaluation activities of the malaria control 
program, including carrying out of analysis of individual, household and community 
aspects of malaria prevention and control.
3.
Provision of professional training for staff of the Borrower’s National Malaria 
Control Program and carrying out of studies to test the enhancements to such program.
4.
Dissemination of policy conclusions on enhancements to Borrower’s National 
Malaria Control Program through, among others, workshops, a national malaria 
conference, and publications.
Part C:
Capacity Building 
1.
Strengthening the planning capacity of MHMS and Participating Provinces through: 
(i) the development and implementation of a health management information system, 
including provision of hardware and software; (ii) the strengthening of monitoring and 
evaluation of routine and special programs and initiatives, including technical 
assistance; (iii) the strengthening of MHMS’s National Health Planning Unit through 
provision of technical assistance; and (iv) the establishment of procedures for the 
coordination of support from donors and other development partners, including the 
carrying out of planning and review workshops, seminars and dissemination activities.
2.
Construction of office space for MHMS’s National Health Planning Unit in MHMS’s 
main building in Honiara.
3.
Strengthening the health promotion and education capacity of MHMS and 
Participating Provinces through: (i) capacity building based on a performance review 
and needs assesssment, including technical assistance, training of key health staff 
and community members, and provision of training equipment; (ii) development and 
implementation of communication strategies targeting families and other stakeholders 
to support the activities to improve maternal care, family planning and malaria 
prevention and control; and (iii) carrying out of pilot activities to test ways to: 
(A) improve coordination among MHMS and provincial health staff and local governments, 
non-governmental organizations and community groups; and (B) increase community 
participation in the improvement of delivery and utilization of health programs.  
*          *          *          *          *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Page  9
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999; and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in paragraph 5 below, civil works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. Bidders for civil works shall be prequalified in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Except as provided in paragraphs 3 and 4 below, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles, medical equipment, medical supplies and drugs may be procured from 
United Nations’ agencies, including the World Health Organization, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully. Bidders for civil works shall be 
prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or more, and the first contract for works in each Participating Province, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or more, the first two contracts for goods to be awarded on the basis of 
Page  10
international shopping procedures, and the first two contracts for goods to be awarded 
on the basis of national shopping procedures, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract 
under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation 
of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
copy of the specifications and the 
draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, and (b) the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for design and supervision of civil works under Parts A.1 (ii), A.2 
(i), B.1 (iii) and C.2 of the Project, and for strategy development for health 
promotion under Part C.3 (ii) of the Project, shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Except as provided in paragraph 1 above, services for technical assistance under 
Parts A.1, A.2, B, C.1 and C.3 of the Project and technical assistance for Project 
management shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and each contract for the 
employment of design and supervision consultants for civil works, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Page  11
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project:
(a)
a Project Coordination Committee in MHMS with membership and terms of 
reference acceptable to the Association, including a Project Director and 
representatives of the Department of Finance and the Department of Development 
Planning;
(b)
a Project Coordination and Implementation Unit in the Planning Unit of 
MHMS, with competent staff in adequate numbers, including: (i) a Project Coordinator; 
(ii) a Project Implementation Officer; (iii) a Project Accountant; and (iv) a 
Provincial Project Officer; and
(c)
qualified staff in the following positions in MHMS: (i) project officer 
in the Reproductive Health Unit; (ii) project officer in the National Malaria Control 
Program; (iii) chief statistician in the Planning Unit, and (iv) donor coordination 
officer in the Planning Unit.
2.
The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project, provide each province, on a 
monthly basis, commencing January 2000, with the monthly allocations in the Borrower’s 
budget for provincial health services, wages and malaria control activities.
3.
In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain the 
inter-sectoral task force for maternal care and family planning and the inter-sectoral 
task force for malaria prevention and control with terms of reference and membership 
acceptable to the Association, and shall ensure that such task forces hold meetings at 
least once a year, commencing March 1, 2000.
4.
The Borrower shall select Participating Provinces in agreement with the 
Association and in accordance with criteria agreed with the Association.
5.
In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall, by October 31 in each year, 
commencing October 31, 2000, and until completion of the Project, furnish to the 
Association for review and approval an annual work plan for the following Fiscal Year, 
and shall permit the Association to seek the views of bilateral and multilateral 
donors on such proposed annual work plan.
6.
Without limitations to Section 9.06 of the General Conditions, the Borrower 
shall prepare semi-annual Project progress reports, under terms of reference 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association such reports by April 30 
and October 31, in each year, commencing April 30, 2000, and until completion of the 
Project.
7.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
5 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about June 30, 2002, a report integrating the 
Page  12
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by September 30, 2002, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association's views on the 
matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Performance Indicators
The following performance and monitoring indicators shall be used for the 
purposes of paragraph 7 (a) of Schedule 4 of this Agreement and shall be included in 
the semi-annual progress reports to be provided under paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 of 
this Agreement. 
Part A.
Improved Reproductive Health:
1. 
Supervised delivery rate.
Formula: Deliveries supervised by nurse or doctor, at home, clinic or 
hospital/expected number of births (from census).  
Source: Hospital records in first year, then Hospital Management Information System 
(HMIS).
2. 
Proportion of pregnant mothers having at least one antenatal visit. 
Formula: First antenatal visits/expected births.  Source: HMIS.
3. 
Proportion of women of reproductive age currently accepting an effective method 
of family planning.
Formula: Current acceptors/(estimated number women 15-49).
Source: HMIS; also surveys included in pilot programs.
Part B.
Improved Malaria Control and Prevention
4. 
Incidence of clinically defined malaria (outpatients).
Source: HMIS (with training and guidelines in Year 1 to improve data quality).
5. 
Hospital/clinic admissions for malaria.
6.  
Incidence of slide diagnosed malaria (all types).
Source: Solomon Islands Malaria Information System (SIMIS).
7. 
Incidence of slide diagnosed Plasmodium falciparum.
Source: SIMIS. 
8. 
Use of adequately impregnated bed nets.
Source: SIMIS on new and retreated nets;  (confirm use by survey.).
9. 
Proportion of houses sprayed in the last year.  Source: SIMIS.
Part C.
Capacity Building
 
Page  13
10. 
Health service productivity and utilization: daily case load per health worker.
Formula: Number of cases seen/number of professional health staff.
Source: HMIS and inventory of facilities.
11. 
Availability of good quality provincial health program reports to stakeholders.
Formula:  Annual summary of health service indicators derived from routine information 
systems (with reporting rates exceeding 80%) and circulated to national and provincial 
managers, elected representatives and community groups.
Policy 
12.
Meetings of task forces (at least once each year; reports received).
13.
Health budget, summary data, (see Development Credit Agreement, paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 4). 
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $200,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $100,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to para\1fgraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have 
Page  14
requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  15
