Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13954-SU
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1639-SU)
FEBRUARY 5, 1995
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perform2ndt of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
At Appraisal:      Sudanese Pound (LSd) 1.0 = US$ 0.4 (official)
At Completion     Sudanese Pound (LSd) 10.0 = 1 Dinar
Dinar 1.0 = US$ 0.026
Sudanese Pound (LSd) 1.0   US$ 0.0026
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Feddan = 0.42 hectare (ha)
Kantar (seed cotton) = 141.5 kg
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Government of Sudan: The Islamic calendar year
IDA:        July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APCs    Agricultural Production Corporations in the Irrigated Sector
ARC      Agricultural Research Corporation
ARETP   Agricultural Research, Extension and Training Project
AVRDC  Asia Vegetable Research and Development Centre
CIMMYT International Maize and Wheat Improvement Centre
EFUC    Executive and Follow-up Unit for Construction
FAS      Faculty of Agricultural Sciences
FEA      Federal Extension Administration (formerly National)
GOS      Government of Sudan
GRP      Gezira Rehabilitation Project
GRS      Gezira Research Station
ICARDA  International Centre for Agricultural Research in Dry Areas
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
ICRISAT International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-arid Tropics
IDA      International Development Association
IPM      Integrated Pest Management
MFEP    Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MOA      Ministry of Agriculture
MOI      Ministry of Irrigation
MTR      Mid-Term Review
NHAPC  New Halfa Agricultural Production Corporation
PBS      Program Budgetary System
PMU      Project Management Unit
PSC      Project Steering Committee
RAPC    Rahad Agricultural Production Corporation
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
T&V      Training and Visit Extension System
TA       Technical Assistance
UG       University of Gezira
WB       World Bank



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING
(Cr. 1639-SU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface . ......................................... i
Evaluation  Summary     ..........................................   ii
Part I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SUMMARY   .....................  1
A. Objectives ........................................... 1
B. Achievement of Objectives  .................................... 2
Research .........................................    4
Extension  .........................................   4
TA and Training Objectives  ..........              .....................  6
Physical Implementation  ... ..............................  7
Economic and Financial Objectives ...........................  7
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project  .........               .....................  7
D. Project Sustainability.                  ....................................... 8
E. Bank Performance  .........................................   8
F. Borrower Performance .......................................  9
G. Assessment of Outcome ....................................... 9
H. Future Operations  .........................................  9
I. Key Lessons Learnt ......................................... 10
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
APPENDICES
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire
B.   Project Benefits
Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| of ficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.l






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
(Cr. 1639-SU)
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Research,
Extension and Training Project (ARETP) for which Credit 1639-SU in the amount of SDR 20.8
million (US$ 22.0 million equivalent) was approved on March 10, 1986 and became effective
on December 10, 1986.
2.    The credit was closed on June 30, 1993. The last disbursement transaction was effected
on August 31, 1994, at which time the Bank completed the recovery of the Special Account;
the outstanding balance of SDR 4.3 million of the Credit was cancelled earlier. There was no
co-financing for this project.
3.    The ICR was prepared by FAO/CP1/ and staff of the Agriculture and Environment
Operations Division (AF2AE), Eastern Africa Department, and was reviewed by Ms. S.
Ganguly, Division Chief, AF2AE, and Mr. S. Agarwal, Project Adviser, AF2. The report is
based on material in the project files as well as findings of the FAO completion mission which
visited Sudan in 1994. As the Project Management Unit (PMU) of ARETP had been disbanded,
project documentation and project performance/progress reports were unavailable from the field,
and the ICR mission had to face some difficulties in obtaining project related infonnation. In
view of the disintegration of the PMU, the Borrower could not provide its own evaluation of the
project's performance. However, the Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
providing input to the Aide Memoire drafted by the FAO/CP completion mission.
1/ The Aide Memoire prepared exclusively by the FAO/CP Completion Mission (attached herewith
as Appendix A), may not completely mirror the Implementation Completion Report's findings and
key lessons learned, since the ICR reflects the subsequent input made by various Bank staff (to the
draft prepared by FAO/CP).



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
(Cr. 1639-SU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1. Introduction. The Bank Group's assistance strategy with respect to the Sudanese agriculture sector
focused on the objective of rehabilitation of irrigated agriculture, along with improvements in the
infrastructure and services for the sector. The Bank support for the agricultural sector in Sudan thus
included, seven irrigation, three rainfed mechanization, two livestock and ten area/ agricultural
rehabilitation projects. Additionally, Bank support for an Agricultural Research Project was approved
in 1978. The preceding Bank supported rehabilitation projects, were effective in restoring seriously
declining yields in the project area, improving the management of Agricultural Production Corporations
(APCs), and introducing policies which resulted in improved incentives for farmers.
2. Project Objectives. The Agricultural Research, Extension and Training Project (ARETP) was well
conceived and its objectives were attainable within the country context; it focused on the "core" activities
necessary to: (a) consolidate the achievements of previous Bank interventions; and (b) encourage the
development potential of Sudan's agriculture sector. ARETP, thus, aimed to improve the performance
of the irrigated subsector through the introduction of improved and sustainable management practices,
supported by strengthened and reorganized research and extension services, and comprehensive training
at all staff levels. The importance of strengthening the technological base to provide relevant extension
messages aimed at achieving immediate results and benefits was stressed. Project risks were also clearly
identified. The commitment of the extension officers to the T&V system, and the responsiveness /
flexibility of research workers in addressing practical, field-level production problems were recognized
as potential problem areas.
3.  In order to achieve these objectives, the project supported: (i) strengthening agricultural research
policy and programs through the Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC) and five regional research
stations in the irrigated areas; (ii)  reorganization and strengthening of the Federal Extension
Authority (FEA); (iii) the introduction of an agricultural extension service, based on the T&V system,
at the Rahad and New Halfa APCs; and (iv) strengthening the in-service training capabilities of University
of Gezira (UG). In recognition of the overall institutional weakness of the sector, covenants were included
in the legal documents, which required the Government of Sudan (GOS) to establish the necessary
management structure within which the project would be implemented. It was agreed that a Project
Management Unit (PMU) be established as the official entity responsible for ARETP's timely execution.
4. Implementation Experience and Results. The Credit in the amount of SDR 20.8 million was
approved on March 10, 1986 and became effective in December 1986. ARETP was to be implemented
over a period of 6 years. Initial implementation was slow, due to delays in procurement and in release
of GOS funding. By July 1993, there was an undisbursed credit balance of about 20%; this shortfall
resulted primarily from below target expenditures in the vehicles and equipment, research grants and
operating cost categories. A request for extension of credit closing date (from GOS) was not approved
by IDA. The remaining credit balance of SDR 4.3 million was cancelled on October 25, 1993.
5.  The project was largely successful in achieving its research objectives. Much progress has been
made in the strengthening of the research stations in the irrigated subsector, and improving the quality
and direction of their research programs. The research outputs consist of strengthening the existing crop



iii
improvement programs through the identification and development of new cultivars and improvement in
production technologies. The release of new cultivars of cotton, sorghum, wheat and groundnut and the
formulation of improved cultural practices which were adopted, resulted in significant increases in farm
yields -- particularly, for sorghum and groundnuts. Five new varieties of cotton, with improved resistance
to Fusarium wilt and moisture stress were produced, and three have been released for commercial
production. Hybrid sorghum, is being developed, while the development of Striga resistant varieties and
their release for commercial production has been accomplished. The project expanded the existing wheat
research activities, and three new wheat varieties have been released. Additionally, groundnut cultivars,
tolerant to insects and diseases, were released for commercial production. Improved crop management
practices, related to transplanting, fertilizer application and irrigation, also resulted in significant increases
in the acreage under vegetables. A substantial level of effective collaboration with several International
Agricultural Research Centres (IARCS) was also promoted under the aegis of the project. Efforts to
develop the research and extension linkages, at Rahad and New Haifa APCs, through on-farm trials and
the UG pilot research farm were successful. Recommendations/ messages extended had broad acceptance
by the farmers, and the adoption rate over the project area has been assessed at 60 percent (for crops
other than cotton). The objective of integrating livestock into the farming system and promoting forage
legumes in the rotation pattern did not, however, receive sufficient attention under ARETP; furthermore,
nearly all the sub-projects (for conducting priority research / improving farming-systems), proposed for
financing under the research grant scheme were rejected. ARC has, however, subsequently adopted the
concept, and future budgetary allocations for field operations are expected to be based on composite
research programs to be submitted by research teams. ARETP strengthened ARC's management capability
and redirected its field programs to adequately service the requirements of farmers.
6. The FEA was reorganized under ARETP to assume a central advisory role for extension planning,
supervision, in-service training and production of extension materials. A strong commitment to the T&V
extension management system was built up in the FEA management corps, largely through short overseas
visits to successful research and extension projects. The project's extension component, utilizing the T&V
system, was nevertheless established gradually, on the basis of the delivery capacity of the extension
service. Not all field inspectors (attached to the APCs), were transferred to the extension service. Only
those who demonstrated a commitment to the system were selected. Additionally, the extension
management system was designed to be flexible. The system operated on availability of practical advice
generated (and requiring dissemination), rather than a regimented schedule of fixed visits. Messages were
transmitted only when their technical content had been fully tested; thus, effective research/extension
linkage was developed. The messages delivered concentrated on the promotion of low-cost cultural
practices and improved cultivars. Extension was successfully carried out through informal farmer groups,
which promoted a wider sense of ownership and acceptance. Effective extension coverage at both Rahad
and New Halfa was in place by project completion; in this context it should be noted that, prior to
ARETP, there was no formal extension system in the irrigated areas. The major constraint limiting
adoption of improved practices, is the frequent inability of the APCs to deliver services and inputs in a
timely manner.
7.   Less than 50% of the technical assistance (TA) proposed at appraisal was utilized. This shortfall
in actual TA was primarily due to the following reasons: the planned TA, to support research on general
agronomic inputs, was considered unnecessary by the Steering Committee (SC) and was not recruited.
In many cases, suitable consultants could not be identified, or the performance of consultants retained was
considered inadequate (as in the case of the proposed FEA extension/training TA). A total of 336 staff
from the project agencies received training under ARETP (excluding short-term training provided at the
UG to another 500 field inspectors, technicians and farmers). The program exceeded the SAR estimate
(a total of 248 staff) by about 35%. The short-term training program at UG, however, was constrained
by the delays in construction of facilities at the University. Local in-service training was carried out
satisfactorily. Provision was also made for post-graduate training of 10-15 staff/annually (at UG), to
address the shortage of agricultural economists and farm management specialists. However, as the
university had no training capability in economics, this program became contingent upon the return of



iv
graduates trained overseas, and could not be implemented properly. A faculty of extension studies was
established at UG in 1992. Although, the project-supported construction program was subjected to delays
resulting from ineffective administration of contracts and slow release of GOS funds, the overall
completion rate of civil works is significant (about 80 percent). By project completion, the Bank had fully
disbursed its share of the civil works component, and Government had committed to completing all
remaining works.
8.  The key factor which adversely affected project performance was the inability of the steering
committee/PMU to approve operating plans, budgets and generally coordinate the agreed activities of the
implementing agencies. This administrative deficiency was never fully rectified during the project period,
despite the continuous efforts made by the Bank supervision missions to improve the situation. The key
successes of the project - initiation of a sustainable extension service supported by well-directed adaptive
field trials and IPM research - were largely achieved without the direct involvement of the PMU. The
commitment demonstrated by the APCs' management and key staff of the other entities involved in
project implementation, is however, both positive and encouraging with regards to future operations.
9.  IDA's performance, particularly in the area of provision of general and technical support and
guidance, was quite sound. The pre-implementation project support activities, i.e. promotion, briefing
and training of implementing agencies' staff helped generate serious commitment to the reorganization
and strengthening of extension and research activities in the irrigated subsector. The project was prepared
by a local Government team, and Sudanese ownership of the project was, therefore, established from the
very start. The project design was uncomplicated; its objectives were well-defined and realistic, and risks
were clearly identified. Input of the twelve supervision missions, mounted over the project life, assisted
in alleviating procurement bottlenecks and facilitating the release of funds to various project entities.
However, in retrospect, project implementation experience also suggests that IDA should have been more
resolute in confronting the Borrower on the deficiencies in execution, through measures, such as,
developing and monitoring agreed Action Plans. The Borrower's performance and commitment at
preparation was satisfactory. However, the performance of the PMU, and the SC (responsible for
coordination of project implementation), proved to be inadequate. Despite numerous assurances (provided
to the Bank staff), no corrective actions were taken. The achievements of the project must thus be
attributed to the individual performance of the implementing entities, and to the high quality of research
and extension managers.
10.   The overall outcome of the project may be deemed satisfactory. ARETP supported institutional
strengthening through provision of training, TA, physical infrastructure, transport and equipment;
additionally, it activated and supported the introduction of effective research programming and the
development of technologies which have been accepted by farmers. The project was largely successful
in achieving its research objectives, and much progress has been made in the strengthening of the research
stations in the irrigated subsector, and improving the quality and direction of their research programs.
Prior to ARETP, there was no formal extension system in the irrigated areas. The successful introduction
of the T&V system for managing extension and the progressive spread of extension coverage throughout
the area is a notable achievement of ARETP. Efforts to develop the research and extension linkage
through on-farm trials and the pilot research farm were successful. On-farm testing and demonstration
of improved varieties, and development and application of optimal production technologies were also
supported under the project. The uptake rate of extension messages in the project area, is estimated at
some 60 percent for crops other than cotton. Cotton yields at farm trials increased by 20-30 percent;
however, due to declining farm-gate prices for cotton, the recommendations for improved cultivation
practices, were not adopted. The adoption of an improved technology package resulted in increasing the
average yields of wheat (20 percent), sorghum (60 percent) and groundnut (30-40 percent), through some
six years of research and extension efforts. Training was provided to over 830 (predominantly technical)
staff under the project. However, the training program in agricultural economics and farm management
(emphasized at appraisal), could not function smoothly, due to the lack of instructors.



v
11.  With regard to the future direction of agricultural research and extension activities, the National
Agricultural Development Plan was approved in June 1992. As a result, the first draft of the research
strategy for the 1990s and beyond was prepared in April 1993. A draft report on extension policy and
strategy has also been completed. The future operations of the project are likely to be restricted to the
current areas of Rahad and New Halfa, which cover some 20% of the irrigated area of Sudan. Further
financial support will be necessary to expand coverage. While the basic institutional modus operandi is
well established at Rahad and New Haifa schemes, there is a reluctance in Gezira and the Nile pump
schemes to commit the necessary funds to introduce the T&V system. There is an apparent need for a
follow-up project to cover all irrigated areas. Such a project should include a specific research program
directed to addressing the white fly problem afflicting the cotton crop; effective resolution of this problem
could result in substantial growth in the subsector's export earnings.
12.  With regard to sustainability of the activities initiated under ARETP, the technical support from
various IARCS should continue to complement the national research program. However, discontinued
external support, coupled with inadequate national financial support, would have a long-term, detrimental
impact, by contributing to the isolation of Sudan's national agricultural research system from neighboring
systems and the international community. On the other hand, the continued commitment of the
implementing agencies, and the reinforced institutional capacity of the research and extension services,
combined  with  the privatization  (of farmer services, e.g., input supplies, crop  marketing,
research/extension services' cost sharing by beneficiaries) policy adopted by Government, would all help
contribute to the sustainability of the project. Annual incremental operating costs, of both research and
extension services, during project implementation have been estimated at about 8% of the incremental
annual farm revenue. Presently, an agreement at New Halfa/Rahad ensures that APCs and farmers
contribute financially to help sustain the extension services; they already provide financial support to the
two research stations. In view of the clear farmer support for ARETP's extension activities, full or at
least partial recovery of costs appears to be an option which would be seriously considered by the APCs
and farmers' unions. Continuation of farmer support/contribution, would ensure the sustainability of the
project at current levels of operation. Project activities are therefore likely to be sustainable.
13.  The key findings and lessons of ARETP were as follows: (i)short overseas visits to successful
research/ extension projects helped develop managerial commitment to the T&V approach, and may have
been more beneficial than formal training in methodologies; (ii) a notable achievement of ARETP was
the significant level of effective collaboration with several IARCS; (iii) the project's extension componenit.
was established gradually, on the basis of the delivery capacity of the extension service. Only those field
inspectors who demonstrated a commitment to the system were transferred to the extension service.
Additionally, the extension system was designed to be flexible. Messages were transmitted only when
their technical content had been fully tested; thus, effective research/extension linkage was developed.
Extension was successfully carried out through informal farmer groups, which promoted a wider sense
of ownership and acceptability; (iv) another notable achievement, relates to the attempts at cOst
recovery/sharing by project beneficiaries (APCs and farmers), at New Halfa and Rahad; (v) the prolilnms
arising in ARETP's implementation should have been analyzed and prompt corrective action waken to
address these issues; and (vi) in retrospect, a general but crucial lesson relates to the combinled impact
of Bank-assisted agricultural research projects, focusing on the irrigated sub-sector. During the latter
years of ARETP (exclusively for "irrigated" agriculture) implementation, the "dryland" research ceiier's
in Sudan received virtually no financial support. The broad experience with sub-sectoral prrojects sucl
as ARETP, shows the importance of examining the needs of the national research ancl extension s stems,
including both, the irrigated and the rainfed sub-sectors, and arranging/designing time-slice financinig ot
high-priority expenditures to support the national program.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
(CR. 1639-SU)
Part I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SUMMARY
A. Objectives
1.  The Bank Group's assistance strategy with respect to the Sudanese agriculture sector focused on the
objective of rehabilitation of irrigated agriculture, along with improvements in the infrastructure and
services for the sector. The Bank support for the agricultural sector in Sudan thus included, seven
irrigation, three rainfed mechanization, two livestock and ten area/ agricultural rehabilitation projects.
Additionally, Bank support for an Agricultural Research Project was approved in 1978. In particular, the
irrigation rehabilitation and the Agricultural Research (Cr. 834-SU) projects were instrumental in
maximizing agriculture's contribution to exports and reducing the level of food imports. The Agricultural
Production Corporations' (APCs) management capacity was improved, and Government policies which
resulted in improved incentives for farmers, were also introduced.
2.  With the intensification and diversification of crop rotations, however, problems related to soil
fertility, water distribution and drainage, and crop pests arose. Additionally, crop intensification and
fertilizer and pesticide application increased, and fluctuations in labor usage emerged. There was a clearly
identified need to develop and extend improved crop management practices; more cost-effective input
usage levels; and to involve tenants in management decisions. This required strengthening of the support
services and the development of farmers' technical skills. The need to consolidate the achievements made
through the earlier rehabilitation projects, and to address the key issues specified above, resulted in the
formulation of the Agricultural Research, Extension and Training Project (ARETP).
3.  ARETP's basic objectives were to address the technical and management problems related to crop
intensification, and to develop the skills of the farmer support services to respond effectively to these
problems. More specifically, the Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC) was to be strengthened, and
an extension service following the Training and Visit (T&V) management system was to be introduced.
The T&V system would be operated by APC inspectors, whose role would become advisory in nature,
rather than regulatory. The Federal (formerly National) Extension Administration (FEA) was to be
revitalized to provide regular and continual guidance and information support services. The project
objectives were clearly articulated, and complemented the Bank's support for the expansion and
stabilization of agricultural production in the irrigated areas, thereby increasing foreign exchange
earnings, food supplies and strengthening the economy of Sudan.
4.  The technological base was to be strengthened over a six-year period. Additionally, the research
effort was to be redirected to provide extension messages for achieving more relevant, immediate results
and benefits. More attention was to be given to the incremental costs and benefits of improving the
farming systems and the integration of livestock in the largely crop production system. The overall
reorganization and strengthening of the farmer support system was to be accomplished in part through
comprehensive training at all levels. The University of Gezira (UG) was given the responsibility for
developing and implementing an appropriate training program.
5.  In order to achieve these objectives, the project supported: (i) strengthening agricultural research,
by financing: civil works, vehicles, farm machinery, laboratory equipment, technical assistance (TA) and
training, a research grant scheme and incremental operating costs, of the ARC and five regional research
stations in the irrigated areas; (ii) reorganization and strengthening of the FEA through financing civil
works (offices), equipment, vehicles, TA, training and incremental operating costs; (iii) upgrading the



2
skills of field inspectors and establishment of an agricultural extension service (based on the T&V
management approach) at Rahad and New Haifa APCs, through financing: civil works, vehicles,
equipment, training and incremental operating costs; (iv) strengthening the in-service training capabilities
of UG, through institutional strengthening, vehicles, training and laboratory equipment, training programs
and improvements to the university demonstration/ research farm; and (v) the establishment of a Project
Management Unit (PMU).
6.  The project was well conceived; it focused on the "core" activities necessary to: (a) consolidate the
achievements of previous Bank interventions; and (b) encourage the development potential of the
agriculture sector (particularly, the irrigated subsector) of Sudan. Considerable efforts were made at pre-
appraisal stage to develop an understanding of the project concept and potential benefits which could
accrue through the proposed redirection of research and extension, and improved linkages between the
two. Early commitment to the project was generated within the management ranks of the implementing
agencies (which had been identified to implement the proposed project), through comprehensive briefings
and overseas study-tours.
7.  The project risks were clearly identified (and appear to be universally applicable to research/
extension projects). The potential problems of the development of functional links between the five
support entities were highlighted, with a view to promoting close supervision and monitoring. To
minimize the risk of inadequate coordination between the various institutions involved in the project, a
centralized mechanism was established, whereby coordination of the program was vested in a Steering
Committee and a PMU. Inadequate attention to extension activities (in part due to resistance from APCs'
management on transferring extension work to the inspector cadre), and the responsiveness / relevance
of the research being financed by ARETP in addressing basic production problems, were also recognized
as potential problem areas.
B. Achievement of Objectives
8. Research. The project was largely successful in achieving its research objectives. Much progress
has been made in the strengthening of the research stations in the irrigated subsector, and improving the
quality and direction of their research programs. The research outputs consist of strengthening the existing
crop improvement programs through the identification and development of new cultivars and improvement
in production technologies. Efforts to develop the research and extension linkage through on-farm trials
and the pilot research farm were successful. Although ARETP cannot claim the entire credit for these
achievements (as some of the breeding programs were already operational), the project did provide the
necessary support to accelerate these ongoing breeding programs. On-farm testing and demonstration of
improved varieties, and development and application of the optimum production technologies were also
supported under the project. Effective collaboration with several International Agricultural Research
Centres (IARCS) such as, the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-arid Tropics
(ICRISAT), International Maize and Wheat Improvement Centre (CIMMYT), Asia Vegetable Research
and Development Centre (AVRDC), International Service for National Agricultural Research (ISNAR),
was also promoted under the aegis of the project.
9.  Cotton: The cotton breeding program aimed to develop high-yielding, superior lint quality and
disease-resistant varieties. Five new varieties of cotton, with improved resistance to Fusarium wilt and
moisture stress (Barakat 90, Sudan Pima, Tayiba-1, Barac-2 and Nuba 90) were produced, and three have
been released for commercial production. Agronomic research on tillage, nutrient management, irrigation
frequency and pest management were carried out at Gezira and Rahad research stations. The positive
results of these studies were used in refining the package of production technology which resulted in
improved yields in on-farm trials. Significant benefits have resulted from the Integrated Pest Management
Program (IPM)Z/. IPM has led to a reduction in spraying frequency, thus, lowering the cost of cotton
2/  A collaborative program with FAO/Govemment of Netherlands.



3
production3/, increasing farmers' incomes and having a beneficial effect on the environment. Cotton
yields at farm trials increased by 20-30%; however, due to declining farm-gate prices for cotton, the
reconmmendations for improved cultivation practices, were not adopted. Synthesis of new major B-gene
combinations for bacterial blight or breeding of varieties resistant to white fly and American bollworm
were however, not carried out as proposed in the SAR.
10. Sorghum: The research program on sorghum focused on both open-pollinated varieties and hybrids.
The breeding material generated from local efforts, as well as from ICRISAT breeding nurseries, was
evaluated through multi-location trials at Gezira, Rahad and New Halfa. This led to the development of
Striga resistant varieties and their release for commercial production. Development of hybrid sorghum,
using male sterility, is also in progress. Research on rate and method of nitrogen application, plant
densities and frequency of irrigation has produced yields of 3 to 4 t/ha on the research farm, compared
with average farmer yield of 1.67 t/ha (Appendix B, Table 2). Insect and sorghum disease management
research was also carried out during the project period. The results obtained were incorporated in refining
the package of production technologies which were evaluated at the farm level, resulting in
recommendations for improved cultural practices. Over six years of research and extension efforts, yield
increases of over 60 percent have been achieved at farm level (Appendix B, Table 2). The research on
weed control (as proposed in the SAR) was, however, not carried out.
11. Wheat: The project supported and expanded the existing wheat research activities at New Halfa and
Hudeiba. Significant progress was made in the development of an improved package of production
technology alternatives for traditional and new production areas. In pilot demonstration plots at Gezira,
average wheat yields of 4.25 t/ha were attained as against an average farmer yield of 1.24 t/ha (Appendix
B, Table 2). This was achieved through improvement in tillage practices; optimum planting date, nitrogen
rate and method of application; and frequency of irrigation and insect control. Three wheat varieties
(Debeira, Wadi El Neil and Condor) have been released. The adoption of the new package of technology
alternatives by farmers increased wheat yields by nearly 20 percent over the six-year (project) period
(Appendix B, Table 2).
12. Groundnut: The on-going groundnut breeding program was supplemented with the introduction of
germplasm from ICRISAT and the United States. After multi-location testing, two cultivars (Kratz and
Medani) were released for commercial production. These cultivars are tolerant to insects and diseases.
Crop management studies on date of planting, seed rate, weed control, nutrient and water management
were carried out to develop an optimum production technology for irrigated areas. The practice of green
ridging resulted in boosting groundnut production, and yield increases of 3040 percent have been
demonstrated at farm-level (Appendix B, Table 2). Timely planting and appropriate irrigation has been
shown to reduce the incidence of Aflatoxin.
13. Horticultural crops: Research concentrated on vegetable crops, although activities to cover fruit
crops (bananas and citrus) were also planned at appraisal. Tomato crop improvement concentrated
primarily on the selection of insect and disease-resistant cultivars with good fruit quality. Through short-
term training and visits to AVRDC, in Taiwan, Republic of China, the vegetable research program was
strengthened both in research techniques and collection of improved germplasm of tomatoes, onions,
cabbages and green peppers. Improved crop management practices, related to transplanting, fertilizer
application and irrigation were introduced, and significant increases in the acreage under vegetables have
resulted. Development of a production system for off-season tomatoes was successfully introduced in the
Gezira scheme. Research on fruit crops (citrus and bananas) and post-harvest technology was not carried
out, due to lower priorities accorded to these within the limited research capacity. In the Gezira scheme,
the present recorded area under vegetables (43,000 feddans) has doubled since 1985. While this increase
3/  These findings are now being confirmed through block testing.



4
is largely due to better prices, marketing outlets and farmers' initiative, the project has provided
significant support to growers, by way of research and extension services.
14. Socio-economic and farning systems research: ARETP established a socio-economic unit at ARC
to develop the capability to analyze crop production data. Though farming system research was planned
at appraisal, it was not implemented. The formation of a farming system unit to conduct diagnostic
surveys to focus research on addressing farmers' problems would have been of valuable assistance in the
formulation of subsequent research programs.
15. Pasture and Forage Crops: Research and demonstration related to the effects of forage/legumes;
the widening of existing rotations to cater for the integration of livestock; and improvement in farm
income and fertility were all included in the project objectives. In view of the fact that, there are
over 300,000 livestock units on the irrigation schemes (40 percent of farmers are livestock owners), it
is difficult to accept that all livestock-related research proposals submitted for funding under the research
grant were not approved by the steering committee. The specific reasons for the rejection of all livestock
related research proposals were not readily available.
16. Institutional strengthening: The project strengthened the ARC's management capability, providing
a research management specialist to advise on restructuring its activities. The research program at ARC
is now under overall control of a Director-General, assisted by a Deputy, a Director for Administration
and Finance, and a Director for Training and Publication. The Deputy is responsible for management of
research programs. Each research program is led by a coordinator who is responsible for fund allocation
for each activity in the program. Key research personnel and station directors were trained in research
planning, management and administration of research finance. A new Program Budgeting System (PBS)
was introduced, with the assistance of ISNAR, to enable researchers, managers, ARC management and
decision-makers to improve effectiveness in the allocation and management of financial resources.
17. Research grant Scheme: The introduction of a research grant scheme (US$ 1.6 million) provided
the means through which priority research issues could be financed, by involving multi-disciplinary
research teams. The research grant scheme also specifically included support for conducting surveys on
costs of production, as a criterion for developing crop rotations and recommendations for producer prices.
Considerable efforts were made at appraisal to develop the criteria for the selection of research proposals,
and a comprehensive review of possible topics was undertaken. The research grant sub-component
however, was not implemented effectively, due to many factors, including: (i) inadequate instructions to
research workers on procedures to be followed; (ii) no guidance by ARC in developing acceptable
proposals in line with the agreed criteria; and (iii) the review procedures (agreed with the steering
committee) were lengthy and resulted in serious delays. Practically all submissions made were discarded,
with no explanation or opportunities given for redrafting the proposals. Adequate attention (to this issue)
was not accorded by Bank supervision missions, and no remedial action was taken to address these
bottlenecks. Although the research grant initiative did not perform as planned, ARC has subsequently
adopted the concept, and future budgetary allocations for field operations are expected to be based on
composite research programs to be submitted by research teams.
18. Extension. An improvement of the technology base was achieved through an assessment of
production constraints, and, a review of past research work which had produced technologies of
immediate relevance to address these constrains. While improved varieties of all major crops grown were
developed, these were not comprehensively field-tested and demonstrated under the project. The research
messages developed and disseminated focused on low-cost technological improvements to cultural
practices which (on the basis of past experience) were known to produce attractive returns, and were
important for the introduction of an optimum input technology. The concentration was on optimizing
sowing dates, plant populations, weeding, irrigation frequencies and harvesting dates. Monthly
recommendations were prepared at meetings between Subject Matter Specialists (SMS), extension
personnel and APCs' management. The financial evaluation of recommendations was carried out by the



5
APC economic units. Advice given by the extension agents was readily accepted by farmers, and adoption
rates over the project areas have been assessed at 60 percent4/.
19. A major factor in the success of the extension component was the close cooperation between
production (APCs) and the Rahad and New Halfa research stations. As the APCs provided part of the
financial support to the research stations, they were able to influence the research programs and on-farm
trials undertaken (to focus on areas of relevance to the APCs' tenants). The financing of transport and
operating costs under the project, resulted in increased mobility and incentives to expand on-farm field-
testing and demonstrations.
20. The transition in the role of APC field inspectors, so that they carried out the functions of extension
agents, was achieved gradually and was successful despite the reservations (in this regard) at appraisal.
Inspectors were selected on the basis of their background and experience and were interviewed to assess
their commitment to the T&V extension approach. The incentives offered, viz., transport and field
allowances, more than compensated the former field inspectors for the loss of their regulatory authority.
A virtually exclusive farmer advisory service was developed, with regulatory work limited to ensuring
equitable distribution of water for irrigation and scheduling of land preparation. The success of the
project's extension activities was almost entirely due to the enthusiasm shown by APCs' management;
initial management commnitment had been developed through comprehensive overseas visits to successful
extension systems using the T&V system. A schedule of field visits was prepared monthly at briefing
meetings between ARC, FEA and the APCs; also, the "messages" to be disseminated were agreed upon
and supporting material was produced at these meetings. The system operated on availability of practical
advice generated (and requiring dissemination), rather than a regimented schedule of fixed visits. The
FEA was effective in providing coordination and supervision of the field programs. In Rahad, the
extension service now operates over the whole scheme (extension/farmer ratio 1:250) and in New Halfa
over six of the nineteen blocks (extension/farmer ratio 1:500). The rate of further expansion will depend
on the availability of trained staff and funding. Significant increases in production have been reported
through field surveys (Rahad, New Halfa), in wheat, sorghum and groundnut; however, it is not possible
to ascribe these increases to extension alone. The IPM program has succeeded in reducing spraying
frequencies without affecting the yield of cotton. Expanded application of this practice, could significantly
reduce production costs and enhance environmental benefits. Uptake of recommendations related to
cotton have, however, been disappointing, due mainly to (until recently) unfavorable farm-gate prices.
21. Institutional Strengthening: Since the regionalization of FEA's services in 1981, its extension
management responsibility had been eroded; there had been no clear definition of FEA's role vis-a-vis
either APCs or MOA, and the former had experienced severe budgetary constraints which hampered
effective field work and farmer contact. The inducement for involving FEA in the project, stemmed from
the fact that FEA possessed a core group of skilled extension specialists, who given financial support,
technical guidance and clear responsibilities, could have more successfully promoted the extension
methodology proposed, and thereby further enhanced the project's impact. This would, however, require
a strong and integrated managerial structure involving FEA, APCs and ARC. In view of the foregoing,
FEA was reorganized again under the project to assume a central advisory role for extension planning,
supervision, in-service training and production of extension materials. In accordance with SAR proposals,
a new division, headed by a Deputy Director and responsible for central advisory support to the Research
Centers, was established.
22. A strong commitment to an extension service based on the T&V approach, was developed (at the
project's outset) within a core of senior (FEA) staff. However, as anticipated, there was resistance from
the majority of APCs' management regarding the transfer of extension work to the inspector cadre.
Nevertheless, the system was introduced, and the inspection officials were made responsible for both
4/ T&V System in the Rahad Scheme - Department of Planning and Economics, 1992.



6
regulatory and extension duties. Upon the Bank's recommendation, the field officers were gradually
made responsible for extension work only. This was first introduced at Rahad and the benefits soon began
to appear; by 1992, the system in Rahad was working effectively. A gradual acceptance of this system
emerged at New Halfa, but with the appointment of a new general manager (formerly from Rahad APC),
the T&V approach was promoted more vigorously.
23. The adaptive trials on farmers' fields in over 60 sites are now being implemented at the Rahad APC,
with the APC financing the related operating costs. The quality of the field work is good, and the
collaboration between the Research Station and the APC continues to be very strong. The Rahad
Farmers' Union is fully supportive of the extension service and would be prepared to support its
continuation. Thus, FEA's overall performance was adequate - particularly, when viewed in the context
of the limitations and bottlenecks created by the PMU.
24. Uptake of practices: Wheat has been promoted as a more profitable crop than sorghum in the
project area, and a package of improved technology options, including land preparation, improved
varieties and fertilizer application, has been widely accepted. In the case of groundnut, the introduction
of "earthing up" and optimum plant populations have resulted in significant yield increases at low cost.
Expansion in the acreage under vegetables and faba beans is also a direct result of the enhanced extension
efforts. The major constraint limiting adoption of improved practices, is the frequent inability of the
APCs to deliver services and inputs in a timely manner.
25. Technical Assistance and Training Objectives. Some 246 person months (p/m) of TA were
planned at appraisal including 48 p/in to be funded through Swiss aid and the Overseas Development
Agency (ODA). However, only some 104 p/m of TA financed by IDA, were utilized (Part II, Table 5).
The TA (proposed at appraisal) to support research on general agronomic inputs, was considered
unnecessary by the steering committee and was not recruited. In many cases, suitable consultants could
not be identified, or the performance of consultants recruited was considered inadequate; this was
especially true in the case of the proposed FEA extension/training TA, where the performance of
consultants recruited was deemed unsatisfactory.
26. A total of 336 project staff received training under ARETP (excluding the short-term training
provided at the University of Gezira): 39 staff completed MSc programs; another 181 staff received short-
term training; 59 participated in workshops/seminars, and 57 were sent abroad for scientific visits (Part
11, Table 5-C). The program exceeded the SAR estimate (a total of 248 staff) by about 35%. To date,
only 20 staff who received MSc degrees have returned to Sudan; the remaining 19 are still abroad
pursuing PhD programs with scholarships obtained outside the project. Overall, the training provided was
distributed as follows: ARC 167 staff; FEA 37 staff; Rahad Agricultural Production Corporation (RAPC)
55; New Haifa Agricultural Production Corporation (NHAPC) 31; UG 32; and, PMU 14 (Part 11, Table
5). The MSc training program included: Agricultural Extension (8); Plant Protection (2); Agricultural
Engineering (6); Soil Science (2); Farm Management (1); Agricultural Economics (5); Plant Pathology
(2); General Agronomy (8); Animal Production (2); and Horticulture (3). By the end of 1993, a total ot
497 staff had received short-term training at UG, including 134 field inspectors, 186 technicians and
168 farmers. The in-service training program at UG was initiated in 1987. The major constraints in this
regard were the delays experienced in civil works, particularly in the construction of the UG dormitory,
which still remains incomplete. Courses therefore had to be run within the existing facilities and out of
university-term period. Local in-service training was carried out satisfactorily. Provision was also made
under ARETP for post-graduate training of 10-15 staff/annually (at UG), to address the shortage of
agricultural economists and farm management specialists -- a problem identified at appraisal. However,
as the university had no training capability in economics, this program became contingent upon the return
of graduates trained overseas, and could not be implemented properly. A faculty/department of extension
was established at UG in 1992, and five lecturers with field extension experience were appointed. As
indicated above, the project provided for overseas visits to successful extension projects utilizing the T&V
system. These visits resulted in creating a general acceptance of and support for the T&V system, and



7
became a major factor in the development of management's commitment to the T&V approach (as was
demonstrated during project implementation).
27. Physical Implementation. The project's physical achievements (viz., construction, equipment and
vehicles financed under ARETP) vis-a-vis SAR targets are summarized in Part II, Table 5. A new library,
seminar facility, office complex, senior staff housing, guest house and repair centre were constructed to
support the activities of ARC. Greenhouses, workshops and cold stores at five research stations (Gezira,
Rahad, New Halfa, Sennar and Shendi) have also been constructed and improvements made to existing
facilities. Office accommodation, laboratories, storage facilities and staff housing have been constructed
or are under completion using GOS funds. The overall completion rate of civil works is significant (about
80 percent). An Executive and Follow-up Unit for Construction (EFUC) was set up to follow-up on the
progress/completion of civil works. On-station irrigation systems and laboratories were improved and
computer facilities (22 PCs) upgraded, thereby improving the capability for statistical analysis.
28. Wheeled tractors and implements for research stations and the UG demonstration farm were
procured, including 27 tractors (23 for ARC, and 4 for UG) and ancillary equipment (viz., land levellers,
groundnut planters, trailers, rotary cultivators, fertilizer broadcasters and portable pump sets, etc.). A
workshop for maintenance of farm equipment was also setup. Additionally, a small ginning factory was
installed at the Cotton Breeding Section of ARC. It should be noted, however, that the PMU did not
distribute the entire equipment according to the original requests of the research stations and some
equipment received was not according to specifications. A total of 119 vehicles: ARC (61), PMU (8),
FEA (10), New Halfa (12), UG (7) and Rahad (21) were procured under the project. In addition,
35 motor cycles were procured for New Halfa (25) and Rahad (10), for the extension officers. At
present, about 20 percent of the vehicles under the project are not functioning because of lack of spares;
absence of adequate after-sales service facilities for the vehicles has proved to be a fairly serious problem.
29. Economic and Financial Obiectives. Actual project costs are estimated at US$ 29.6 million. Final
overall disbursement were as follows: IDA US$ 22.1 million and GOS US$ 7.5 million (Part II, Table
8A). IDA disbursements expressed in SDR terms, amounted to SDR 16.5 million, or about 79 percent
of the appraisal estimate of SDR 20.8 million, and the undisbursed Credit balance of SDR 4.3 million
was cancelled (Part II, Table 4).
30. No Economic Rate of Return (ERR) or Net Present Value (NPV) analyses were considered necessary
at appraisal. The benefits accruing from both research and extension services are difficult to identify and
quantify (as it is difficult to isolate these from the aggregate costs/benefits from other farm-level
investments). Nevertheless, Appendix B, Table 3, attempts to assess the increase in the net farm income
in the project area; the net annual farm income increased by about 65 percent (to some LSd 102,000)
over the pre-project situation (estimated at LSd 61,000/p.a.). Although this benefit may be largely
attributed to the Gezira Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1388-SU), quite undeniably, the ARETP also
contributed to this improved performance.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
31. Initial project implementation was slow, due to the inability of the steering committee/PMU to
formulate operating plans, agree on budgets, and to generally coordinate the agreed activities of the
implementing agencies. This administrative deficiency was never fully rectified during the project period,
despite the continuous efforts made by the Bank supervision missions to improve the situation. GOS
request for extension of the credit closing date of June 30, 1993, was therefore rejected by IDA. There
were persistent problems related to the availability of counterpart funds throughout the project life, which
caused unnecessary delays, particularly with regard to the civil work/construction program, and also
affected the implementation of training programs. Low world market cotton prices resulted in both a
decline in the acreage under cotton and net returns to farmers. Whilst considerable achievements were
made in cotton research (varieties, cultural practices and IPM), uptake of these research packages (of best



8
practices derived), was somewhat disappointing. The key successes of the project - initiation of a
sustainable extension service supported by well-directed adaptive field trials and IPM research - were
largely achieved without the direct involvement of the PMU. The commitment demonstrated by the
APCs' management and key staff of the other entities involved in project implementation, is however,
both positive and encouraging with regards to future operations.
D. Project Sustainability
32. In general, the sustainability of research/extension projects is uncertain, as these projects are often
assigned a low priority in the fiscal budget allocation process. The effective operation of research and
extension, and their inter-linkage requires an on-going commitment for operating expenditure, to provide
for adequate skilled research and extension personnel, staff mobility, operation of on-farm trials,
demonstrations and supporting material. Thus, without continuing financial support, the momentum
generated through ARETP funding could be lost. With the current financial constraints and continuing
inflationary pressures faced by Government, it is difficult to predict the level of GOS support which the
research and extension agencies may expect to receive. Budgets approved for fiscal year 1994-95 for
participating agencies have already been cut by 50% and actual allocations are likely to be significantly
lower. Discontinued external support, coupled with inadequate national financial support, would have a
long-term, detrimental impact, by contributing to the isolation of Sudan's national agricultural research
system from neighboring systems and the international community. However, technical support, in terms
of improved germplasm of crops and related technology from International Centre for Agricultural
Research in Dry Areas (ICARDA), ICRISAT and CIMMYT, should continue to complement the national
research effort to sustain the current research program.
33. On the other hand, the positive factors to be considered in assessing the sustainability of the activities
initiated under the project, are: (i) the implementing agencies continue to be committed to the extension
system, which has a record of effective delivery; (ii) the reorganization and strengthening of both the
research and extension services, supported by comprehensive staff training programs, has reinforced the
institutional capacity of the two services; (iii) additionally, GOS has now adopted the policy of privatizing
the services to farmers; this is already being implemented in the case of: equipment/machinery services,
input supply, and crop marketing; and (iv) presently, an agreement at New Halfa/Rahad ensures that
APCs and farmers contribute financially to help sustain the extension services; they already provide
financial support to the two research stations.
34. An assessment of the "with project" net benefits (Appendix B, Table 3) yields an incremental annual
farm revenue of LSd 40,600. Annual incremental operating costs, of both research and extension services,
during project implementation have been estimated at LSd 3,300, or about 8 percent of the incremental
annual farm revenue. In view of the clear farmer support for ARETP's extension activities, full or at least
partial recovery of costs appears to be an option which would be seriously considered by the APCs and
farmers' unions. Continuation of farmer support/contribution, would ensure the sustainability of the
project at current levels of operation. The project activities are therefore likely to be sustainable, if timely
cost recovery measures are introduced.
E. Bank Performance
35. The project which was a logical follow-up to the irrigation rehabilitation projects (funded by the
Bank), aimed to enhance the performance of the APCs and strengthen farmer support services in the
country. The project was prepared by a local GOS team. Sudanese ownership of the project was,
therefore, established from the very start. The project design was uncomplicated; its objectives were well-
defined and realistic, and risks were clearly identified. The participation of other international agencies
was closely coordinated in the overall strategy and implementation procedures. IDA's performance,
particularly in the area of provision of general and technical support and guidance, through the various
phases of the project cycle, was quite sound. Considerable information/briefing and general support was



9
applied provided prior to project effectiveness to encourage acceptance of the T&V extension
methodology and the importance of establishing a strong extension/ research linkage.
36. The Bank mounted twelve supervision missions between 1986 and 1993. Although the institutional
weaknesses of the PMU in managing the project were repeatedly highlighted by the supervision missions,
the constructive suggestions offered for improvement were not followed upon. Additionally, supervision
inputs aimed at facilitating the procurement and disbursement processes, alleviated, but did not resolve,
the frequent operational problems faced throughout the life of the project. In view of the persistent
implementation issues, a request for extension of the Credit closing date was not approved by the Bank.
However, in retrospect, project implementation experience also suggests that IDA should have been more
resolute in confronting the Borrower on the deficiencies in execution (e.g., delays in procurement and
release of counterpart funds, poor implementation of the research grant scheme, etc.), through measures,
such as, developing and monitoring agreed Action Plans. Steady technical support was provided by Bank
staff to the emerging extension service at RAPC and NHAPC system, which provided encouragement to
the APCs and FEA management.
F. Borrower Performance
37. The Borrower's performance and commitment at preparation was satisfactory. However, serious
problems were evident within the PMU, and with the effectiveness of the Steering Committee (SC)
throughout the project implementation. The SC met only periodically and was unable to complete its
agenda during these meetings. As the SC was responsible for approval of requests and authorization of
fuind release, the overall effect on the project implementation was one of increasing frustration, both for
the PMU and the implementing agencies. After the Mid-Term Review (MTR), the PMU functions
continued to deteriorate, despite the intervention of the supervision missions. Despite numerous
assurances by the Steering Committee to improve the operations of the PMU, no necessary actions, e.g.,
restructuring the PMU, placing it under the purview of ARC, moving the PMU offices to the ARC
Headquarters, etc., were undertaken. The achievements of ARETP must thus, be attributed to the
individual performance of the implementing entities, and to the high quality of research, extension and
training managers. The PMU was disbanded on June 30, 1993. The Borrower was not able to prepare
its own final evaluation of ARETP, as required in the Credit Agreement.
G. Assessment of Outcome
38. The overall outcome of the project may be deemed satisfactory. The project supported institutional
strengthening through provision of training, TA, physical infrastructure, transport and equipment;
additionally, it activated and supported the introduction of effective research programming and the
development of technologies which have been accepted by farmers. Production constraints have been
identified which provide the basis for future research and program design. The project was largely
successful in achieving its research objectives. Much progress has been made in the strengthening of the
research stations in the irrigated subsector, and improving the quality and direction of their research
programs. Efforts to develop the research and extension linkage through on-farm trials and the pilot
research farm were successful. On-farm testing and demonstration of improved varieties, and development
and application of optimal production technologies were also supported under the project.
39. Prior to ARETP, there was no formal extension system in the irrigated areas. Previous attempts at
improving extension in the APCs did not involve the provision of the service through the field inspectors,
and instead sought to set up a parallel service. The inducted extension officers were however, unable to
exert any influence over the APC's activities. The successful introduction of the T&V system for
managing extension and the progressive spread of extension coverage throughout the area is a notable
achievement of ARETP. Strong farmer demand for the system is likely to encourage continuing financial
sustainability. An cost-sharing agreement at New Halfa and Rahad, which ensures that APCs and farmers
contribute financially to help sustain the extension services, affirms the clear beneficiary support for



10
ARETP's extension activities; they already provide financial support to the two research stations. The
uptake rate of extension messages in the project area, is estimated at some 60 percent for crops other than
cotton. Cotton yields at farm trials increased by 20-30%; however, due to declining farm-gate prices for
cotton, the recommendations for improved cultivation practices, were not adopted. The adoption of an
improved technology package resulted in increasing the average yields of wheat (20 percent), sorghum
(60 percent) and groundnut (30-40 percent) through some six years of research and extension efforts.
Attempts were also made to modify the fixed rotation in the irrigated areas to provide for both
maintenance of fertility (through fallows, forages and legumes) and to increase food production. While
these initiatives were partially supported, the integration of livestock into the farming system was not
achieved. The establishment and consolidation of the research and extension systems in the irrigated areas
was greatly facilitated by the comprehensive training program, which resulted in the provision of training
to over 830 (predominantly technical) staff. However, the training program in agricultural economics and
farm management (emphasized at appraisal), could not function smoothly, due to the lack of instructors.
In response to farmer requests, general diploma courses covering farm management, economics and
extension have recently been introduced at UG.
H. Future Operations
40. The National Agricultural Development Plan was approved in June 1992. As a result, the first draft
of the research strategy for the 1990s and beyond was prepared in April 1993. The strategic plan
includes: (i) a policy statement which specifies the agricultural development objectives, to which research
is expected to contribute; (ii) an overall investment plan for agricultural research priorities and proposed
allocation of resources, between and within commodities; and (iii) long-term research objectives. MOA
also set up a task force to establish an extension policy and strategy, "The Role of Extension in the New
Federal System". The draft report has been completed, and the main recommendation is to establish an
extension board (attached to the ARC), to define priority programs and prepare budgets.
41. Significant changes have been made recently to transfer part of the previous responsibilities of the
public services to the Agricultural Production Corporations. Machinery services to tenants will now be
provided by the APCs at commercial rates. The recently-formed Farmers' Bank, with its affiliate, the
Cotton Marketing Company, will be responsible for imports of farm machinery, inputs and their
distribution. Production credit will be the responsibility of the Farmers' Bank and disbursed on the basis
of crop budgets already prepared for different crops in the irrigated areas. The Farmers' Bank is
considering funding support for research/extension services. The project did not evaluate the relevance
of the training program to support project objectives. An evaluation of the completed training program
and a plan to provide training over the next five years should be prepared.
42. The price received for Sudanese cotton on world markets is generally 20% lower than the Egyptian
product. This is due to white fly (Bemisia sp.) which causes a stickiness in the lint through secretions
from the fly. Chemical control measures have not been successful and research work continues under the
IPM program. The resolution of this problem could result in substantial benefits to both farmers, and the
economy, and should be accorded top priority in research programming.
1. Key Lessons Learnt
43. The key findings and lessons of ARETP were as follows:
(i) a carefully selected program of short overseas visits to successful research/extension projects had
a positive impact, and may have been more beneficial than formal degree training (abroad) in
methodologies. These visits resulted in establishing general acceptance and support for the T&V
system, and became a major factor in development of managerial commitment to the T&V approach.



I1
(ii) a notable achievement of ARETP, was the significant level of effective collaboration with several
IARCS, such as, ICRISAT, CIMMYT, AVRDC, and ISNAR, which was promoted under the aegis
of the project;
(iii) the project's extension component was not designed to promote a rapid, extensive application of the
T&V system -- rather, the approach was geared to supporting a carefully phased operation covering
the Rahad and New Halfa irrigated areas (with similar agro-ecological conditions). The coverage
was established on the basis of the delivery capacity of the extension service. Additionally, the
transition in the role of APC field inspectors, so that they would carry out the functions of extension
agents, was achieved gradually; this transition was successful, because inspectors were invited to
volunteer and were interviewed to assess their commitment to the proposed approach. Only those
who demonstrated a commitment to the system were selected. The incentives offered (transport and
field allowances) also compensated for what initially was seen as a loss of the authority and status
of the inspector cadre. Furthermore, the extension management system under the project, while
based on the T&V methodology, was designed to be flexible. Messages were transmitted only when
their technical content had been fully tested, rather than on a fixed visit schedule; thus, effective
research/extension linkage was developed. Additionally, the utilization of on-farm research trials and
demonstrations was a major factor in supporting the extension program. The extension agents did
not deal through elected lead/contact farmers, as it was believed that this would politicize the
operation. Instead, extension was carried out through informal farmer groups, which promoted a
wider sense of ownership and acceptability; it may be concluded in retrospect, that the extension
management approach utilized under ARETP proved quite successful;
(iv) another notable achievement of the project relates to the attempts at cost-recovery/ cost-sharing by
project beneficiaries. Presently, an agreement at New Halfa and Rahad ensures that APCs and
farmers contribute financially to help sustain the extension services; they already provide financial
support to the two research stations;
(v) the problems arising in the implementation of the project's research grants sub-component, should
have been analyzed and corrective action taken, particularly, given the interest on the part of the
ARC management, in utilizing this process to promote multi-disciplinary research in the national
program. Project implementation experience also suggests that IDA should have been more resolute
in confronting the Borrower on other deficiencies in execution (e.g., delays in procurement; release
of counterpart funds, etc.), through measures, such as, developing and monitoring agreed Action
Plans. In this regard, it should be noted that the PMU proved to be an ineffective mechanism for
coordinating project implementation;
(vi) in retrospect, a general but crucial lesson that emerges from the implementation experience of the
project, relates to the combined impact of Bank-assisted agricultural research projects focusing on
the irrigated sub-sector. This emphasis on the irrigated sub-sector, may have contributed to reducing
the importance of supporting research in the rainfed subsector. During the latter years of ARETP
(exclusively for "irrigated" agriculture) implementation, the "dryland" research centers in Sudan
received virtually no financial support. This resulted in a lack of balance, and a diversion of human
resource capacity to agricultural research in the irrigated areas, which was not always based on
rational considerations, but primarily induced by a relatively better enabling environment. The broad
experience with sub-sectoral projects such as ARETP, shows the importance of examining the needs
of the national research and extension systems, including both, the irrigated and the rainfed sub-
sectors, and arranging/designing time-slice financing of high-priority expenditures to support the
national program.






12
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
1.   Summary of Assessments
2.   Related Bank Loans/Credits
3.   Project Timetable
4.   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
5.   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
6.   Key Indicators for Project Operation
7.   Studies Included in Project
8A.  Project Costs
8B.  Project Financing
9.   Economic Costs and Benefits
10.   Status of Legal Covenants
11.   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
12.   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
13.   Bank Resources: Missions






Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Page 1
A. Achievement of obiectives         Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
(T        (T~V        (4            (V)
Macro policies                      LLi                        L            I71
Sector policies                     Li                         Li           Li
Financial objectives                Li           Li           E1           [
Institutional development           Li           E7           Li            Li
Physical objectives                 [             ni          Ei            Li
Poverty reduction                   Li           En           Ei            Li
Gender issues                       Li           Li           El            []
Other social objectives             Li           Li           Li            En
Environmental objectives (IPM)      El]          Ef           Ei            [I]
Public sector management             nI          E            [D            [I]
Private sector development          Li           E             Li           Li
Other (specify): Research           L            []            Li           Li
Extension         [7]          [            EO            LI]
Training          [I           E             Li            L
B. Proiect sustainabilitv             Likely       Unlikely    Uncertain
(T       ~~(I         (T/
[7           Li    Li



Page 2
Highly
C. Bank performance                  satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
(e           (            (e
Identification                        D          E7 
Preparation assistance               [O]                       Z 
Appraisal                           [I]
Supervision                                      [7]          L]
Highly
D. Borrower performance                satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
(I)          (,f)         (e
Preparation                         I            [ 1
Implementation                      [D           E ]
Covenant compliance                 [n            71
Operation (if applicable)                        E L           El
Highlv                                       Highly
E. Assessment of outcome           satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
()           (e              (               (
El    L                     El              LI



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                    Purpose             Year of            Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Roseires irrigation            002             Irrigation            1961        )
2. Second mechanized farming      311           Mechanization           1972         )
3. Rahad irrigation               364             Irrigation            1975         )
4. Rahad irrigation               361-1           Irrigation            1975         )
5. S. Region agr. rehab.          476             Area dev.             1974         )
6. Livestock marketing            782             Livestock              1978        )
7. Third mechanized farming       804           Mechanization           1978
8. Agricultural research          834             Research              1978         )
9. S. Region agriculture          904             Area dev.             1979         )  Completed
10. Agricultural rehab.           1000            Area dev.             1980        )
11. New Halfa irrigation rehab.   1022            Irrigation            1980        )
12. Blue Nile pump schemes rehab.  1118           Irrigation            1981        )
13. White Nile pump schemes rehab. 1119           Irrigation            1981        )
14. Western Savannah              1181        Rainfed area dev.         1981        )
15. Agricultural services         1201         Support services         1982        )
16. Agricultural rehab. II        1389            Area dev.             1983        )
17. Sugar rehab.                  1506          Agro-industry           1984        )
18. Stock route                   1525            Livestock             1984        )
19. Gezira rehab.                 1388            Irrigation            1983        Partially cancelled
Following operations
1. Western Savannah II            1640        Rainfed area dev.         1985        Partially cancelled
2. Agricultural rehab. III        1866            Area dev.             1987         Completed
3. S. Kordofan agr. dev.          1867        Rainfed area dev.         1987         Partially cancelled
4. S. Kassala agr.                1961            Area dev.             1988         Partially cancelled



Table 3: Project Timetable
Date Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle                  Date Planned             Latest Estimate
Identification                                                              February/March 1983
Preparation                                                                    November 1983
Appraisal                                                                     March/April 1984
Negotiations                                           October 1985          October 16-18, 1985
Board presentation                                                            December 3, 1985
Signing                                                                        March 10, 1986
Effectiveness                                                                December 10, 1986
Mid term review                                                                February 1990
Project completion                                    June 30, 1992             June 30, 1993
Credit closing                                        June 30, 1993             June 30, 1993
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
.                                 FY .
1987     1988      1989      1990    1991    1992       1993     1994
................... . (US$ million) ........ ..........
A. Expressed in US$
Appraisal estimate              -        1.0       4.8      9.5      12.5     16.2     19.5    22.0
Actual                         0.4      2.9       5.7       13.3     17.3    19.0    22.0    22.1
Actual as % of estimate        ...      290       119       140      138      117       113      100
Date of final disbursement:   August 31, 1994
................. . . . . . . . ...  (SDR million) .
B. Expressed in SDR
Appraisal estimate              -       0.9       4.5       9.0      11.8    15.3      18.4    20.8
Actual                         0.3      2.2       4.3       10.1     13.1     14.3     16.4     16.5
Actual as % of estimate        ...      244        96       112      111       93       89       79
Date of final disbursement:   August 31, 1994



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Page 1
A. Civil Works                               Planned SAR        Actual      Comments
(i) ARC Headquarters:
- Library/seminar/office/repair centre          847 m2          847 m2
- Senior staff houses                              2              2
- Guest house                                      1               I
(ii) Research Stations
- Senior staff houses                              16             16
- Medium staff houses                              23             23
- Junior                                          20              20
- Junior                                          20              20        80% work completed. Civil
- Class 11                                         14             14        work continued by GOS.
-Guest house I                                     2              2
- Guest house 11                                   7              7
- Apartment                                        9              9
- Office/club refectory                         830 m2          830 m2
- Library/seminar                               200 m2          200 m2
- Laboratories                                  530 m2          530 m2
- Store/shed/workshop                           1,292 m2       1,292 m2
- Cold room                                        3              3
- Glass house                                      2               1
- Greenhouse                                       2               1
(iii) Federal Extension Administration (FEA):
- Central office                                288 m2          288 m2      Completed
(iv) RAPC:
- Senior staff houses                              3              3
- Medium staff houses                              3              3         50% civil work completed.
- Junior staff houses                              4              4         Further work planned by
- Office                                        313 m2          313 m2      GOS.
(v) NHAPC:
- Medium staff houses                              6              6         80% work completed.
- Junior staff houses                              19             19        Further work being
- Office                                        368 m2          368 m2      undertaken by GOS.
(vi) University of Gezira:
- Senior staff houses                              I              I         Completed.
- Junior staff houses                              1
- Hostel                                           1               -        Not constructed.
- Central office                                450 m2          450 m2
- Laboratories                                  370 m2          370 m2      80% work completed.
- Store/workshop                                800 m2          800 m2      Further work being
| - Cold room                                    2               2        undertaken by GOS.
- Greenhouse                                       2              1
(vii) Project Management Unit (PMU):             70 m2          70 m2       Completed.



Page 2
B. Vehicles and Equipment   No.           SAR           Actual        Comments
(i) Vehicles:
ARC                                          58             61
UG                                                           7
The major constraint to the
FEA                                                         10       operation of vehicles relates to
NHAPC                                                       12      the unavailability of spare
RAPC                                            21 ~~~~~~~~/parts. 20% vehicles are non-
RAPC                                         ,,             21       functioning/damaged.
PMU                                                          8
Total:                                    N/A            119
(ii) Motorcycles (FEA):
New Halfa                                    25            25
Rahad                                        10             10
Total:                                     35            35
(iii) Equipment:
ARC
Wheeled tractor                              14            27
Attachments                                                215       Constraint to operation of
UG                                                                    tractors/other equipment is the
Wheeled tractor                                             4       unavailability of spare parts.
Three tractors are non-
Attachments                                                 18       functioning due to lack of
Workshop                                                   174       spare parts.
Total:                                    N/A            438



Page 3
C. Training                                          Planned                    Actual
- MSc.                                                  33                        39 1/ 2/
- Short-Term Training                                   139                      181 3/
- Workshops/Seminar                                      46                       59 4/
- Scientific Visits                                     30                        57 5/
Total:                                                248                       336
D. Short-Terin Training at UG
Agencies                    Planned                                   Actual 6/
Field    Technicians Tenants  TOTAL    Field    Technicians Tenants  TOTAL
Inspectors                               Inspectors
ARC                                                                  68         -        68
RAPC                                                     35          33         43       111
NHAPC                                                     37         68         53       158
Other                                                    62          17         72       142
Total:         950         450       400     1,800       134        186        168       497
1/  Of which: ARC:19; FEA:6; RAPC:7; and NHAPC:7.
2/  MSc Training - Agricultural Extension - 8  Farm Management - 1    General Agronomy - 8
Plant Protection - 2       Agr. Economics - 5      Animal Production - 2
Agr. Engineer - 6          Plant Pathology - 2     Horticulture - 3
Soil Science - 2
3/  Of which: ARC:83; FEA:22; RAPC:34; NHAPC: 18; UG:15; and PMU:9.
4/  Of which: ARC:41; FEA:3; RAPC:1; NHAPC:l; UG:10; and PMU:3.
5/  Of which: ARC:24; FEA:6; RAPC: 13; NHAPC:5; UG:7; and PMU:2.
6/  Period: 1987-1993.



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
1. Key Operating Indicators in
SAR/President's Report                        Estimated                          Actual
N.A.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study             Purpose as Defined at      l
I      Appraisal/Redefined       I     Status     |         Impact of study
No studies were planned at appraisal or carried out during the project's life.



Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (IJS$M)        Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local     Foreign                  Local      Foreign
Item                  costs       costs       Total       costs       costs       Total
Investment Costs:
Civil Works                         6.5         4.2         10.7        4.7         5.0          9.7
Vehicles & Equipment                 3.4        6.6         10.0         -          6.7          6.7
Training & T.A.                     0.6         4.5          5.1                    7.0          7.0
Research grant                      0.3          1.3         1.6        ...         0.2          0.2
Operating costs                      6.2        4.4         10.6        2.8         3.3          6.0
TOTAL                             16.5        21.4        38.0        7.5         22.1        29.6
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)              Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local        Foreign                      Local         Foreign
Source              costs         costs          Total        costs           costs       Total
IDA                          1.9          20.1          22.0            -            22.1         22.1
Government of Sudan         10.8           -             10.8                          -
(US$10 million);
NHAPC (US$0.4
million);
RAPC (US$ 0.4 million)
Taxes & Duties              5.2            -             5.2
Subtotal              16.0            -            16.0          7.5             -           7.5
TOTAL                 17.9           20.1          38.0          7.5            22.1         29.6



Table 9: Econoniic Costs and Benefits
No Economic Rate of Return (ERR) or NPV analyses were considered necessary at appraisal. In general,
benefits accruing from research and extension projects are difficult to quantify, as they result from many
inter-related factors. Where analyses have been applied, the ERR on crop improvement, cultural practices
and application of available technology have provided evidence of significantly high returns to investment.
In addition, the reduction in production costs would in itself represent a major project benefit. A farm
budget analysis, for the Gezira Irrigation Scheme (Appendix B, Table 3), shows that the annual net farm
income, estimated at Sd101,800 has increased by about 65% over the "without project" estimate of
Sd61,200. Although this improvement should be mainly attributed to the Gezira Rehabilitation Project
(Cr. 1388-SU), the ARETP undeniably contributed to this success.



Page 1 of 3
Table 10. Status of Covenants1'
Agreement        Covenant  1 Present
Section    |     Type          Status  |                                     Description of Covenant                                                          Comments
3 01 (a)           5             C       Development Credit Aireement
The Borrower shall carry out the overall coordination of all Project activities through PMU
and cause NEA, RAPC, NHAPC and UG to carry out their respective parts of the Project
Also, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause ARC to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of ARC therein set forth.
(b)           5              C      The Borrower shall make available part of the proceeds of the Credit, in accordance with
the Project Annual Work Programs, to: (i) ARC, NEA and UG as budgetary transfers, and
(ii) RAPC and NHAPC as equity contributions and grants.
3.04 (a)           10           NC       Determine the prices for cotton and wheat taking into consideration the information                   Pncing issues were followed up
provided by the economic research unit of ARC, which is being strengthened under the                 Piching   ses were fotoe  up              ,
Project; and in accordance with principles acceptable to the Association; and                         Sudan Agriculture Sector Supply
Response Study.
(b)           10            NC      Announce, after consultation with the Association, the price for cotton not later than                Pncing issues were followed up
December I of each year and the price for wheat not later than November 1 of each year.    within the context of the subsequent,
Sudan Agriculture Sector Supply
Response Study.
1/   Covenant types:                                                                                       Present status:
I    =  Accounts/audits                          S    =   Inigenous people                    C         covenant complied with
2    =  Funcial performance/revenue              9    =  Monitorng. review, and                CD       complied with after delay
generation from beneficiares                     repotzig                            CF   =  complied with partially
3    =  Flow and utilization of project          10   =  Project mplementation not             NC   =  not complied with
funds                                            covered by categories 1-9
4        Counterpart funding                     II   =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral
5    =  Management aspects of the                          budgeaiy or other resource
project or executg agency                        allocation
6    =  Environmental covenants                  12   =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
7        Involuntary resettlement                         regulatory/institutional acton
13   =  Other



Page 2 of 3
Agreement    Covenant   Present
Section       Type       Status                               Description of Covenant                                         Comments
3.05          5           C    The Borrower shall implement the revised job definitions for the APC field inspectors, as
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association, in accordance with a timetable
satisfactory to the Association.
4.01 (a)        1          C    The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
(namely NEA and PMU) responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)         I          C    The Borrower shall, or cause UG, RAPC and NHAPC to maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices their operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the parts of the Project to be carried out by them.
(c)         I          C    The Borrower shall, or cause UG, RAPC and NHAPC to: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section including the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited; (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by
said auditors.
Project Aereement
2.01 (a)        5          C    ARC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering, agricultural and research practices.



Page 3 of 3
Agreement |  Covenant   Present
Section        Type       Status                                 Description of Covenant                                           Comments
2.04  (a)        9          CP    ARC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views with the Association with
regard to the progress of Part A of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and other matters.
(b)         9          CP    ARC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes or threatens
to interfere with the progress of the Project.
3.01          10          CP    ARC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound
administrative, financial, agricultural and research practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
3.02          10           C     ARC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other
property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and agricultural
practices.
3.03          10          NC    ARC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provision
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
4.01 (a)         1          C     ARC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)         I          C     ARC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year audited;-
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and the report of such audit by said auditors.
I:hicr\tabl O.doc



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                 Describe and comment on lack of compliance
There was general compliance with the applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements (OD or OP/BP).
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                    Revised                   Actual
project cycle         Weeks          US$          Weeks         US$        Weeks         US$
Through appraisal           n.a.          n.a.          n.a.         n.a.        104.9        n.a.
Appraisal-Board             n.a.          n.a.          n.a.         n.a.          6.2        n. a.
Board-effectiveness         n.a.          n.a.          n.a.         n.a.          -
Supervision                 112           n.a.         111.4         n.a.        129.9        n.a.
Completion                  n.a.          n.a.          11.0         n.a.         10.0        n.a.
TOTAL                      ....          n.a.          ....         n.a.        251.0        n.a.



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Number                   Specialized    Implemen-    Develop-
Stage of         Month/       of       Days in       staff skills    tation         ment        Types of
project cycle       year     persons       field     represented8/      status      objectives    problems9/
Identification         2-3/83      N/A         N/A           N/A             _             _
Preparation            11/83       N/A         N/A           N/A
Appraisal              34/84        5          N/A            N/A
Supervision:
1    2/86         4           13       N/A                N/A           N/A           M P
2     9/86        2          N/A       N/A                  2            2            M P
3     6/87        3           10       En R P               2            2             F
4     7/88        3           22       A P Ec               2            2            M F
5     2/89        3           10       APE                  2            2           MPF
6     7/89        1           5        A                    2            2           MFR
(Mid-term Review) 7     2/90       810/         16       A R E S En           2            2             F
8     5/91        6           22       A R E P D            2            2             M
9    10/91        1           10       R                    2            2             M
10     2192        5           10       RDPFA               2             2             M
11    10/92        5           13       R F P A             2             2             M
12     2/93        5           15       R F P A             2             2            M P
Completion/             9/94        3           10       Ec A R              _             __
8/   R = Research; E = Extension; I = Institutions; Ec = Economics; M  = Management; A  =
Agriculturist; D  = Disbursements; P = Procurement; F = Finance; L = Livestock; S =
Environment; En = Civil Engineer.
9/   F = Funding; M  = Management; P = Procurement.
10/ Plus three research specialists from IARCS.
11/ Carried out by FAO/CP.






Appendix A
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAiNNG PROJECT
(Credit 1639-SU)
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
FAO/CP Mission
Aide Memoire
A. Introduction
1.        An FAO/WB Cooperative Progranmme mission comprising Messrs R. Suppa
(Economist/Mission Leader), J. Macartney (Agronomist/ Consultant), M. Riaz Hasan
(Irrigation Engineer/ Consultant), and R. Pandey (Agricultural Research Specialist/
Consultant), visited Sudan from 13 to 30 September 1994 for the preparation of the ICR of
the above project. The mission held meetings with the concerned officials of the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Planning (MFEP), the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and the
Ministry of Irrigation (MOI), as well as with the staff of the project implementing agencies.
Discussions were held with the First secretary, MOA, the Director General (DG) and staff
of the Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC) at Wad Medani and the Managing Directors
(MD) and staff of Rahad and New Halfa Agricultural Production Corporations (APCs) and
the Federal Extension Administration (FEA). The mission also visited the University of
Gezira (UG) and held discussions with Directors and staff of the regional research stations
at Gezira, Rahad, Sennar and Shambat. During its stay in Sudan, the mission also carried out
the preparatory work for the ICR of the Gezira Rehabilitation Project (GRP), for which a
separate Aide Mdmoire will be presented.
2.        The mission acknowledges the cooperation and courtesy extended to it by the
Government of Sudan (GOS) and its agencies. The mission findings and recommendation,
as indicated below, are subject to review and confirmation by the IDA management.
B. Background
3.        The project was appraised in November 1985; the Credit Agreement was signed
on 10 March 1986 and became effective on 10 December 1986. The main objective of the
project was to improve crop production in the irrigation subsector through improvements in
research, extension and training. Project components at appraisal were designed to: (i)
rehabilitate and strengthen agricultural research at five regional stations in the irrigated areas;
(ii) upgrade the skills of field inspectors and to establish programmed extension services at
New Halfa and Rahad Corporations; (iii) strengthen the NEA; (iv) strengthen the in-service
training capabilities of the University of Gezira.
4.        Total project cost was estimated at US$ 38.0 million, to be financed as follows:
IDA credit US$ 22.0 million and GOS USS 16.0 million. Actual project costs and
disbursements are presented in Section D.



C. Project Implementation
General
5.        Overall project imnplementation was affected by the poor performance of the
PMU. The steering committee performed very well up to 1992 but from 1993 committee
meetings were irregular and project implementation issues were not addressed in a timely
manner. During supervision an agreement was reached to rectify the situation but the overall
position continued to deteriorate till the project closure. A decision was reached in February
1993 to continue to support only those activities which had been successful in establishing
a sustainable extension service and to carry on with the on-farm trial programme.
Agicultural Research Component
6.        Clvil Works: About 90% of the existing buildings were renovated at the six
Research Stations. Under the construction programme, which included 18 houses for senior
scientists, 36 houses for technicians, 13 rest houses and 9 apartments, 80% of the
construction has been completed. The construction of laboratories, glasshouse, field
laboratories, store and garage was 75% complete. In addition, a combined library-seminar
room was built at both Shambat and Rahad Stations. At Gezira Research Station (GRS) a
gemnplasm introduction laboratory, seed quality laboratory, offices and storage were built
to improve research support facilities. To enable ARC to provide centralized support
services, a library-seminar facility was completed. An equipment maintenance and repair
facility has also been built at ARC in Wad Medani. Additional fencing, land levelling, water
channel rehabilitation and overhead tank and pipe installation were carried out at GRS. The
quality of work is considered satisfactory and the overall implementation is about 85%,
although implementation rates were lower at New Halfa and Shendi (82%) and Rahad (50%).
Civil works are now being completed with GOS funds.
7.        Vehides and Motorcydes: A total of 61 vehicles was procured for ARC and
11 for PMU. At present, about 20% of the vehicles under the project are unserviceable
because of lack of spare parts.
8.        Goods and Equipment: Wheeled tractors and implements were procured as
planned. This included 25 tractors, various agricultural implements including land levellers,
groundnut planters, trailers, rotary cultivators, fertilizer broadcasters, as well as portable
pump sets, etc. A small ginning factory ordered for the Cotton Breeding Section of ARC
was installed. All laboratory equipment and chemicals contracted for were received and
delivered to the entities concerned, as well as office equipment, including 22 PCs. The PMU
did not distribute the equipment according to the original requests of the Research Stations.
9.        Technical Assstance (TA) and Training: TA for rsearch management
(24 p/m) was provided in line with SAR estimates and the input was considered effective.
10.      In order to strengthen the professional capability at the Research Stations, post-
graduate training to MSc level was provided to 19 scientists at various overseas univesities.
Ten of the trainees have returned and resumed their work. Nine trainees have conmaed PhD
studies, supported by other sources of funding, and are likely to return in the near future.
2



Short term local and overseas training were provided for 50 scientists, to the full satisfaction
of ARC. Under this programme, 57 technicians also received short term in-service training.
In-country and overseas training for middle-level research workers and technicians including
fann managers, laboratory and field technicians, was carried out to upgrade the research
support services. Overall, the training component exceeded SAR estimates by 36%.
11.       Incremental Operation Costs and On-farm Testing: Under the project funds
were made available to cover incremental operating costs. The amount provided under this
category reached a total of US$ 1.8 million up to February 1993. As a result, the future
annual operating costs are likely to increase by about US$ 0.25 million.
12.       Research Grant Scheme: The introduction of a research grant allocation was
envisaged at appraisal to encourage the scientists to prepare research proposals for priority
programmes. All research stations in Sudan were eligible to submit proposals for financial
support. A total of 11 projects were received and sent to the technical committee of the ARC
and subsequently to the steering committee. The procedures of evaluation resulted in rejection
of 10 proposals out of the 11 received by the ARC. The research grant remained mostly
unutilized.
13.       Publication of Research Results: ARC is unable to publish research results at
present because of lack of technical support in printing and publication. It is the mission's
view that the ARC should explore the possibility of obtaining the necessary assistance from
ICARDA or ICRISAT and to prepare proposals for this purpose.
Agricultural Extension Component
14.       Reorganization of FEA: The Federal Extension Administration (FEA) has now
replaced NEA. FEA was reorganized to assume a central advisory role for extension
planning, supervision, in-service training and production of extension material. Also, in
accordance with SAR proposals, a new division, headed by a Deputy Director, and
responsible for central advisory support to the APCs, was established. The performance of
the FEA can be considered as more than satisfactory.
15.       Ofrice Equipment and Vehicles: The construction of the new offices and the
procurement of visual aids facilities have been completed. Vehicles (9 for FEA, 10 for New
Halfa and 21 for Rahad) were procured according to inventory but 50% are not fully
operational due to lack of spare parts. In addition, a total of 35 motorcycles was procured
for New Halfa (25) and Rahad (10).
16.       TA, Training and Incremental Operating Cost: Consultants under TA were
provided for M&E, field supervision and training against an estimated requirement of 96
p/m. The capability of the consultants was questionable and, finally, 60 p/m were considered
sufficient.
17.       The training sub-component to support the overall strengthening of the
operational capability of FEA was implemented satisfactorily. Internal training of inspectors,
technicians and farmers at the UG was very encouraging, with a total throughput of 336
participants. About 180 short term training overseas courses were effectively carried out.
3



18.       The availability of funds to cover incremental operating cost (largely fuel and
field allowances) provided an important element in the success achieved in the field
programme. Future operating costs, relative to the extension component, are estimated to
increase by about USS 0.18 million per year.
19.       Extension at Rahad and New Halfa APCs: The major objective of introducing
the T&V (modified to suit local conditions) methodology in the two APCs was achieved due
to the commitment of APCs, research and FEA officers involved. The effective conversion
of the APC inspectors to extension promotion took time, persuasion and incentives but was
gradually fully accepted, and the results achieved bode well for the future spread of the
system developed. In Rahad, the T&V system operates over the nine blocks of the scheme;
in New Halfa the system has been introduced in six out of the 19 blocks. FEA is reluctant
to extend further on an ad hoc basis unless all the key elements of the system are in place.
This approach is supported by the mission.
20.       System Development: The development and effective operation of a field
extension service using 'converted" inspectors is a major project achievement. Whilst the
SAR envisaged a dual role and part-time regulatory function of the inspector cadre, the FEA
achieved a virtual exclusive farmer advisory service with regulatory work limited to ensuring
equitable distribution of water for irrigation. The success was due entirely to the enthusiasm
shown by the management, initially developed through comprehensive overseas visits to
successful T&V schemes. MOI strongly supported these activities.
21.       A schedule of training and field visits was prepared monthly at briefing meetings
between ARC, FEA, and APCs, where 'messages' to be extended were agreed and
supporting material produced. The system operated on the basis of availability of practical
advice generated rather than that of a regimented schedule of fixed visits. The FEA were
effective in providing for the coordination and supervision of the field programmes.
Training at University of Gezira (UG)
22.       The programmre, which started in 1987, concentrated on in-service training for
tenants (160), technicians (195) and field inspectors (134). Due to the delays experienced in
the civil works, particulary the dormitory, which still remains incomplete, courses had to be
run within the existing facilities and out of the university term period. Critical problems
arose when the flow of funds from the PMU stopped in 1990. A Department of Extension
was established in 1992 and five lecturers with considerable field extension experience were
appointed.
D. Actual Project Cost and Disbursement
23.       Actual cost is estimated at USS 25.8 million. Final overall disbursement includes:
IDA USS 22.1 million and GOS USS 3.7 million. IDA disbursement expressed in SDR
amounted to SDR 16.6 million, or about 79% of the original amount of SDR 20.8 million.
The balance of SDR 4.3 million was cancelled on 20 October 1993.
4



E. Institutional Performance
24.       Notwithstnding the limited support provided by the PMU and the consequent
frustration of the implementing entities, the individual performance of the institutions was
remarkably efficient. Programmes were effectively carried out within the limitations of
budget and equipment. The proposed reorganization of NEA was agreed and carried out.
25.       During the February 1993 Supervision Mission the PMU was advised to start the
preparation of the Project Completion Report (PCR), for which guidelines were made
available. This PCR has not yet been prepared.
F. Project Results
26.       Although most of the project objectives have been generally achieved,
disaggregation of benefits directly derived from research and extension activities makes their
quantification difficult. Major project results are summarized below:
Cotton: The package of production technology was refined with respect
to land preparation, N application, frequency of irrigation and
insecticide use. The development of IPM for cotton made a significant
contribution to the reduction in cost of production. Yields at farm trials
increased by 20-30%. However, due to declining farm gate prices the
recommendations for improvement in cotton cultivation, which required
incremental production costs, were not adopted.
- Wheat: Improvements in tillage practices, introduction of improved
varieties, optimum sowing date, N response, frequency of irrigation and
insect control resulted in yield increases of about 20%.
Sorghum: Research on varietal improvement has led to the identification
of striga resistant varieties and their release for commercial production.
Improvement in production technology resulted in yield increases
ranging from 30% to 50%. The rapid adoption of improved varieties
was due mainly to the promotion by the extension service through
demonstration.
Groundnut: Two cultivars (Kratz and Medani) were released for
commercial production. Furthermore, good quality nuts, relatively free
from Aflatoxin, are now being produced. Better agricultural practices,
including early planting as suggested by research and spread by
extension, are now widely applied. Yields at farm level have increased,
on average, by 40%.
5



-     Vegetable Seed Production: New production techniques for summer
grown tomatoes and pilot scale production of vegetable seed are notable
achievements. Farmers have adopted the technology for better quality
tomato production in the dry season. Introduction of forage legumes,
Dolicos lab lab and cowpea cultivars have been successfully
accomplished to diversify crop production. However, benefits at farm
level have not yet been achieved due to shortage of seed.
27.       The establishment of an economic unit at ARC and the institutional changes to
improve coordination of research entities through the introduction of research progrmme
budget preparation has considerably enhanced the research quality and its cost effectiveness.
A system of identifying applicable technology, based on frequent field visits, is now in place
and has proved to be a success from all view points, i.e. as a joint extension/research effort,
valid APC's support and active farmers' participation.
G. Project Sustainability and Future Outlook
28.       In general, the sustainability of research/extension projects is questionable as they
attract low priorities for budgetary allocation. The effective operation of research, extension
and their linkages requires an ongoing commnitment for operating expenditure to provide for
mobility, operation of on-farm trials, demonstrations and supporting material. Without
continuing GOS support the momentum generated through ARETP funding will be lost.
29.       With the current financial constraints and continuing inflationary pressures, it is
difficult to predict the level of GOS support which the research and extension agencies could
normally expect. Budgets approved for fiscal year 1994-95 for participating agencies have
already been cut by 50% and actual allocations are likely to be significantly lower. In July
1993, alternative financial sources to support operating costs were discussed and
commitments were made by APCs and farmers' unions to contribute to a level where existing
services can be maintained. The willingness of farmers to support such a commitment is very
encouraging and reflects their appreciation for the services they receive from both research
and extension. This move towards private sector support for research/ extension operations
should attract further donor support.
30.       The proposal to develop 450 feddans at the Rahad Research Station for
commercial crop production could generate revenue provided it is operated by the
Corporations and not by the research staff. These initiatives demonstrate the determination
of the project-generated services to continue and expand their coverage and are favourably
considered by the GOS. With the recent decentralization policy it is possible that the support
for sustaining research and extension activities will be enhanced.
31.       Technical support in terms of improved germ-plasma of crops and related
technology from ICARDA, ICRISAT and CIMMYT should continue to complement the
national research effort and help sustain the current research programme.
32.       Human resources trained under the project would sustain the scientific manpower
requirement to carry out relevant research leading to extension recommendations in line with
farmers' needs.
6



33.       The National Agricultural Development Plan was approved in June 1992. As a
result, the first draft of the research strategy for the 1990s and beyond was prepared in April
1993. The strategic plan includes:
(a)    a policy statement which specifies the agricultural development
objectives to which research is expected to contribute;
(b)    an overall investment plan for agricultural research priorities and
proposed allocation resources among and within commodities;
(c)    a long term research programme; and
(d)    recommendations to improve the efficiency and structure of ARC.
34.       MOA has set up a task force to produce an extension policy and strategy; "The
Role of Extension in the New Federal System". The draft report has been completed, and
the main recommendation is to establish an Extension Board to define priority programmes
and prepare budgets. The Extension Board would be attached to the ARC.
H. Key Lessons Learnt
35.       The key lessons learnt are as follows:
The research programme identified at appraisal was too ambitious. At
the project design stage, a more thorough evaluation of the actual
implementing capability of the agencies should have been taken into
consideration.
-      The problem of non-utilization of the research grant makes it necessary
to review the current procedures for selecting research proposals for
final approval.
*      The concentration of research on on-farm trials and demonstrations was
a major factor in supporting the extension programme.
-      A comprehensive programme of short overseas visits to successful
research and extension projects can be more beneficial than long term
training abroad.
-      The project extension component did not promote a widespread
application of the T&V system; instead a carefully phased operation was
supported covering two irrigated areas with similar agro-ecological
conditions. The coverage was designed on the basis of the implementing
capacity of the extension services.
7



- The SMSs provided valuable inputs in strengthening the research and
extension linkage. However, the generalist approach proved to be very
effective in the diagnosis of the major problems at farm level, upon
which adaptive research programmes were formulated.
F. Follow-Up
36.       The mission will return to Rome on 30 September 1994. During the ensuing
three weeks it will prepare the draft ICR which will be transmitted to the WB by the end of
October 1994. It is recommended that the GOS should also finalize its completion report and
send it to the WB by the end of October 1994.
Khartoum, 29 september 1994
8



List of Institutions/ Persons Visited
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning:
1. Mr. Abdel Rahman Mohammed Hassan,First Under Secretary
2. Ms. Leila El Badawi, Head International Relations Department
3. Ms. Ahlam Sultan, Assistant, International Department
Ministry of Agriculture:
1. Dr. Musa Mohamed Musa, First Under Secretary
2. Mr. Ahmed Ali, Director
Ministry of Irrigation:
l..Mr. Ahmed M.Adam, First Under Secretary
2. .Dr. B.E.F.EI Monshid, Director
Project Management Unit:
i..Mr. Ahmed Hussan, former Procurement officer
2. Mr. Ahmed Mohamed Elsayed, former financial advisor.
Agriculture Research Corporation:
1. Dr. Osman Ageeb, Director General
2..Dr. Ibrahim El-jack, Musal, National Coordinator- Cotton
3..Dr. Abadall B.EI-ahmadi, National Coordinator-Wheat
4. Dr. Mohamed El-hilu Omer, National Coordinator-Sorghum
5. Dr. Mubarak El-khidir Abdalla, National Coordinator-Groundnut
6. Dr. Hassan M. Ishag, National Coordinator-Agronomy
Gezira Research Stadon:
I. Prof. Nuri Osman Mukhtar,Director
2. Mr. Ahmed El-Beshir , Manager, Seed production
Shambat Research Station:
1. Mr. Ali Khalafalla Mohammed, Director
2. .Mr M.A.Fattah, Plant Pathologist
1



Rahad Research Station:
1. Dr. Mamoun Bashir, ex-Director
2..Dr. Azhari A.Elazein,Director,
3..Dr. Alafadil A. Elaahman, Agronomist
4..Mr. Ali Omer, Ag Engineer
Sennar Research Station:
Dr. Mohamed Mustaffa Omer. Director
Sudan Gezira Board:
1. Mr. Abu Bakr Ismail Karra, Mnnager, Planning
2. Mr. Mustafa N. Mustaffa, Senior Agri. Economist
3. Mr. El HASAN M. Mohemed,General Manager, Gin Factories
4. Mr. Mohamed Abel Rahim , Manager Training Unit
Rahad Agriculture Corporation:
Mr. Hassan Saad Abdalla, Managing Director
New Halfa Corporation:
Dr. Ahmed Ali El Hassan, Managing Director
University of Gezira:
Dr. Mohemed El-Tirafi Mohamed, Dean Faculty of Agriculture
Federal Extension Administration:
Dr. Ahmed Ali Hassan, Director
Farmer's Bank:
1. Mr. Khidir A. abdel Halim, General Manager
2. Dr. Hashim Ahmed El-Obeid, Dy General Manager
The Sudan Cotton Company Ltd:
Mr. Abdel Rahmn Abdel Moneimn, Managing Director
2



SUDAN: Agricultuml Research, Extension and Training Project (Cr. 1639-SU)
Appendix B: Project Benefits
Table 1.   Gezira Irrigation Schemes - Crop Production
CottonlZ/                                Wheat                                                                      Groundhuts
Season         Area      Production    Yield          Area      Production    Yield          Area      Production    Yield          Area      Production    Yield
(feddan      Wt'OO0)    (t/fedd)   (fedd'ooo)       (tOOO)       t/fedd)   (fecOO)    tt'000)    (t/fedd)   (feddOO)    (tOOO)    (t/fedd)
1984/85        465           343         0.74         -13/           21          _2/         420           147         0.35         213           109         0.51
1985/86        411           201         0.49         242            97         0.40         588           318         0.54         103            56         0.55
1986/87        415           290         0.70         180            96         0.53         448           179         0.40         151            91         0.60
1987/88        383           248         0.65         252           120         0.47         394           141         0.36         158            95         0.60
1988/89        405           296         0.73         274           148         0.54         427           215         0.50         111            67         0.60
1989/90        358           211         0.59         392           231         0.59         441           216         0.49          80            43         0.54
1990/91        251           131         0.52         613           270         0.44         507           268         0.53          40            29         0.73
1991/92        215           172         0.80         527           494         0.94         725           478         0.66          35            28         0.80
1992/93        175           102         0.58         514           270         0.53         622           480         0.77         163           116         0.71
1993/94        150            81         0.54         496           260         0.52         547           438         0.80         187           153         0.82
Source:  SGS.
12/ Official statistics for production and yields of cotton are expressed in Kantar; I Kantar = 141.52 kg.
13/ No wheat was planted in 1984/85 season due to shortage of water.



SUDAN: Agriculal Research, Extenson and Trining Proje (Cr. 1639-SU)
Appendix B: Project Benefits
TabLe 2.   Gezira Irrigation Sdcee: Crop Budgets/feda14/
Without Project:5/                                            With Projectl6/
WHeat    | So4rgiu         Groundnuts  | Cotton             WHeat    | Sorghum     Groundhus              Cotton
A. Gross Revenues
Price (SL/kg)                                70              45             50             75             70             45              50             75
Yield (Tons/feddan)                           0.44           0.43           0.55            0.64           0.52           0.70           0.78            0.64
Gross value of production (LS'000)           30.8            19.4           27.5           48.0           36.4           31.5            39.0           48.0
B. Operatirg Costs (LS'000)
Mechanization                                  4.0            2.0            2.0            4.0            4.0             2.0            2.0            4.0
Cultural operation (Labour)                    2.4            8.0           12.0            3.4            2.4            12.0           16.0            3.4
Harvesting (Mechanization)                    2.5             1.2             -             4.8            3.0            3.4             -              4.8
Materials - Inputs                            14.0            1.0            3.8           27.2           16.5            4.1             4.3           27.2
Transport                                     2.0             1.2            1.4            2.5            2.3            2.5             2.8,           2.5
LandL7/                                       0.8             0.9            0.8            0.8            0.8            0.9             0.8            0.8
Water charges4'                                1.1            0.8            0.9            1.8            1.1            0.8             0.9             1.8
Other expenses                                 0.1           ....            0.1            _              0.1            ....            0.1            ...
Total operating costs (LS'000)            26.9           15.1            21.0           44.5           30.2           25.7           26.9            44.5
C. Met Return/feddan (LS'000)                     3.9            4.3            6.5            3.5            6.2             5.8           12.1            3.5
14/ In constant 1994 prices (Mission estimates based on SGB data).
15/ Average 1984/85 - 1986/87.
16/ Average 1991/92 - 1993/94.
17/ Based on budgeted rates for 1994/95.



SUDAN: Agriculua  Research, Extension and Training Project (Cr. 1639-SU)
Appendix B: Project Benefits
Table 3. Gezira Scheme: Net Farm Income: Without and With Project
Without Project                                        With Project
Incremental
Area            Net           Total Net Return        Area            Net          Total Net Return        (S000)
(feddans)     Ret/feddl8/           (LS'000)          (feddans)      Ret/feddl9/          (LS'000)
l___________                     (LS'OOO/fedd)                                         (LS'000/fedd)                                          l
6.2
Wheat                 4.0             3.9                 15.6              4.0                                 24.8               9.2
Sorghum               2.0             4.3                 8.6               4.0             5.8                 23.2              14.6
Groundnuts            3.0             6.5                 19.5              3.0            12.1                 36.3              16.8
Cotton                4.0             3.5                 14.0              3.0             3.5                 10.5              (3.5)
Fodder                 -               -                   -                2.0             2.5                  5.0               5.0
Fallow                7.0            0.5                  3.5               4.0             0.5                  2.0              (1.5)
Total:             20.0                                61.2              20.0                               101.8        -      40.6
I8/ Details are given in Table 2.
19/ Details are given in Table 2.






22'     24'       /b-      23'      30'      J2-      1        J'
SUDAN                       \
LOCATION OF RESEARCH STATIONS
IN THE IRRIGATED AREAS
22'                           A R A B    REPUBL  C  OF    EGYPT                22-
L I B Y A    !                        e'/    A    }       /          }   
LIBYA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I'~~~~~~~~~~~~2'
25r  tv CAT/e XMrvb, /17p  }   *    /RTX>,bUDAN
Ed 0 b~ ~ ~ ~~~uHna 
u ei~~~~~~~~~~oo
C H  A  D  j' LADAMER                                               
*                t?i XWA I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OAI f
PUMP SCHENFS
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n
CtHoZoliS}s~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ni 6g,
IA'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
~~~>;~~~~~  \   (~~~~~~~~ j<7<   X J ~~~~~~~~~~~~Polokh  '> 
8 ;g X $ < | ~~~~~~~EL FASHE       ED DO    PUN 
__';  R1000 s                      e                                      7tJ K  G AI D;
a--inged Rod   ne   osiut-                               HA     e    I \
R b.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B
)  Molar                                                                  lo,o-loS s
C,  nols                                     LANDA        *   j    -
S* nenosionol  aindrees orsstslnXl r..Wad.*............  Beds.r,<*  FIA EP\0kmC
Paved~~~~~~~~~~~                                ~  X  Roas  4      , I,,,(gh/l  -V  r4 f  -_  ; _t f_CA
Recoddarh   oad Uionsorfoced
BanProv nncial   C PrtlsojectEs                                        ' r
o  Sel,- eerte  8on0n0Vlae                                         IEHOI
HinheRnaronall So,andarhe Woodlandn       ~  .n,n,    FICNREP . 
Monta,e  YA~~~~~~~~~~~~~o 
Mechanized  Ce,eal P,oduct,o,,            Y ~~~~~~~~~~~~AIR   E
Moo' I-go25'n Schemes



