Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CR /G32_ SW
Report No. 5320-SU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH. EXTENSION AND TRAINING
IN THE IRRIGATED SUBSECTOR
November 12, 1985
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Northern Agriculture Division
Tlhis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Sudanese Pounds (LSd) = 100 Piastre
LSd 1.00              = US$ 0.40 (official)
LSd 1.00              = US$ 0.30 (parallel market)
(Project cost calculated on average exchange rate over
project period.)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Feddan               =  0.42 hectare (ha) or 4,200 m2
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
The Islamic Calendar Year
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APCs       -       Agricultural Production Corporations in the
Irrigated Sector
ARC        -       Agricultural Research Corporation
CIBC       -       Commonwealth Institute of Biological Control
CIMMYT     -       International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center
BOS        -       Bank of Sudan
FAS        -       Faculty of Agricultural Sciences
FERD       -       Faculty of Economics and Rural Development
GRP        -       Gezira Rehabilitation Project
GRS        -       Gezira Research Station
MCPW       -       Ministry of Construction & Public Works
MOA        -       Ministry of Agriculture
MOFEP      -       Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
NEA        -       National Extension Administration
NAHPC      -       New Halfa Production Corporation
PPC        -       Project Procurement Committee
PSC        -       Project Steering Committee
RAHCO      -       Rahad Production Corporation
PMU        -       Project Management Unit
SGB        -       Sudan Gezira Board
T&V        -       Training and Visit System
UG         -       University of Gezira



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
Research, Extension and Training Project
In the Irrigated Subsector
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ................................   (i)
I. INTRODUCTION ......................    1
A. General                 1........................1
B. The Agricultural Sector ........ ........... _..........    1
C. The Irrigated Sub-Sector  ......... o         ......         1
D.  Project Origin and Rationale          ..........................    5
E. The Bank Group Role ...................................    6
II.  THE PROJECT BACKGROUND                .......*    7
A.  Agricultural Research         7............................  7
B.  The National Extension Administration (NEA) ...........  11
C.  Agricultural Extension in the Agricultural
Production Corporations (APCs)          ........................  13
D.  Agricultural Training .................................  16
III.  THE PROJECT          ..........................................*.....   18
A.  Project Objectives ................................... .  18
B. Project Components ....................................  19
C. Detailed Description ...................   19
(i)  Agricultural Research                 ........ .. ...  19
(ii)  The National Extension Administration ............  23
(iii)  Extension at Rahad and New Halfa
Agricultural Production Corporations .............  24
(iv)  Training at the University of Gezira       .............  27
D.  Project Costs        ......... ........ s ... O.. ...........  29
E.  Financing Plan ........................................   32
F. Procurement ..............0..*. -     -................*.......    34
G.  Disbursement ..... ......... ..............   35
H. Accounts and Audits ..........b.........................   36
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission consisting
of Messrs. S. Barghouti, J. Ball, A. Pritcnard, N. Roberts and D. Dawit
that visited Sudan during March/April 1984.
Thi document has a restricted distnbution and may be used by reipients only in the performance of l
thei official duties. uIs contents may not otherwise be dicosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
IV.  IMPLEMENTATION ..*       *....................***** ........   38
A.  Organization and Management ...........................   38
B.  Planning and Coordination of the Research Component .i..  40
C.  Extension Activities at Rahad and New Halfa Corps .....   42
D.  University of Gezira           ............................**..   43
E.  Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting          ..................   43
F.  Environmental Impact ..................................   44
V.  BENEFITS AND RISKS ........ ........  .......    .... *..a ....    44
A* Benefits .....oooooo ooses ooooo                     ooo.........................   44
B.  Risks        .................................................   46
VI.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED .................. oo.oeo.   47
ANNEXES
1.  Summary Cost Tables .............0000.    ..............*.*. ........   50
2.  Estimated Price Contingency and Foreign Exchange Rates o.....    58
3.  Annual Work Program 0000 0.0... .... ****   59
4.  a.  Research Sub-Projects Evaluation Criteria    ...............    61
b.  Terms and Conditions for Research Grants Sub-Projects ...   62
5.  Duties and Responsibilities of Field Inspectors         .............  63
6.  Civil Works Requirements *oo............      .......................   67
7. Links Between Research and Extension           ........................   68
8.  Agricultural Research .........................................   70
9.  Technical Assistance and Short-Term Consultencies ...........       87
10.  Schedule of Disbursements ..        ...........  .............. ........   88
Financing Arrangements .............................. ........   89
11.  Incremental Government Cash Flow ...         .........................   90
12.  Crop Production Area in the Irrigated Schemes ...............       91
CHARTS
1.  Ministry of Agriculture .****      ......................... ........   92
2.  Agricultural Research Corporation          ............................   93
3.  New Halfa Agricultural Corporation          ...........................   94
4.  Rahad Production Corporation         .................................   95
5.  National Extension Administration    ............................   96
Documents Available in the Project Files ...........o-   .........    97
MAP: Location of Research Stations in the Irrigated Areas (IBRD 18301)



(M)
SUDAN
RESEARCH, EXTENSI3N AND TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower     : Democratic Republic of Sudan
Beneficiaries:  The Agricultural Extension Administration (NEA); the
Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC); Rahad Corporation
(RARCO); New Halfa Agricultural Production Corporation
(NHAPC); and University of Gezira (UG).
Amount       : SDR 20.8 million (US$22.0 million equivalent)
Onlending       The proceeds of the credit will be made available on a
Terms           grant or equity basis to ARC, NEA, UG, PMU, NHAPC, and
RANCO.
Project         Objectives:  The project objective would be to improve crop
production in the irrigated subsector through improvements
in research, extension and training. Over a 6-year period,
the project would strengthen the technological base
required for higher production, reform the subsector
extension system, and upgrade the skills of field
personnel.
Components: The project would (a) rehabilitate and
strengthen agricultural research at five regional stations
in the irrigated areas; (b) upgrade the skills of field
inspectors and establish programmed extension services at
New Halfa and Rahad Corporations; (c) strengthen the
National Extension Administration; and (d) strengthen the
in-service training capabilities of the University of
Gezira.
Benefits: 300,000 farmers producing cotton, sorghum,
groundnuts, wheat and vegetables on over four million
feddans would benefit. Yields of cotton and other crops
are expected to increase and stabilize at higher levels due
to development of more efficient technology combined with
the improvement of the Corporations' services to the
farmers which is expected to result from upgrading the
skills of their field personnel.
Risks: It may be difficult to coordinate the various
components. Research activities financed under the project
may not fully respond to farmers' problems. Extension
activities may not receive adequate attention because of
the corporations' traditional concern for inspection and
supervision of production activities. Provision has been
made in the project design to minimize these risks.



(ii)
Estimated Costs:.                             US$ Million
Local    Foreign    Total
Civil Works                             5.4        3.4        8.8
Vehicles                                0.8        1.0         1.8
Agricultural & laboratory equipment     1.8        4.4         6.2
Research Grant                          0.8        0.2         1.0
Training and Technical Assistance       0.4        3.8        4.2
Incremental Operating Cost              3.5        3.1        6.6
Contingencies:
Physical                               1.1        1.2        2.3
Price                                  4.1        3.0        7.1
Total Project Cost                     17.9       20.1       38.0
Total Project Cost                     12.7       20.1       32.8
(net of taxes and duties)                        -
Financing Plan:                                       US$ million
Local      Foreign    Total
IDA Credit                              1.9       20.1       22.0
Government of Sudan                    15.2        -          15.2
New Halfa                               0.4        -          0.4
Rahad Corporation                       0.4        -          0.4
Total                             17.9       20.1       38.0
Estimated Disbursement
1986    1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993  1994
IDA Annual      1.0     1.5    1.8    2.2    3.0    2.7    3.6    3.2   3.0
Cumulative          2.5    4.3    6.5    9.5   12.2   15.8   19.0 22.0
Estimated Rate of Return: 20 percent
Map No.: IBRD 18301



SUDAN
RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
IN THE IRRIGATED SUBSECTOR
I. INTRODUCTION
A. General
1.01      Sudan is the largest country in Africa, with an area of 2.4
million square kilometers. Total population is about 19 million people,
nearly 80% of whom are directly employed or dependent on agriculture. Much
of the country is desert or semi-desert with relatively low population
pressure on the land.
1.02      The bulk of Sudan's cultivated land is in the Central Clay Plains
which comprises 9% of the geographical area of Sudan. Agriculture is
characterized by its duality. Modern cultivation methods are used on about
half of the 20 million feddan (fd) cultivated annually in Sudan, including
the four million fd under irrigation and six million fd under mechanized
farming. The other half is cultivated by small farmers using traditional
methods.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.03      Agriculture is the most important sector in the Sudanese
economy. It accounts for about 40% of the total GDP, and 75% of the GDP in
the production sector and employs 902 of the labor force. The role of
agriculture in generating exports is particularly crucial. In 1981182
nearly 95% of the total value of all commodity exports came from
agriculture. These included the export of cotton (37Z), groundnuts (12%),
gum arabic, (11%), livestock (14%), sorghum (16%), and oilseeds (10%). A
recent Bank reportl/ on Sudan concluded that no strategy for meeting
Sudan's foreign debt obligations can succeed without a substantial increase
in agricultural exports. Also, inspite of Sudan's strong agricultural
base, imported agricultural products (food and beverage) account for more
than 25% of the value of the country's imports. With increases and
diversification of agricultural production, many of these imports could be
readily and efficiently produced in Sudan, saving scarce foreign exchange.
C. The Irrigated Sub-Sector
1.04      Area and Production.  Since the establishment of the Gezira
Scheme on 600,000 fd in 1920, the area under irrigation has expanded and
agricultural corporations were established that now in aggregate supervise
1/   Sudan Pricing Policies and Structural Balances, Report No. 4528,
November 1983.



tenant cultivation schemes on some 3.8 million irrigated fd. The five
major schemes involved are: Gezira-Managil (2.1 million fd), New Halfa
(0.4 million fd), Rahad (0.3 million fd), and the Blue and White Nile Pump
Schemes covering 0.7 million fd. About 0.3 million fd on the Main Nile in
the Northern Region are cultivated by individual owners. These schemes
produce all of Sudan's long staple cotton, 90-95% of its medium staple
cotton, all of its wheat and sugarcane, 55% of its groundnuts, and 25% of
its sorghum. They also produce 60% of Sudan's vegetables and fruits.
1.05      Production System.  The agricultural production corporations
(APCs) have successfully established field organizations serving about
240,000 tenants cultivating about 3,500,000 fd. Each corporation is
divided into groups or sections, each containing several blocks. The block
comprises on average 5-7 villages cultivating from 30,000 to 35,000 fd.,
and is staffed by a block inspector supported by three to four field
inspectors, each supervising about 300 tenants. Groups/sections are
supervised by a manager supported by subject matter specialists (SMS) in
plant protection, horticulture and in some cases farm machinery, crop
and animal production.
1.06      Land Tenure.  In the irrigated schemes the land is totally
government-owned and farmed under a tenancy arrangement. Tenants cultivate
between 15-40 fd with an average of 20 fd per tenancy. The corporations
keep separate accounts to record each tenant's debts by crop (cash
advances, inputs, services, and land and water charges). Sharecropping is
common for sorghum and groundnut production. About 15X cf the irrigated
land is under sharecropping.
1.07      The APCs are directly responsible for most of the agricultural
operations for cotton cultivation. They arrange to clear the land, till
the soil, prepare the land for seeding, provide irrigation water and
fertilizers, control insects, apply herbicides and assist in recruiting
labor for cotton picking. As a result the tenants only have limited
opportunities to influence cotton production even though they personally
perform or hire labor to carry out all manual operations such as thinning,
replanting, weeding, watering and harvesting. On the other hand, tenants
or hired labor perform nearly all the field work on non-cotton crops.
These crops are neglected, however, because the corporations do not have
the resources to supply the inputs and field services needed to realize
yields that are in line with those obtainable under irrigated conditions
elsewhere. Even in the case of cotton the rapid expansion of modern
input-intensive technology that has occurred in recent years (herbicides,
insecticides, etc.) has not been accompanied by sufficient adaptive
research, extension and staff training to ensure that the new inputs are
adequately field-tested and that field personnel are trained to promote
them properly. As a result, attainable benefits have not been realized and
implementational costs have been higher than necessary.
1.08      Production, Pricing and Marketing.  After years of growth and
expansion, yield and production of cotton and other irrigated crops
declined sharply in the seventies. Cropped cotton area fell substantially
and yield declined by more than 50%. The main reasons for the drop in



cotton production include (a) low and declining producer prices and
incentives caused by overvaluation of the exchange rate, export duties,
delay of payments to the tenants, and a revenue sharing formula which
allowed the return from cotton to be used to cover expenses incurred by
other crops or unproductive farms; (b) shortage of foreign exchange needed
to replace, operate and maintain irrigation assets; and (c) poor
performance of the parastatals caused by the flight of skilled personnel to
local or external private sector, and (d) the inability of the parastatals
to manage or to develop advanced production technology needed to deal with
evolving problems created by increasing intensification of the cropping
systems in the irrigated areas.
1.09      Recognizing the severity of the problems, the Bank assisted the
Government in conducting necessary studies to define these problems, and
where possible, articulate alternatives for investment required to address
them. Based on these studies, the Government, with the help of the Bank,
designed the Export Action Program in 1980 which contained provisions for
(a) urgently needed investments aimed at satisfying requirements for spare
parts, machinery, and equipment in order to arrest decapitalization which
has plagued the irrigated schemes; (b) allocation of foreign exchange to
finance larger imports of current inputs; (c) a series of rehabilitation
projects to be carried out in the 1980s principally in the major
agricultural schemes where cotton is grown,2/ and (d) policy reform
including the revision of the incentive structure and the pricing systems
with the intention to stimulate greater production. As a result of these
policies, cotton and wheat producers' prices are now announced ahead of
time, and separate accounts for the cost of production are kept for each
tenant and each individual crop.
1.10      With assistance from the Bank in the above areas, Sudan has
successfully reversed the downward slide In production and productivity in
the irrigated areas. Production of all crops increased substantially in
every cropping season since 1981. Yields are back to their earlier
historical levels, and reflect not only measures taken in the context of
the Government new policies, but also much improved availability of
critical inputs - water, seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, and machinery. It
is well recognized that to sustain accomplishments and to raise production
to heifer levels, certain changes have to be advocated in the role of the
Government and its institutions, the responsibilities of the farmers,
upgrading production technology and in the management of existing resources
(water, land, crop).
1.11      Emerging Technical Production Problems.  The cropping system
originally introduced in the irrigated areas in 1920B has changed
dramatically. The old system was based on long staple cotton, with sorghum
as a food crop for those producers with adequate water, land and labor to
2/   New Halfa (Cr. 1022-SU); Blue Nile (Cr. 1118-SU); White Nile
(Cr. 1119-SU); and Gezira (Cr. 1388-SU) rehabilitation projects, in
addition to Agricultural Rehabilitation I and II (Cr. 1000-SU and
Cr. 1389-SU).



grow it. The present system is more intensive and diversified and includes
medium staple cotton, groundnuts, sorghum, wheat, and vegetables.
Competition for labor and field services, mainly in the period between
September and December, gradually developed as the system became
established and water shortages became common, partly because canals were
not regularly cleaned, and partly because of the competing labor demands of
the various crops at times of peak water usage. In addition, because soil
management was not appropriately modified as the intensified cropping
system was introduced, problems of soil fertility, water distribution and
drainage emerged. Infestation by cotton pests, mainl, white fly, Bemisia
tabaci, recently reached 'crisis" proportions causing severe reduction in
yields and lint quality. A large portion of Sudan cotton produced between
1982-1984 was sold at 25% below world market price because of poor quality
and sticky lint caused by the white fly. With less land in fallow, and
higher chemical input use, costly input/output imbalances appeared. For
example, while average cotton yields remained constant, average nitrogen
use rose from about 36 kg/ha in 1974-76 to 62 kg/ha in 1982-83; for ten
years the number of insecticide applications per season rose steadily at
about 0.5 additional applications per year; and herbicide use on cotton
rose from an application on 8% of the cotton area in 1977/78 to 84X in
1983/84. The cost of crop protection has risen from 8% of total production
cost in 1974 to 32% in 1983184.
1.12      Yield increases beyond historical levels are possible, as can be
seen from the large gap between the yields obtained on farmers' fields and
those obtained on experiment stations (Table 1). This clearly indicates
that more needs to be done to adapt and/or transfer new technology to suit
farmers' conditions. In addition there is a need for individual farmers to
be more closely involved with and more responsible for the entire
production process. For instance, all APCs impose production targets and
crop rotations. Raising cotton and other crop production generally assumes
a need to increase the use of herbicides and insecticides, farm machinery,
and fertilizers, and to expand areas grown under a particular crop.
Often decisions to this effect are made without informing farmers or
soliciting their opinions. A stable improvement in yields will in fact
require better crop management practices and more efficient use of inputs
(fertilizers, pesticides and water). The way to attain this will be to
involve tenants more closely in on-farm management - and this will mean an
upgrading of the technical skills of both tenants and the APC staff who
supervise them.



-5-
Table I
Average Yields of Main Crops Grown Under Irrigation Since 1974/75-83/84
Farmers' yields
Average yields   Average yields on as percentage of
Average yields on   of trials on    Gezira Research   research station
farmers' fields    farmers' fields      Station            vi
kg/fd                              kg/fd               (Z)
Cotton (Long staple)    500                 900             1,200              41
Cotton (Medium)         650                1,100           1,400               46
Wheat                   360                 800            1,200               30
Sorghum                 500                1,600           2,000               25
Groundnuts              600                1,800           2,800               21
D.  Project Origin and Rationale
1.13      Origin.  The Government of Sudan (GOS) has requested the Bank to
assist the APCs to establish extension servlces and to strengthen their
links with the Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC). Additional support
was requested for ARC, the University of Gezira (UG) and the National
Extension Administration (NEA) in order to upgrade the skills of
agricultural personnel working ln the irrigated areas, and provide a
continuing flow of new information and technology to tenants.
1.14      IDA assisted 12 Sudanese officials, including the Managing
Directors of three corporations and the Directors of Extension and of
Agricultural Services of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), to visit India
to learn about the Indian experience in strengthening links between
research, extension, and training, and to assess the suitability of the
Training and Visit (T&V) cgricultural extension system for Sudanese
conditions. GOS then recruited an experienced agricultural extension
consultant for five months to help initiate pilot T&V extension activities.
1.15      A Bank mission visited Sudan in February 1983 to identify the
extension component of the proposed Project. Another mission, in
cooperation with the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development, visited
Sudan in March 1983 to review the status of research and to identify the
needs of ARC. The findings of these missions were discussed with GOS,
which agreed to appoint a specialized committee to prepare a project to
support research, extension and training In the Irrigated subsector. The
preparation team worked under the supervision of a Steering Committee
chaired by MOA's Director-General of Planning, was supported by MOA's
Project Preparation Unit. GOS submitted to IDA a preparation report
entitled Agricultural Research Training and Extension In the Irrigated
Sector in November 1983.
1.16      Rationale.  The Government of Sudan, with support from the Bank,
Is implementing several projects to restore the production of the lrrigated
schemes to the levels achieved in the early 1970s (para 1.06). As these



- 6 -
rehabilitation projects are implemented, support for research and extension
becomes the next logical step through which further stable increase in
yields can be realized. The proposed project would address the technical
production problems which have emerged as a result of the increasing
intensification of cropping systems by supporting research. By introducing
the T&V extension system, the project would also assist the corporations to
convert the inspectorate system into an extension service dealing with all
crops in the rotation. Finally, by assisting UG to establish in-service
agricultural training programs and post-graduate studies in agricultural
extension and economics, adequate training would be provided to staff
working in the irrigated sub-sector.
E. The Bank Group Role
1.17      IDA's proposed involvement in this project is designed to
complement the Bank's support for the Government's program to expand
agricultural production in the irrigated areas and is a part of a larger
effort by the Bank group to strengthen the economy of Sudan. The
irrigation rehabilitation projects have been effective in providing badly
needed spare parts and replacements, equipment and improving management.
These projects have been instrumental in maximizing agriculture's
contribution to exports, reducing food imports of wheat, sorghum and oil
seeds; improving organizational efficiency of the APCs; supporting
government policies for raising crop prices; and increasing cost recovery
on the Irrigated schemes. As a result of these projects, cotton
production, Sudan's major export commodity, has increased by 60% during the
last three cropping seasons. The recently issued Rahad Project Completion
Report cites benefits accrued to the project as a result of the Government
policies abolishing the joint account system, increasing producer prices
and improving financial management of APCs that are enforced by the ongoing
rehabilitation projects (para 1.09). The report recommends additional
support for research and extension and for upgrading the technical skills
of field workers. This recommendation has been incorporated in the design
of the Gezira Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1388-SU), and the recently
redesigned Blue Nile (Cr. 1118-SU) and White Nile (Cr. 1119-SU)
Rehabilitation projects. The proposed project would support research and
extension in the New Halfa and Rahad areas, and would strengthen the
overall agricultural research and training services in the irrigated
subsector.
1.18      Agricultural credits form more than 50% of total Bank lending to
Sudan and totals US$992 million to date. These credits finance seven
irrigation projects, three rainfed mechanized farming projects, three
smallholder development projects, two livestock marketing projects, an
agricultural research project, and two agricultural rehabilitation
projects. Credits in other sectors include three power projects, nine
transport projects, two education projects, two technical assistance
projects and two industrial credit projects.



-7-
Experience with Past Lending
1.19      Despite the overall economic difficulties in Sudan, supporting
the agricultural sector has been effective. The recently completed Western
Savannah Project has increased knowledge about how to improve rainfed
agriculture in Western Sudan, and lending for a 'second phase" is being
processed. The Rahad Project completion report, issued in 1984, provides
evidence of substantial achievements made by government policies in the
irrigated subsectors. The IDA-financed irrigated rehabilitation projects
have been instrumental in arresting the decline in agricultural product-
ivity and, indeed, have increased yields of all crops to their historical
levels. The mid-term review of the Blue Nile (Cr. 1118-SU) and White Nile
(Cr. 1119-SU) carried out in 1984 strongly recommends additional institu-
tional support in the irrigated sector, including research, extension and
training services.
1.20      Implementation of several projects in Sudan has been delayed
because of difficulties in timely delivery of sufficient quantities of key
materials such as cement and fuel. This has been related to foreign
exchange shortages and transport difficulties. In several instances,
project implementation has fallen behind schedule, disbursement has been
slower than anticipated, and gestation periods has been longer than
expected. These have lead to lag in benefit flow. The latest Sudan
Country Economic Memorandum (Prospects for Rehabilitation of the Sudanese
Economy, October 7, 1985), discusses in detail policies and factors
affecting implementation of development projects. The Bank is addressing
these problems as part of its on-going policy dialogue with GOS, and by
progressively incorporating specific mechanisms in successive projects to
overcome identified bottlenecks.
II. THE PROJECT BACKGROUND-
A. Agricultural Research
The Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC)
2.01      Background.  Agricultural research in Sudan started in 1905 with
the establishment of Shambat Research Station (north of Khartoum) to
investigate cotton production. With the expansion of the irrigated sector
in the sixties, a network of regional stations, sub-stations and experi-
mental sites (17 in total) had been established, all well chosen to serve
the main agro-climatic and production zones of the irrigated sector. Many
facilities of these stations have subsequently been allowed to deteriorate
and some of the experimental sites have been discontinued for lack of
adequate financial support. Currently, the sub-stations can not attract
qualified research scientists because of inadequate housing and work
facilities and hence there is an imbalanced distribution of qualified
.research personnel among research stations and sub-stations. Existing farm
and lab equipment is also aging and in need of replacement if the research
programs of the stations are to be revitalized.



- 8-
2.02      Organization. ARC, establisbed in 1967 to supervise the work of
these stations, is the main official organization responsible for
agricultural research policies and programs in the country. Based in Wad
Medani, ARC is a semi-autonomous body directly responsible to the Minister
of Agriculture, with the Board of Management including the Managing
Directors of al irrigated schemes; and representatives of universities and
other corporations, Ministries of Finance and Industry, and the
Agricultural Bank of Sudan. The Board meets at least twice a year and
plans the general agricultural research policy for Sudan, approves ARC
budget, approves the appointment of scientists and officials, and reviews
the recommendations of its Technical and Administrative Committees.
The main functions of the technical committee are to initiate, approve and
execute ARC's research policy, and to engage in cooperation with local and
international scientific institutions. The Administrative and Finance
Committee is responsible for: (a) proposing personnel regulations; (b)
preparation of the draft budget for presentation to the Board; and (c)
preparation of the annual financial report including status of
implementation of ARC regulations, and inventory of ARC property.
2.03      Staff.  ARC employs 276 researchers supported by 483 field
technicians (more than 70% of the staff serve the irrigated areas).   The
resultant technician to scientist ratio of nearly 2:1, is relatively high
when compared with other developing countries. More than 65Z of the
researchers have Ph.D degrees from universities in the USA or the UK, and
about 25% of the researchers were on study tours in 1982. Available
trained manpower at ARC is sufficient for the type of investigations
considered necessary for the coming few years.
2.04      ARC has suffered from frequent staff turnover and this has
adversely affected the continuity of its main lines of research, the
stability of its administrative management and research leadership. The
allocation of staff to the main disciplines - plant breeding, agronomy,
horticulture and crop protection is reasonably balanced; but a few
disciplines-animal production (includirng range and forage), agricultural
engineering, agricultural economics and rural sociology remain inadequately
staffed.  The resulting imbalances could be corrected by a combination of
redeployment, carefully selected additions to fill evident gaps in the
staff structure, and training for middle-level research technicians.
2.05      Budget.  ARC's budget is funded by an annual government
contribution based on the board's budget proposals endorsed by the Minister
of Agriculture, and approved by the Council of Ministers. ARC receives its
budgetary allocation under three headings: salaries, recurrent expenditure
and development cost. The percentage of salaries to total budget has
remained around 85Z in the last three years (Table 2) and reflects the
decline in the ARC budget which has suffered as a result of the general
state of the economy. In recent years, ARC has not received the agreed
upon budget because of overall shortage in the national budget. Other
effects have been the curtailment of field trials because of vehicle a Ad
fuel shortages; discontinued subscriptions to scientific journals;
unimplemented research proposals; inadequate lab facilities; and a paucity
of spare parts and farm equipment. At the same time, several Sudanese



-9-
scientists, returning from overseas training, increased demands for office
and housing accommodation and work budgets, and added pressure to an
already weakened system. Salaries have remained low and this has led many
trained researchers to seek work opporcunities outside Sudan.
Table 2
ARC Budgetary Allocations (1978/79-1983184)
(LSd '000)
Recurrent              Recurrent
Year      Development   Salaries   Expenditures   Total   to Total (Z)
1978/79         163          2,359          740      3,262        22.7
1979/80         844         4,253            85      5,947        14.3
1980/81         240          4,623        1,067      5,930        18.0
1981/82         400         5,000           914      6,314        14.5
1982/83         800         5,440           930      7,170        13.0
1983/84       1,300         5,900         1,252      8,452        14.8
2.06      International Support.  Several of ARC research activities have
been financed in cooperation with FAD (integrated pest management),
ICARDA/IFAD (Nile Vaniey Project), UNDP/ICRISAT (sorghum improvement), and
agro-chemical compaaies for testing chemical products. APCs pay about ZOZ
of ARC annual recurrent budget. Although ARC has acquired a critical mass
of research scientists, few funds are available to utilize their skills and
qualification.  This situation has been aggravated by several donors
supporting research projects in Sudan by bringing technical assistance from
outsidu without matching support for the provision of recurrent funds and
capital investment.
2.07      Current Status and Problems of the Research Program.  The various
ARC stations were selected to serve well defined ecologies and their
activities reflect this orientation. All disciplines involved in
successful crop husbandry in a given arean-soil studies, plant breeding,
agronomy, crop protection-received attention.  The main gap was, and still
is, in agricultural economics, farm management and rural sociology. The
quality of research was good and in certain cases, e.g. cotton breeding,
was at par with the best at the international level. Crop research efforts
have suffered severe setbacks and retraction in recent years. Work at
several out-stations has been neglected and because of lack of inputs,
including fuel for machinery and water for irrigation, the cultivation of
areas on some stations (a necessity to restore uniformity to the land after
its use for experiments) was not always possible.  The inability to provide
these inputs when and as needed, has also affected work quality.  The
important stage of field testing under tenant/farmer conditions as a
precondition for formalizing and advancing specific recommendations has not
always been included in the work program.  Varieties have been released and
practices introduced without the benefits that such tests can yield.



- 10 -
2.08      There is a lack of well-trained agricultural economists in
Sudan; only two Ph.D. agricultural economists are currently on the ARC
staff. Because of this shortage, very little attention is being devoted to
evaluation of tenants' input choices, which are rapidly changing as a
result of the new agricultural incentives structure and intensification of
the cropping system. Up to now, evaluation has been left to research
agronomists, entomologists and managers of agricultural corporations. The
lack of a consistent economic perspective on research has resulted in
serious flaws in ARC recommendations; for example, ignoring the value of
livestock has led to miscalculations about optimal crop rotations. An
agricultural economic research program should be established at the main
research stations in the irrigated subsector in order to assess the impact
of the recommended agricultural practices, and to better understand tenant
decision-making. The economics department at ARC should also be capable of
collecting seasonal data on the production cost of all crops, for use in
calculating the producer prices that the Government establishes annually.
2.09      Future Orientation.  Research objectives should be modest and
realistic in the short-run, with a strong emphasis on the plant-breeding
program. Agricultural research in Sudan over the next five years should be
primarily concerned with achieving clearly defined targets responsive to
the needs of producers, with a heavy accent on short-term adaptive
investigations of the validity of the new technologies introduced into the
country or developed within Sudan. Because of the cumulative effects of
increasing crop intensification on farmers' income, soil fertility,
corporations' responsibilities, and the environment, the future research
strategy should bring all aspects of crop management and production
including plant protection into a cohesive program. The research program
should be multi-disciplinary, and should include plant breeding,
entomology, plant pathology, weed science, agricultural economics,
agronomy, and soil and water science. There is already a considerable body
of information which, if properly integrated, can form the basis for
preliminary research actions.
2.10      Program Development and Improvement.  It follows that steps to
provide ARC with sufficient operating funds should be associated with a
concerted effort by ARC to: correct the poor deployment of qualified
personnel; strengthen the coordination between disciplines and crop
improvement; and develop feedback linkages to identify those factors which
affect the utilization of its research results. Only then can ARC increase
the productive impact of its work. A farming system research approach
should be introduced at all stations, a move which should permit scientists
to gain greater appreciation for farmers' problems and ensure that research
activities involve the field extension personnel of APCs.
2.11      It is encouraging to note that ARC is moving in this direction.
Research priorities for each station are being identified with the
objective of addressing main production problems of the region where the
station is located. For example, ARC is implementing with ICARDA a
six-year research project, financed by The International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD), to improve research and production of faba
beans (Vicia faba) in the northern province. The Hudeiba Research Station



- 11 -
is responsible for implementing this project which includes: soCio-
economic surveys, farming system analysis, breeding, pest and disease
studies, agronomic research, and on-farm trials conducted at several sites
in the Northern Region. As a result of project activities a package of
improved production technology for faba bean has been developed and is
being tried on farmers' fields. Based on encouraging results of the above
project, ARC plans to replicate this research model to other important
crops at other regional stations. This would require improvement in
regional research facilities, and re-programming of research and training
activities at these stations.
2.12      Management of ARC. As the research network expands and the
levels to which staff are trained improve, research management and
administration will need strengthening in order to improve the way in which
available resources are allocated and to plan, implement and supervise
research projects. Therefore, key research personnel, especially station
managers should receive training in research planning, management and
administration. This effort should include joint sessions with production,
extension, and training managers and administrators to develop the many
linkages needed to keep the resultant research program in tune with the
major developments, prevailing capacity and key constraints of the
sub-sector as a whole.
2.13      Transfer of Information and Technology. ARC develops, tests and
verifies technology which is transferred to the APC through APC/ARC
National Committees dealing with (a) crop husbandry in the irrigated areas;
(b) pests and disease; (c) cotton variety; and (d) production and variety
release. All APCs receive information from ARC on recommended technology
through annual meetings and reports. They in turn convey this information
to the tenants through the inspecrorate system. This function is not
supported by an information service capable of presenting the latest
results from research work to the intended clients adequately. ARC annual
reports, for example, are now several years behind schedule. Technical
publications updating production practices are rarely published by ARC.
Apart from their intrinsic value for decision-making, reports and
publications are a partial safeguard against the loss of data and serve as
a ready reminder of past work. ARC's involvement in the transfer of
technology could be improved substantially if its Information Unit was
strengthened and its links with extension reinforced.
B.  The National Extension Administration (NEA)
2.14      The National Extension Administration (NEA).  There is no unified
national extension service in the Sudan. Separate extension programs are
conducted by each public corporation, and by each administrative region.
In the irrigated APCs, extension work is implemented as a low-priority
activity by the field inspectorate. In the -traditional- rainfed and
irrigated areas, extension operations were until three years ago the
responsibility of NEA. Since the decision in 1981 to regionalize all
agricultural services, however, this responsibility has gradually been
passed to the various Regional Ministries of Agriculture, along with some
70 of NEA's former field staff. The effect of regionalization on NEA has



- 12 -
been to exclude it from the direct implementation of extension programs;
Its role is now largely confined to providing advice and support to these
regional efforts.
2.15      NEA is one of several directorates of the MOA, with its offices
in Khartoum. It has a staff of about 120, including 20 with doctorates or
masterts degrees, about 80 graduates from universities or higher
institutes, and some 30 trained audio-visual and printing technicians. Of
the postgraduates, 12 have MScs from abroad. There are seven divisions in
NEA, the largest of which is the Agricultural Information and Culture
Division, with about 45 staff. This division runs a printing shop,
preparing extension materials for the Regional Ministries and for the
APCs; divisional staff also write a bi-weekly agricultural radio program
and, intermittently, a weekly television program. The Program Planning and
Research Division conducts ad hoc studies on the impact of extension in the
traditional areas, and collects information from ARC on findings suitable
for extension there. The Training Division runs short induction courses
for new regional extension staff, as well as occasional courses for farmers
and rural women. A new Monitoring and Evaluation Division was formed in
February 1984 but is barely operational. A Fertilizers Division
coordinates an FAG-sponsored program of irrigated fertilizer trials and
demons trations.
2.16      Despite the useful support that NEA could give to extension work
in the APCs, little call is made on its services from this quarter. Since
regionalization in 1981, there has been no clear definition of NEA's role
viz-a-viz either APC or regional extension work. The potential value of
NEA is also greatly diminished by budgetary restrictions. NEA's
development budget, for example, dwindled from LSd215,00O in 1980/81 down
to nothing in 1983/84; NEA is no longer supported through foreign
assistance funds (except in the fertilizer program). Much of its
transport, audio-visual and printing equipment (donated in the 1970's
through bilateral aid) has been well-maintained, but now badly needs
replacement. NEA's operating budget also remained static at about
LSd105,0U0 p.a. between 1980/81 and 1983/84. As a consequence, much needed
plant maintenance has normally been impossible after the first quarter of a
financial year, and assignments are left half-completed. In addition, GOS
field and petrol allowances are inadequate to encourage or even pvrmit NEA
staff to undertake sufficient field work to maintain up-to-date contact
with the regions, the APCs or ARC. NEA is thus cut off from events about
which it is supposed to possess an expertise.
2.17      The attraction of NEA in the context of the proposed project is
that it consists of a group of skilled extension methodologists and
technicians who are self-confessedly under-employed in their present
capacity. Once strengthened, NEA could be entrusted to provide the
guidance and technical support which will be needed by the APCs as they
begin to redefine their extension approach.



- 13 -
C. Agricultural Extension in the Agricultural
Production Corporations (APCs)
2.18      The Inspectorate System.  Due to the APC's overwhelming concern
with cotton production and the centrally-managed nature of this enterprise,
their field staffs have always been pre-occupied with direct management
functions rather than with the provision of technical advice to the
tenants. Given the severe problems faced by the APCs in providing
machinery and other inputs, it is not surprising that educating tenants has
received little attention, particularly in the case of the non-cotton
crops. Yields for these crops are even further from their potential than
for cotton (Table 1, para. 1.11).  As the IDA-financed rehabilitation
projects have begun to alleviate the machinery and inputs crises faced by
the corporations in the 1970s, and as the incentives to cotton producers
have improved (para. 1.09), so it has become clearer to APC managers that
there is a strong residual need to improve tenants' crop husbandry if high
and stable yields are to be achieved.
2.19      Attempts at improving extension in the APCa to date have not
involved any substantive attention to the role of the Field Inspectors, the
key corporation staff at field level. Extension initiatives have either
resulted in the establishment of a second line of field staff in addition
to che inspectorate, or in the creation of a specialist extension unit at
APC headquarters. Neither of these approaches has met with any tangible
success. In the first instance, the presence of two corporation
representatives at the tenancy level always resulted in confusion over
their respective responsibilities; tenants and inspectors alike considered
the extension specialists of little importance, since unlike the inspectors
they carried no pover and could exert no influence over the corporation's
main activities. The notion that the inspectors themselves should regard
extension activities as a major feature of their work has until recently
met with little response; historically, the inspectors have seen themselves
as managers of corporation agriculture, and not as advisers to the tenants.
2.20      The inspectorate system employed in Rahad and New Halfa APCs
derives from the model established for the Gezira Scheme in the 1920s
(para. 1.07).3/ Although there are differences of detail, the principles
and modus operandi are the same in all the major irrigated APCs. In each
case, field inspectors are responsible for ensuring timely and adequate
implementation of the corporation's production plan within a defined
physical area (about 7,000 fd in Rahad and 6,000 fd in New Halfa). They
are backed up by a hierarchy of supervisors and staff specializing in
various aspects of agriculture and administration.
2.21      In the case of Rahad, some 300,000 fd are organized into 12,800
tenancies of either 11 or 22 fd with tenants growing cotton, groundnuts and
sorghum, and 1,500 tenancies of 5 fd on which vegetables are grown. For
31   Support for the inspectorate system at the Gezira, Blue Nile and White
Nile APCs is being provided by other IDA-financed rehabilitation
projects (para 1.17).



- 14 -
administrative purposes, the scheme is divided into nine blocks, three of
which constitute a group. The inspectorate consists of 51 Field Inspectors
(on average 6 per block), nine Block Inspectors, three Group Inspectors and
the Field Manager at HQ in El Fau, who reports directly to the Agricultural
Manager. In addition, there are 9 specialist Horticulture Inspectors at
the block level who report to a Horticulture Manager at HQ. Field
Inspectors in Rahad are generally degree-holders.
2.22      In New Halfa, the field crop tenancies are smaller -- some
330,000 fedan is div'ded into 22,000 tenancies each of 15 fd, growing
cotton, groundnuts, wheat and sorghum. The scheme is divided into 19
blocks, three or four of which constitute a section. The inspectorate
consists of 57 Field Inspectors, 19 Block Inspectors, 3 Section Managers,
and a Field Manager at HQ in New Halfa who is also the Agriculture
Manager. 24,000 fd of freehold land is situated within the boundaries of
the scheme and is used for horticulture; 4 Horticulture Inspectors provide
extension advice in these areas. In New Halfa, Field Inspectors are a mix
of degree holders, diplomates and secondary school graduates. The ratio of
tenants to Field Inspectors is higher in New Halfa than in Rahad; about
385:1 as compared with 230:1.4/   In both corporations, the cost of
providing the services of the7inspectorate is met by the tenants through
deductions from their individual cotton accounts.
2.23      The job of the Field Inspectors in the two corporations has four
aspects (described in detail in Annex 5): field management,
administration, regulation and extension. Field management tasks related
to cotton production are accorded the highest priority. These involve the
field inspector in planning and monitoring the operations undertaken by the
corporation in his area (canal maintenance, land preparation, inputs
delivery, herbicide and pesticide application, weighing and transport of
raw cotton to the ginneries). He also estimates the area's water
requirements and supervises a staff of water guards ("gaffirs") who release
water from the minor canals into the farmer-controlled canals; and he
inspects tenants' fields to certify that particular husbandry operation
have been carried out. For the non-cotton crops, the Field Inspector is
involved in water distribution; and in the supply of machinery services and
inputs for cash in advance, if they are available.
2.24      The administrative tasks of the Field Inspector include
report-writing, recording the payment of advances to tenants, and keeping
tenants' accounts (Rahad). Regulatory work includes reporting tenants'
infractions (e.g. the breaking of canal banks, unsatisfactory cultivation
practices) and collecting debts. The scope for extension work is in the-
area of crop husbandry and maintenance, i.e. those operations managed by
the tenant. Here there is an unfulfilled need for advice on
planting, fertilizer application, watering, weeding, etc. Frequently, the
Field Inspectors' concern is limited to ensuring that cotton husbandry
tasks are completed on time; and little in the way of supportive technical
4/   In Rahad, the 9 Assistant Block Inspectors each supervise a half-share
of tenancies - para 2.27.



- 15 -
advice on cotton or any other crop is offered. In neither of the
corporations is there any systematic program for upgrading the Field
Inspector's technical skills; as a consequence, he is not well-versed in
new technologies or husbandry methods, and has little advice to offer.
2.25      In Rahad, the Block Inspector has a large degree of authority
over day-to-day agricultural operations in the block (on average 31,000 fd
with 1,600 tenants). The Block Inspector supervises and takes
responsibility for the work of 4 or 5 Field Inspectors, and manages a core
of block-level services - a machinery park, workshops, transport
facilities, and inputs stores. He also has overall responsibility for
accounting, storekeeping and asset management in the block. In
administrative tasks, assistance is given by an Assistant Block Inspector,
in effect a Field Inspector who supervises only a half-share of tenancies
(i.e. 115). The Block Inspector in turn reports to one of the three Group
Inspectors, who are responsible for supervision of block-level activities
on behalf of the Field Manager. In New Halfa, blocks are smaller entities
(on average, 17,500 fd, with 1,200 tenants), and the Block Inspector's
responsibilities are less wide-ranging than in Rahad.  The agricultural
machinery is held at the six sections where the workshops are also
situated; it is the Section Manager who takes overall responsibility for
day-to-day agricultural operations in the blocks. Block Inspectors, while
acting as the responsible supervisors of the Field Inspectors, do not
exercise the same control over corporation machinery or transport
facilities as in Rahad, and have less jurisdiction over personnel or
corporation accounting matters. They are assisted in their administrative
and management work by the senior field inspector in their block.
2.26      In both corporations there is an Extension Department at HQ
level, with an Extension Manager who, like the Field Manager, reports to
the Agricultural Manager; but in both cases the staff of the Extension
Department consists of less than half-a-dozen information officers and
audio-visual technicians.  Their activities are not closely integrated with
those of the inspectorate, and have little noticeable impact.
2.27      A Strategy for Change.  The inspectorates' stress on control in
their relations with tenants had merit when the two schemes were first
established, and when a significant number of tenants had no farming
experience. Now those inexperienced tenants are relatively proficient
farmers, and the non-performance of vital operations as a phenomenon
requiring the inspectorate's attention has diminished as production
incentives have improved. This means that the inspectorate has more time
than before to attend to extension matters. What is needed now is the
introduction of an extension methodology which builds upon the strong
managerial structure of the inspectorate and its system of frequent field
visits, and uses it to bring superior husbandry techniques from research to
the tenants, as well as to transfer profitable practices from the better to
the less competent or aware farmers.5/
5/   Cotton yields in Rahad within blocks routinely vary between 4 and 14
kantars per feddan due to the relative skills of the tenant. In New
Halfa, wheat yields within blocks can range between 150 and 900 kg per
feddan.



- 16 -
2.28      If inspectors are to give more importance to extension work, It
will be necessary to provide them with regular and specific technical
training, which will require the involvement of HQ-level agricultural
specialists in extension work. These HQ-level staff, or "subject-matter
specialists" (SMS) will in turn need to be in regular contact with the
Rahad and New Halfa-based ARC staff to keep abreast of research findings.
A committed extension effort will require a redefinition of the role of the
Field Inspector and of higher level officials at block, group/section, and
HQ levels to ensure that technical extension matters receive a major share
of inspectors' time, and that extension work is supervised regularly. This
will mean relieving the Field Inspector of certain administrative and
regulatory tasks, and ensuring that the Block Inspector is also given
additional administrative support. Above all, careful re-orientation of
inspectors' attitudes towards their tenants will be required, along with
informed, objective advice for corporation management from an outside body
of extension specialists. A judicious application of the T&V extension
methodology would provide a framework within which all of these needs can
be addressed.
D. Agricultural Training
2.29      Training Needs:  Sudan has successfully established agricultural
schools and colleges capable of satisfying the country's immediate
numerical needs for agriculturally trained manpower. On average the
agricultural institutes in the country graduate more than 700 students
annually (60 M.Sc., 320 B.Sc. and 330 Diploma). At the same time, the
structure of the agricultural sector, especially the staff of the
production corporation is changing, and the demand is emerging for new
skills. Little as yet has been done to assess the ability of the training
system to meet the growing needs in some disciplines, and the changing
needs in others. The quality of agricultural education needs to be
substantially improved by strengthening field studies, adding economics,
farm management and extension courses, by updating school and college
curricula using locally generated data and information, and by training
agricultural teachers. There will continue to be a major need for
considerable in-service training in above fields for graduates entering the
APCs. This training should be developed and implemented according to a
regular analysis of APCs needs. The Faculty of Agricultural Sciences (FAS)
of UG could be strengthened to develop its capabilities in identifying and
addressing APCs annual training needs and in developing required in-service
courses to address them.
2.30      Demand for agricultural graduates in Sudan has shifted from
graduates in general agricultural studies toward more specialized fields.
Despite the current availability of agricultural graduates, the APCs lack
personnel qualified in agricultural economics, agricultural engineering,
extension and forage production. The critical need is not to add new
personnel to the already well staffed agricultural labor force, but to
upgrade the qualifications of already employed personnel, both senior and
middle level technicians.  The demand for in-service training in modern
agricultural technology, in management of production systems, in conducting
field surveys, and collecting economic data and designing and interpreting



- 17 -
marketing studies is a mounting concern for the APCs as they seek to
improve their efficiencies in agricultural production and management. The
annual needs for adequately trained manpower in the above areas and their
continuous implications on the current system of agricultural education and
training especially in the emerging requirements to plan, manage and
operate the existing irrigation schemes needs to be periodically reviewed.
2.31      In-Service Training.  None of the existing agricultural
institutions6/ has developed a capacity for planning and conducting
systematic in-service training programs for the 950 agricultural personnel
already employed by the APCs. Although 652 of these officers have a
university degree in agriculture, only 2% have received any training in
agricultural economics, extension or farm management; yet all are expected
to manage the production of 6,000-7,000 fd each. Also selection of
personnel for training is usually haphazard and only 1-2% of the staff
receive training annually. The staff of all APCs' Economic Departments is
poorly qualified. As a result, these departments have contributed little
in the way of providing financial and economic data on the cost and benefit
of newly introduced chemicals and farm inputs. Despite the rapid changes
in production technology (herbicides, insecticides, farm machinery, seeds,
crop intensification and fertilizer requirements), little has been done to
update the technical knowledge or field skills of these officers. A
special effort should be made to establish an institutional base capable
of designing inr-service training programs for the APC's field staff so as
to meet these needs.
2.32      The University of Gezira (UG). The University of Gezira located
in the heart of the irrigated areas can play a significant role in
addressing the corporations' needs for qualified field personnel and in
upgrading the qualifications of the field inspectors, agricultural managers
and planners. This, however, has not been possible because: (a) the
s              :                       teaching and in-service training
policies are being developed and defined; (b) inadeqiuate staff: the FAS,
for example, employs only 22 full-time lecturers. (The current teaching
program is largely carried out through part time arrangements with ARC
scientists until the return of about 40 Ph.D. graduates from universities
abroad); (c) poor facilities and equipment: development budget over the
last five years has been adequate only for the construction of essential
buildings and offices (at present, all laboratories and lecture rooms are
without adequate teaching facilities or furniture and the University farm
is without tools, equipment, or infrastructure); and (d) shortage of
teachbing materials: The University has neither the facilities nor the
resources to produce training manuals for agricultural production,
publications, or update agricultural research and training materials.
2.33      Research and Post Graduate Programs. FAS has established a
Master of Science program in which 50 students are pursuing the M.Sc.
degree, 25 of them are specializing in crop protection, and the rest in
6/   These include:  the Universities of Khartoum, Gezira, Juba; the
Khartoum Polytechnic College of Agricultural Studies (and its field
branches in Shambat, Soba and Kuku).



- 18 -
other technical agricultural fields. There are no graduate programs or
courses in agricultural economics and extansion. The results of this
shortcoming are manifested in the poor status of the staff and field
operations of the APCs Economic Departments, and are also apparent in the
lack of management and extension-related qualifications among Field
Inspectors and their Managers at the block and group levels. The graduate
program could better address the needs of the APCs if it includes
specialization in economics and extension. The agricultural graduate
program is, unfortunately, supported by weak research efforts limited to a
few trials on water management and forage improvement. The research
program suffers from a shortage of funds and laboratory and field
equipment, as well as from heavy teaching loads. The 2,000 fd university
farm is idle.
2.34      Future Direction.  Because it is in its formative years, FAS is
able to develop and adopt programs designed to increase FAS involvement in
conducting in-service training for APCs and in carrying out applied
research and economic studies on production systems in the irrigated
sub-sector. Substantial institutional support would be required by UG in
order to develop its capabilities as a center for continuous education and
In-service training in agricultural development. At present there is an ad
hoc committee of UG, ARC and the APCs addressing such requirements. The
Committee has recommended that institutional capabilities and commitments
of UG to in-service training be supported by providing a new scientific
equipment, conducting cooperative research activities with ARC,
establishing a training unit, strengthening the University library,
activating the idle University farm, introducing agricultural economics and
extension into the post-graduate research and training program, and
establishing a continuous in-service training program for agricultural
personnel of the APCs.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01      The main objective of the Project is to improve crop production
in the irrigated subsector. The project would consolidate the achievements
made by the rehabilitation projects currently being financed by IDA in this
subsector (para 1.09). It would (through research), strengthen the
technological base required for higher production and would address
technical and management problems generated by the intensification of the
crop rotation. Research on forage and legume development and improvement
would be strengthened. It would (through extension and training) upgrade
the skills of field personnel and address tenants' production problems.
Regular and systematic upgrading and in-service technical training for APC
staff would be introduced. Research and training in agricultural
economics, in conducting field surveys and in farm management would be
supported. The project would support the stated Government policy of
redefining the role of APC inspectors to emphasize their advisory duties.
This would be done by introducing the T&V system of agricultural extension



- 19 -
at the APC level and by strengthening the extension support available to
the APCs from NEA. The initiatives to be taken under the project would at
the same time safeguard the essential management duties of the
lnspectorate, and would introduce an extension strategy and emphasis suited
to the unusual circumstances of each APC. The Project would assist ARC and
UG to prepare the research and training programs necessary to support this
new extension approach.
B. Project Components
3.02      The project aims at (a) rehabilitating and strengthening adaptive
agricultural research at five regional stations In the irrlgated areas, (b)
upgrading the skills of the field inspectors and establishing programmed
extension services in the New Halfa and Rahad APCs, (c) strengthening NEA
to enable it to provide extension support to all APCs, and (d)
strengthening the institutional capabilities of UG in order to develop and
maintain in-service training courses, and improve the training and teaching
of agricultural economics and extension for all relevant personnel in the
APCs and the ARC.
C. Detailed Description
C)  Agricultural Research (US$16.0 million)
3.03      The project would support the core research programs on irrigated
agriculture by the provision of civil works, vehicles, farm equipment,
laboratory equipment, training, technical assistance and operating expenses
at ARC's HQ, the regional research stations, sub-stations and field testing
sites financed by the project. These investments are needed in order to
ensure that the research stations have the facilities to effectively carry
out the research program outlined in Annex 8.
3.04      For some years, GOS has Implemented a policy of overseas training
for its agricultural research staff (para 2.U3). Unfortunately, this
resource of talent has not been used to full advantage since the funds
available for research operating expenses have remained static over recent
years and necessary facilities and equipment have not been available.
Under these circumstances, staff have become despondent and demoralized,
and some have left Sudan to work abroad. The rehabilitation of existing
facilities, provision of civil works (especially staff and visiting
scientists' accommodations) machinery, equipment and operating costs would
address this problem and protect GUS's investment in staff training.
3.05      Strengthening regional stations at Shambat, Gezira, Rahad,
Sennar and New Halfa and the Shendi and Soba sub stations is essential to
project objectives in supporting applied research and field training. The
provlsion of modernized facilities would allow each of these stations to
fully employ a critical mass of scientists and technicians and would enable
the program of research to be expanded to cover problems now facing farmers
in the irrigated areas. Specifically, research on agricultural economics,
farming systems and integrated pest management would be expanded and
adaptive research at field testing sites would be increased with a view to
producing extension packages (Annex 8).



- 20 -
3.06      Civil Works (US$6.0 million).  Under the project, buildings would
be renovated at Gezira, Sennar, New Halfa, Rahad and Shambat Research
Stations and also at the Soba and Shendi sub-stations which are
administered from Shambat. New living accommodations (18 houses for senior
scientists, 53 houses for technicians and 11 rest houses and 9 apartments),
laboratories, offices, stores, glasshouses, garages and field laboratories
would be provided (Annex 6), and a small combined library/seminar room
would be built at Shambat and Rahad stations. As part of the general
improvement of research support facilities at Gezira Research Station a
Plant Introduction laboratory and a Quality Laboratory would be
constructed, with adjacent offices and cold stores. The project would
finance station development at all research stations. This would include
fencing, land leveling, water channel rehabilitation and overhead water
tanks and piping. To enable ARC to provide centralized support services
for the agricultural research stations, a library/seminar complex would be
built at ARC headquarters at Gezira. An equipment maintenance and repair
facility would also be provided to enable ARC to hold spare parts for
laboratory equipment.
3.07      Many of the research stations are remote and rental accommodation
is both difficult to find and expensive. Lack of housing is one of the
causes of dissatisfaction among staff and also prevents the transfer of
staff to the agro-ecological areas where additional research effort is
required. Under the project, support would be provided for housing units
at regional research stations where commercial housing is inadequate. Rest
houses for visiting scientists would be constructed at selected research
stations and at the four main field testing sites which are operated
through Gezira Research Station (Maatug, Hag Abdulla, Abdel Magid and El
Turabi).
3.08      Vehicles ($US$0.6 million). A total of 58 vehieles would be
provided which would be sufficient to enable the research stations to
function properly and to enable scientists to visit off-station
experimental sites regularly. Trucks and buses are included where
necessary. Fuel tankers would be provided for Gezira since it is forced to
operate independently of the APCs (para 3.13) and must arrange its own fuel
storage and supplies.
3.09      Machinery and Equipment.  Machinery and equipment would be
provided for:
(a)   Cultivation awl harvesting (US$1.5 million).  Under the project,
14 tractors and associated agricultural implements would be
provided, including harvesting, threshing and spraying
equipment. The necessary small plot equipment for the sowing and
harvesting of experiments would also be provided. The obsolete
ginning machinery at Gezira Research Station would be replaced
with six small scale roller gins and one saw-gin.
(b)   Laboratories and other equipment (US$2.3 million).  Under the
project, the laboratories at the regional research stations would
be provided with the equipment for basic general purpose use.



- 21 -
This is at present in short supply at all research stations. The
laboratory equipment to be provided at Gezira Research Station
would be in addition to that provided under the Gezira
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1388-SU). As part of the analytical
support services for agricultural research, the ARC Economics
Section would be provided with two mini-computers together with
the necessary software which would enable the section to collate
and analyze data necessary to financially and economically assess
the recommendations put to the ARC Board through its Technical
and Administrative Committee System (para 2.04), and for the
Monitoring and Evaluation of the research programs. Printing and
duplicating equipment would be provided to the Coimmmications
Unit at ARC headquarters in order to assist in the publication of
reports and documents. Books, periodicals, visual aids, and a
public address system would be provided for the ARC
library/seminar room facility.
3.10      Technical Assistance and Training (US$1.8 million).  Sudanese
scientists are highly trained and fully capable of conducting research on
topics of national importance, if provided with the necessary operating
funds and equipment. Long term direction of research programs by
expatriate consultants is therefore unnecessary, but interaction between
scientists in Sudan and expert technicians from other countries and
international agricultural research centers is highly desirable especially
in areas such as Integrated Pest Management and with ICRISAT, CIMMYT and
ICARDA in crop improvement and farming systems research. To facilitate the
establishment of meaningful scientific linkages, funds would be provided
under the project for training and 72 man-months in short-term
consultancies during the project period in the following areas: (a)
research management and administration (24 man-months); (b) integrated pest
control (24 man-months); this is in addition to 60 man-months to be
directly financed by the Swiss and British governments; (c) program review
and assessment of on-going research on crop improvement and farming system
(24 man-months).
3.11      In order to bring the staffing of research stations up to full
strength, 41 research positions would be filled. Twenty-nine of these
posts would be filled by scientists who are expected to return from
overseas training courses in 1984-86. Because sufficient trainees are not
available in plant pathology, grassland agronomy, agricultural engineering
and agricultural economics, twelve training fellowships would be funded
under the project, for existing ARC staff who would be trained to MSc level
to fill vacancies in these disciplines. Of these, four fellowships would
be offered at the University of Gezira (plant pathology) and eight at
overseas universities (agricultural engineering, economics and grassland
agronomy).
3.12      Short term career development training would be provided for
12 senior administrators in management skills and techniques. Funds would
also be provided to enable 18 researchers to visit overseas research
stations, especially ICARDA, CIMMYT and ICRISAT, which are expected to



- 22 -
cooperate with Sudanese research programs on faba beans, maize, groundnut,
sorghum and wheat. Annual local and overseas training would also be funded
for 24 middle level research workers and technicians, such as farm
managers, specialized laboratory technicians and field experiment managers.
3.13      Incremental Operating Costs and On-Farm Testing (US$2.3
million). The project would finance the incremental operating costs of the
agricultural research stations concerned. The operating costs would be
raised to a level which allows for the efficient use of the manpower
available. The research stations at New Halfa, Rahad and Sennar are
closely associated with APCs and conduct research on topics of interest to
the farmers operating in conjunction with the APCs. Following the example
shown by the Rahad Production Corporation which provides on a grant basis
the necessary operating funds for the Rahad Research Station it is proposed
that operating costs at New Halfa, Rahad and Sennar should be financed by
the respective APCs. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that formal
agreements satisfactory to IDA wo-ald be entered into by the research
stations and the concerned APCs not later than March 31, 1986.
3.14      A weakness of the ongoing research effort has been inadequate
testing of research results under field conditions, to verify new
technology. Reasons for this weakness include: (a) the absence of
accommodation facilities for scientists; (b) shortage of operating funds;
and (c) lack of field equipment. Under the project, rest house and
research facilities would be upgraded at some field stations, farming
systems research would be supported, and large scale testing under farmers'
conditions would be incorporated in the work program of each station.
3.15      ARC would conduct, in cooperation with the APCs, on-farm trials
(Annex 7) as a means for testing recommended practices and cultivars with
the full involvement of APC staff and tenants. Results obtained on
research stations have not been subjected to economic or financial analysis
verified under farmers' conditions, and therefore their appropriateness has
not been properly determined. The involvement of farmers, extension staff
and researchers would provide feedback on the suitability of the proposed
technologies and the need for any changes to suit farmers' requirements.
The multi-disciplinary approach to planning, testing and evaluating on-farm
trials would allow agricultural economists to assess the contribution (and
cost) of recommended factors. (paras 4.15-16).
3.16      Research Grant Scheme (US$1.6 million).  All research
institutions in Sudan would be eligible to submit research proposals for
financing by ARC with funds provided under the project. Criteria for the
selection of proposals for financing as sub-projects and terms and
conditions of the grant are given in Annex 4. The aim of the research
grant scheme would be to harness the sources of trained manpower avnilable
in institutions, such as the Universities, by providing the necesJary funds
for research and to develop strong linkages between the ARC and the
cooperating institutions. Support would also be available for ARC
personnel submitting research proposals involving new initiatives. More
specifically, it would support the ARC economics department in conducting



- 23 -
field surveys to determine the cost of crop production and in formulating
criteria to be used as the basis for APC recommendation on producer prices
for the main crops in the rotation.   Where possible, ARC would encourage
local and international institutions to participate in research programs on
topics of national importance such as integrated pest management, water
management, agricultural economics, and agricultural engineering. ARC
would use its existing technical committee and its sub-committees to
identify the topics to be accorded priority in the award of research
grants.
3.17      Research sub-projects costing more than U.S.$30,000 would be
subject to IDA review prior to formal approval by ARC. IDA would review at
least 20% of sub-projects submitted by ARC annually.
(ii) The National Extension Administration (NEA) (US$2.6 million)
3.18      Re-Organization and Strengthening of NEA.  The introduction of
systematic extension on the APCs is more likely to be successful if there
is an advisory body at the national level providing regular and continuous
guidance on crucial features of the chosen system. The techniques
associated with effective extension planning, supervision, in-servlce
training and monitoring will need to be learned in the APCs. It is neither
feasible nor desirable to provide each one with the expertise to ensure
that it develops the necessary attitudes and skills in Isolation; nor would
it be cost-effective or efficient to offer each corporation the means of
producing its own extension materials (posters, films, tapes, etc.) without
any external assistance. For these reasons, the Minister of Agriculture
and the Managing Directors of the major irrigated APCs agreed in April 1984
that NEA should be strengthened so that it could undertake a central
advisory and information support role. NEA's involvement would also ensure
that corporation extension concerns have a voice in Khartoum. Under the
project, NEA would be revitalized through the creation of a new division
devoted to extension support activities in the APCs, and through the
provision of equipment, technical assistance and training for the new
division and for other existing units of NEA.
3.19      The new division in NEA would be headed by an officer with the
rank of Deputy Director, with qualifications and experience acceptable to
IDA. His appointment was confirmed at negotiations. The division would
consist of three sections, each staffed by a small number of carefully
selected extension professionals. About half of these would be chosen from
among existing NEA personnel, and half from the APCs (on one-year
secondments). Each new section would be advised by an expert during its
initial phase of operation. The Field Supervision Methods Section would
provide guidance to the APC inspectorates on the managerial and supervisory
aspects of the T&V system; the Extension Training Section would assist the
APCs, ARC and UG with extension orientation and technical training; and the
Monitoring and Evaluation Section would advise the APCs on how to establish
and maintain their own internal extension monitoring and evaluation
systems.



- 24 -
3.20      Under the project, assistance would also be provided to NEA's
Agricultural Information and Culture Division to enable it to produce
extension publications and materials for the irrigated sub-sector. In
addition, the Audio-Visual Section would carry out a number of assignments
to support extension work in the APCs. Its Maintenance Sub-Section, for
example, would train APC technicians in the routine maintenance of
audio-visual equipment provided under the project, and would undertake more
major repairs itself; and the Radio Sub-Section would orient its bi-weekly
broadcast material more toward the irrigated areas. Liaison with ARC's
Information Unit and the APCs would ensure that the recommendations
extended on the radio were consistent with those given by inspectors in the
field.
3.21      Offices, Equipment and Vehicles (US$0.6 milion).  In order to
achieve the above objectives, an office building for the new department and
an extension to the existing print shop would be constructed at NEA's site
in Khartoum North. Vehicles for NEA field work with the corporations, and
printing, photographic, recording and office equipment would be provided.
3.22      Technical Assistance, Training, and Incremental Operating Costs
(US$2.00 million). Technical assistance would consist of one expert for
each of the three sections in NEA's new division (a total of 96
man-months), and a communications expert for the Agricultural Information
and Culture Division (6 man-months). Training fellowships abroad would be
offered: these would include a limited number of MScs, and short courses
in audio-visual maintenance and production, printing equipment maintenance,
monitoring and evaluation, and extension training; study tours and working
placements in other T&V projects abroad would also be financed.
3.23      It is essential that certain key operating costs are provided
for; in particular, realistic field allowances and fuel allocations must be
available to NEA.
(iii) Extension at Rahad and New Halfa
Agricultural Production Corporations (USS4.4 million)
3.24      The proposed project would support the introduction of a T&V-type
extension methodology in the Rahad and New Halfa APCs. A coherent system
for identifying extension recommendations, transmitting them to farmers,
and evaluating their impact would be established in the two APCs, and would
be replicated in the other major irrigated APCs7/. This would involve
redefining the job descriptions of APC inspectors and of certain other APC
staff, instituting regular technical training for inspectors, improving
working level contacts between them and local ARC researchers, and
providing expert extension advisory services to each corporation through
71   Concurrent funding for T&V initiatives in other APCs is being provided
as follows: for the Gezira, Blue Nile and White Nile APCs, through
the Gezira Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1388) and the Blue and White
Nile Pump Schemes (Crs. 1118 and 1119); for the Northern Corporation,
through the IFAD-financed Northern Region Agricultural Rehabilitation
Project.



- 25 -
NEA. The reforms in the role of the inspectors outlined below are the
result of work done between June 1984 and March 1985 by a joint IDA-APC
Task Force (para. 4.19 below).
3.25      System Development.  The principal actors in the new system would
be the field inspectors, whose visiting schedules would be regularized and
adapted to the requirements of genuine extension work. (Annex 5).
Each Field Inspector would spend four mornings of the weck on scheduled
weekly visits to approximately 40 contact farmers distributed throughout
his area of responsibility. During such visits the field inspector would
focus on technical agricultural matters related to all crops in the
rotation, primarily through hands-on demonstration. The Inspector would
continue to carry out his field management role (para. 2.23), but would be
trained to focus more on the tenants and their needs and less on the sheer
physical inspection of land, crops and canals. In consequence, much of the
management responsibility would be taken care of through closer association
with tenants; at the regular weekly meetings the inspector would check as a
matter of course on the physical implementation of the corporation's
activities. A fifth day of each week would be used for additional
managerial-cum-extension visits; and every two weeks, a sixth day would be
set aside for in-service training by corporation HQ SMS (para 3.29).
3.26      To free the Field Inspector from non-managerial and non-extension
tasks, a full-time Block Administrative Assistant would be designated from
among the block staff to deal with all paperwork previously handled by
Field Inspectors in connection with loans for tenants, tenants' accounts,
storekeeping and inputs supplies-8/ The Field Inspectors would spend more
time in the field with their tenaEts, and meet them as purveyors of
profitable information and as monitors of corporation activities on their
behalf, rather than as regulators. An important aspect of the Field
Inspector's new role would be his work on improving tenants' water-use.
This would be approached by education on crop/water requirements and by
encouraging more inter-tenant water discipline along the "abu-ishreen"
canals.
3.27      Block Inspectors would spend three days of each week visiting
Field Inspectors in the field according to a predetermined supervision
schedule; they would also participate in fortnightly and preseasonal
training sessions (para 3.29). To permit them the time for these
activities, the new Block Administrative Assistant would take on certain of
their managerial and administrative duties-for example, overseeing input
distribution, following-up on water indents with the Department of
Irrigation, and the submission of format reports to HQ. Group
Inspectors/Section Managers would also spend three days of each week
visiting Field and Block Inspectors in the field, or participating in
training sessions. The Field Manager and Agriculture Manager would spend
at least two days of the week on direct field supervision.
8/   This would be the existing Assistant Block Inspector in Rahad, and the
Senior Field Inspectors in New Halfa. Their half- and full-share of
tenancies, respectively, would be taken care of by re-arranging Field
Inspector areas.



- 26 -
3.28     At HQ level, the APC Agriculture Manager would be assisted by a
team of SMS seconded full or part-time to the Extension Department, and
under the direction of the Extension Manager. Initially, SMS in crop
production and irrigation management would be needed full-time. The SMS
team would be responsible for training Field and Block Inspectors each
two weeks (para 3.29), for following up this training with field visits to
check on the adoption and appropriateness of technical recommendations, for
supporting field inspectors as they carry out adaptive trials work, and for
helping ARC to organize monthly workshops for corporation inspectors
(para. 4.15).   The existing Extension Departments would be responsible for
the organization and conduct of extension-related training within the
corporation,9/ and for audio-visual and publication activities within the
corporation's extension program. The Extension Managers would thus work
with the Block and Field Inspectors to organize periodic evening meetings
with tenants for the display of films and videotapes on agricultural
subjects.
3.29      Orientation and Training  A key feature of the new system would
be the orientation of corporation staff to their new roles, and a
systematic approach to upgrading their technical skills. Prior to the
commencement of T&V activities, all field staff (extension and
non-extension alike) would attend various T&V orientation sessions at
corporation HQ, in which NEA and corporation management would acquaint them
with the principles of T&V, and their own new job descriptions within it.
3.30      At the heart of the APC T&V system is the monthly training
cycle. First, ARC scientists would give monthly seminars to corporation
SMS. Next, the SMS (with ARC assistance) will give training sessions every
two weeks to Field and Block Inspectors in order to equip them with
specific recommendations of relevance to tenants during the succeeding
forth night. These sessions would also act as a valuable supplementary
source of information to corporation managers on the effectiveness of
corporation initiatives, and on the adequacy of technical recolmmendations;
tenants' representatives and private sector machinery contractors would be
invited to attend them. Prior to the agricultural cycle, SMS would attend
a pre-seasonal workshop at the local ARC station. Inspectors would then
attend pre-seasonal sessions given by senior corporation staff and SMS. At
these sessions, the coming season's work program would be discussed, and
the main messages for the year reviewed. Formal technical upgrading
training will also be required if SMS and inspectors are to be capable of
giving tenants better advice than they now do; this will be provided both
at the University of Gezira and overseas, and details are given in paras.
3.34-3.35 below.
3.31      Field Support, Monitoring and Evaluation.  Technical advice to
the APCs on the introduction and aaintenance of the T&V system would be
provided by NEA (para 3.19). An important aspect of this advice would
relate to the establishment of regular ectension monitoring and evaluation
within the corporation, which would be carried out by recruiting an SMS in
9/ Other than the monthly SMS workshops organized by research, para 4.14.



- 27 -
agricultural economics to work in the APC's Economics Department.
Extension monitoring and evaluation would focus on the regularity and
quality of inspectors' visits, on farmers' uptake of recommendations, and
on the impact of extension advice on yields.
3.32      Civil Works, Vehicles, Equipment, Training and Incremental
Operating Costs wUS$4.4 Million). Implementation o  these reformswill
require the construction of training, office and audio-visual production
facilities at Rahad and New Halfa headquarters, and a limited quantity of
staff housing (US$1.5 million). Vehicles for extension field work and
audio-visual equipment would also be needed (US$1.2 million). In addition,
training and incremental operating costs, primarily for fuel and vehicle
maintainance, would be financed under the proposed project (US$1.7
million).
(iv) Training at the University of Gezira (US$4.6 million)
A. Strengthening Institutional Capabilities
3.33      Under the Project, assistance would be provided to (a) strengthen
the institutional capabilities of UG in organizing and conducting
agricultural in-service and post-graduate studies, (b) establish a training
unit to conduct training courses to upgrade technical skills and
qualifications of APC field staff, and (c) provide funds for in-service and
specialized training for APC and ARC technical personnel. Because
in-service training has traditionally been neglected, the project would
establish a systematic and regularly monitored job-related training program
for the 950 field personnel of the APCs and the 450 ARC field technicians.
The project would assist the UG to establish, plan and execute the training
program with the participation of ARC scientists and APCs' senior
agricultural personnel. The UG is considered a key institution for
in-service training for reasons given in para 2.35. Under the Project,
funds would be available to assist UG to establish a training unit to
manage selection and enrollment of trainees, upgrade instruction quality,
Improve management of training courses, and produce educational materials.
To support the institutional capabilities of UG in sustaining adequate
in-service training, assistance would be provided to activate the
University farm for training and research purposes, modernize teaching and
lab facilities, finance in-service training courses and provide technical
assistance (in training and agricultural economics).
3.34      Training Unit (US$1.1 million).  To support UG as a training
institution, assistance would be provided to establish a Training Unit with
four full-time professional staff specializing in training, curricula
development and the production of educational and training materials and
publications. The Unit would operate under the supervision of the Dean of
FAS. The Government confirmed at negotiations the establishment of the
Unit and appointment of staff. The Unit would be responsible for
developing and implementing the proposed training program including:
(a) annual assessment and identification of training needs for each APC;
(b) curricula development for economic and agricultural training;
(c) production of training materials, manuals and technical information;



- 28 -
(d) management and administration of training courses including
accommodation, transport, finance and other logistics. To support this
unit, the project would provide offices, and library facilities including
up-to-date books and journals, and audio-visual equipment designed to
establish a library which could strengthen the teaching, research and
training tasks of FAS and FERD. Support for in-service training would be
reviewed annually to assess UG overall agricultural program and to make the
necessary adjustme-ats of annual intake of agricultural students in order to
meet the changing staffing needs of APCs.
3.35      Equipment, Vehicles and Laboratory for Training (US$1.3
million). In addition, the project should provide a range of standard and
advanced laboratory equipment which would enable FAS to furnish and
strengthen laboratories needed for post graduate extension related research
and training for the corporation's staff in agro-ecology, fertilizer/soil/
water relationships, herbicides moisture and nutrients, and residual impact
of chemicals on soils and crops.
3.36      The University Farm (US$0.7 million). The project would provide
farm machinery and resources to assist FAS to develop 200 fd of their 2,000
fd University Farm in order that trainees gain hands-on practical farm work
experience (with farm machinery, land preparation, and on-farm water
management). FAS would design three or four 'farms' similar in size to
average tenancies, which would be used to teach economic and technical
analysis of prevailing production practices and recommended technology.
Also, FAS would establish farm units (1/2 fd plots) for practical hand-on
training (for in-service courses) in planting, equipment operation, weed
and pest control, and field irrigation. The remainder of the farm,
approximately 1,800 fd, would be run on a commercial basis. A confirmation
was obtained at negotiations that a qualified farm director supported by
two assistant farm managers would be appointed by Narch 31, 1986.
3.37      Training Program (in-service and graduate training) and Technical
Assistance (US$1.5 million). In addition to the institutional support,
assistance would be provided to UG in order to establish an in-service
training pr*ogram capable of annually training, in short courses (2-6 weeks)
about 120 of the corporation's field staff, and 25 technicians from ARC
research staff. Ir-service training would be carried out prior to the
start of the cropping season and would focus on (i) economics of farm
production; (ii) technical requirements and production problems of
non-cotton crops; (iII) improvement of the technical knowledge and skills
about herbicides, integrated pest control, fertilizer applications, hybrid
seeds, land preparation, on-farm water management and others; and (iv)
improvement of the knowledge and skills of non-agricultural field staff who
would take over administrative and other tasks from the inspectors as they
become more involved in agricultural extension. Funds would also be
provided to recruit specialists in agricultural economics and training.
3.38      The training strategy supported by the project is designed to
provide specialized opportunities for advanced and graduate training for
APCs agricultural personnel in agricultural economics. Post-Graduate
Programs would address problems caused by the shortage of trained



- 29 -
agricultural economists and farm managers and would improve the
qualifications of the corporation's field personnel. In addition, it would
assist ARC and APC Economics Sections by supporting a two-year graduate
program limited to agricultural economics an! extension. Under the project
support would be provided to allow 10-15 field staff (from APC and ARC) to
enroll annually in this program to acquire additional qualifications which
could enable them to: (i) play a leadership role in designing and
implementing farm surveys and field studies; and (ii) develop
specialization in two areas traditionally neglected - agricultural
economics and extension - which could qualify them to address factors
related to economics and technology transfer during the regular training
sessions proposed for Field Inspectors.
Project Implementation (US$1.3 million)
3.39      Overall project implementation would be carried out and
coordinated by the Project Management Unit (PMU) established in MOA for the
Project. To carry out this additional work, the Unit would be supported by
a project officer specializing in research management and administration, a
qualified accountant, a senior bookkeeper and two secretaries. The PHU
specialists would be engaged to administer the civil works program (para
4.01). In order to speed project implementation, appointment of above
staff, and preparation of project civil works, design and specification,
and procurement documentation would be financed under the PPF (para 3.40).
D. Project Costs
3.40      The Project cost is estimated at US$38.0 million (LSd122.5
million) with a foreign exchange component of US$20.1 million (LSd5O.4
milllon) or 53%. Taxes and duties amounting to US$5.2 million (LSd16.8
million) or 14% are included. Project investment costs would be US$27.3
million (LSd84.0 million) while Incremental operating costs would amount to
US$10.6 million (LSd38.6 million). Baseline Project costs (excluding
physical and price contingencies) are US$28.6 million (LSd71.4 million).
Estimated costs are suamarized in Table 3.
3.41      FollowIng appraisal cost estimates were revised to March 1985
prices and subsequently updated to September 30, 1985 baseline price
levels reflecting value fluctuatlons resulting from local and international
inflation during the project period. Physical contingency rates on Project
components are 10% for all items except for the Research Grant, the
professional fees associated with civil works financed under the PPF and
training for which a specific amount is allocated and for which no physical
coutingencies are provided.



- 30 -
Table 3(a)
SW
IlXtgiaLTUL  11  WXIEIS11 An MANN
Fimnia- Pl.an by Proit Coiwsonts
tllS '00)
WVAM
U9DEAnE           UST F SW    Total
LODI (Eul. IUn I
.out    1        bnt        I    burnt    Z    For. Exch.    Turns)       TIM
A. ACIRLTIM.            CWATIR
ARC                                           4W3.99 H.13         24.1    1.SM   519211 13.69   1393.%25      1479.7   322.49
m                                             MOM40,2,72.06  9.5!    1 .99  40.45  3vU5.97 10.19   2,302.09   1,016.24   547.65
---4fh                                        1243.52 44.5!    156.06  S5.41  20733.3  7.35   19243.52        ,137.91   407.15
-  EFA                    .                   1Y274,41 47,92    1, l5.10  32.09  2,63951  7.01   1,2V4.1        91.05   3"1.05
RM                                            109.91 44.10    1,356.12  i5.90  2M4M03  640    ,o06991        1053.0   303.12
g3m.I  6.99 1W4 0.A 0   51.02  2,757.31  7.27   1,355.81        1,117,10   3.21
EEUI                                           460,71 52.2?      355.95  47.73    766.73  2.02     400.78       350.42   115.93
-To1 AWlWILlg  NOE  CIWOlTE                    12,06A9.49  71    3,447.26  4129 20D4575 53.95  U1,176           6945.39 2r479.60
Be ENZI    E EMIuN AINDUSITIU                   2955.40  7.7    l,lB.09  32.13  3691.43  9.73   2,565.40           739.26   4461.2
C. MCIOLUE  FUPiTI CUPIPTIO
minM MICIE  1U                                1,339?,7 44.93    1,642,11  55.07  2,991.61  7.96   1,25333       m.94   714.41
la IEFI  IOLUI  CUP                           19376.55 4094 1O9s"6.10  59.01  3,36266  3.97   I,305.3         140979   647.!
MTt         IOL11R  FMCIE CW6TJM                 2716.13 42.91    39623.21  57.19  643M434 16.73   2,573.64      2,406.73 1361.97
Be 011VOTTOF UEUZ                               33t11.d5 63.76    2,166.12  36.24  5iM77    15 .76   3,665.50    1554,50   757.79
E. PUSCT IWEGEIT                                  334,45 26.49    19066.54  73.2  15.59  3.3          334.65         .04   127.49
Tra Dihiinm                                      219426.72 56.50   1494.22  43.50 37V120.94 100.00  20160.36    12496.92 5,13.6
mu&~ inin        M         m.R      u= M__u   -u
Avot at 1I 16:43



- 31 -
,ao:e 3(b)
sum
MlaLO    L WOESEARCH EXTEISIE Al TRANING
Finirod Plan by Somman A kmt:
(Us '0001
ASSOCIATIS    60YII TF EWNW           Total
Lsadl (Excl. htis I
bkw      z          bmum     I     Amount    2    For. ELii.    Trs)       Tgs
A. CIYIL YUS
huhINI                              2,26.07 3669      3,976,75  63.09  6,144.82 16.20   2n268,07      3,77.92   7.983
OilER t AMCITII                       460.06 37.5       765,29  62,45  1,25.34  3.23       460.06       7M5.29        -
enlB  W2IUD                           92.01 3S.45    1,315.6?  61.55  2,137.70  5.64       922.01     1,315.6
SITE OIW                              623.17 61.34      39.70  31.66  1,015.87  2.69       63.17        392.70
PROFIWA. FEES                              -     -       90g4H 100.00      M0.4O  0.24          -        85.95     4.52
O-TOal CIVIL IKS                       49173,31 39.32    6440.99  60.U6  10,614.21 2.9    4 173.31       5637.54   803.13
3. MEHICES                             1,182.60 52.93    ItO31.77  47907  2,214.37  5.9   ItuIM.60         215.87   fl5,91
C. A;IOLTiEL EaIIP101T                 2352.31 89.71       269.97  10.29  2,622.55  6.2   24352,59          73.19   194.79
3. OMER EWIIENrT                       3,109.46  0.75    24009.29  39,25  5,119.7  13.50   3 109,46         71.54  1137.74
E. ESERCHE KUIT                       1l277.90  95.00       67.26   3.00  1U345.16  3.55      320,12       957.79    6.26
F. TRAUNING I T.A.
aSEAS                               24219.2 100.00           -      -  242.92  6139   2I421.92               -
LOCAL                                 315.9 100l00           -      -    315,5.  0.83        7.01       306.58
COIISLTAN                           2,03.76 100,00           -      -  2YW0.76  5.37   2v037.76
9-Total TRAININI I T.A.                4775.27 100i0O           -      -  4775,27  12.!?   6466.69         309.58       -
9. PRIIECT PREPARTIN FICUIT              267.11 43.09      352.72  56.91    619,84  1.63      267.11       321.39    24.33
Total BIWESTIE  COSTS                    17,13,23 62.71   10,191.90  3729 27,330.14 72.07  15n971.911       3394.99 3,063.7
I:, HE C11STS
A. INCRE IL STAFF SALAIS                    -      -      237.92 10,.00    237M92  0.63           -       214.03    23.78
B. FIELD A   O                              -      -    1,73.90 100.00  1,739.80  4,59           -      1,613.73   125.09
C.    RTII S  N ANTECE
CIVIL  IOKS 0 t 1N                   20S.74 29.02      496.57  70.13    693.30  1.93      206.74       451.90    34.
VEHICLE 0 :1 1N032,57 41,39    1,463.01  56.62  2495.56  6.51   1M0U2M57                               36.23 1,09.78
TRACT  U 3 N                         25t.05 43.97      319." 4 56.03      70.9   1.51     251,05       234.29   6I,65
EIIIPIENT0 1 N                     2o577,91 60.50    1693.45  39.50  4,261.36 11.24   2n577.9          948.22   735.23
Sub-Ttal ORIB I  YIflWIKE             49069.27 50.72    3P952.96  4.29  9,021,23 21.15   4rM,027        1Y9W7.6  1 95.33
3. 99FAMfINRUILS                        220.21 45f9       26U07  54.81    497.2   1.29       220.21       260.17     6.10
E. ID SERVIME TRAINIM                       -      -      105.U7 100.00    105.67  0.29           -       105.67        -
Total RECIT C0STS                         4,28i.4  40,49    6,302.31  5P.51 10,590.80 27.93   4,299.49      4,192.03  2,110.29
Totia 3IuNrsFit                           21426.72 56.550  16494.22  43.50 37.920,94 100.00  20.160.36    12W56.92 5.173.66
A t 2, 1995 16?42



- 32 -
3.42      Price contingencies total 30.0% of base costs plus physical
contingencies in US dollars and have been estimated as summarized in Annex
2.
3.43      A PPF of US$0.7 million net of duties and taxes was approved to
cover the costs of (a) technical assistance to prepare design documents,
specifications and to let but not award contracts for civil works (para
4.07); (b) technical assistance to estimate the cost of repairing existing
scientific equipment, establishing a repair and maintenance facility and to
review lists of additional requirements and to prepare appropriate
procurement packages and contracts for all laboratory, scientific,
audio-visual and office equipment; (c) technical assistance to prepare
appropriate procurement packages for all project vehicles and agricultural
equipment; (d) providing 0.8 man-years of TA for the NEA; (e) appointing,
trai.ing and arranging study visits for the Project Manager; and (f)
establishing and operating the proposed Project Management Unit.
E. Financing Plan
3.44      Project costs would be financed in the following amounts and
proportions:
Table 4.  Project Financing Plan a/
% of      Z of
Local    Foreign             Total      Net
Currency   Exchange           Project   Project
Costs     Costs     Total    Costs      Costs
uSs$ million -
IDA Credit                      1.9      20.1      22.0      57         67
Government of Sudan            10.0                10.0      26         30
HApC b/                         0.4       -         0.4        1.5       1.5
RAHCO V/                        0.4       -         0.4        1.5       1.5
Net Project Costs              12.7      20.1      32.3      86        100
Taxes and Duties               5.2        -         5.2       14
Total project Costs            17.9      20.1      38.0      100
a/ Amounts include contingencies.
b/I Incremental recurrent local costs of ARCs New Halfa and Rahad Research
Stations 1987/88-1990/91 excluding salaries.
3.45      Project financing by the financing agencles for the different
categories of goods and services is set out in the following table.



- 33 -
Table 5. Project: Financing for Different Categories of Works
Goods and Services BI
(US$ million)
b/
IDA                     GOS         Total
Foreign
Exchange  Local Total          Local  Total
Civil Works              4.2       -      4.2            6.5    6.5    10.7
Vehicles                 1.2       -       1.2           1.0    1.0     2.2
Agric. Equip.            2.3       -       2.3           0.3    0.3     2.6
Other Equip.             3.2       -       3.2           2.0    2.0     5.2
Training & T.A.          4.5       0.6    5.1            -      -       5.1
Research Grant           0.3        1.3    1.6           -      -       1.6
Incremental
Operating Costs         4.4 c/    _      4.4 d/         6.2   6.2    10.6
20.1       1.9   22.0          16.0   16.0    38.0
a/ Amounts include contingencies and PPF refinancing.
bI Includes US$0.6 million financed by NHAPC and RAHCO.
c/ On the basis of gradually decreasing percentage of incremental
operating costs from 80Z in Year (1) to 20X In Year (6).
d/ Amount include vehicles and tractor spare parts, fuel and services,
building and other maintenance, labor and inputs for on-farm trials and
per diem for training.
3.46      The proposed IDA Credit would be on standard terms to GOS.  About
US$ 19.2 million would be passed on as budgetary transfers to ARC, NEA
(both through MOA), University of Gezira (through Council of Higher
Education) and the PMU (through MOA). A further US$2.8 million would be
passed on to RAHCO and NHAPC. At negotiations, it was agreed that the
financing of the civil works for the APCs would be provided as a Government
contribution to the equity of the corporations and the remainder of such
financing would be provided on a grant basis. The amounts to be provided
on each basis will be set out in the agreed Project Annual Work Programs.



- 34 -
F. Procurement
3.47      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 6.
Table 6. Summary of Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Method                  Total
ICB      LIT     LS         Other      NA        Cost
Civil Works           10.7     -        -          -        -           10.7
(4.0)    -        -          -        -           (4.0)
Vehicles               2.0     -        -          -        -            2.0
(1.0)    -        -          _        _           (1.0)
Agric. Equip.          2.6     -        -          -        -            2.6
(2.3)    -        -          _        _           (2.3)
Other Equip.          -        4.9       .3        -        -            5.2
-      (3.1)    (0.2)       -        -           (3.3)
Training & T.A.        -       -        -          4.8      -            4.8
-  -     -         (4.8)     -          (4.8)
Research Grant        -        -        -          -        1.6          1.6
-  -  -  -  (1.6)   (1.6)
Inc,elmental
Operating Costs      -        -        -          7.0      3.4        10.4
-       -        -         (3.2)    (1.1)        (4.3)
PPF Refinancing        -       -        -          -        0.7          0.7
-       -        -          -       (O.;         (0.7)
15.3     4.9      0.3       11.8      5.7        38.0
(7.3)   (3.1)    (0.2)      (8.0)    (3.4)     ( 22.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by IDA..
3.48      Civil works comprising construction of houses, other
accommodations, other structures and site improvements and totalling
US$10.7 million would be packaged into a single contract (Annex 6). This
will be subdivided into 7 parts on the basis of geographical location and
procured by ICB (which would allow local firms to participate) in
accordance with Bank guidelines (issued July 1980). Bidders would be
invited to bid for any one or multiple awards. The contract would then be
awarded to those bidders (or that bidder) whose individual bid for each
package produces the lowest aggregated evaluated bid for the entire
contract. Qualifying domestic local bidders would receive a 7 1/2%
domestic preference.



- 35 -
3.49      Goods.  Vehicles, tractors, tractor implements, other
agricultural machinery, workshop, audio-visual, office, library equipment
and initial spares, totalling US$3.3 million, will be grouped in
appropriate bidding packages and procured by ICB in accordance with Bank
guidelines.  Qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive a 15 percent
preference. Small items to be purchased in limited quantities and costing
less than US$30,000 each will be procured by local shopping (LS) with at
least three price quotations for a maximum total amount of US$300,000. For
reasons of standardization and to accommodate existing lab facilities,
laboratory and scientific equipment including small experimental plot and
repair center equipment and initial spares will be procured under lime ted
international bidding procedures. Furniture which will be procured as
building construction is completed in scattered locations and will be done
by local shopping with at least three price quotations.
3.50      Others.  The agricultural training program (paras 3.10, 3.22 and
3.34) of a total cost of US$2.9 million equivalent including contingencies,
will be administered as indicated in para 4.20. Consultants (US$ 2.1
million) will be selected in accordance with World Bank Guidelines.
Projects to be financed by the Research Grant (US$ 1.6 million) would be
selected by the procedure indicated in paras 4.12-4.14. Subscriptions to
periodicals and books for research, extension and training of a total cost
of USS 0.5 million equivalent will be done by direct purchase from overseas
suppliers. The balance of project costs consists of incremental operating
costs comprising salaries, per diem for training (para 3.34), vehicle and
tractor spare parts, fuel and services, building and other maintenance,
labor and inputs for on-farm trials, international travel and conferences,
for which procurement is inapplicable.
3.51      Contract Review by IDA.  All ICB and LIT bidding packages, T.A.
and all contracts valued at US$30,000 would be subject to prior review by
IDA. The balance of contracts would be subject to random post review by
IDA after contract award.
G. Disbursement
3.52      The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed over seven years
(Annex 10, Table 1) against the following categories of expenditures:
(a) Farm machinery and local equipment: (i) 100Z of the foreign exchange
cost of directly imported goods; (ii) 100% of the ex-factory price of
locally manufactured goods; and (iii) 64% of the cost of items procured
through local shopping or local bidding; (b) Civil works: 45% of total;
(c) Training, technical assistance and PMU: 100% of expenditures; and
(d) Research grant scheme:  85% of expenditures.   During the project
period, the proceeds of the credit would also cover a gradually decreasing
percentage of the local component of the incremental operating costs
averaging 55Z during Project life. Disbursement against all items would be
based on full documentation except in the case of PMU operating cost and
contracts for goods and services below US$20,000 which would orly require
statements of     expenditure.  Financing arrangements are further outlined
in Annex 10, Table 2, (semi-annual disbursement schedule is given in Annex
10, Table 1).



- 36 -
3.53      It is expected that the project will be completed on June 30,
1992 and the closing date of the credit will be June 30, 1993. The
disbursement projects for various agricultural sector credits in EAP
countries PY70-80 show the following characteristics:
Table 7
Year from Date of Approval
No. of projects     50% Disbursed    90% Disbursed
AU agric. projects            123                  5              8
Irrigated Subsector            15                  5              8
Rural Dev. Subsector           45                  5              7
Livestock Subsector            20                  6              9
Under the proposed project it is estimated that 50% of the Credit will be
disbursed by the end of the fourth year, 75% by the end of the sixth year
and the balance by the closing date. This shorter disbursement period of
seven years relative to the disbursement experience for agricultural sector
credits in ZAP countries in FY70-80 is assumed because of the steps to be
financed under the PPF (para 3.40). The assumed profile however slows down
towards the latter years of the project because of the lead-time needed to
implement the large civil works component on which disbursement of several
other, albeit smaller, project components will depend.
3.54      Special Account. A special account, to be operated by the PMU,
would be established in a bank in Sudan with an initial deposit of
SDR250,000 equivalent in foreign exchange. This would represent about 3
months of expenditures on all goods and services. This account would
ensure prompt availability of funds at the start and would speed up
disbursement during the course of the project. The account would be
replenished by IDA on the basis of documentary evidence of payments made
from the account for goods and services required for the project.   The
establishment of such an account in Sudan in a manner acceptable to MIA
would be a condition of effectiveness.
H. Accounts and Audit
3.55      ARC, NEA, RAHC0, NHAPC and UG are all established entities.  The
project is only financing a portion of the concerned entities' activities.
With all but two (NEA and UG) IDA already has detailed operational
experience through the recently completed Rahad Irrigation Project (Credit
No. 364-2-SU); the nearly complete New Halfa Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project (Credit No. 1022-SU); and, in the case of ARC, the recently
effective Gezira Rehabilitation Project (Credit No. 1388-SU) and Western
Sudan Agricultural Research Project (Credit No. 834-SU) which includes
funds for ARC research stations.



- 37 -
3.56      The ARC, NEA, RARCO, NHAPC, UG and PMU would maintain separate
project-related accounts. Experience with ARC, RAHCO, and NHAPC and other
projects in Sudan, as well as review during appraisal of all accounting
systems and accounting staff capabilities, shows that these organizations
are able to maintain separate records of their organizations' share of
project costs. However, a qualified accountant and an experienced
bookkeeper would be added to the PMU to set-up and establish each entities'
project-related accounts. The bookkeeper would then ensure that such
accounts are subsequently maintained in accordance with sound and generally
recognized accounting principles and practices satisfactory to IDA. This
arrangement would enable each entity to provide annual financial statements
to reflect the financial performance and position of its project component
and the PMH to prepare a set of consolidated Project accounts. An
independent auditor's opinion and reports satisfactory to IDA on such
statements would be presented within six months of the close of the fiscal
year. Assurances to the above were obtained at negotiations along with the
right for PMU and IDA to have access to each project entity's entire books
of account and any associated records whenever such are reasonably required
to substantiate that the position of each project component within each
project entity is consistent with the overall project objectives and/or
legal documents.
3.57      The supporting documents for Statements of Expenditure (SOEs)
would not be submitted for review by IDA but retained by each project
entity for inspection by PMU and by IDA supervision missions. GOS agreed
that these documents as well as the Special Account expenditures would be
audited separately by auditors acceptable to IDA and the audit report
submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year. An
assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations. Under the project
the staff and institutional capabilities of Project entities are adequate
for the preparation and subsequent filing of such SOEs in a form and for
such times as will be satisfactory to IDA and assurances that each project
entity will sustain this capability or be prepared to delegate same to PMU
were obtained at negotiations.
3.58      The Auditor General is, by law, the auditor of project entities
and has been accepted by IDA in other recent Credits as an independent
auditor. The quality of the Auditor General's Staff is adequate to carry
out the annual audits of all project entities but the number and size of
each project entity and the current backlog of work is such that the
increased workload placed on his staff as a result of this project would
make it unlikely that these audits could be carried out on a timely basis
in the future. At the same time, the project is only financing a portion
of every project entity's total activities. All financial statements of
all such entity's project activities including the PMU would be submitted
to IDA and subject to an independent audit. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations to reserve for IDA the right, at IDA's discretion, to request
an independent audit of any one or more of the project entities if such an
audit is reasonably needed to clarify the position of a project component
within a project entity relative to project objectives and/or legal
documents and the Auditor General is unable to meet such a request within
the time-frame required by IDA.



- 38 -
IV. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01      PMU: The project management unit to be established at MOA
would be the coordinating agency for the implementation of this project.
There is a need for one organization to deal with Government agencies to
handle procurement, monitor project progress and provide administrative and
accounting support to the implementing agencies. At negotiations, GOS
confirmed that the PMU would be formally appointed as the coordinating
agency. For the purpose of this project, the PHU would be under the
Project Steering Committee (para 1.15), already established by the Minister
of Agriculture. For this project the Steering Committee would appoint to
the PMU a Project Manager acceptable to IDA, an accountant, a senior
bookkeeper, a head clerk and two secretaries. An engineer to administer
the civil works program (para. 4.08) would be engaged for the first two
project years. Under the PPF, the Project Manager would be required to
attend a project management course and spend 4-6 weeks in a research,
extension and training institution prior to taking up his post.
Responsibility for management and implementation of the individual
components (research at ARC, extension at NEA, RARCO and NHAPC, and
training at UG) would be devolved to each of the Project entities and would
be carried out against annual work programs (para 4.04) and budgets
acceptable to IDA for each of the above organizations.
4.02      Project Steering Committee (PSC).  The Government has established
a Project Steering Committee (PSC) responsible for project preparation,
implementation and monitoring and evaluation. The PSC includes
Director-General of Economic Planning (MOA); Director-General, ARC; Dean,
Faculty of Agriculture, Gezira University; Director-General, National
Extension Administration; Project Manager, PMU; the Managing Directors of
Rahad Corporation, New Halfa Agricultural Production Corporation, Sudan
Gezira Board, White Nile Agricultural Corporation, and Blue Nile
Agricultural Corporation; Director-General, Project Procurement Committee;
and a Senior Representative of the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning. The PSC would select the Project Manager, and would meet at
least four times annually to supervise the performance of the PMU,
periodically monitor project progress and review AWPs prior to submission
to IDA.
4.03      Mid-Term Review:  A mid-term review of each of the project
components would be carried out jointly by GOS and IDA no later than
January 31, 1989. Assurances to this effect was obtained from GOS during
negotiations. Mid-term review would especially include the recruitment of
internationally known scientists to assess progress made by ARC and the
future requirements of its research program.
4.04      Annual Work Programs.  Annual work programs (AWPs) would be
prepared by each organization financed by the project. PHU would be
responsible for synthesizing these AWPs into a Project Annual Work
Program. These AWPs, as further described in Annex 3, would provide a key



- 39 -
project implementation mechanism. Each would include (i) a review of
progress in the current year; (ii) a detailed description of the work to be
performed in the forthcoming year, including objectives, deployment of
equipment and staff; (iii) requirements of additional staff, equipment and
fuel; (iv) a budget; and (v) a financing plan including foreign and local
currency needs and subventions required from GOS. The AWPs would provide
details on procurement and civil works construction planned for the
forthcoming year together with documentation needed for PSC and
subsequently GOS to review its progress, scrutinize forthcoming programs
and provide the necessary budgetary and other support needei for the
project. The AWP mechanism has been successfully applied in ongoing IDA
irrigation projects.  NEA's AWPs would be prepared in close consultation
with the APCs, and would reflect their need for support services.
4.05      Each project-assisted organization would prepare an AWP and
submit it to the PMU within one month of the Credit being signed. A
Project AWP for FY1986/87 would be prepared by the PMU between signing of
the Credit and April 30, 1986 or Credit Effectiveness (whichever is sooner)
and submitted simultaneously to PSC (and hence GOS) and IDA. AWPs for
FY1987/88 onwards would be submitted to PSC by April 1 and GOS and IDA by
May 1 each year for acceptance, to cover the ensuing financial year
beginning July 1. Assurances were obtained during negotiations of
acceptance of these arrangements and submission of the FY1986/87 AWPs by
April 30, 1986.
4.06      Procurement and Disbursement.  The PMU would use the services of
the Central Project Procurement Committee (PPC) to coordinate and handle
all the commercial aspects of project procurement. PPC was set up to
handle procurement under the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project I (Credit
1000-SU) and proved highly successful. The technical specifications would
be provided to PPC through the PMU by the benefitting project entity except
in the case of ti) all civil works and (ii) all laboratory, scientific and
audio-visual, office equipment, and (iii) vehicles and agricultural
equipment, for which three consultancies would be provided under the PPF
(para 3.43). These consultancies would be required to work in conjunction
with the benefitting project entities, the PPC, and the PMU. The specific
terms of reference and the final short list of consultants eligible for
selection would form part of the PPF application and would be satisfactory
to IDA. In particular, the terms of reference would require the
consultants to carry out any prequalification that may be needed, prepare
and let contracts and evaluate the bids in time for these to be awarded
early in the first project year If not immediately following credit
effectiveness. The PPC would also provide the technical assistance needed
for the PMU to enforce quality control on other forms of procurement which
would be undertaken by the project entities themselves. Because of the
large civil works component and its demand for contractual payments, a
revolving fund financed by IDA (para 3.54) would be established to reduce
the demand on GOS resources that would be required pending reimbursement of
IDA contributions. The MOFEP would nominate the GOS disbursement signatory
for all requests for withdrawals and the Chairman of the PSC would be the
other. In both cases, there would be at least one alternate signatory.
All requests for withdrawals would be channelled through the PMU.



- 40 -
4.07      Financial Flows to Project Entities.  Secure and timely access to
adequate flows of foreign and local currency is critical for Project
success. The foreign exchange and local funding needs for capital and
recurring expenditures would be determined through AWPs. The requirements
of the large civil works program would be handled by a combination of
direct disbursement to foreign suppliers of goods and services and a
revolving fund for all payments to be made in local currency. A second
two-part revolving fund would be established to finance the requirements of
the PMU; one for foreign exchange and one for local currency. Funding for
the balance of the ARC, University of Gezira and NEA project requirements
which is not disbursed directly to foreign suppliers would be channelled
through existing GOS budgetary trensfer mechanisms in accordance with the
AWPs. Funding for RAHCO and NHAPC will also be in accordance with their
AWPs which will be financed through a line of credit with the Bank of Sudan
(BOS) and will include the recurrent expenditures (excluding salaries) of
the ARC research stations at Rahad and New Halfa. However, all local
currency development expenditures associated with RAHCO and NHAPC would be
funded in four quarterly installments into local currency accounts against
the approved AWPs for RAHCO and NHAPC. Assurances were obtained that the
above arrangements would be initiated and adhered to in accordance with
approved AWPN.
4.08      Civil Works.  According to government regulations, the civil
works program will be carried out under the supervision of the Ministry of
Construction and Public Works (MCPW). Standard drawings acceptable to IDA
already exist for the various types of accommodations and office buildings
to be constructed for ARC, RARCO, NHAPC, NEA and some UG (same designs used
by Western Sudan Agriculture Research Project, Cr. 834-SU and New Halfa
Rehabilitation Project, Cr. 1022-SU). All these entities have confirmed
site availability and would assist the architects and engineers specify
final site plans and drawings. At negotiations, assurance was obtained
that MCPW would be officially responsible for timely execution of this
component and if necessary appoint a full-time engineer for this purpose.
This engineer would be engaged for at least two years in order to
administer, coordinate and monitor progress of civil works construction.
He would prepare cash flow forecasts for construction contracts to ensure
that adequate government funding is available. The costs of his services
would form part of the professional fees associated with the project civil
works.
B. Planning and Coordination of the Research Component
4.09      The existing Technical and Financial and Administrative
committees of ARC (para 2.02) would be responsible for the overall
coordination and implementation of the research component. The Financial
and Administrative committee would be responsible for project accounts
relating to research including those of the Research Grant Scheme.
4.10      The Technical Committee would supervise the adaptive research
program, including the linkages between research and extension (para 4.14)
and would manage the overseas training courses and maintain cooperative
links with international scientific institutions, and would produce and
submit to IDA annual progress reports and ultimately a project completion
report.



- 41 -
4.11      Each research station would produce annual work plans which would
include proposals for the research program to be conducted on the field
testing sites associated with each station (para. 3.14). These work plans
would be reviewed by the Technical Committee supported by internationally
recruited specialists in areas identified in para 3.10 and after approval
by ARC would be submitted to RPMU to be included by ARC's AWP for review by
IDA. To strengthen the management capabilities of the regional stations, a
specialist in research management would be recruited for two years.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations to ensure timely recruitment of
consultants needed for above tasks.
4.12      The Research Grant Scheme. The Technical Committee of ARC would
operate the Research Grant Scheme. Initially, the sub-committees for each
specified fleld of research (para 2.04) would compile an Inventory of all
relevant completed and on-going research and assess the usefulness of
results obtained. The results would be reviewed, and compared with results
obtained in countries with similar agro-ecological conditions to those
obtaining in Sudan. Contemporary problems facing the farmers in Sudan
would be identified, recommendations made for new research and priority
ratings allocated to the different research topics. These would form the
basis of advertisements inviting the submission of sub-project proposals in
nominated flelds for consideration under the scheme.
4.13      Research grant proposals would be submitted on a pro-forma
provided by ARC Technical Committee. Upon receipt, this committee would
assign the proposal to an independent evaluator (recruited on short-term
basis by ARC under TA component) who would be competent in the field. The
evaluator would submit a report to the relevant sub-committee where it
would be either accepted, rejected or returned for revision. Sub-projects
accepted by the sub-committee would be passed to the Technical Committee
for approval and afterwards to the Administration and Finance Committee for
allocation of funds. Guidelines for criteria and conditions are given in
Annex 4.
4.14      A senior scientist appointed by the Technical Committee would
monitor and evaluate the sub-projects. He would select an evaluation group
and be responsible for field evaluation during the cropping season on at
least two seasons. The evaluation report would be submitted to the
Technical Committee for consideration. The scientists participating in the
scheme would be required to submit through the Technical Committee annual
technical and financial reports which would give a summary of the results
achieved. It Is expected that most research grants would provide support
for a three-year period. A project terminal report would be produced which
should contain Information on technologies which are ready for testing on
farmers' fields or require verification on experimental stations; solutions
provided for specific problems; and recommendations for future research and
development.
4.15      Linkages Between Research and Extension. The project would
support ARC involvement in monthly workshops for SMS, seasonal field
reviews of crop production, and on-farm trials. The Minister of
Agriculture has appointed Production Committees for each of the five APCs.



- 42 -
The membership of these committees is supposed to include: (a) a senior
scientist (agronomist) in the regional station serving the APC; (b) the
Corporation agricultural manager, the senior plant protection officer and
an agricultural economist; and (c) one farmer representative. The present
function of the Committee is to review the performance of the cotton crop
during the season. Under the project the Committee would include an
agricultural economist from ARC and its functions would be expanded to
include:
(i) organizing the pre-seasonal and two-day monthly workshops for
subject matter specialists serving the corporation to identify
extension messages and train staff in their application and
dissemination;
(ii) supporting SMS's efforts in conducting the fortnightly training
program for field personnel;
(iii)  planning, supervising and evaluating on-farm trials (para
3.14) and conducting monthly field tours to assess the
performance of all crops in the rotation;
(iv) collecting feedback information from farmers and field personnel
regarding production operations and problems; and
(v) recommending production technology for each crop and identifying
the extension messages supporting the adoption of recommended
technology.  These recommendations would be cleared by the
APC/ARC National Committee (para 2.15).
4.16      Each of the ARC regional stations would appoint an agronomist as
Research-Extension Coordinator, to act as Secretary to the Production
Committee; this would help ensure timely implementation of the linkage
activities mentioned above. With respect to on-farm trials, determining
objectives and overseeing planning and the selection of farmers would be
the responsibility of the Committee. Researchers would be responsible for
detailed planning; corporation field personnel and farmers would be
responsible for managing the fields and keeping records for each trial.
Corporation and/or ARC agricultural economists would be responsible for
analyzing the results of each trial, and checking that trial design can
produce the data needed for economic and financial analysis. The Committee
would be responsible for interpreting the results and incorporating them
into recommendations to be put before the ARC National Committee. If
cleared, these recommendations would be incorporated into the following
season's field activities.
C. Extension Activities at Rahad and New Halfa Corporations
4.17      Both corporations have already started to implement aspects of
the new extension system on a pilot basis, beginning in November 1983 in
one of the six sections in New Halfa, and in June 1984 in two of the nine
blocks in Rahad. Until the 1985/6 season, however, no redefinition of the
roles of the inspectors occurred under these pilot projects, and
preliminary experiences pointed strongly to the need for field inspectors
to shed their regulatory functions and attitudes.



- 43 -
4.18      Following appraisal, the Government appointed a Task Force of
senior APC inspectors and NEA staff to help all five of the APCs adopting
T&V system (para 3.24) to work on the details of new job descriptions for
the field inspectorates. Detailed terms of reference were provided to the
Task Force by IDA. The outcome of this exercise was a report in July 1984,
submitted to IDA and revised in the light of subsequent discussions. The
revised version of the Task Force's report is included in the project file
and is considered by the Corporations as an integral part of the project
design.
4.19      A careful monitoring of progress and a willingness on the part of
the Government and IDA to make pragmatic adjustments needs to follow the
Task Force's initial definition of the inspectors' roles. A conservative
phasing plan should also be followed. In Rahad, one more block would be
added in 1985-6 to the two introducing T&V under the 1984/85 pilot; 1986/87
would be a year of consolidation and the remaining blocks would be phased
in during the following two years. In New Halfa, the one section that has
introduced T&V will be followed by two other sections in 1985186; and the
three remaining sections during the following one or two years. Supportive
monitoring of progress would be provided IDA supervision missions and by
NEA staff, and also by the inspectorate Task Force, which would continue to
meet annually to review the implementation of the revised job
definitions. Both corporations would also be required to submit their AWP
(Agriculture) and budget to IDA for approval (para 4.04). Thorough
planning of those corporation activities related to extension would be
instituted through the AWP process.
D. University of Gezira
4.20      The training unit of the Gezira University would assist
agricultural corporations to maintain under annual review the training
needs of the field personnel in agricultural technology, economics,
research and extension. The Unit, assisted by NEA and ARC, would organize
annually five or six in-service courses for 120 APCs staff and 25
technicians at ARC regional stations and provide 10-15 position for
selected candidates to participate in post graduate studies in agricultural
economics and extension. The Project would fund 10 such post-graduate
fellowships in each of Project years. The unit would prepare annual plan
for producing course curricula, training manuals and publications
supporting in-service training courses and would contract visiting
lecturers and consultants needed to assess APC's training requirements.
The Unit would prepare an annual plan and progress report of achievement on
above activities. Disbursement for training under the project would be
subject to submission of this plan to PMU and IDA.  The Unit would also be
responsible for managing the accommodations, training schedules, travel,
and other logistical services required by the training program.
E. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
4.21      Monitoring, evaluation and reporting would be the responsibility
of the PMU under the supervision of the Steering Committee. Monitoring and
evaluation would be carried out principally through the Annual Work



- 44 -
Program mechanism and the proposed mid-term review. In addition, under the
Project, independent consultants expert in research, extension and training
would be recruited annually to assess the performance of each project
entity (paras 3.28, 4.11 and 4.14). PMU would furnish IDA with quarterly
reports in a format satisfactory to IDA. It would also prepare the Project
Completion Report no later than six months after completion of the
Project. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the various
progress reports would be submitted in a timely manner.
F. Environmental Impact
4.22      The project would have substantial positive effects on the
environment. By supporting research on integrated pest management, the
project could contain any negative impact of chemicals currently being used
for pests and weed control in the irrigated areas. Also, the research
program would support the Improvement of forage and fodder production which
could provide additional supplies of animal feed and consequently reduce
pressure on land and control overgrazing. No farm inputs of significant
quantities are proposed under the project, therefore, no environmental
damage should result from the project.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.01      The main benefit would come from developing and refining
production technology designed to significantly increase yields for all
crops in the rotation. The proposed Project would result in increased crop
production through the development of efficient agricultural technology,
and the improvement of APC extension services to the tenants. The
skills and knowledge of existing field personnel will also be upgraded to
respond to (a) the corporations' changing needs, (b) tenants evolving
problems; and (c) demands for technically advanced and economically viable
technologies. Initially APC production would increase as more tenants
employ recommended technologies already known but not efficiently
implemented or adequately adopted. Additional increases, but at a much
slower rate, would result as new technologies are developed and accepted by
tenants. Major project benefits would be reflected in increasing
production of food crops and income from cash crops to a large portion of
the farming population, mainly the smallholders and poor farmers in the
irrigated schemes.
5.02      Increasing cotton yields has been the focus of the rehabilitation
projects supported by IDA (para 1.09). To a large extent these projects
have focussed with considerable success on removing resource constraints
and Improving producer incentives both within already known production
technologies. As a result, benefits based on improved production have been
and will continue to be the result of many inzer-related factors. This
makes it difficult to assess the contribution of any one or more of these
factors in isolation from the others and no attempt has been made to
exactly quantify the benefits expected from the project per se. However,



- 45 -
detailed studies in Latin America and India indicate that internal rates of
return for investment in wheat have been between 40-60%, for sorghum 20%,
and for cotton 30-40%. The rate of return on Investment in maize
improvement in Africa in the last decade has also averaged about 40%.
Research on cotton in Sudan, especially on control of black arm disease and
Jassid, not only helped increase yields but also prevented a serious
decline in production. In the absence of good research, production in the
project areas is certain to deteriorate, particularly through
second-generation problems of weeds and pests which are evolving as a
consequence of increasing crop intensification. Also, recent research
efforts to develop hybrid sorghum in Sudan indicate that production under
irrigation could be doubled. All studies on the productivity of
agricultural research conducted in recent years present evidence of
substantially high returns to investment in applied research.
5.03      over the seven-year life of this project, it is conservatively
estimated that the combined result of ameliorating current resource
constraints (due primarily to the rehabilitation projects) which are
designed to bring yields back to the early 70's levels and increasing each
production corporation's current aggregate production due to Improved
application of available technology, would give rise to an increase in
yields of all crops which would justify the proposed investment to
strengthen research. The benefits of this project would be enhanced
through stabilizing cotton yields at a high level, reducing yield
variations and fluctuations among farmers and among blocks. Emphasis on
extension and strengthening the links between research and extension would
play a vital role in achieving this objective. In addition, the
containment and even reduction of production costs per kg/fd would
represent a major project benefit. For instance, attempts to improve the
efflcacy of herbicide and insecticlde application have already been
associated with yield increases and slgnificant tenant and corporation cost
reductions on NHAPC.  This process can be further advanced under the
project.
5.04      Beyond Year 7, the impact of the project would increasingly
reflect the impact of introducing new production technologies. All the
investment costs associated with creating this opportunity will have been
met within the project period. The ongoing recurrent costs after project
completion will be more than covered by sustaining future benefits at the
level it is anticipated will be realized at project completion. But for
the reasons given in para 5.02 and the fact that direct impact of
technological innovation cannot be predicted, no attempt is made to assess
the results of introducing new production technologies either before or
after project completion.
5.05      An additional major benefit of the proposed training component
under the project would be to promote agricultural development by
Increasing the supply of well trained agricultural officers. The training
component (a) upgrade the skills of existing agricultural technicians and
prepare qualified staff for leadership roles in farm management; (b)
strengthen the University of Gezira not only as an academic institution,
but as a center for continuous training and research service in the
irrigated subsector; and (c) develop curricula and teaching materials which
could be utillzed to strengthen field extension training.



- 46 -
B. Risks
5.06      The project would support five entities, four of which are
semi-autonomous with limited operational and functional links among them.
There is a risk that these links may remain weak which would impede
effective project implementation. Particular attention would therefore be
paid to ensuring joint planning, programming and monitoring of project
components. This task would be the responsibility of the Steering
Committee and the Project Management Unit.
5.07      The project is designed to strengthen applied research and to
support its adaptation on farmers' fields. There is a risk that research
projects financed by the Project may not be fully responsive or relevant to
the production problems facing farmers. This problem is being addressed
under the Project by supporting regional stations' interaction with farmers
and field production personnel. Availability of local operating funds may
affect the timely execution of agreed field trials. ARC's annual budget
has been shrinking in real terms, while each year it is called upon to do
additional research; at the same time, GOS is advancing development
projects under increasingly scarce resources, and competition for funds
among government agencies is very strong. The project is minimizing this
risk by (a) supporting incremental operating costs which would be gradually
reduced during Project life; and (b) establishing the "Research Grant Fund'
to enable research on critical problems to be intensified rapidly.
A major concern is that because of the overall economic situation, there is
a risk of disruption in input supplies. This would impede the full
application of existing and future technical knowledge. Indeed, shortages
of inputs may disrupt the research work itself. Another risk is that the
maintenance of adequate price incentives may again be neglected; this would
thwart the achievement of the project's ultimate goals. Several
IDA-financed projects, however, are addressing the countries' seasonal
input requirements, and adequate pricing policies are currently being
monitored (para 1.06). By supporting field economic studies, this project
would provide timely information on production cost and suitable producer
prices for all crops in the rotation.
5.08      Another problem is the ability of ARC and/or the willingness of
qualified scientists to move to the outer stations to support this proposed
regional research strategy. This problem is being addressed under the
project by providing adequate housing, transport, work facilities, and by
modernizing existing experimental stations.
5.09      There is a risk that NEA may not develop sufficient expertise in
T&V matters to be able to offer the corporations a truly useful set of
services. Crucial to the development of the required expertise is, first,
dynamic leadership in the new NEA T&V department; second, the timely
recruitment and proper utilization of technical assistance; and third,the
provision of adequate field allowances and fuel to permit the necessary
quantity of field work to be done. To these ends, IDA would review the
qualifications and experience of the NEA Deputy Director selected to head
the new department (para 3.19) and would advise the Government over the
recruitment of suitable T&V experts. A joint IDA/GOS progress assessment
of NEA's T&V work would be conducted at the end of 1987.



- 47 -
5.10      A related risk Is that even an effective NEA may not be perceived
as necessary by APC managers, which would lead to insufficient demand for
its services. This is unlikely to occur if T&V extension produces a
visible impact on production, and if the connection between effective
external supervision and good extension management inside the corporations
is understood. This understanding would come in part through orientation
of corporation managers to the purposes and methods of T&V extension, but
more importantly through the involvement of corporation officers in the
planning and implementation of NEA's operations (e.g. through the Annual
Work Program and budget process, para. 4.04).
5.11      Despite the commitment by MOA and APC management to the
introduction of systematic extension, a certain understandable ambivalence
still prevails. It is feared that an emphasis on extension may, through a
lack of attention by the inspectorate to their previous managerial,
administrative and regulatory tasks, result In a drop in efficiency in
corporation services, and a loss of corporation authority over tenants.
The persistence of this fear could lead to senior corporation staff
resisting the change in inspectors' roles. These misgivings (shared also
by more junior inspectors) are in part the result of confusion over what
organizational adjustments will be entailed by the introduction of a
T&V-type methodology. The Government decided to set up the inspectorate
Task Force to elaborate the exact details of the new roles of Field and
Block Inspectors partly In response to this confusion (para 4.19). The
Task Force's work has acted as a form of orientation, and has dispelled the
doubts of many senior APC officers.
VI. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED
6.01      During negotiations, GOS assured IDA:
(i) that NEA has established a new department specializing in
extension to the irrigated sector, and appointed a deputy
director acceptable to IDA (para. 3.19);
(ii) that University of Gezira has establlshed a training unit and
appointed a director acceptable to IDA (paras 3.34 and 4.21); and
would appoint a Manager for the University Farm by March 31, 1986
(para 3.36);
(iii) that the PMU has been appointed as the Project coordinating
agency and that a project manager acceptable to IDA has been
appointed to the PHU (para 4.01);
(iv) that PMU has appointed MCPW as the official entity responslble
for timely execution of the civil works component, and, if
necessary, NCPW would appoint a full-time engineer for this
purpose (para 4.08).
6.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
points:



- 48 -
(1) Prices for cotton, (to be announced no later than December 1 each
year) and wheat (to be announced no later than November 1 each
year) would be based on criteria acceptable to IDA and on
information provided by the economic research unit of ARC (paras
2.08 and 3.16);
(ii)  ARC to carry out a well-defined research program for integrated
pest management with support of consultants acceptable to IDA
(para. 3.05 and Annex 8);
(iiI) GOS to follow the procurement procedures for goods and civil
works prescribed in pars 3.47, 3.49 and 4.06;
(iv)  GOS to cause NEA, UG, ARC, NHAPC and RAHCO to maintain separate
project accounts all in accordance with sound and generally
recognized accounting principles and practices acceptable to IDA
(paras 3.55 and 3.56); and
(v) GOS to conduct jointly with IDA a mid-term review of the project
no later than January 1989 (para 4.03), and appointments of
consultants needed by project entities (para 4.11);
(vi)  ARC, NHAPC, RAHCO, NEA and UG to submit to IDA for its approval
no later than May 1, AWP detailing research, training and
extension activities and proposed budget allocations (paras 4.05
and 4.07 and Annex 3);
(vii) ARC to nominate by March 31, 1986 one agronomist at each of the
regional stations supported by the project to be responsible for
maintaining strong extension/research linkages (para 4.16);
(viii) GOS to agree to implement the Revised Job Definitions for Field
Inspectorates (Annex 3 of the Implementation volume of the Staff
Appralsal Report), according to the timetable acceptable to IDA
(para 4.19);
(ix) GOS to agree to furnish IDA wlth quarterly progress reports, and
prepare the Project Completion Report no later than six months
after completion of the project (para 4.21); and
(x) Signing of agreements satisfactory to IDA between ARC and each of
Rahad Corporation and NHAPC covering Rahad and Hew Halfa regional
stations' annual operating cost, research priorities, and TORs of
regional productlon comnittee, by March 31, 1986 (paras 3.13 and
4.15).
6.03      The conditlon of effectiveness would be as follows:
(i)   GOS to open a Project Speclal Account (para 3.54).



- 49 -
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING
Staff Appraisal Report
ANNEXES
Annex 1 -  Summary Cost Tables
Annex 2 -  Estimated Price Contingency and Foreign Exchange Rates
Annex 3  -  Annual Work Program
Annex 4 -  Research Sub-Project Evaluation Criteria
Research and Conditions for Research Grant Sub-Project
Annex 5  -  Duties and Responsibilities of Field Inspectors
Annex 6  -  Civil Works Requirements
Annex 7  -  Links Between Research and Extension
Annex 8  -  Agricultural Research
Annex 9  -  Technical Assistance and Short-term Consultancies
Annex 10  -  Schedule of Disbursements
Financing Arrangements
Annex 11 -  Incremental Government Cash Flow
Annex 12 -  Crop Production Area in the Irrigated Schemes



sum
ARICULTUIR   RESEARCH EXTES    AN1D TMINING
Finncing Plan hD Ditbursuuent Cateuonr
(US '000)
INTRMTIWIL
ASSOCIATION    CWRIIEINT OF GUA          Totol
     .....  ----------------            Local (Exal, Duties I
Amaunt    Z        Amnt         Z    Amunt    I    Fort Exeli.    Taxeu)         Toxes
A. CIQIL VMS                  4W209J31  38,40    6p751.30   61.60  104960461  28,90   4P209.3l      5,947,93   803.3'
o. WHICLES                    1.199,33  52,89    19068A48  47.11   2s267.91  5.98    1,199t33         216,44   852.04
C. AGRICULTURE EQUIPMENT      29352458  89701      269.97   10%29  24622.55 6S92   29352,58            75.19   194.79
Do OTHER EQUIPHENT            39114.69 60,75     24012,9  39,25  5,l27.49  13,S2   3.114,69           872.86  1,139.93                      O
Es TRAINING I T.A.            486327 100.00             -       -  4#983,27  12,58   4.574,69         308.58         -
F, RESEARCH IRM(T             1W277,9  95,00        67,26    5.00  1345.16   3.55      320.12        937,78    67.26
G. INCREIIRM   OPTION
COSTS                      4,9,63  40.97    69324.42  59.03  100714,05  29.25    4389.63         4.208.13  2,116.29
~~~~~~~.                       ..  __ .- _.  .     .. .    ..   .* ... . .   .. . .. . .   ......  .
Total Disbursemet              21,426.72  56.50    16,494.22  43.50  37u920,94 100400  20,160.36    124586.92 5S173.66
AudMt 28. 1905 16M42
*14



SUDAN
AGRICULTURML RESEARCH EXTEN91SN MID TRAINING
PROJECT COSIT qWIRY
(LSD '000)                                      (USH '000)
--.-----------           ----------            -------- .    . .... ....... .. ...........
X Totul                                         2 Tot;l
X Foreijin  Base                                Z Fluasn se
Local   Foreign    Total   Exch,anee  Costs    Lael   Ftureign   Tutal   Exchnge   Costs
A. ARICTRAL. RESERN CO ATION
ARC HO                                            3,390.38  6642,74  1O0O33,12         66      14   1P356,15  24657410  4.013,25       66      14
GZIRA                                             2,957.53  40465.43   7,422.96        60      10  1l183,01  1,786,17  2r969,18        60      10
9HANBAT-SOA                                       3,050,72  2p476,27   5.52649?        45       8   1W220.2    "O.l  2W210.80          is       8
Kg HWLFA                                          20704.91  2,514.50   5,219.48        48       7   19081499  1.00W8O  2.007.09        48       7
RNAD                                              2,6i8.17  2r133.02   40781119        45       7  1.059,27   953.21  1.912,48         45       7
SEAR                                              2716.25  2,644.43   54360,68         4?       8   1.i06,50  1.053707 21144i27        49       U
SKEDI                                               719,51    794.49   1.513,00        53       2    287.40    317.90    605.20        53       2
.   .    ... ... .  .. _. . .                               ....... ......... .........a ...._
Sub-Total AGRICULTA  RSEARCH  ORPORATION            1186453 21670.89  3Hi957.42          54      56  7.274,61  8W668,36 15.942,97        54      56
I. NATIONAL EXTENSION ADNINISTRATION                 1,515.03  5.024.35  66539.39         77       9    606.01  2.009,74  24615,75        77       9
C. AGRICULTURAL PRDCTION CORPRTIONS
RMIAD AGRICuLTURE CO                              2,7.52  2350.97   514464?            46       7   1118.21    940.39  2tV058,59       46       7
REV KALFA ARICULTURE CO                           3,373.47 2504.03   5iL.77,50         43       9   14349.39  1001461  235100          43       8
_._._ ........... _~~~~~~.                              .   _ .......  . ....  ........____ ... ........_____..._
Sub-Total AGRICULTL PRODUCTION CORPORATIONS          6,168,9  465s.00  114023.97          44      15   20467#60  19 42.0  4,409,59        44      1S
Do UNIR9SITY Of GEZIRA                               4,252,09  7t339s42  11,591.51        63      16  1,700.83  2,933,77  4,66,60         63      16
E. PROJECT KAN    NT                                 1469,29    913.ll  2,382.40          38       3    S87.72   365S.24    9S296         38       3
Total BASELINE COSTS                                  31,591.92 39,902077  714394.70        56    100  124636.77 15.921,11 28,557.88        56     100
Phlsical Cjntinsienies                              2,163.31  2r929t43   5692.75         S1       8   103.33 I r1171.77  2,277.10        51       8
Prie Continmncits                                  23,756.11 21,62642  45,392.63         48      64  4,018.48   W6 8 7,085.96           43      25
Total PROJECT COSTS                                   58,111.35 64,358.63 1220469,98        53    172  17,7606,8 20,160,36 37,920.94        53     133         OQ
Aust 28. 1995  16140



-52 -                                    Annex 1
Page 3
AUIWLfL . ESEMEN EXIElII MM TRAMINM
StMR  NTs CWT MM
(LSD '000)                                  (0   '0)
Z Total                                     Z ToQi
Z Faorim   lst                              Z Fordi   Im
Local   Forevs   Tota  E[ige         C.ts    Loc.1  Fhreisn  Total   Exdi         Custct
~~~~~_ -   -c-OS
A. CIIL NM
KIIUSUE                             7,741.12 4,633.09  12,374.20      37     17  3P0W6.45 1MU.23  4s949.68         37     17
TfEl ACCUTIUI                       1,512.36   930.2  2443,08         3B      3    605.03   372.21   977.23        38      3
amER UIL1M                          2,42218 1:678.49  4i30068         3       6  11006.87   6.40 I172D027          39      6
SITE V0W5                             789.31 1,303.04  2,2.35         62      3    315.72    21.22   936.94        62      3
PlEll_L FEES                          317.49        _    317.49        -      0    12.6.9        -   126.99        -       0
Sub-TOu  CIL ERS                      12m,966 B,51S.13 21,527.7          40     30 S,193.07  3,419.05  MU611.12      40      30
3.   l.ES                              2,063.03 2v359s75  49422.77       53      6    825.21   943,90   :769t.       53       6
C. A11OLTURA. ESUIP                      554.20 4,959.32  59412.2                8    221.68  1,943.33 2,165.01      90 
D3 oITER EDi m                         4,021.7  6,199.9  109210.72              14  1,603.71 2473,58 4MW29           61      14
E. ESEvI2 IRC                     -    1a993.46   593.64  2:497.09       24      3    757,3    237.46   94.94        24       3
F. TMIUNl  I TsA.
IISEM                                  .  - 4,89.92  4,99.92         100      7         - 1953.93 1Y955.93        100      7
LEA.                                  566.34    15.37    5.171         3      1    226,53      6.15   232.U3        3      1
ESETIIfs                                   - 4.341.S0  4,341.90      1        6         - 176.72 1736.72          10       6
STol TRAI  I T.                          566.34 9,247.00   9813.34       94     14    226.53 3,699.90 395&34         94      14
B. PU.C  PTEPAMI  FACILm                 911.41   667.9   1,649.19       0       2    392.56   267.11   659.69        40      2
Totl DIMEIT COSTS                        23,062.17 32,460.56 55523.43       59     79  9,225,15 1294,22 221209.37       59      78
Fhmuleil Coirtncifs                    1,930.42 2,195.21  4125.63        53      6    772.17   878,09 1w40.25        53       6
Price Cmmtiamcdig                    1O,044.65 14:216.64 24,261.29      59     34  1,460.95 2W009.57 3,470452        59     12
Total DelEl   CURI INIES                 35,037.93 4,972.41  93,910.35     58    119 11945B,26 1591,98 27330614         59      96
Ill.    ,r COS
A. DrUUNAL SrAFFSL*ES                   219.00        -    218,00        -      a      97.20       -    97,20         -      0
9. FEM   NlNIMICB                       944.16        -    944.16        -      1    377.66        -   377.66         -      1
C.  EMTIB6  M  MDffEIWNE
CLm  EMI5    11                       1 25.12   353.62  1,178.74     30      2    330.05   141.45   471.50        30      2
WHILE 01l N                        2,468.10 1:749.32  4,217.42       41      6    997.24   6n973 1:686.97         41      6
TRACTOR 0 t N                        547.64   433.40    M91.05       44      1    219.06   173.36   392.42        44      1
Er1W  0 2 N                        2,66.10 4,422.95  7M29.05         61      10  19146.44  10769.19 2,915.62      61     10
Sub-Total IIT1rA     AB MITEMWCE      670.94 6,959.30  134666.26        51     19  2MU92,M  2Y7M3.72 5466.50       51      19
3. 0 F   TRN AL9                        459.94   392.91    942.75       45      1    13.94   153.17   337.10        45      1
E.Il ERVlCE DiDaIJ                      200.10       -    200.10         -      0     80.04        -    80.04        -       0
Total TEDNEN  COSTS                       9,W29.06 7,342.21  15971.27      46      22  311,U62 2r936,98 69349.51        46     22
Mhsical Cmntinimin                       932.90   73422  1.567.12        47      2    333.16   293.69   426.95       47      2
Price Cmtiuoinn                       13711W47 7r409,79 21,121,25        35     30  2,5U7.53 1MU57.9  34615.45       29      13
Toal DINUWE    CUITIEJIIES               23,073.42 1S96.21  39,559.63      40      54  6,302.31 4,293.49 10:590|90      40     37
Toal BJ!E  cWST                           31192 3902.77 714394,70           56    100 127636.7715S21.11 23l 55JP7.       56    100
Mical ConUimiu                          2,763.31 2929.43  5692.75         51      9  1:105.33 1,171.77 2277.10        51       9
Price Continmneis                      23,756.11 21626.42 45,13253        48     64  46018.49 39067.48 7r45.96        43      25
Totl PU.ECT COSS                          S59111.35 44359.43 122W469.9       53    172 17:760.58 209160436 37920.s4      53    133
Agt 23  1995 16 41



WlT'A  65631amam 3  14KJ
3lCarwu kam4 hi boAm. Cmw
(LU '000
WClTUnAL MucllM
OIMIOLIf ISEAM5330 CWUAtTION                             NETIW.L        113    EaV WA
-   AItlON    161CilSST AslICUETU    UKIIUSITY 11    0Xt1
AK NO   hUlM    AU WAM 9WVAI0I K U WA  1MO     S3 5 N11 N                  IIIIIA W*I5I    COW         Cw          EZIM       NANA1N       1Total
It WMIUWIT COSTS
A. CIVIL V
NJSIII                                 368.65                 -    2PM,06   I,546.73 2o102.211579.93  412,65               -    5,5.5    2.333,27           26,56           -  12s374.20
GM10 MCOE IIM                          101141   93.54                     -   336,71  111,41   M4,71   14,71               -           -          -         670,5           -   2,MO.
0110 WiUUI                             530,20   467,46               410.19   395. e     473.    236,14    3,49        10071       596.3?     2309"       1066,13       44.53   4200.
IIITE I1                                   - *n42.e                  157.65   517,65        -  541.*2   39,22              -           -   -43,52                        *      2o092,35
E011W  Fms                              1,.20    26,14         -      45l    35.1   41,36   36.75    3.15                2.71       21.79      3146          43,03                31749
tal CIVIL VS                            1.09,43  513.24          -     .07943   4,0427,39 2,4655  5s.92                   133.42    5U434    2,60.3          215.3         44.9   21,527.79
to 'mIIs                                  343,34   666,00110535   322,4!   50,31  367.54  14055                           395.23    1.200,11     417.21        4450           -   46022,77
C.   1CiaLII  kERlMI                          - 1,532.           -      347,2   52393  U5I   532.34  5O.                      -           -          *       153.97           -   5U52.52
o, am  EIE                              5,0512.30  15117.72      -      f9.7    73i936    0,6   71,63  2"4,5             I1O.M        346,17    510.4?       35136,70         -  104210.72
E, 661163CMUNI                          2,437.09        -        -           -        *        *               -              -           -          -             -          -   2.431,09
r. 11NKm a TA.
WAR"                                 2,92218.                             -        -        -       -        -         NO.26       54,6       54369              -          -   4,m,02
UUNL                                   5s.22         -        -           -         -       -        -       -              -      127,6      127.6         20.77                 535.71
Ct LTIN'4                            5,424,00        -        -           -        -        -       *        -       2,5923             *          -        569.53     153,34    4345.60                              1
Oh-Total 16651I11 I T.A,                44,40                                         -                 '               3073,14       675        671,55        337.21     15,34   ti513134
it P t 117  W1106 FAMtL!                      *         -        -           -        -        '       -       -              '            '          ''   144,19    549.19
Total I      1T CM                        9,343.57 S,347            -    4,502.03 4,03,177 4,0U,463  4,1,55.  1,5129.21   4,412,36   J3.4,17   4,221.6         3115,43   1,149l51    55,523,43
H5.   ITCUTS
A, iN    5TNI  S1 151                        -         -        -           -        -        -       -       -              -           -           -        213.00          -     215.00
O, FlaJIOMLWM-                                         -          -        -         -        -                -         Ul260       125135     196,20             -     361,0       44,16
C. WITlIO M I SIKTIWU
CMnL       0 14 K                      1.24    96,29         -       1746     535.50   52s57  133.90    4,51           9.13       n73        13n,"         169.75       2,45   l173,74
oai I I K                             329.4    503,17        -        4.l7    216.46   23.53  M2.7   53,23           531,67       923.79     904.37        23.12      532,.0   4,217.42
TKMIe   I a K                             -   259.40         -       1056     131.91  15552  1044.5   65,62                -           -                   152,37          -     m,o05
mommu  a i                            302.3  1.06,77         -       601.64   5765  326.40  542,0   116,74          1274,62       329,32     4l5,72      5647.23       37,02   7,209,05
te  OPWIIONIV  oln   1OU                 64.5  5,0.23           -         .4  5063.53  647.62 1,02,21  340.20         l5.35942    5326,96   1,95943         225791       572.23   23, 26
is M FM  TRIALS                                   363.25                50,2    37.l   37.11  201,42    3.5                 -           -           -             -          *     *42.75
1,11KIC                                      -         -E 1 ti1  -                                    -           -                                  *        2010            -     200,10
Total  CII  CUTS                             9,55 2,293,49          -    5024.96  5.507J   734,10 I20,63  33,79            2.01102    I,4.31    165.63          2.67601      533.29  l557l,2 
ToteA  3 I   (C                            10,033,12  7422,9         *    55S26.99 5,219.4U4,711.19 35360,6315513.00       &,53.31    5M144    5,377.           115151    2W,344   75,394.700
1t@i1l Cxt5i_its                           352.54   739.60        -         3      513.3   473."   532.3   136.42          346.35      4.31       516475      5,001.10      57.79,   1,n92,7X
IFric. Cm31 ms                           7364,27 4,l.6l          -    2434,56  2.47   2,20092,7.,3  614936              31515.57    4104"    47,10m          5,97.79   2,1335.39  412.53                                  p
fetl paw  COIN                             57,9  7.9  n22..72        -    3,523   s,225,e3  7.4       5 3773               12U 5 2,357,11  13,236.70  11275.29    513 US540    47 06  522,469.9
- .rs - -w      S    2.-r   rr    .s-.     flt   ,m"   r=, r - rr2                          wr
Tom                                      104429  1171,151         *      5,n 27 21.2  10,5315231,12  357.55              1.531.04    2,559.9    2,511.79      2,330.34     450,15  1,921,52
Fo,i*i Ekaulb,1m499,40   7.277,43                                 *    3,004.25  ,944.56 3267.32 4t222. 5,2M.13          1,0.73        M.243    4,2.29       25,236,47   510,,97   64.3.,63



LNuiM OF lEVi? ACCaIT
(Ull '400)
Wo~ Cnto                    ......   ... .- - ~-..... ..                   Price Cotindu.ins                           Total 1rnl, l'ont,
Locwl (Ecat!  Miss I                       (Cd,. htluo a                        Local (ECl, bities I                       l.,xal Mdat. kitlui  I
Fra. Ecad.    Taxn)     Tex"    Total    For. Ecad, Taxn)  Tomb~  Total   Fut, EChd.   Taesa)            Taaab    Tot.l    f'ur. xCld..   Taxan)    Tamia  101.1
Ai CIVIL =3
NINI*                                    2,53.23    2,452.9    643.46  44,4.68        235.32 245.30   64.35  4M. 97        229.52       379.63   92.0    700.17    2,268.07    3,071.912  M9.363 A6,144.32
Omli ACIIMYIUI                             M721        605.03        -   977.23        37.22  60.50        -   97.72        50.63        99.75             15W. 38    460.06       785.21        - I.225.34
aTm  IJILDIIN                              671.40    11041.37           1,72.27        87.14 104419        -   17M0         11.47       141.93        -   245.40      122.01    1MI1M6           - 2017.70
SITE Mm3                                  521.22       I1l.2              3 36.94      12.12  31.3i            933.9        49383        45.41        *    95.24      623.17       392.70        -  1,015.17
P9W1321V4 FMS                                  -        MM.6      8.35    126.9            -      -                                    -34.69t  -1.9    -36.52             -        359       4.52     90.43
S*-Tatal CIYIL VUtS                        3,13.05    41,54326   849,31  3,611.12        341211 442.74   64.35   341.41       413.46       822.02   39.20  11,251.64    4,173.31    5,137.54   303.35 10,614.21
t. 413KICU3                                  943.90       165.33   659.88  1,769.11       94.39  16.53    IS.99   178.91      144431        34.00   110.04   203.35    1,t102.60      21.1.7   335.92  2,234.37
C. AICeLIWM. CQIJIflNT                     1,4.1           60.60   181.06  2,163.01      194.33   8.04    16.it11 21.5        214,92        3.33    17.60G   24.0    W,52M'            75.19   194.A9  2,622.55
D. OTto  (301910                           2M4MS5         691,79   918.92  4t06.29       247.6  8 9.13   92.69   406.43       386.3        110.58   129.13    626.04    3O,194        871.54 2.137,74  MU13.7
I .R35SE.5  SliT                             237.46       707.64    49.74   994.34            -                                 2.67       250.14    17.52   3550.32     320.12       957.73    67.2   2,45.26
Fe MRINIM I  Me.6
3'OICM                                  1,93.93             -        - 1,935.93 1                                          465.99                     -    WM.9     2,4I.9              -        -2,421.92I
LOALU                                       16,15      226.53        -   212.41            -               -        -         .3         42.05        -    32.90        7.01       103.53        -   315.39
CU(W.MTNs                                1,736,72           -        -  1,3.2-                    -        -        -      301.04            -            301.04    2,037.76            -        -  2,037.76                                  i
Sub-Total TRAININg I T.A.                  3,61,026       226.53        -  3,925.34           -                        -      767.39       32.05              Well.9    4,466.69      306.56        - 4,775.2
Os P9OICI POAIPATION FACILITY                2W7ll        387.30    24,76    659.61-                 *                                     -39.41    -0.43    -39.34     287.11       323.39    24.33    619.34
Total INOSTENT COSTS                         l22M.122      6,762.915 2,462.19 22,20.37      373.09 534.03   233.2  WWII,2    2o009,57       2tO,09.0   363.05 3,470,52   25,72.83 6  3394,8? 39063,37 ?7330.14
II. RC 3TCOSTS
A. INWINTU.A STAFF WAMIIC                                 73.43    3.72    37.20             -  7.35      0.37    3.72            -       127,71    14,19    142.90                  214.03    23.n    237.92
3. P[L3 MJLUNUS                                  -       350,36    27.30    377.66           - 35,01      2,73   37,77            -    lt223.33   9505  1,323.31             -    23.6373   12r5.06  1,738.30
C . OIRTI0NIANU MlNTEWdiC
CIVIL MS 51 DII                          141.45       3061 47    23.57    472.50      14,14  30.85     2,36    47,25       51,14       114,73     3.73    274.66     206.74       451,90    34.67   693.30
micuC     0 I II                         69. is       244.07   743,17  1,686.97       69.97  24.42    74,32   21.,70      262.37        94.75  M3279   639.92    1,032.57         363.23 1,09o.7  2,t495.53
TmXIM  a  n                              173.36       160.20    56.36    392.42       17,34  16,02    5.39    39.24        60.16       s6.07    30.0    139.33       251.055      234.29    05.65    570.99
EGUIPHENT 0 INM                        31769,10       643.74   502.70  2,915.62      176.92  64.37    30.27   291.36      631.31       240.10   132,27  2,04.1    ?,5MI9          943.22' 735.23  4,261.36
Sub-Total OPTIRANS 6M0 MINTENIC            29703372    1,354.43 1,329.30  5,466.50      273.37 135.45   132.33   546,65    2,006,18      507.71  494.19  2,006.0      4.068.?7     1.997.84 2,955.33 8,021.23
I. IN FIMN niALI                             153.17      179.70     4.23    311.10       15R3  27.97    0.42    33.71         it in        63.29     1.45    216.47     220.21       260.97     6.10    Wi7n2
I. IN SERVICE TRAINING                           -         0.04        -      0.04-                              -          -              25,63       -    25.63            -       105.6?        -   205.67
Toail KC2aNT COSTS                            241.11,3     2,043.07 2.36156  64,3.51        293.69 196.30   136,36   626.85    2.057,91    I1,9266   MM.6   MI6M.4        4,293.49     4,92.03 2.1J0,21 10,59.30                                  O
Total                                         15,922.11    3M34.0  3330.75 29M,85.3        2.171,77 730.34   374.99 2,277,10    7,067.48    3oV,055    967.92  7,015.9    20,260.36    12,56062 SWI3,M  37,920.94M
bA.aat 23. 191  21033



SUDAN
WICU .WML ItEMCNH EXTESION A   TRAININD
PwJmt Caonients by Year
Totals Including Cantiicir                                          Totals lIcludind rVgitindtcii.
(LS  000)                                                            (US$ '000)
U187     37/       8/9        39/o      90"m      91/92     Total       86/87     97/M     33/99   89/9      m0/91    91/92    Totml
As ARIUMLTWA  RESEARCH  URO TIDN
ARC 1                                              2,303.67  IMA4.M6  3s2M5,43  3163,66  20701 47  1601.54  17M7093           22 7M   1 i27554   966,30 10444.23   692.6   390.62  50192,1
EZIRA                                              4#214,01  3,26.20 1W7561.50    189.20  1,015.04  19156.76  12 322.72   105.01 I,s061.03   511.21   240.32   260.MM    2M2.14  3,365,97
IIT-SOIAI                                          4,465%93  2106351    516,3?    4199  7  4M7M25    546, 24   3511.30   1,594.97    672.10   151.99   113.51   122899   133,23  2,79.58
IEV HAL6A                                          2t731,39  2t3t,59    540,28    467,32    533.36    607.33   3225383   11,33264    756.64   15091   126.30   136.76   149.26  2,659,51
RMA                                                29923.03  3,171.4    2M1.15    312.41    356.71    406.3   7t4,45.77   2,043.    10230        83.837    444    91,46    ".25  29426,03
SEIW                                               3,0471   3,201.19    66,89   494,01    U3.37    642,72   3,6Fc3    10,03.23  iO32.64   202,03   133,52   144,58   156,76  2,757,81
owE110                                            1M24600    495,26    124,60    145,24    165.77    189.92   23.57.77    445,71    156.54    36,65   39M25    42659    46,0    766,73
SM-Total AGIULTUAL RESEAU    CNAIION                 21.9321 13530.45  7M197,25  6,591.82  5,8154   5150o9t 65W219,19  7MU33.29  5,977546 2.116.U4 17M57 1491.15 1256.34 20.456,75
It NATICK  EXTMI AUINIStRTI                           1693960  4,029.4  2.01906  1,37,5  1M523.7  1727,25  12.401,30    6064  1W.                   S5S4   377,72   M,04   421.23  3691,*4
C. AGRIOLItML PIIJCTIIN CRFIIUATIONS 
RMA I ICtLTUE lW                                     476.39  3l775,16    651,31  29770,19  IP271.22  19341.06  20.286,70     170.31  2,217.92   191,71   749,70   325.95        327.0?  2.31,68
WV N1AL1A MAICILTIK  OM                             I,94.90  4,129.26    892,79  l442,42  1,339,   1,492.23  11.171.29       673.18  1,332.02   262.5   389.34   343.50   361,53  3.462,66
Sub-Total ARICIJLU    Ft   EIIW ltcRnIC               23461.    7941  1,54U  4,21261  2,610.13  2MU2333  21456,00                143.49  25494   454.29 1138154   WM9.4    6862  6344,34
P .llU(ERSITT F 6EZIRA                                 MM27.5   4623.04  1462,19  124961  10412.30  14370.67  11,615.40   2,963.43  1,491.30   433.63   337,73  362.13   334.31  5s9ln
E.o M CT N II                                         2,U1M01     2 4    29392    447.05    686.4O  1065.11   4r"6.0            732,52     75,01    86,45   12062   176,00   259,78  1450,59
Total MFOCT COSTS                                      36342,24 35,320.9 12.717,01 13,9M166 12,054,02 12r137.36 1221469,99  12297937 11P393171 3.740,30 3.756.39 3,090.77 2960433 3/9,2094
_ s~~euB_i  fsZZf*Pa s3 rs a-s:._-_ -tnE.r.~ :r  :-   *    -:  r::
AuSust 28t IM 1613?
CA 
t3 I 
O~ 



m-
MIIOLIWM.K NEWN  IOI            IIU mS 16434
wn   F 3W3AT  ACOI
(LU '00)
gm  Cots                           Fmilcal Ct 1min                             P tCantlienin
Local (E1. hUn  t                         Local (En1. Mik    I                      Loeal IE xl. utie   I
Frat. Exih.   Tom)    Tonm   Total    Fer. Exc.h   Tax")    Tarn    Total   Fer. ExL,.   TkM)               Town    Total
~ UUTWW                  !ss:: inf       : : 1 3   .s=:=          *Lrn       _       ~U         ii~              a  WinWU3
1. IIESTWIT MIS
A. CIVIL S
min1113                                4A63,6       6132.48 1606.68 12,34.20        463,31      613,25   16M.6  1,237.U42    lU0.56     2,352,"   591,96  4,5.51
am      I  OTi                           no52    1,512.56          -  2443,01        93,0o      151.26        -  244U31      35.45        62941        -   94.36
0II NUIIDES                            16478,4      2,62.18        - 4300,61        117,65      262,22        -  410.07      565,01     1003,29        -  1,513330
SlITE  10 lV3,04                                      75.31        - 2,09235        130.30       73.93        -  209.23      350.32       27l.59       -   62me90
UII    Fm3                                    -        301.61    1.7    317.Y            -           -        -        - 
9ubTbIl CI   EMS                            54513   2136.1416245  21,2.7               354,51    1,105.    16036 2,121.03   2       36     4126426   5916  7755,57
3,1 o ICES                                2M3UM75        413316449.69  4422.77    2N.M7             4143   164,97   442.2    1,02t,65        229.11   m7.4  2,024.24
C. lIULtIK  ESUUIU                        *,.D2          151.50   0267  5,12.52        465.33       15,15    4027   541,25    1,510.57        52.45   123.21  1,68623
3o OU   EKIIT                             6,13,"4      I,74  222.31 10210.72           613.3       172,95  229,23 1,02107    2709D23         690.43  3/3808  4277,74
E. lSCal OiT                                591,64    1U769,10   124,35  27.09              -           -        -        -     551.50     1745.39  122.47  2409U36
F. TIROM  I T.A.
113WA                                  40,3.62             -       - 4.39 2              -           -                 -   320,r-73                -       3.2n,73
LOCAL                                     1537        56.34        -   311,71            -           -        -        -       4.01       567,60        -    m1
COUIIAITOS                             4341,110            -       - 4,341,30            -           -        -        -   2M117M45            -        - 2MIMI45
S*-TOtal IMIillIu I T,A,                  9,247,60       566.34       -  9,313.34                                        - 541420            567.60          5.91,60
le FN=T  FWM*T!  FRInLTY                    667,73       U91950     t9  1t64919             -           -        -        -      3.13             -    6.21    3635
Total IUSSTNT COTS                          32.460,56   16907,33 6155,49 55,523.43    2#11/121      1,3335.0   595M33 4,12wi53   14216,64    7549.25 2451,40 24261,29
A. IENT.L 5WATI AL1                             -       19.210   210    13.00              -       19762    2.16   21,l0            -       52391   51.21   53212
3e FIELD      L8                                -        75,"    1,26   9446              -        6,59    663    94,42             -    517544  40.4   S,.sn
C. WIMAT IlN MINTEIU
CIVIL      0 IN                        353,2        766,3   53.94  1,173.74        35.36       76.62    5.?  117s7         35620        7MJJ    60.40  1,207.93              8
1a110E 0 1 N                          1,749,32       610.19 1957.92  4,217,42      174.93       61.02  1M5,7   421.74   1,60,3           652M36 1,951  44642,32
T11  0 1                                433,40       400.49  147.16    61,05        43.34       40OS   1472   ",lO          42,738       31.56  144.44   966.27
ElUIFmlT 0 1                          4.422,95     1,60.  1,25674  7,239.0         442,30      160,94  125.67  723,0   41425.49        1165034 11261,.4  7,345,10
Sub-Total WATIO All  MAINTDdICE          6,959,30    3,36621 3320,76 13,66,26         69593       333.2  332,06 1,366463   7,047,40    3,41.62 3,442.69 134811.70
I. QN FMN  361.                           312,91       44926    1.56   342s75         38.2t       44.93    1.06   6426        362U.3       433.57   10,06    06.02
E. IN SERJICE TRAINI                            -       200.10       -   200.10            -           -           -     -          -       175,56       -   175.6
Total  I:ll0T COTS                           7t342.21    5,107,67 3,421.D 15,371.27       734,22      490,76  342,14 1,56712   7409.73    9,30009 39211.37 212121,25
Total                                        39,32,77   22,015.05 9576W1 71,394.70   2,2,43    1325,84  937.47 5,692.75  21426,42   17,34.34 6406.77 458,32.53
ftut 23 115 M1637



ICItLrIM   MUW     EXTVIIIU AO  TRAUINI
11M1 OF SUWY ACClUITS
(Ul1 '000)
Pfrsicel Continiss
e Cost                     ------                                        ?rlce Contiacir                            Total --- ra-t,
Local
Local (ExcI. MAss I                       (ExCI. MI1" S                       Local (ECxI. *zttes I                     Inal (IxclI liAin I
Fat. ExcI,.  Taxes)    Taxes   Total    For. Exch,. Taxes) Taxu    Total   Fur. Cxch.   Taxes)    TaeXr    Total    For, Exci.   Taxes)    Taxer,  lotal
1. IlHEsEll mlti
A. CIVIL 1I5
HOUSIN                                   1.053,23    2v452,99  643.46  4,149,68    185,32423 M30    64,33  f44.7       229.52      379,63   11.02   700.17   2,268oO7    3077192  79.33  6,144.32
GM   ACCUI3 I                            372121       605,03        -     7,23       37,22   0,50       -   9,72         50,63       99.75        -   150,31      46006        765,28       -  1225.34
OmI   IJIUIK                             671.40     11411467        - 1,720.27       U,t14 10           -  172,03        33.47      161,3         -   245.40      322.01     1.315.69       - 2137.70
Sil  mE                                  521.22       315.72        -   836,94       52.12  31,5/       -   83,69        49,33       45,41        -    91,24      623.17       392.70       -  1,015.37
SFllIOI  FB                                   -       120,4    6,35    126,9             -     -        -        -           -      -34,69   -1.83   -36.52            -        35,93    4,52    90O
ub-T74ul CIVIL                            3 3,41.05    4543.26  649,81  3,11,12        341.31 442.26   64.35  141,41       413,46      652,02   39,20  1,14.61   4P173,31    5,637,54   803.35 10,614,21
l.bWICLUS                                    43.0        165.33    9.33  1,761,11       94.39  1653    65".9   17691       14,31        34,00   110,04   238.35    I,16260        215.87   33591  2t23.37
C. AnICOLfL. CIFN                         1,943.33        60.60  161,06  2t165,01      19N33  6.06    16,1l  216.50        214,92        1,53   P7.60   241.04   2,452,            751.?   114.9 2,622.55
. OMlE EI T                               2475568         91,79  916.2 4,06.29         247.56 69.1l   91,9   406.43        31,33       1104,5   121B13   626,04   3,109.46        371,54 ll37,14  5S113,75
C. RESEill WIIT                             237.44       707.U4   49.74      1.4            -      -       -        -       92,67      250.14    17.52   350.32      320.12       957,73    67,26  1,341,16
F. MINDIN  I V.A.
wM                                 1,955.93           -        -  1,955.93          -      -        -       -      461.91           -        -   40"6.9"    ,21.112            -        - 2,422           a
LWA                                        6.15       226.53        -   212,61           -                                0.06       92.05        -    82,9         7.01       i0.51         -    1tS59
CIHELTIM                                1.736-72                    -   7,2              -      -       -        -      301.04           -        -   301.04   2,037.76             -        - 2,037.7
,b-TI.l TRINING I  A.A.                   3,69.80        224.53       -  3,925.34           -     -        -        -      767.39        2.05        -   849,3    4466.69         306.16       - 41mv27
6, PRT    P101ATIU FACILITY                 267,11       367,30   24,76    659,8            -     -        -        -           -      -39,41   -0.43    -394        2W7.ll       32.39   24.3    6194
Total IIITIINT CUTS                          229124.22    6,762.95 2462.19 22,209,37      171.09 534.03   238.13 1650.25   2009.57      14097,90   363,05  3,470.52   15,8713.3    2334.89 3063,37 27,330.14
[i. f f1       COSTS
A. 1CIWENTA. STNf 1IIS                          -        73.u4    3.n      3720            -  7.       0,37    sn              -      127.71    14.19   141i.            -       214,03   23.73    Si2
3. FEML  ALJ0E1                                 -       350.36   27,30   377,46            - 35,04    2,73   37n              -    1,223,33   95,05  1.323.37            -    1,61373   123,06  1,733.30
Co nMTI AN Ml
CIVIL       0 I I                       141.45       306.47   23,57   471,50        l4.14 30.65    2,36   47.15         51l.4      14,7          3    174.66     206.74       451ff     34.67   6"930
iiciE a I N                             * 973        244.07  743.17  1,636,97       OM7 24.41    74.32  161.70         262,37       94.75   2229      639.92   1,032.57       363.23 1109,78 2,495,5
TLA s 01 1                              173.36       160,20   3.36    392.42        17.34 16,02    5.69   39.24         40,        1,07    20t.      139.      251.05       234.29   3565    5 W0."      ,,
UUWI      0 t N                        1.769111      643.74  5W2.70  2915.6U       17692 64.37   50,27  295            631.1       .40.10  132.27  1,054.13   2,!7/41         943M22  73.23  4,261,36    ,
S-t.l aIuI1         A11   MINTCEW         2t7Mi,72    1354.4  1,329.30 5466,50        273.37 135.45  l32,03  546.65   1f006.13        50771   494,19  2M00306   4,041.27    1,997.64 1,955.33  301219.        e
t.o O FM  hIM!                             153.17       179,70     4,23   337.10       15.32  17.97    0.42    33.71       11.73       63.29    1.4f    116,47      220.21       240.97    6.10    467.23
EC ,i K .91CE TUAININ                           -        1.01-4      -       04            -      -       -        -           -       25.3         -    2,63            -       105.67        -   105.67
Total lloT  COSTS                            2963         2,043.07 1,361.56   343,51      m369 196       13646   6206.15   1067.91  1, 2.6   604.07  361545   4,23.49    4,192.03 2,110.23 10,5!0,30
TOI                                          11m5 il.    ,0N 02 3,0.75 23,557.3    1171.77 710.34   374%" 2277,t    3,067t46    305%56  167,2 7,1035.9   2910,.36    12,692 5173J  V37,92.
Agist 219M5 16135



- 58 -
Ace 2
S[AN
IaJUIURAL RESEAH. EIMSIM A ID TA
Estifrted Price Cxitinicy and FoRea  Ezdie Rates
1985    1986    1987   1988    1989    1990   1991
International inflti  (%)            5.0     7.5      8.0    8.0      8.0    8.0     8.0
DIktic inf3atin (Z)                 30.0    25.0    18.75  16.0    15.0   15.0    15.0
N~~~~m1  ~Ngticms
IS/US$     1.35            2.5     2.5      2.5     2.5    2.5      2.5    2.5      2.5
Note: Ihe current staxdsrd cnversim factcr is 0.60 (in conjnctio  with the 1983184 erdng  rate
of 1.62 - TJS$1.0).
Initial price estimates.



- 59 -                         Annex 3
Page 1
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Annual Work Program
1.        For each year of project implementation, PMU will prepare and
submit to IDA for comment an Annual Work Program containing documentation
on the following aspects:
(a) a detailed description of the work to be performed by each
project entity during the forthcoming fiscal year conmmencing each
July 1, including the schedules of activities under the various
components of the project, housing and offices construction
program, recruitment and deployment of staff, vehicles and
equipment requirements, training plans, etc.;
(b) the budgetary proposal from GOS for the corresponding period
setting forth for each project component:
(i)  the proposed capital expenditure;
(ii) all proposed recurrent expenditures such as salaries, travel
allowances, fuel, repairs and maintenance, for ARC and its
research stations supported by the project, NEA, Rahad and
New Halfa Corporation and UG with a breakdown of
pre-development and incremental expenditures;
(iii) a comparison of the proposed investment and recurrent
budgets with the budget of the previous year;
(iv) a list of proposed expenditures for technical assistance,
studies and training;
(c) a financing plan with detailed semesterly projections indicating
funding requirements from the Government for the various project
components;
(d) the proposed procurement program and procedures to be applied
thereto;
(e) a detailed project implementation schedule for the year in
question.
2.        The Annual Work Programs will be supported by the following
information:
(a) a detailed staffing analysis and in-service training;
(b) details on the proposed training program including summary of
analysis of training needs assessment conducted by UG Training
Unit;



Annex 3
- 60 -                        Page 2
(c) detailed schedule of activities for civil works, including land
acquisition, final designs, bidding and construction;
(d) details on specific extension activities to be undertaken in
Rahad and New Halfa corporations (including specific extension
messages to be promoted); on specific research programs which
will be initiated or continued at each regional research station
(results of previous seasons should also be included); on NEA
extension support activities (this should reflect the agreed
demand of the APCs for NEA services).
3.        Each Annual Work Program will contain a detailed review of Items
which impinge on project implementation, in particular the requirements for
agricultural inputs, and of any other constraints beyond RPMU control.
4.        The Annual Work Program will be prepared by each project entity
and synthesized by RPMU. AWPs for each regional station will be prepared
by the station concerned and synthesized by ARC HQ. The Annual Work
Program will be submitted to IDA for its review and comments before final
budget approval, i.e., by June 1 at the latest prior to the beginning of
each fiscal year. IDA will inform PMU of its acceptance of, or comments
on, each proposed Annual Work Program within one month of receipt. IDA
approval of the proposed Annual Work Program will be based on its adequacy
to implement the agreed project objectives and the adequacy of the proposed
physical, financial and manpower resources to implement the physical
targets set for the corresponding year. Prior to the beginning of each
fiscal year, the Government will inform IDA of the actual budgetary
allocations and the corresponding revised Annual Work Program.
5.        In view of the above timing for submission of the Annual Work
Program, which is linked to the budget cycle, the identification of
specific research and extension programs for the forthcoming year will be
somewhat tentative, as further refinements and changes in their technical
content may appear necessary at the time of implementation on the basis of
the results of the most recent cropping season. Such changes would be
discussed and agreed upon during IDA supervision missions in consultation
with the regional production committees.



- 61 -                   Annex 4
Page 1
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH. EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Research Sub-Prolect Evaluation Criteria
(a)   Sub-projects should focus on problem areas of priority in
agricultural research for Irrigated areas as defined by ARC in
response to National Goals; objectives should be clearly defined
and there should be a high probability of success within the set
time frame.
(b)   The sub-project should be integrated with the nonr-funded research
program of the institution concerned.
tc)   Sub-projects should propose reasonable budgets for:
(i)  direct sub-project expenditures for operating costs for
which auditable and separate accounts must be maintained.
(ii)  specialized equipment required for the research to be
conducted.
(iii) costs for books and journals of demonstrable interest to the
research work.
(iv)  publication of research results.
(d)   Sub-projects should not request funds for professional staff
salaries, civil works, vehicles or training courses, technical
assistance and labor.
_e)   The proposer should demonstrate capability to conduct the
research w4.th the resources available, by:
(i)  clearly outlining in the proposal the project objectives,
describing the methodology to be used, detailing the
experimental designs and the analysis to be used for the
data collected.
(ii)  providing specifications and names of potential suppliers of
all materials and equipment requested.
(iii) Indicating how research results will assist Sudan to improve
agricultural production or achieve employment or welfare
goals.
(iv)  providing a review of past and on-going research relevant to
the proposed sub-project.



- 62 -                       Annex 4
Page 2
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Terms and Conditions for Research Grant Sub-Projects
(a)   Applications would be reviewed by the ARC committee system every
six months and applicants would be informed of the ARC decision
before June 30 and December 31 each year.
(b)   The grant would be used exclusively for the approved sub-project.
(c)   A formal acceptance of the grant and the conditions would be
required before the first payment under the grant.
(d)   Any receipts from the sale of goods or produce resulting from the
sub-project would be credited to the sub-project account.
Ce)   Separate accounts would be maintained if the expenditure incurred
under the grant, and annual accounts with full documentation
would be sent to ARC for audit.
(f)   Annual progress reports and a detailed termination report would
be provided to ARC.
(g)  ARC would reserve the right to request changes in the approved
technical program as a result of its evaluation procedure, or to
terminate the grant in the event that either progress of the
investigation has been unsatisfactory or the conditions of the
grant have not been observed.
(h)   The equipment provided would normally become the property of the
recipient institution.
(i)   Equipment would be procured under competitive bidding procedures
and would require prior authorization of ARC.
(j)   Recruitment of support staff would be made by the institution
concerned, and these would not become ARC employees.
(k)   No changes in salary or usage rates would be made without ARC
prior approval.
(1)   ARC would normally take over all materials produced by the
sub-project with continuing scientific or monetary value e.g.
breeding lines.
(m)   ARC would be responsible for translating research results into
practical messages to be used by farmers.
(n)   ARC would be informed of any discoveries of a patentable or
commercially exploitable nature.
(o)   Recipients would agree to accept fully supervision and review
visits by scientists nominated by ARC.



SUDAN
RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF FIELD INSPECTORS
(Current Area of responsibility and number of tenants:  Rahad          5,400 fedan and 230 tenants
New Halfa   5,800 fedan and 385 tenants)
Precent Duties                          Proposed Duties and
and Responsibilities              Responsibilities under the Project                   Comments
1. Field Management Functions
Includes (for cotton):
identification of land prepa-      major management functions would be        local production councils to
ration requirements and moni-      retained but with less emphasis on         become progressively more
toring of operations by            physical inspection of land, water,        involved in identifying
corp. machinery                    canals, more on meeting with ten-          tenants' requirements and in
ants in groups in field (see 4. be-       monitoring of corporation
estimation of seed and fer-         low).  These group meetings would         interventions.
tilizer requirements and sup-       become main mechanism for monitor-
ervision of delivery and dis-       ing corporation operations.  Much
tribution                          closer attention would also be paid
to encouraging better inter-tenant
calculation of water require-      water use, with groups correspond-
ments and indenting, and            ing to abu xx canal layout.  Apart
supervision of gaffirs who          from 4 days/week of field visits to
release water from minors to        groups, a fifth day available to                                             n
abu vi and abu xx canals.           follow up management functions.                                             to
Prime responsibility for monitoring                                          X
certifying tenants have per-        corporation interventions would be
formed husbandry tasks (weed-       taken by new Assistant Block
ing, etc.) for cash reim-           Inspector who would also follow Up
bursement purposes                  on water indents with Department of
Irrigation.



Present Duties                        Proposed Duties and
and Responsibilities             Responsibilities under the Project                    Comments
2.  Administrative Functions
Includes:
submission of regular reports      to be retained but under revised
on state of cotton crop and        format to include report on
implementation of corpore!.ion     extension work and tenants
operations                         production problems
supervision of collection,         to be taken over by Block                 local production councils to
guarding, transport of raw         Administrative Assistant                  become progressively more
cotton to collection centers                                                 involved.
recording of disciplinary ac-      to be taken over by Block
tions to be taken/taken with       Administrative Assistant
respect to tenants infringing
corp. regulations
3.  Regulatory Functions
Includes:
reporting infractions by ten-      to be retained                            local production councils to
ants of corporation regula-                                                  become progressively more
tions to Block Inspector                                                     involved in all regulatory and
and Block Production Councils                                                disciplinary aspects of
agriculture, under supervision
of Block Administrative          0 
Assistant and Block Inspector



Present Duties                         Proposed Duties and
and Responsibilities              Responsibilities under the Project                    Comments
identification of pest and
weed problems and monitoring
of pesticide/herbicide
application by corporation
estimation of picking labor                                                  estimation and management to
required for cash advance                                                    be taken over by local
purposes, management of                                                      production councils,
casual labor in picking                                                      supervised by Block
period                                                                       Administrative Assistant
supervision of field-hygiene
(stalk-pulling) and canal
cleaning by tenants
for non-cotton crops, water        emphasis to shift to active
estimation, indenting and          provision of technical advice
management as above. 
Otherwise (land preparation,
estimation of seed and
fertilizer requirements and
supervision of delivery and
distribution; identification
of mechanical harvesting
requirements and monitoring
of operations by corporation
machinery) Fl provides
services as and when inputs
available from corporation
and paid for by tenant.                                                                                          d
m m



Present Duties                        Proposed Duties and
and Responsibilities             Responsibilities under the Project                   Comments
collecting debts due               to be taken over by Block
corporation                        Aduinistrative Assistant
directing hired labor to           to be taken over Block
intervene on tenancies if          Administrative Assistant
husbandry operations not
performed on time or
satisfactorily
4.  Extension Functions
Includes:
advice on cotton husbandry         technical agricultural advice on          to begin in 1985/86                   0
operations under tenants con-      operations under tenants control
trol, as a by-product of man-      both for cotton and non-cotton
agement-related contact with       crops to be provided on a systemr-
tenants.                           atic basis, 4 days/week to 20
tenants' groups, in field. These
group meetings will also deal with
management questions, though not to
detriment of delivering advice on
husbandry and on-farm water manage-
ment. Field Inspectors to be given
fortnightly technical training to
provide them with messages for
tenants.                                                                      ' 
mI
Index:  sudexan5new                                                                                                    L



- 67
M-                                                                  Affin 4
A^O1NL_.   -   -IErtu e = - 
IerIadlbril _mdi rd  tvmtmn                 lbdm.I                       nhdv.  ft0met
Wbl-            q.t I t       mm                                                  of    "UNi
adet      n       fC .   q      lhfa  Idu   So         md!   A.         UDJW      IC    rAO-    Ou          T-"
lhmlu & Achintiau 2f
.moicw                             rl.        2       0         8      3      2      3       -      -        3        -         I        -        22
.mum                                MD.       -       -         5      A      8      4       2      -         3       6        -         -        3V
.J.ad                                 Ti.      -        -         5     6       3      4       2     -         4       19        1        -        U
.0..!I                                lb.      -        -        -      -      10      4         -             -        -        -                 14
.  _ 0,, 3/
-Ty"1                                lb.      1       -          -     1       I     -       -      -        -        -         -        -         3
- T 2                                N        -        4        -      1       -      I      I      -        -        -         -        -         7
*kdula Alwuxmits/                     re.      -        8        -      1       -      -      -      -         -        -        -        -         4
.3.1td 5Y                            lb.       -        -        -      -       -      -       _     _         _        _        I         _        I
clsUb/bfactm                           .2        _        -       60    23 6/   _    190        -                -       -         -        -       aRm
rffja mUy mly1ad 3/                     N2      4f 7r   638/    72    131    10          -      -    V  9q    3110   1376I2  I   450121   701 / 1,6S
-zn =iuj 3/            ,2                                                    _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _                     2,16T _   _                   -
Ltbmgy/Sdmr  Mm 14/                      2      4I0       -       lD     -     im       -      -      -         -       -         -        -       6nn
7qpdr emtr                              U2     32D 7/     -        -
Lalaato:      ,W,   i 3*2                        _       608/      -      -       -      -      -      -         -       -       2nr 151    -       260
Ty  23/                     2       -       122 T/   16     96     64   6U         -      -        -        -       170't    -         6U
Sbwn                                   12        -      12        la1    qo     2 2.   60       72     -         -       -       60 171    -      1,362
RIMB la/                               ,2        -      13)      I00    5        _ -           - - S-                   -         -        -       35Y
W2       -       -         -      -     30D                                              20         -       350
q                                       u2       -        -       1GD     55      0     5       -      -         -       -         -        -       2
old ra s19/                            lb.      -        3        -      -       -      -      -      -         -       -         2        -         '
GlIMINI,2)/                             No.      -        I        -      -       -      1      -      -         -       -         -        -         2
rku.t.m_ /I                            lb.       -        I        1      -       -      -      -      -         -       -         ?        -         4
.m1  '2I/                           ISL'ow   -       123       31    61       -      1      31      -        -        _        _         _       614
{;3a IdlmmR-_wtla.v 231             Lq':L'w   -      69        61    31       _     61       -      -        -        -        -         -       m
.sr tad / 24/                        lSd.     -       63        -      -      -      -       -      -        -        -         -        -        il
Co       2V Z37                      S.'0    - D5               -      -      -      -       -      -        -        -       2          -       at
mj_ii;7                             LSL'OODD                    -  1 J            -      -       -       -                     -         -        17
I/ Ut.. Al be dL_.rad       a wide pa11dca1 mam  1d dwaid d*fatoe 1e a .   So    ptzUare awamm. Item am: (1) kmtm  Aiw - WdA, _heo-Slm; PI'
- rAmi Am. - AIC Hqimert    d Pf6 offlom, Gtr _Ardh tastlm *nd Tmw. Sile; ma Uwtty of belrr  (1) Abu bs  Purd fSa    (4) Wm hifa Ahm -
__M 1a- 3.11 -rd   katian ad IIPC; (5) IM F  Ann - AMCl:Ad 3A.mwu ftAte aid X3    ; (6) _*sr I_I Stttm; (7) S_aMi   uniwc Statc..
21 StaiAd d        aid drs4A an    imble.
I  Stard dmig. aid drzd   my_e wliliOe. bPe 1 fta31muin w  257 2, 'wp2 2 fo          am 1V A  d, P. 1yp 2 Umdmnm fcr Cinzm am e  t.mtfrp  im. .d
wil fba loauM .w fraz 31. Omuim  Rd  Seatiaz.   mily lotad offtom *  bI pout of a cmpl&. Sucttm offtlm far WA: wll l I cpia_ a ofF toua.ttrt hall
C2IA. ad a  ore st  2) M   tch of adx koelia.
14   holar   z       wo SUll of 90.2.
51 Pta for   e 90 pgo     .
X/ aff club of 130 2,        club 100. 2. Sqm=t bMir  ad allamom to deelop umuuds twlm         n att Iq      t.
7/ Off o for rupair cite .31 aId dimfom t e  bdl i  a 365 v2 offm/rulr in'   .MIM.
Wi p. offiot I x 18 2 fer _m  idth t1e plot imcrmtuat abomotmy of 60 w2 od 1 x 45 52 Sw *I w.d tlb qulty abatoz of 0 .2. A hartloulaml ImAmmutocy (32 2)
Ialso 1.wolvAd. TI. lot (245 W2) wuld mqzriae   mpla
9/ 0lm    aigg offim  (204 .2), rei  mm (20 *2), p_utodc   ia sIhp (9.2). &dc rvm (12 u2). atum (9o2), totlet fdUtitm. pi. a 30.2  -.id to
mdsth  prat   p
10W t l-  aia  offiw (32 .2), t,11  (225.2)   by (20.2)  du           (162) ad a     20M).
1/ 0,1t -gpdaix c@511  (6 x 16 A). likuy (20 A.), .o    (16 w2), atot  mqi  (202).
U/ OLmpc ax,diarj t  idt lull (250 .Z) m* tmznwu adt offiaw (200 .2
13/  aiQ  laz c isg 2 x 16 .2. 1 x 20 .2, 1 x U n2.
IQ  AU am &I pipoe lit In c    of aFC _mrtazu  317 libray is * _i,w fatitty.
Usa S.ortny.
IKm/ sr q-Uty lab-avy-.
fa Tw  (20 A. cnap    i  .       m     r (4to02).
*    AMC ds  -a     flield _aburmtoram  A m _oxralp an Uw31l Rwah ftsti.
1/ DlrAiladspifimiau  t.  may edlrg to  cpt am ad   wl e a  to 2nclu                 ET/ff mtom pbo pu.



- 68 -                       Annex 7
Page I
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Links Between Research and Extension
These links include: (a) on farm trials; (b) pre-seasonal and
monthly workshop; and (c) seasonal field reviews of crop production (field
visits to meet farmers and field personnel).
ARC would be responsible for:
A. On-Farm Research Trials:
-    These would be conducted on farmers' fields to evaluate selected
factors which were found to contribute significantly to yield
increases under research experiments. These trials are to be
executed by farmers supported by the Corporation's field
personnel, and the ARC agronomist in the regional research
station. The objectives of these trials should be: (a) to
ascertain the contribution of extension packages and the cost of
each production factor alone or in combination to yield increases
under farm conditions; (b) to obtain farmers' reactions to the
technology under test; and (c) to provide field personnel and
farmers with practical and field opportunities to improve
technical knowledge and upgrade their skills.
-    The ARC regional station would continue to be responsible for all
on-station experiments in order to evaluate new cultivars,
agronomic practices and plant protection measures likely to
contribute to yield increases. Trials and on-farm research would
be carried out by a multi-disciplinary team with the objective of
establishing a viable vehicle for understanding and improving
local farming systems in the area served by the regional station.
The annual work program for each regional station should detail seasonal
on-station experiments and other research activities in which scientists at
the region would be involved.
B. ARC's Monthly Workshops for SMS and other APC's Personnel
Objectives. The main objective of a monthly workshop would be to
discuss production recommendations and to train Subject Matter Specialists
in this application. The SMS would subsequently train Block and Field
Inspectors in the Production recommendations in two-weekly sessions
following each monthly workshop. A workshop should cover a number of
activities:



Annex 7
-69-                     Page 2
1. A review of the adoption of recommended practices by farmers,
and of problems regarding adoption brought to the attention
of SNSs by Field Inspectors and tenants, or noted by SMSs or
research workers during their own field visits.
2. Formulation and discussion of practices recommended to
tenants in the coming month. This would involve selection of
impact points on which extension workers should focus their
activities.
3. In practical and field sessions, training of SMSs to carry
out recommended practices and to present them effectively to
Field Inspectors. Field visits can also be made to help
develop SMSs' diagnostic skills.
6. A discussion of progress and results of farm trials carried
out by SMSs and other extension staff.
Monthly workshops are to provide a forum for SMS and researchers
to become familiar with each other's work and priorities, and should also
help both parties to learn from each other's experience through informal
individual and group discussions.
Two full consecutive days are required for a workshop.
Participants need two days to be able to discuss carefully the topics
presented and their own work experiences, to review current field problems
and farmers' reactions to earlier recommended practices, to do practical
and field work, and to finalize recommendations and impact points for the
next month.
The maximum number of participants should be about thirty-five.
A larger number of participants will prevent some from joining discussions.
C. Regular Field Reviews of Crops During the Season:
The Regional Production Committee (APC/ARC) would conduct 3-4
tours during the season to:
(a) Review the status of all crops in the rotation;
(b) Prepare detailed technical reports on production problems and
needs as discussed with tenants and field personnel;
(c) The'Regional Production Committee should also synthesize
periodical reports into one report at the end of the season.
This would be incLuded in the AWP of the regional station.



Annex 8
- 7C -                       Page 1 of 17
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING
Agricultural Research
ktesearch
1.        The project would strengthen applied and adaptive research with
the objective of increasing crop production throughout the irrigated
Scbemes. While the main efforts will focus on cotton, sorghum, wheat and
groundnuts as the main crops grown in the project area, the project will
support research activities designed to introduce other crops suitable to
the area, needed by the farmers, and capable of improving the present
rotation. The project will support research work on improving on-farm
water management, soil fertility and nutrient requirements under
alternative cropping systems, and on farming systems and Integrated Pest
Management.
2.        The research work will be carried out at the Regional Research
Stations in Wad Medani, Shambat, Rahad, Sennar, New Halfa and Shendi.
Adaptive field trials would also be conducted on farmers fields selected
throughout the project area. These trials would be located in the pilot
groups where extension activities are being introduced.
A. Cotton Improvement
Introduction
3.        The need for intensification and diversification of the cropping
system of the irrigated areas necessitated the change of the old Gezira
rotation from an 8-course rotation to a 4-course rotation in the Gezira
Main and New Halfa and a 3-course rotation in the Managil extension and
Rahad. Two types of cotton, mainly long and medium staple are grown in
both rotations in a total area of about half a million feddans.
Intensified and diversified rotations requires certain inputs and proper
and efficient management in order to achieve success.
4.        The failure to satisfy the bas_..c requirements of this policy has
generated certain problems which led to the continuous decline in crop
yields.
Research Problems
5.        Soil Nutrients.  Crops grown under the Gezira rotation add very
little nutrients to the soil, since crop residues are removed from the
field either for phytosanitary measures or for animal feed and domestic
use. The nutrients extracted by these crops should be replenished in form
of chemical fertilizers. Research results, so far, indicated a positive
and constant response to nitrogen fertilization, but the magnitude of this



Annex 8
- 71 -                       Page 2 of 17
response varied according to soil type, intensity of rotation, rate and
time of application and variety grown. Response of cotton to phosphorus is
however erratic. The policy of nitrogen application in the Gezira scheme
with regard to rate, time, soil type and variety is a hit and miss
practice.
6.        Land preparation.  In most cases this is confined to deep
blading, light discing and sometimes to ridging and split ridging only.
Land levelling is neglected. This poor land preparation has led to
deterioration of the physical condition of the soil resulting in soil
compaction, poor root development, stunted growth, heavy weed infestation,
poor water percolation and probably the phenomenon of leaf reddening.
Competition among crops and agricultural schemes for the limited available
labor force has resulted in some yield losses. Proper land preparation and
mechanization of certain agricultural practices have become necessary and
they are, in certain areas in Gezira, the only practical measures to be
encouraged.
7.        Water Requirement.  The cropping system has also created an
overlap of water requirement of certain crops. The present water
management practices have generated several peak demands which sometimes
exceeded the limits of the canalization system capacity and increased the
hazards of crop losses.
8.        The normal practice of irrigation of both long and medium staple
cotton is to continue watering at 14 day intervals up to February and even
later than this date, regardless of the time of season, stage of growth and
the maturity period of each type of cotton. Preliminary results at the
Gezira Research Station have shown that irrigation water can be stopped at
an earlier date for medium cotton without loss in yield and quality. If
applied, this parctue would save water for other crops, would economize in
cost of picking and would reduce the number of chemical spraying for insect
pest control.
9.        Weed Control.  Likewise, scarcity in labor, the concurrent rise
in cost of hand weeding and the intensified cropping system have led to
serious annual and perennial weed problems. Unrestricted weed growth can
reduce yield by about 80% while a delay in weeding for 6 weeks after sowing
may reduce it by 35Z. Moreover, water weeds, of which 23 species were
recorded in the Gezira scheme, are retarding water flow in the canals,
lowering irrigation efficiency and rendering drainage system ineffective.
Timely control of weeds is essential to profitable cotton production.
10.       Pests.  The insect pest status has witnessed several changes in
the Gezira over the years. Such changes are closely associated with
intensification and introduction of new crops. Insect pests of cotton as a
group constitutes the major factor in crop losses and quality
deterioration. The estimated loss in yield attributed to insect pests in
the Gezira varies from 40-65%. The cost of insect pest control is the
major single item in the cost of production. Chemical application is the
main method adopted for control. In addition to its cost, chemical control
is known to have serious drawbacks, i.e. development of insect resistance



Annex 8
-72 -                         Page 3 of 17
to insecticide, emergence of new pests species, destruction of natural
enemies and parasite population on target pests and environmental
pollution. Breeding resistant cotton cultivars to the major insect pests
using more potent chemicals and efficient application of Integrated Pest
Management (IPM) will undoubtedly reduce the cost of insect control.
11.       Diseases.  The need to intensify the cropping system and the
reduction of the fallow has led to the aggravation of disease problems and
appearance of a a new race of bacterial blight. Moreover, the optimum
sowing date for cotton coincides with the rainy season, a factor which is
favorable for bacterial blight spread. The clean-up campaign, where all
cotton debris are collected, cotton stalks are uprooted and burnt and
sowing seeds treated with bactericides are measures to reduce the incidence
of the disc and flea-beetle damage. However, these measures are not
strictly adhered to. Fusarium wilt and root rot are widespread in certain
localities and the infected areas are increasing over the years especially
in the Managil Extension where the disease has been endemic. Serious
measures to control these diseases are of great importance.
.esearch Programs
12.       A . Cotton Fertilization
i)  Determine the rate and time of nitrogen and phosphorus
requirements for the two types of cotton (long staple and medium
staple) in order to evaluate the economic yield under the optimum
level of fertilization.
(ii) Evaluate the most economic method of nitrogen application.
(iii) Study nitrogen and phosphorus recoveries in the soil
and plant tissue.
B. Cotton Mechanization
(i) Determine the optimum tillage operations for cotton
production.
(ii) Study problems of mechanization of sowing, fertilizer
distribution and herbicide application.
(iii) Study aspects of mechanical picking of cotton.
C. Water Management
(i) Determine the water requirements of the two types of cotton
at different stages of growth.
(ii) Evaluate water stoppage on medium staple cotton in several
localities under tenant conditions.



73                     Annex 8
Page 4 of 17
D. Weed Control
(1) Study the biology of perennial and aquatic weeds and
the integration of cultural, biological and chemical control
measures.
(ii) Determine the effects of timing and method of herbicide
application on their efficiency, residues and carryover problems.
(iii) Study herbicide residues in plant-soil-water system.
(iv) Investigate the effect of soil-acting herbicides on soil
micro-organisms.
E. Insect Pest Control (Integrated Pest Management (IPM))
(i) Breed for whitefly (Bemisia tabaci), jassid and American bollworm
(heliothis armigara) resistance in cotton cultivars. Evaluate
the quality and yield of these cultivars and their response to
insecticide and cultural practices. Studies on host plant
resistance would be strengthened in order to spread up the
development of cotton varieties incorporating a desirable degree
of resistance to whitefly. Advancing the okra-leaf Sudac-K
variety (medium staple tested for local lint quality and
quantity) to large production area would be enhanced.
(ii) Study the efficiency of different insecticide application
techniques to optimize application with the maximum biological
efficiency.
(iii) Screen to select biologically effective selective insecticides
and determine the residues in the soil and plant.parts.
(iv) Monitor insect resistance to insecticides and investigate on the
mechanisms of insect pest resistance to insecticides
(v) Evaluate various natural enemies and biological and ecological
studies on the important species. Two most important genera
attacking whitefly (Encarsia and Eretmocerus) and some predators
of this species have been identified. Factors reducing or
increasing the effectiveness of the parasites warrant
investigation.
(vi) Study the effect of difterent environmental factors on
development and seasonal abundance of cotton insect pests and
their distribution.
(vii) Crop management, water-soil plant relationship and cultural
practices and their influence on pest population.
The proposed IPM strategy should be supported by:



- 74 -                  Annex 8
Page 5 of 17
(a) Field trials on (i) what is currently thought to be the best
feasible pest control package to reduce pesticide input; and (ii)
alternative strategy to current practices. A large scale
operation is necessary to permit some degree of control over a
wider area than the trial area, and to assess the economics of
alternative control methodologies;
(b) applying alternative control systems, using insect growth
regulators, viruses, and relevant crop management practices; and
(c) consultants with adequate experience in cotton plant breeding for
resistance to insects and diseases, weed control, insecticides
application and management including economics and cost benefit
analysis of insecticides, engineering and storage of equipment
and chemicals.
F. Disease Control
(i) Synthesize new major B-gene combinations for bacterial blight
resistance.
(ii) Screen local and exotic cultivars for new genetic makeup
conferring resistance to the new race of Xanthomas malvacearum.
(iii) Build-up horizontal resistance among advanced breeding lines and
commercial cultivars. Collect and isolate biotypes of X.
malvacearum and their characterization on physiological and
biochemical traits.
(iv) Study the effect of sowing date - bacterial blight combination on
disease severity, yield and quality components.
(v) Survey of cotton production areas for Fusarium wilt incidence,
mapping and collection for laboratory studies.
(vi) Transfer available genes conferring resistance to Fusarium wilt
to commercial cultivar and survey cotton gerDplasm for new source
of resistance.
(vii) Study the physiologic races of Fusarium oxysporium vasinfectum.
(viii) Study the effect of Fusarium-nematode interaction on the wilt
incidence.
(ix) Investigate the possible pre-disposing factors in the incidence
of root rot.
On-Farm Trial
13.       Some of the major recommended cultural practices are not strictly
adhered to by the tenant either because of lack of information and poor
demonstration, or for reasons beyond his control, ARC, in several cases,
has not been able to test newly recommended practices on a large scale,



Annex 8
- 75 -                      Page b of 17
prior to their release. because of this and because some of faulty
practices are carried out by farmers, including late sowing, improper
nitrogen fertilizer application and poor thinning on-farm trials will be
carried out in each of the regional stations supported by the project.
These trials will demonstrate research findings under tenant conditions
including the two locations under long staple and medium staple to be
selected in the pilot groups. On-farm trials will be executed by GRS in
cooperation with the SGB field extension prog:am..
B. Wheat Improvement
Introduction
14.       Wheat is an important crop in the rotation of the Gezira scneme,
New Halfa, certain areas along the White Nile and the Northern Province.
The planted area increased continuously and reached its maximum (800,000
teddans) in 1975-76 season, then decreased to a minimum level of 355,000
teddans in 1982-83 season. Similarly the productivity increased to reach
its maximum average of 1.9 t/ha in 1973-74, then decreased to average
yields of 0.6-1.2 t/ha. On the other hand, yields of 3.6 t/ha are obtained
in the experimental plots of the Gezira Research Station.
15.       The decrease in area and productivity are mainly due to shortages
of inputs and the prevalance of technical problems. The purpose of this
project is the continuation, expansion and strengthening of wheat research
in the Gezira Research Station to be supported by New Halfa and Hudeiba
Research Stations in order to develop a more efficient technology and to
solve the major constraints of this crop.
Objectives
16.       This project will aim to:
(a) Identify the major factors limiting wheat production in the
Gezira.
(D) Formulate research programs to solve these problems.
(c) Expand and strengthen wheat research programs at the Gezira
Research Station and, at New Halfa, the testing sites and other
locations for testing on farmers' fields (large-scale trials).
Attention will be paid to repeating the trials at other
locations around the Research Station and testing sites.
It is anticipated that 2-3 locations will be used around each
station.
(d) Integrate the research program to include the works of the
breeders, pathologists, entonomogists and agronomists with the
aim of obtaining high yielding, short season varieties resistant
to diseases (rust, helminthosporium) and to insects (aphids, stem
borer). Another important objective will be the re-evaluation of
the standard cultural practices of wheat production in the
various parts of the scheme.



- 76 -                       Annex 8
Page 7 of 17
(e)  Extend research findings to farmers as quickly as possible
through large scale and demonstration trials, and through the
newly established Training and Visit System of extension.
Kesearch Problems
17.       Research on wheat has not been well formulated.  However, efforts
to improve and strengthen it are currently receiving more support from
AMC. The main problems facing the production of wheat in the Gezira and
New haifa which need to be investigated in more detail are: the cultural
practices (land preparation, sowing date, fertilizer requirements),
suitable varieties for the various locations of the scheme, harvesting,
insect and disease problems. A balance between breeding and agronomic
research should be maintained, allowing for stronger links between ARC,
ICARDA, and CIMMYT for the exchange of germplasm and varieties.  ARC would
seek assistance from these centers through exchange of units and training.
Research Programs
18.       The following are some of the research lines which will be
carried out under the project.
19.       Effect of type of land preparation on wheat yield.  Trials will
be made to compare different methods of land preparation, their cost and
effects on wheat yield.
20.       Sowing date trials at different parts of the scheme.  To
investigate whether the varying environmental conditions in the various
parts of the scheme will require different sowing dates of the crop. If
this will be the case, evaluation will be made on the most efficient and
economic way of utilizing the available inputs, especially farm machinery.
21.       Response of different varieties to fertilizer application.  To
study the response of different varleties planted at different parts of the
scheme to various levels of fertilizers.
z2.       Optimum time for harvesting.  To minimize harvesting losses and
efficient use of harvesters.
23.       Seed multiplication of new varieties.  So that greater quantities
of breeder seeds could be handed to the Seed Propagation Departments.
24.       Entomological and pathological research will be conducted
alongside the above-mentioned trials. In addition small and large scale
trials on screening of new chemicals for insect control and seed dressing
will be conducted at GRS.
Farmers' Field Trials
25.       Field studies in Gezira and New Halfa indicate that some of the
recommended cultural practices of wheat production are not adhered to, due
to lack of facilities and insufficient extension services. Also, new
practices (varieties, herbicides, land preparation) have not been tested on
large-scale under farmers' conditions.



Annex 8
- 77 -                         Page 8 o.' 17
26.       The project would test these cultural practices under the
farmers' conditions. These trials will concentrate on the major factors
such as use of herbicides, sowing date, land preparation and fertilizer
requirements and will be conducted in the 15 blocks mentioned earlier in
cooperation with SGB and the extension service of the scheme. Testing of
advanced and promising new varieties will also be included.
C. Sorghum Improvement
Introduction
27.       Grain sorghum is the main staple food in the Sudan.  It
constitutes 70% of the Sudanese diet. Sorghum improvement in the Sudan did
not receive adequate attention untiJ the early fifties when Tozi Research
Station was established in 1952.
28.       As part of the rotation in the irrigated areas, sorghum area is
450,000 feddans. So far, research work has been limited to local and
introduced germplasm. However, the GKS had formulated an elaborate
research program covering breeding, agronomy, pests and diseases
management, and despite limited resources and facilities it is making
progress in building the research program for sorghum improvement in the
Gezira scheme.
29.       Of the irrigated crops, (cotton, wheat, groundnuts and sorghum),
cotton receives relatively more attention from the APCs as it is the
backbone of the economy of the country. Wheat receives some attention
because of its strategic value. Groundnuts has been receiving attention
because of its value as a cash crop. Because sorghum is a tenant crop -
all production goes to the farmers - the part played by the scheme
administration on sorghum production is weak. The tecbnical base for its
production has not improved. If sorghum is to continue under irrigation,
the present yields should be doubled to make it profitable both to the
tenants and the corporations.
Research Problems
30.       A survey of farmers' fields in Gezira indicates that a wide range
of mixed varieties are planted, which indicates the lack of standard
varieties for farmer use, absence of optimum agronomic practices, and poor
weed control resulting in heavy infestation and complete smothering of the
crop.  Devastating striga infestation is quite noticeable.  Diseases mainly
smut and anthracnose, are commonly observed.  Pests, mainly stemborer,
American Dollworm, aphids and shoottly are of common occurrence in the
e'rea; the severity of the attack by these insects is greatly accentuated by
delayed sowing. Instances of complete destruction of late sown crops -
later than August - are common. As a result, sorghum yield is very low,
averaging 0.6 tons/ha at a time where expected yield under research
conditions is more than 4 tons/ha.
Research Programs
31.       The objectives of this project is to improve sorghum yield and
quality at a low cost/benefit ratio. This goal is to be achieved through



Annex 8
- 78 -                      Page 9 of 17
(i) developing high yielding varieties or hybrids suitable for the Gezira
scheme; (ii) optimizing husbandry practices; and (iii) efficient control of
weeds, diseases, and insect pests. The project will cover the following
aspects:
32.       A.  Breeding.  This will focus on:
(i)  Varietal improvement.  This is tro be achieved through breeding
nurseries and multi-locational trials using lines from ICKISAT
and other sources.
(ii)  Hybrid improvement.  This is to be achieved using male sterility
in sorghum to produce experimental hybrids and evaluating these
hybrids under different locations.
33.       B.  Agronomy.  Kesearch in the past produced useful information
on agronomic aspects of sorghum production.  However, lack of extension
service had aeen a major obstacle in the transfer of knowledge to the
farmers. Moreover, re-evaluation of these practices is necessary in view
of (i) intensification and diversification of cropping in the Gezira, (ii)
introduction of new varieties or hybrids, and (iii) the high prices
attained by the product together with changes in the cost/benefit ratio,
especially cost of irrigation and farm inputs.   Areas under study are:
Ci)  The effect of nitrogen and plant population on local and
introduced cultivars.
(ii)  Cultural practices in relation to water economy and drought
resistance.
34.       C.  Insect pest management will focus on:
C)  Chemical control of stemborer and American bollworm.
(ii)  Biology, ecology and control of shootfly.
(iii) Screening of introduced and locally bred lines against sorghum
pests.
(iv)  Storage pests and their control.
(v)  Insecticides residues in sorghum straw and grain.
35.       D.  Disease Management.  Priority attention will be given to:
(i) Loose Smut including screening of sorghum cultivars and germplasm
for disease resistance; and the survival of telidospores and
factors affecting spore germination under natural conditions.
Devicing an innoculation technique for long smut should also be
studied carefully.
(ii) Covered Smut including screening of new fungicides for disease
control.



Annex 8
- 79 -                           Page 10 of 17
36.       Chemical Weed Control.  This will screen herbicides with emphasis
on potent grass killer alone, and as tank mix with broad leaved weed
killer. Variety herbicide and antidotes to be considered for improving
selectivity and herbicide residues and metabolites in straw and grain will
be studied.
E. Striga hermonthica. Control of striga will be through:
(a) Integrated approach for using herbicide, germination stimulant,
cultural practices and resistant varieties.
(b)  Field screening for striga resistant using infested plots.
(c)  Reaction of sorghum varieties to different levels of seed
inoculum.
(d) Laboratory work on factors affecting tssponse of striga to
different control measures.
Ce) Laboratory screening of natural and synthetic chemicals for their
ability to disrupt the sequence of events between seed
germination and attachment of host.
Un-farm Trials
37.       The different factors believed to be responsible for yield
differences between research findings and farmers' practices are varieties,
sowing date, weed control and fertilizer use.
38.       Farmers' fields will be selected to test, on large scale,
recommended practices and to compare them with farmers' practices. SGB
extension program will be involved in farmers selection and evaluation ef
trials.
D. Groundnuts Improvement
Introduction
39.       Groundnuts (Arachis hypogaea) are important cash crop in the
Sudan. It provides 7X of the GNP and employs 12% of the population.
Groundnut was introduced in the Gezira scheme in the late 1960's.
Seventeen to twenty five percent of the total acreage (1.03 million
hectares) is under irrigation, and this produces 75Z of the total
production. Potential yield of groundnut in the irrigated areas is very
high (6.6 t/ha) because of a good combination of solar radiation and
temperature. Average pod yield under farmers' condition is about 1.7
t/ha. Many factors contribute to this low yield.
40.       Research Problems.  The main factors affecting yields and
requiring attention include:
(a) Cultural practices including sowing dates, plant population, weed
control etc. were studied in detail. However, interactions



Annex 8
- 30 -                        Page 11 of 17
between factors were not fully investigated. Because groundnut is grown on
heavy black cracking clays (Vertisols), harvest losses tend to be as high
as 60Z and soil particles adhere to the pods. Alternative harvest methods
should be developed to address this problem.
(b) Pests, diseases, weeds and nematodes cause heavy reduction in
yield. Some pests particularly in the intensified rotations of
the Gezira, might present serious problems and for many of the
pests, the economics of control need to be carefully studied.
tc) Aflatoxin contamination in groundnuts is becoming very serious.
It is reducing demand on Sudan's grcundnut and is affecting the
national earning of foreign currency. There is, however, a
general lack of awareness of this problem among farmers.
Irrigated areas can be free from aflatoxin if proper preventive
methods are implemented.
41.       Proposed Research Programs.  The main objectives are:
(a) To test and develop suitable agronomic practices and to assess
their interactions on growth and yield. Groundnuts experience
periodic water stress and this affects both quantity and quality
of kernels produced. Controlled experiments aimed at better
understanding of the physiology of flowering in groundnuts and
the relationship between flowering and yield will be
investigated. The erratic and negative response of groundnuts to
fertilizer is a universal problem. There is a need to study
major and minor nutrient deficiencies and the interaction between
cultivars and fertilizers.
(b) To screen and develop cultivars of different market types having
the following attributes:  (i) $igti pod yield. (ii) Strong peg
attachment, minimum soil staining, bunch growth habit and
concentrated fruit set. (iii) Earliness. (iv) Drought
tolerance. (v) Resistance to infection by A.flavus and Aflatox
information.
(c) To collect germplasm for screening and selection consists of
introduced cultivars and lines from ICRISAT and USA. Material
generated by the local hybridization program will also be
screened for this purpose.
(d) To study and develop methods for the control of the pest
complex (insects, diseases, weeds and nematodes) in an
integrated manner involving the growing of resistant cultivars,
cultural control, chemical and biological control.
42.       Main lines of resea-ch on groundnut in Gezira Research Station:
-    Study water requirements, i.e. interval and quantity.



-81-                        Annex 8
Page 12 of 17
Study the interaction of agronomic practices.
Formulate field techniques to identify tolerant genotypes.
Identify of harmful insects, diseases, weeds and nematodes in the
irrigated areas and proper assessment of damage.
Develop suitable control program.
Study the effect of various cultural practices on incidence and
level of aflatoxin contamination.
Study the effect of curing n3thods in relation to incidence of
aflatoxin.
Identify field conditions conducive to contamination by the
fungus.
E. Improvement of Horticultural Crops
Introduction
43.       Research on horticultural crops started rather late in the Sudan
when hudeiba IKesearch Station was established in 1960.  Kesearch on
vegetables in the Gezira started in 1968 and on fruits in 1976. Recently,
horticultural production has attracted the attention of policy makers and
tenants because of increasing demand, high returns to farmers, and as a
possible source of hard currency to the country. The road system linking
the Gezira scheme with most of the heavily populated centers, Khartoum
airport and to the vegetable and fruit processing plants in Wad Medani in
Khartoum, Kassala, makes it possible for Gezira to produce and market
horticultural crop in these areas. The Gezira scheme has great potentials
for horticultural production. Areas under horticultural crops have
significantly increased in recent years, reaching 50,000 fd in 1981/82,
with onions (14,000 fd) and tomatoes (12,000 fd) being the main crops. An
area of about 3,500 fd is under permanent fruit trees. Yields at farmers'
fields are very low and amounts to about 30% of yields obtained at the
research farm.
44.       The main objectives of this project are to strengthen the
capabilities of horticultural research, and to strengthen the link between
the researchers and the farmers through an effective extension service in
an effort to maximize yields and improve quality.



- 82 -                      Annex 8
Page 13 of 17
Research Problems
45.       Little has been done to develop new cultivars, to improve
cultural practices, to develop pest and disease control methods, or to
study post-harvest methods for vegetables and fruits. A major factor for
this shortcoming is the large number of crops being handled and their
extreme variability. Because of this, and because of the limited
facilities at the GRS, careful selection of research priorities have to be
made. A great deal of varietal testing has to be made for fresh marketing,
for processing and for export purposes. Responses of various crops to
sawing dates, fertilizers, irrigation and plant population densities have
to be studied.
46.       In some years, more than 40% of the crops are lost because of
insects and diseases such as tomato leaf curl and powdery mildews. Weeds
are also a major problem in the vegetable fields.
47.       Vegetables and fruits are highly perishable.  Traditional methods
of harvesting, packing, transport and storage contribute to great losses,
estimated in some crops as high as 50%. Improvement of post-harvest
practices should receive special attention. The determination of quality
of vegetable and fruits as affected by various cultivars and cultural
treatments is of vital importance.
48.       Several commercial fruit nurseries are propagating diseased
c-itrus seedlings. The establishment of a virus free bud wood certification
program is very important.
49.       For better testing of the adaptability of research findings to
the various irrigated situations, experiments have to be replicated in
Turabi, Hag Abdalla, and at Sennar, Rahad and New Halfa. Recommended
treatments could also be put into on-farm trials so as to gain the
confidence of the farmers.
50.       Research Program
A. For vegetable crops, the research program will focus on:
(i) Evaluating cultivars under various Gezira conditions.
(ii)  Breeding for tomato leaf curl virus resistant cultivars.
(iii)  Breeding for heat tolerant tomato cultivars.
(iv) Breeding for powdery mildew resistance in okra and cucurbits.
(v) Investigating the effects of sowing date, plant spacing,
fertilizer and irrigation on yield and quality of vegetables.
(vi) Studying effects of differential shading and intercropping on
extending the growing season of tomatoes.
(vii)  Screening chemicals for powdery mildew control.



Annex 8
- 83                         Page 14 of 17
(viii) Screening chemical for insect control.
(ix)  Surveying of incidence of Nematodes on horticultural crops.
(x)  Developing a rotation for vegetable crops.
51.       For fruits, the research program will focus on:
(i)  the production of virus-free budwood by indexing domestic
selections.
(ii)  the introduction of certified citrus budwood and seed from
well-known foreign nurseries and foundations.
Ciii) the establishment of a strong citrus budwood registration program
in the Gezira.
(iv)  the establishment and maintenance of variety foundation plantings
In various sites of the Gezira that will serve extension purposes
and provide sound budwood and stocks to the nurseries.
Cv)  the development of cultural practices for fruit trees in the
heavy clays of the Gezira.
52.           Post-harvest physiology.  This will be limited to:
Ci)  Surveys for assessment of losses of vegetables and fruits at
different marketing channels.
(ii)  Adaptive research on storage methods.
(iii) Improvement of transport of the perishable fruits and vegetables.
A Special Project for Regional Stations
New Combined Rotations Experiment (Phase II)
Assessment of Technical and Economic Consequences
of Increased Crop Intensification
Introduction
53.       Combined rotations experiment (Phase I) studied the effect of the
number of fallows on cotton production and soil fertility. Phase II was
designed to study the effect of intensified cropping on crop yields and
maintenance of soil fertility. It has been noticed that cotton yields and
soil productivity sharply declined due to the replacement of fallow with
crops.
Research Problem
54.       Cotton yields of the combined rotations over the last 10 years
dropped drastically in spite of the addition of 3 N, as urea, for cotton,



Annex 8
- 84 -                      Page 15 of 17
2N for wheat and 2N for dura.  In the Gezira Scheme, the same trend has
been noticed recently and concurrently with the intensification and
diversification. Yields of other crops have not been carefully monitored.
Farmers' income under various intensities of cropping systems has not been
thoroughly evaluated.
Proposed Research Programs
A. Assessment of Technical Consequences of Crop Intensification;
55.       The project is of a long term nature.  Intensive soil samples
will be taken at the start and at the completion of each rotation cycle
Soil chemical, physical, nutritional and biological aspects will be
evaluated.  Crops production will be economically evaluated, including  the
statistical appraisal of inputs direct, cumulative and residual effects .
Packages of alternative cropping systems that would pay higher dividend s,
in cash and/or in kind, to the farmer will be recommended, taking into
account the prevailing set up of production conditions (social, economic,
and environmental). Also, inter-crop movement of insects will be
investigated. The proposed rotations are:
Cm - GN/D
Cm - Ph/Fallow
CL - W - GN/D
CL - W/B - Sun/D
CL   - WIB - Ph/Fallow
CL   - W - GN/D - Fallow
CL   - W - GN/D - Ph/Adasi - Fallow
CL   - W - Sun/D - Adasi/Pb - Fallow
CL   - W - Adasi/D - Abu 70/Lubia - Fallow
CL   - W - GN/Sun - Abu 70/Lubia - Fallow
Cm    - Cotton medium staple      Gn - Groundnut
CL    - Cotton Long Staple        D  - Dura
W     - Wheat                     Ph - Phillipesara (phaseolus trilobus)
Adasi - Pigeon pea                B  - Berseem (Tripholium alexandrinum)
Abu 70- (sorghum sudanese)        Sun- sunflower
(Sudan Grass)
Lubia - Dolichus lablab



Annex 8
- 85 -                      Page 16 of 17
Objectives
56.       The objective of the project is to compare the effect of
different forage crops and the widening of the existing rotations, to cater
for the integration of animal feeds, on crop production and continuity of
soil fertility.
Experimental Site
57. (a) Gezira Kesearch Station (all rotations)
(b) Modifications needed for Hahad, New Halfa and Sennar;
(b) Sudan Gezira Board/Massallamiya Group (4, 5 and 6 courses).
Economic Studies and Farming System Studies
58.       The Rotation Studies Would be Supported by Field Surveys of
Optimum Crop Management in the Irrigated Schemes. Earlier surveys indicate
that in Gezira, the wide yield variation of crops is evident, not only
between years but also between locations and tenancies within the
seasons. Sources of variation are diverse, but could be grouped into
soils, climate and infrastructure as exogenous and a "management variable"
as indigenous variables where the interaction between the two categories
should be emphasized. It is obvious that tenants with high levels of
management score higher yields than those with a lower level. The question
arises: assuming that they operate rationally, why are farmers not
adopting sutficient levels of management to increase yields and incomes?
Apparent justifications include:
-    lack of knowledge as to the importance of management practices.
-    lack of facilities (finance) to carry out these practices.
Many arguments can be set against these justifications. For instance,
considerable knowledge and credit facilities are available in the irrigated
areas. In addition, the hypothesis can be made that more family labor can
be released which will balance to a great extent the constraints due to
financial bottleaecks, Not obvious, however, is whether a shift to a
higher management level is economical taking into consideration that costs
are associated with different management levels. The question arises:
additional returns due to better husbandry practices high enough to
motivate the tenants to release more inputs for crop production?
Accordingly, objectives of the study can be identified.
Objectives
59.  -    to define two management levels:  high vs low,
-    to investigate the differences and causes of these levels,
-    to calculate costs and returns of these levels,
-    to assess economic returns to increased crop intensification.



- 86 -                          Annex 8
-~ 86 -Page 17 of 17
-    to estimate economically optimum levels of management.
Implications
60.       Results are expected to be of direct benefic for planning
purposes to raise crop management levels and will have a feedback effect
for research purposes.
Design
61.       A selective sample of tenants will be taken to represent low and
high producing tenants in terms of crop management in different regions of
the Gezira and Managil. Selection criteria will be based on both
historical yield records and judgment of the staff of the Agricultural
Corporations.
Data
62.       Continuous information will be collected by resident teams in the
field on cultural practices, cost returns, credit and off-farm activities
in addition to related items.
63.       In addition, under the Project, support would be provided to
extend farming system research already established at the Hudeiba Research
Station (under IFAD/ICAiDA Nile Valley Project on faba beans) to cover main
crops served by the regional stations at Sennar, Shambat, Rahad and New
Halfa. Each regional station would design its farming system research
along the main concept linking experiment station research with research on
farmers' fields. The research program would be an integrated system of
research to generate and introduce efficient production systems in the
areas served by the regional stations. The r2search program should allow
each station to gather relevant physical, agricultural and economic
information about the zone in which it is located, analyze present
production systems prevailing in the zone, evaluate technically possible
new systems, study production factors, and involve the farmer in the
design, evaluation and decision process regarding new technology.



- 87 -
knex 9
SMN
RESFAR(E,    E        AND R :D pM=Cr
Tecdidal Assistance and Shrt-tem C     ltances
oxlaAtmy
Discipin                       CmLtmc Type                Pero
ABC:
Researci MamSe.imt & AMiidstratian  Research ?awgent Specialist          24
Integratet Pest Ca=trol              EhJt Breeder                         6           Swiss Aid
1R4 kltamagLst                      6           Swis Aid
Weed Scientist                      6           Swiss Aid
Agricultural &gineer                6           CDA
Agricltural Ecomst                 18         (DA
AgrsxKuxlt                         12          IDA
B.tDoical Control Specialist        6           IDA
Vibroloagst                         6           IDA
la/Insecticide Specialist           6           Swiss Aid
cgrau Re.vi5                         CDtto  Specialist                    6
Wheat                               6
Legmew                              6
Saorgm                              6
xtension !Athxdology               36
fainig Specialist                   36
lbitorizg and Evaluation Speciaist 24
Agriculturl Informtim Specialist   6
University of Gezira
4gricultural EcionIst              12
Agricultural Traing                 12



- 88 -                         Annex 10
Table 1
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING
Project for the Irrigated Sub-Sector
Schedule of Disbursements
Percent
Disbursed
Cumulative                     During
IBRD           Project          Disbursements                   Previous
Fiscal Year        Year              (US$ million    Cumulative   Semester
Equivalent)       (Percent)
1987                 1
Dec. 31, 1986    (1986/87)              -                  -
June 30, 1987                           1.0 Il             5           5
1988                 2
Dec. 31, 1986      (1987/88)            3.0               13           6
June 30, 1987                           4.8               21           7
1989                 3
Dec. 31, 1987      (1988/89)            7.0               31           8
June 30, 1988                           9.5               43           9
1990                 4
Dec. 31, 1988      (1989/90)           11.2               51          10
June 30, 1989                          12.5               56           5
1991                 5
Dec. 31, 1989      (1990/91)           14.0               63           5
June 30, 1990                          16.2               73           9
1992                 6
Dec. 31, 1990      (1991/92)           18.2               82           7
June 30, 1991                          19.5               88           6
1992                 7
Dec. 31, 1992      (1992/93)           20.2               92           13
June 30, 1993                          22.0              100          10
1/ Includes PPF financing.



- 89 -                         Annex 10
Table 2
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING
Financing Arrangements
Amount of the        % of Expenditures
Category                Credit Allocated           to be Financed
(US$ million)
1. Civil Works
(a) Carried out
under contract                 4.2              100% of foreign
expenditure
25% of local cost
(b) Carried out
Forced Account                                   25% of local cost
2. Vehicles and Agricultural
Equipment, Lab Equipment,
Installation and Electrical
Work                                6.2               100% of foreign
expenditure
OOZ of local
expenditure (ex-
factory cost) and
64% of local cost
for other items
procured locally
3. Training & Technical
Assistance                        5.1               100%
4.  PMU Operating Cost                  1.3               100%
5.  Researchr Grant                     1.6                85%
6.  Locai Operating Cost                3.1                55% of local cost
of all services
and field work



- 90 -
*       111
0~L~IUL  RA, ZUIU           AM MIN=    r W        DI =   #MI    SaWAM=
IrrmmlG             - Cah)l
1        2         3        4         5         6h/      7c/       8
986g7     N        98W  1^9B9h    l990I1   1"91 /92   -992/93   1993/4
inm
CC" T~                               -         -         2.2      2.5       2.9      3.1       3.1       3.1
impactt Toss5.4                                4.9       1.5      2.0       1.6      1.7       1.2d/    1./2
AgoLrm ft&:tmozp.
*  _pwt af Suzb-lam-   eD/           0.1       0.3      0.4       1.1       .4       1.6       1.6       1.6
-  :mp-         Q0.1     0.4       0.6      1.0       1.3       1.6      1.6       1.6
* Pn   ARC Mca. sta. op. Cots byf
-RAD=          -         -         0.2      0.4       0.4       0.5      1.0       1.0
-UAPC          -         -         0.2      0.2       0.3       0.3      0.6       0.6
] iLt
ForeOt lblw                         i8.        7.5      6.2       5.3       4.8       4.2      -         -
lacal ruazrt                         1.8       2.0       2.0      1.9       1.8       1.6      -         -
o1 na1asmt                           2.5       2.5       1.0      0.7       0.5       0.5      -         -
18.7     18.2      14.3     14.5      14.3      15.1      9.1       9.1
iTm.nts                             29.6      2.4       9.8      10.3       8.6      7.7       -        -
PeAt p-C   ierut rm
sialleo 3-                                  -         -        -         -        -         6.q       6.'
* -mpl    ita/                       -         _        _         _        _         _-4.5               4.5
Tuort t_s fhis  ('iet)               -         -         0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1       0.1
i-   fes                             0.2       0.1       ..        ..
- aevlmdrs                         ..       ..       0.1       01       0          0.       0.2      0.2
25.8     28.5      10.0     10.5       8.9       8.0     11.7      11.7
Nr (JnIC1r)/MUEW                     (11.1)    (10.3)     4.3       4.2       5.4      7.1      (2.6)     (2.6)
a/ 7o ed 1990Q91 (rr. 6) tbai mnat at 199C091 levs.
b    oject aoqat1m Jam 30, 1991.
c  Piojet dof  date Jum 30, 1992.
Oa Q replaemta.
e/ Oasr 15 yam  at 1EZ with   cpriod of 57ym  (pdm'p1e o1y).
f/ 7_ u s n InTt 7 (199192) ad after to C_0    repannt ,uta.
( At 2(C per  -  ai total imrnt   of %ifcles, grfculral ad other quipmem.
No5:
.. 1_ th qdD 50, 00O



UDAN
ARaLURAL UESR,   1,SItN AND TRWN=
Sudam: Crop Production Area ('000 fd.), Field (kg/fd.)
In the Irrigated Schems
1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84
Cotton (ELS) A                  856        589       569       548       482       618        586       514       463       445
Y                  614       385       511        542       386       306       284       514        528       546
Cotton (MS) A                   285        305       231       471       461       320        255       275       400       410
Y                  409       312       522        515       442       395       463       695        776       798
Grounznut   A                   384        553       346       380       311       408        285       411       232       242
Y                1,187       743       737      1,121       791       992       678       678       801        865
Wheat        A                  591        690       639       602       566       457        437       354       236       215
Y                  455       369       460        526       296       509       597       460        783       640
Sorhum       A                  402       628        471       539       391       443        503       606       530       585
y                  425       458       450        497       438       379       281       460        398       410
A - Area In fd.
Y - Yield kg/fd.
y'



- 92 -
Chart 1
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL REWRCH. EOMENSION & TRAJNING PROJECr
Minikthy ofAgicule
Gaz&T rD   d aicoc& MG&_cor                                                     Coo1
O diadAutid CapamlnMddAcLkAgo                          Sd R Mboich      JRa
WhN: N hAgWA    Cooto                                               ModwftFhCP.kCowi
m  r-  -Min                                                          NubuMouniC" po
Nwl  AWO         SUed Wklwdmnc O
UConfrdm*N                       Adk~cs3i                          kotnew
Arjmd  Hmhfl                        AgcuM T d 
4                     _ ~~~~AcugI  _ eda
Adm*jsftorlcn  ~Adrv*ddcln                          &Sdt=d*ddc
Adn**Wcdlon          ~~~Adrn**t~FlanAdkmto
~~~~~~~~~andH LM  a
A*nkomo)n               Adff**~~Mrw*bmta
An1 W                          S L1 
WnIdUn&
r ^ L ~~~~~~~W Lb
Iang, & Fodfr
*Vst,ollB                                        -
Wld~~~~~~~~~~~~ol Lb* I                  63



AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, E I , I ON AND TRAINING PROJECT
Agtcultural Resarch Corporation1
A@Cnomvfl crop Ftwslklgv     Gezira       Gunsld                     Ubroi Documentation         Finnc Account
BotanV Plant Pl2thologv      Hudelbo      lOhodn El Glibo            Pjuxlctons lnformoation     Phro(m!sl
Colton  _r ng                Kroon        Meotug                     TmReth  Corusunce  .toi
Entomolog                    KaChJLJU      Sennor                    freign Rewlatn               W1ntenanc9(Buiding)
HoElcuitur                   Yabl"o       Shombat                    AQtluffUrO Shoam            PLtiIlc Rlatdion -
Plant         -      dlr              S    obo                        PAjaulm                     socild Sv4                                                              I
SaON science                              Arclc Gum Research3        Equpmet Maintenance         Genehal AdmirnlstrotIa
CtaiKtP P                    Gollloi       (BOunld)                                               (field tR n%o st) 
Faton Rsearch                              Biologa3 (El
RCa  1)astur93                             ShOeO KP Jt &orn
Phhede  MWam                                S                        hord Haga)
Fod ProFessin COMOa Foo oPocebos
SMld tne Research LGff3                    Center3 (lofaetoum)
-    (Sob o)
Rne Pelft3El
(Ghozalo GaAwol)
I'Te ARC Is under the MknItWyof AgdcUitm.
Rlso etn  tocas  oard d MPaagenenr.
3 Trn*ffd  to ft ARC in '195.               CdBan-2627
P(5)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
New Haola Agdcultural CorporatHon
_D_irenooln O1ctr
T  scflnt      Omcafln           Scfc eclo                       Scinteto
Union                             
|AdmLtratlon  |gt "                                             Eng_ts
Depoxdrrient                    Depo tmenf                    Dpamnt
AgpetIolW
w Haif tOerato |~ m (|) Shiekh    |      (   ios                                              rS      I                                                I!
|   54cHn  | |omoScit scin ||Scln || 5cb                        otn || Scb 
MonoQer. _ I ~Ptecio
Haflculturd   hSOnl  |    Rd              flmtn
Now HdNo Co patbn hcdm (6) sections (G oup~) & (W1) Mocks                                     Wardd lan-26278 



StIDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH. EMNSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Rahad ProdUCibn CbnWO
I
CohokmdwocW
Dkhf
M            ~~~~~M-             .eim
IGC"f 1  I L    Clad                 F  P|        PdAN Nh       in 'm 
M=t                         E   W
1                              W  w~~~~Om
H1 H g                ' W   q~~~~~~~~~Cpato
Om=~                     ER1 
Rchod Copm3ton kckjcs (3) SeDc10( (GK ) & (9) Eok
Vbid Ih*-26719



SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
National Extenslon Admintstraflon
Director
I
Deputy Directo
Afis                 tas                                                                 lnTxto           s        o hEauto
_  DMsioo Chif                                 D DMuMs ChefuCh ChiDf Dsson Chief Dhs1 Chbt                       _ MIIbn Chbl               DM_oo I ch
Rnonc lo                NomNuhttin TfrntlAuio                                                                                               SuPeAllsor
& Accounting                                                             Triin    oaliisaningoir 
sci,olarstilp     ~~cantrolNudto                                Tfl9inng dKEto                                Sullwso                 SuPervsol
Section           T~~~Reiols            Education              EtsonOfficr                                   womens                  Extension
KatWoum                 Nutrtion                                                              .~MO
Trbals               Economics i                                         *                   O 
WaId Bon*-26280
I!



- 97 -
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILES
1. Project Proposal, Agricultural Research, Extension and Education in the
Irrigated Sector For Support by the World Bank, September, 1983
2. Improving the Management of Agricultural Research Under Scarce
Resources. A Report to the Agricultural Research Corporation in Sudan,
ISNAR, (Draft) February 1984
3. The Sudan Agricultural-Research Corporation, Organization Practices,
and Policy Recommendations, W. Lacy, L. Busch, P. Marcott,
International Sorghum and Millet Organization, October 1983
4. Observations on Agricultural Research in the Sudan Submitted to IBRD
and the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development, N.R. Fadda,
April 1983.
5.  Sudan Agricultural Research Capabilities, IADS, 1977
6. Improving the Management of Agricultural Research, Report and
Recommendations For the Agricultural Research Corporation of Sudan,
International Service for National Agricultural Research (INSAR),
February 1984.
7. Evaluation of IPM Development on Cotton in the Sudan Gezira -
Consortium for International Crop Production, 1983.



ar                            r        r                     r~36            rz              ZC                            a
SUDAN                                                        70
LOCATION OF RESEARCH STATIONS                                                     -
IN THE IRRIGATED AREAS
r               L.                        _        ARAB  REPUBLIC   OF  EGYPT                                      -
L    I    B   r   ^ ' = i e w \~~~~~~I 
i~~.                        \                  N      U      ;1 K  I    II  fx, I-   14+/  
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
l t \ F                                                      -                                   _ \A4a .kJ 
~~~~~~~~~~-  \A;s'~    I \    '@  .
L t ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ * 1
- j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,-. I........... ..--''lFfir  
oreol (.......             no.aIr
CH   A  D                                                    ....
e------           N  D.A .. . . .
- Selece Tweet me lflhlage
-     IaeesaeeI Bmain,_,- ____,. 
L9               a  ,s,  , ,m                                                     _ _   ,   m uR a r 3 f ~ ^eE  a



