Do_ument of
The World Bank
FOR OMCILt  USE ONLY
C/é. /gèS9Sc'
RNwt No. P-4182-SU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 20.8 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR THE
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING FROJECT
November 12, 1985
Wfl  doCMum   l   a up b*i-A dIbd9ibm  Id uay be med by rediepls ody IN the pefumonae Of
lheir OCI doom lb cmma ma  ut ne&wiwe be dobd  wilweu Waft Umk adlhd1on 



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Sudanese Pounds (LSd)   100 Piastre
LSd 1.00              = US$ 0.40 (official)
LSd 1.00              = US$ 0.30 (parallel market)
(Project cost calculated on average exchange rate over
project period.)
WEIGHTS AND NEASURES
Feddan               =  0.42 hectare (ha) or 4,200 m2
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
The Islamic Calendar Year
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APCs       -       Agricultural Production Corporations in the
Irrigated Sector
ARC        -       Agricultural Research Corporation
CIBC       -       Commonwealth Institute of Biological Control
CIMMYT     -       International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center
BOS        -       Bank of Sudan
FAS        -       Faculty of Agricultural Sciences
FERD       -       Faculty of Economics and Rural Development
GRP        -       Gezira Rehabilitatior- Project
GRS        -       Gezira Research Station
MCPW       -       Ministry of Construction & Public Works
MOA        -       Ministry of Agriculture
MOFEP      -       Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
NEA        -       National Extension Administration
NAHPC      -       New Halfa Production Corporation
PPC       -        Project Procurement Committee
PSC        -       Project Steering Committee
RAHCO      -       Rahad Production Corporation
PMU       -        Project Management Unit
SGB       -        Sudan Gezira Board
T&V        -       Training and Visit System
UG         -       University of Gezira



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower      : Democratic Republic of Sudan
Beneficiaries:  The National Extension Administration (NEA); the
Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC); Rahad Corporation
(RAHCO); New Halfa Agricultural Prodnction Corporation
(NHAPC); and University of Gezira (UG).
Amount        : SDR 20.8 million (US$22.0 million equivalent)
Onlending
Terms        : The proceeds of the credit will be made available on a
grant or equity basis to ARC, NEA, UG, PMU, NHAPC, AND
RAHCO.
Project         Objectives:  The project objective would be to improve crop
production in the irrigated subsector through improvements
in research, extension and training. Over a 6-year period,
the project would strengthen the technological base
required for higher production, reform the subsector
extension system, and upgrade the skills of field
personnel.
Components: The project would (a) rehabilitate and
strengtben agricultural research at five regional stations
in the irrigated areas; (b) upgrade the skills of field
inspectors and establish programmed extension services at
New Halfa and Rahad Corporations; (c) strengthen the
National Extension Administration; and (d) strengthen the
in-service training capabilities of the University of
Gezira.
Benefits: 300,000 farmers producing cotton, sorghum,
groundnuts, wheat and vegetables on over four million
feddans would benefit. Yields of cotton and other crops
are expected to increase and stabilize at higher levels due
*                           to development of more efficient technology combined with
the improvement of the Corporations' services to the
farmers which is expected to result from upgrading the
skills of their field personnel.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwisc be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Risks: It may be difficult to coordinate the various
components. Research activities financed under the project
may not fully respond to farmers' problem.. Extension
activities may not receive adequate attention because of
the corporations' traditional concern for inspection and
supervision of production activities. Provision has been
made in the project design to minimize these risks.
Estimated Costs:                               US$ Million
Local     Foreign    Total
Civil Works                              5.4        3.4         8.8
Vehicles                                 0.8         1.0        1.8
Agricultural & laboratory equipment      1.8        4.4         6.2
Research Grant                           0.8        0.2         1.0
Training and Technical Assistance        0.4        3.8         4.2
Incremental Operating Cost               3.5        3.1         6.6
Contingencies:
Physical                                1.1        1.2         2.3
Price                                   4.1        3.0         7.1
Total Project Cost                      17.9       20.1        38.0
Total Project Cost                      12.7       20.1        32.8
(net of taxes and duties)
Financing Plan:                                        US$ million
Local      Foreign    Total
IDA Credit                               1.9       20.1        22.0
Government of Sudan                     15.2        -          15.2
New Halfa                                0.4        -           0.4
Rahad Corporation                        0.4        -           0.4
Total                              17.9       20.1       38.0
Estimated Disbursement
1986  1987   1988   1989   1990   1991  1992  1993  1994
IDA Annual    1.0   1.5      1.8    2.2    3.0    2.7   3.6   3.2   3.0
Cumulative         2.5      4.3    6.5    9.5   12.2  15.8  19.0  22.0
Estimated Rate of Return: 20 percent
Map No.: IBRD 18301



REPORT AND UECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Democratic Republic of Sudan (the Borrower) for SDR 20.8
million (US$22.0 million equivalent) to help finance an Agricultural
Research, Extension and Training Project. The credit will be on standard
IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Sudan in January 1983.  Its report
(Pricing Policies and Structural Balances') flo.4528a-SU of November 10,
1983 has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A more recent
economic mission visited Sudan in May 1984 and its report, (-Prospects for
the Rehabilitation of the Sudanese Economy") No. 5496-SU of October 7, 1985
has been distributed to the Executive Directors. The findings of the
mission are reflected below. Summary tables of social, economic and
financial data are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.        Sudan, with an area of 2.5 million square kilometers, is the
largest country in Africa. It has a population of about 19.8 million (1982
estimate) and is classified by the UN as a least developed country. Per
capita GNP is estimated at about US$400. Much of the country is unoccupied
.r very sparsely populated. Although about one-third of the country is
desert or semi-desert, Sudan has considerable untapped potential for
agricultural development. About two-thirds of the total land area is
suitable for crop or pastoral production, but only a small fraction of this
land is under intensive use. The economy is heavily dependent on exports
of cotton, the major commodity from irrigated land, and on groundnuts,
sesame and gum arabic. The manufacturing sector is relatively small and is
limited to processing agricultural commodities such as cotton, oil seeds
and sugar and to the production of consumer goods and building materials.
A development of potential significance to Sudan's prospects is the
discovery of oil reserves in the southwestern part of the country. An
export pipeline carrying around 50,000 b/d is planned, but construction has
been interrupted by the unsettled security situation in the southern part
of the country. The public sector has long been important in the Sudanese
economy. It embraces all modern irrigation facilities, the railways,
virtually all power and water supplies, and a significant proportion of
industry, commerce and finance. Although some industrial enterprises have
been returned to the private sector in recent years, about half of the GDP
is still generated within the public sector.



4.        Between 1972/73 and 1974/75, the deficit on the current account
of the balance of payments increased from US$11 million equivalent to about
US$470 million and remained between US$450 and US$550 million until
1979/80, when the combination of a doubling of oil prices and a serious
decline in cotton production pushed the deficit to US$809 million in
1980/81 and US$1.3 billion in 1981/82. Gross official reserves fell to
only a few days worth of imports. By end 1982, external payments arrears
had accumulated to above $2.2 billion.
5.        The crisis came about largely as the consequence of inadequate
economic management policies compounded by external factors, such as the
sharply increased cost of petroleum imports, which constrained the
Government'ts ability to respond quickly with effective remedial action.
Adverse developments in foreign trade were accompanied by other adverse
forces - reduced flows of external capital after 1976, mounting debt
problems, and absorptive capacity constraints.
6.        The structural weakness in Sudan's public sector finances became
incrpasingly pronounced during the course of the 1970s. Sharp increases in
expenditures were not matched by increases in revenue. The consequent
sharp rise in public sector demands on the domestic banking system led to a
rapid acceleration in the growth of money supply, which reached 44 percent
in 1976/77. Although the monetary expansion slowed in succeeding years,
the growth rate over the period 1977/78-1980181 still averaged nearly 25
percent per year; during 1980/81, the rate of expansion again rose to
around 50 percent and, after a slowdown in 1981/82, rose again in 1982/83
by around 30 percent. This contributed to an acceleration in annual price
increases from 6 percent in the early 1970s to over 30 percent in 1982,
1983 and 1984.
7.        Against this background of serious payments imbalances and
general economic crisis stemming from structural maladjustments in
production and trade, starting in 1978 the Government undertook significant
policy changes to establish financial equilibrium, to restore export growth
through appropriate policies and public investments, to improve the
performance of the public corporations, and to install an adequate system
for management of the nation's external debt.
Export Promotion and Public Investment Programs.
8.       An essential aspect of the Government's recovery program since
1979 was a concerted drive to increase foreign exchange earnings through
increased exports. This was carried out under the Export Action Program
(EAP), initiated in mid-1979. The EAP was designed to raise the volume of
cotton exports at an average rate of 7 percent per annum during the period
1979-91. By mid-1981 the actual production of cotton had in fact declined
further, but 1981/82 saw a substantial recovery with a 51 percent increase
in production. This trend was continued in 1982/83 with a further 23
percent increase, and in 1983/84 and 1984/85 10 percent and 3 percent
increases were realized. Several investments in the irrigated subsector
Program (Credit No. 1000-SU of US$65 million and EEC Special Action Fund
Credit of about US$11 million), funds were made available for urgently



-3-
needed spare parts and equipment. Several rehabilitation projects are now
being carried out. The New Halfa Rehabilitation Project, Credit 1022-SU,
approved in May 1980, was the first of these, followed by projects for the
Blue and White Nile schemes. A rehabilitation project for the largest
irrigation scheme, the Gezira, became effective in May 1985. The
Agricultural Rehabilitation Program II (Credit No. 1389-SU) provided much
needec foreign exchange for purchases of agricultural inputs in the
sub-sector in 1984. In addition, Important policy measures were taken in
the areas of cost recovery, cotton pricing and marketing, and institutional
reform. Simultaneously with the EAP, the Government reduced the size of
its overall development program, as reflected in the Six-Year Plan, to a
realistic level consistent with expected external and domestic financial
resources.
Financial Stabilization and IMF Agreements.
9.       In June 1978, a stabilization program was announced as part of a
Stand-by Agreement with the IMF. The Agreement included a variety of
measures to establish a more realistic exchange rate, reduce deficit
financing, control foreign borrowing, and improve production incentives,
particularly in the irrigated agricultural sector. In May 1979, agreement
was reached on similar policy actions that allowed access to a three-year
Extended Fund Facility (EFF).
10.       In November 1980, the Fund Board approved a second year program
under the EFF. Because of non-compliance with agreed targets, the
Government was not able to make drawings in the third and fourth quarters
of 1980/81. Subsequently, further measures, together with pledges at a
special Donors Meeting in January 1982 that closed the financing gap in the
program, made it possible in the folloving month for the IMF to approve a
one-year Stand-by Arrangement for Sudan. However, this program also lapsed
in mid-term because of the Government's inability to comply with all of its
conditions.
11.       Further policy measures were taken in December 1982, including a
44 percent devaluation of the Sudanese Pound. The Government also prepared
a comprehensive medium-term recovery program, Prospects, Programmes and
Policies for Economic Development, 1982/83-1984785 (PPPED); this document
formed the basis for discussions at the Consultative Group Meeting in Paris
in January 1983. The outcome of this meeting, together with a new debt
restructuring package obtained from the Paris Club in February 1983 enabled
the IMF to approve a Stand-by Program for 1983 for a total amount of SDR
170 million, which Sudan completed satisfactorily on February 22, 1984.
12.       At a subsequent Consultative Group Meeting held in Paris on
December 14-16, 1983, the Government presented its updated version of the
medium-term recovery program document, and requested program and project
aid to support the recovery program. At this meeting, the Government was
commended by many donors for the actions taken during 1983 to implement its
recovery program, and donor assistance in the form of commodity and project
aid was indicated as likely to be forthcoming at a level which would be
almost adequate to support it. Subsequently additional commodity aid was



- 4 -
promised at a level which the IMF considered to be adequate to close the
financing gap for 1984.
13.       In May 1984, following the December 1983 Consultative Group
Meeting, the Paris Club agreed to reschedule Sudan's official external
debts falling due in 1984 on terms which were consistent with the proposed
IMF Standby Arrangement for 1984, and the new Standby Arrangement was
entered into on June 25, 1984. The first tranche was drawn down soon
thereafter. However, Sudan was not able to discharge repayments to the IMF
which fell due in July 1984, and exchange rate adjustments scheduled for
July were not made. Therefore, the IMF Standby Arrangement lapsed shortly
after it had gone into effect, and no further IMF dravings were made
available during 1984.
14.       As a result of the uncertainties regarding the IMF Standby, donor
commodity aid in 1984 lagged well behind the levels anticipated at the
December 1983 Consultative Group Meeting (estimated actual of about $270
million compared to an anticipated $470 million). Also, while export
receipts from irrigated agriculture (i.e. cotton) met expectations in 1984,
drought in the rainfed areas reduced the export of sorghum, groundnuts, and
gum Arabic. With foreign exchange receipts lagging behind expectations due
to the lag in donor aid, IMF drawings, and reduced exports of rainfed
crops, the Government fell behind in its debt service obligations to the
IMF, the Paris Club, and to other bilateral creditors. By the end of
December 1984, Sudan was about $260 million in arrears on its official long
term debt obligations.
Other Developments
15.       In 1983 the Southern Region, which had previously had a semi-
autonomous status, was divided into three separate regions. Armed
resistance forces emerged in the south, and attacks on the Chevron oil
exploration activities and construction work on the Jonglei Canal caused
these operations to shut down. More recently, Chevron has partially
resumed its operations in Sudan but on a very limited basis.
16.       In August 1983, three measures were enacted into law based on the
Koran, called Sharia laws. These included changes in the penal code,
banning of the sale of alcohol, and a prohibition on the collection of
interest in courts of law. The civil code was extensively revised in March
1984. Early in 1984 direct taxes and some excise taxes were abolished and
replaced with a traditional Islamic tax and welfare system called -Zakat'
to be administered by a separate Zakat organization and levied at the local
level for use in part for social welfare purposes.
17.       Starting in September 1984, the Government took steps to reduce
the adverse budgetary effects of the Sharia changes. Most of the direct
taxes which were abolished were restored, sugar retail prices were
increased (from 26 to 30 piasters/lb.), and electric power tariffs were
increased 21 percent in November 1984 and 23 percent in March 1985. Also,
the exchange rate applicable to most exports and to commercial bank and
commodity aid imports was increased in February 1985 to LS 2.51US$ (from



1.42 for exports and 1.8 for imports in October 1984) in order to provide
an adequate incentive to exports and to restrain demand for lmports. In
November, the Government requested that the IMF send a technical assistance
mission to Sudan to assist in working out a comprehensive adjustment
program which the IMF would find acceptable. A Fund mission went to
Khartoum for this purpose In December and January, and a follow-up mission
in March of this year was able to confiLrm that the Government had
substantially implemented the recommendations of the December and January
missions, including price increases for petroleum products, bread and wheat
flour, soap, edible oil, pharmaceuticals and electric power tariffs.
Recent Political and Economic Developments
18.       Demonstratlons and strikes in the public services began on March
30 in response to the price increases which were put into effect ln March.
The demonstrations gained force as the demonstrators broadened thelr
complaints to include the rough treatment used by the security forces,
mismanagement of the economy, corruption, and the severe punishments
imposed under the Sharia laws. Support for the demonstrations came from
the professional syndicates, the labor unions, and the political partles.
The Government rescinded the price increases for bread, soap and edible oil
but this did little to appease the demonstrators. On April 6, 1985 a group
of senior military officers led by the Minister of Defence took over the
Government   Decrees were issued, after consultation with the demonstrating
groups, ca-ling for the unification of the country, a guarantee of human
rights and basic freedoms, the creation of a constitution established
through a democratic process, and return to civilian rule after a limited
transition period. All existing Ministers of Government and Regional
Governors were dismissed, Parliament and the Government-supported political
party SSU were dissolved, and a Transitional Military Council consisting of
15 senior military officers was established to act as a legislative and
policy making body for the country. The Council in turn appointed a
cabinet consisting mainly of civilians to administer the Government during
the transition period.
19.       The new Government is in effective control and enjoys a
reasonable degree of stability and public acceptance. Its statements and
actions, including servicing outstanding Bank loans and IDA credits, show
that it recognizes the past obligations undertaken to the World Bank Group
and, in general, the country's international obligations. It has so far
acted with caution and restraint regarding economic policies. The Minister
of Finance and the President of the Bank of Sudan visited Washington in May
1985, and they expressed their appreciation and hopes for the continuation
of donor support which has been assisting in drought relief and support for
the economy. While there is still no resolution of the difficult arrears
situation, non-project aid flows increased substantially since the change
of Government and the shortage of petroleum, which was hampering transport
activities, has at least temporarily been relieved. An IMF mission visited
Sudan in June-July 1985, and another mission returned to Sudan in October
with the objective of reaching agreement on a package of appropriate
macro-economic measures. These discussions are still under way.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SUDAN
20.       World Bank Group gross commitments to Sudan to date total
US$1,009.5 million. Of this, US$33.0 million are IFC commitments. There
have been eight loans (two on Third Window terms) and 37 credits for a
total of 39 projects. Twenty projects are under implementation. Over
50 percent of total Bank/IDA lending has been for agricultural development:
seven irrigation projects, three rainfed mechanized farming projects, four
smallholder development projects; two livestock marketing projects; an
agricultural research project; two Agricultural Rehabilitation Program
Credits, an agricultural credit project; a sugar rehabilitation project and
a drought recovery program. Projects in other sectors include: three power
projects, three education projects, three highway projects, a domestic
aviation project, four railway projects, two port projects, two technical
assistance projects, two industrial credit projects,and a petroleum
development project. Over the past two years, IFC has been assisting the
Government and White Nile Petroleum Company in preparing and mobilizing
funds for a major export pipeline project as part of the development of the
Unity and Heglig oil fields. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of September 30, 1985.
21.       Physical progress in implementing development projects in Sudan
has been mixed.  Many projects have difficulty in getting key materials -
cement, fuel and timber of which there are periodic shortages. Belated
delivery of equipment and supplies due to transportation difficulties also
affects most projects. The continuing drain of skilled manpower to the
Middle East oil rich countries takes its toll on effective preparation and
implementation of projects. There have also been lengthy delays in meeting
effectiveness conditions, mainly because of problems in establishing new
institutions or project accounts, hiring key staff, completing necessary
legal documentation, or con-luding required co-financing arrangements.
These problems have been brought to the attenti-on of Government
authorities, both through supervision missions and annual Country
Implementation Reviews, and steps have been taken to resolve some of them
euch as in procurement and obtaining legal opinions.
22.       The disbursement rate, i.e., actual disbursements during the year
as a percentage of the undisbursed balance at the beginning of the year,
declined from 23.4 percent in FY78 to 12.1 percent in FY81, but the rate
improved markedly to 27.7 percent in FY82 and 25.8 percent in FY83.  T'.
FY84 disbursement rate declined to 10.0 percent as a result of delays in
implementation of several large projects. The FY85 disbursement rate for
Sudan is 23.3 as compared to 22.9 percent for Eastern Africa Region and 24
percent Bank-wide.
Assistance Strategy
23.       The Bank Group assistance strategy has been to encourage the
Government to undertake a broad program of economic reform aimed at
addressing the structural imbalances in the economy. We have been working
very closely with the Government and the IMF in the development and
implementation of Sudan's economic recovery program, which formed the basis



m 7 m
for Consultative Group metings In January and December, 1983 and Standby
Arrangements with the IMF. This vs followed by the creation of a Joint
Monitoring Committee tJMC), where the aid donors and the Government jointly
monitor progress in carrying out the program, and continued Bank
involvesmnt in reviewing updated versions of the recovery program. The key
elements of the strategy are:
-    Improved Balance of Payments:  support for development projects
and policy actions which help the country to generate or save
foreign exchange, with investment priority given to
rehabilitation of existing capital investments.
-    Key Infrastructure:  support for infrastructure projects which
relieve the most critical bottlenecks inhibiting productive
output (power, transport).
-    Resource Mobilization:  encouragement to Government to increase
the level of domestic resource mobilization as the basis for
sustained increases in output.
-    Longer-Term Development:  assistance to Government to prepare the
way for longer term development activities through improving
research and extension, and studies of irrigated water use
priorities and rainfed agricultural potential.
24.       On the whole, the Bank's assistance strategy has been effective
in encouraging the Government to undertake measures which have restored
cotton production to the levels achieved in the early 1970s. During the
past three years, exports have expanded and the foreign exchange gap has
been reduced, the Public Investment Program has been appropriate, and some
internal production (i.e. sugar and cement) has expanded. No progress was
made, however, in increasing the proportionate level of resource
mobilization, and parastatal financial losses remain at a high level.
During 1984, in part because of the uncertainties caused by the Sharia law
changes and the insurgency in the south, the recovery program seemed to be
coming off the track. The actions taken in February and March to put the
program back on a sound basis caused a political reaction as described in
para. 17, but nevertheless most of these measures remain in place.
Experience with Past Lending
25.       In the agriculture sector, IDA has continued to emphasize the
rehabilitation of irrigated agriculture, Sudan's major export earner, along
with improvements in infrastructure needed to service the agricultural
sector. The Agricultural Rehabilitation Program I was effective in
providing badly needed spare parts and replacement machinery for the
irrigated sector, as well as encouraging the Government to take some
important steps toward improving incentives to farmers through better



cotton prices and costing arrangements for the irrigated schemes. The
Agricultural Rehabilitation Program II (IDA Credit 1389-SU) followed up
this earlier effort with the financing of recurrent agricultural inputs.
An ARP III project has been appraised which is designed along the lines of
ARP I and II to meet the critical input needs of the irrigated sector.
Despite the overall economic difficulties in Sudan, supporting the
agricultural sector has been effective.  The recently completed Western
Savannah Project has contributed substantially to improving rainfed
agriculture in Western Sudan, and lending for a second phase is being
processed. The Rahad Project Completion Report, issued in 1984, provides
evidence of substantial achievements made by Government policies in the
irrigated subsectors. The IDA-financed irrigation rehabilitation projects
have been instrumental in arresting the decline in agricultural
productivity and have increased yields of all crops to their historical
levels. The mid-term review of the Blue Nile (Cr. 1118-SU) and While Nile
(Cr. 1119-SU) projects carried out in 1984 strongly recommends additional
institutional support in the irrigated sector, including research,
extension and training services.
Relationship to Other Aid Flows
26.       Bank and IDA lending - both new commitments and disbursements -
represent about 10 to 15 percent of total aid flows to the Sudan. We
expect that this relationship will continue at about the same level during
the next several years. Bank and IDA obligations represent about 6 percent
of Sudan's total outstanding and disbursed debt. Bank/IDA debt service was
only about 1 percent of Sudan's total external debt service falling due in
1983. While this may rise slightly in the next several years, it will
remain a very small portion of Sudan's total debt service obligations.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
27.       The agricultural sector dominates the Sudanese economy.  It
provides for the livelihood of 80 percent of the population and contributes
about 40 percent of GDP and 95 percent of exports. The Bank published a
survey of the Agricultural Sector in May 1979 (Report No. 1836a-SU) and a
review of the sector is included in the Bank economic report -Sudan -
Investing for Economic Stabilization and Structural Change- issued in
February 1982 (Report No. 3551a-SU).
28.       About 20 million feddans of Sudan's central plains are cultivated
annuall7, of which 4.2 million feddans are under irrigation. The rest is
under rainfed cultivation, both mechanized and traditional.
The Irrigated Sub-Sector
29.       About 85 percent of the irrigated land (over 3.4 million feddans)
is managed by public corporations, of which the most important are the
Sudan Gezira Board (2 million feddans), New Haifa (0.4 million feddans),
Rahad (0.3 million feddans), and the Blue and White Nile Pump Schemes (0.7



_ 9 _
million feddans). About 50 percent of agricultural export earnings were
derived from cotton In the 1970-80 decade, mostly from the Irrigation
schemea  managed by these corporations.
30.      The pattern of productlon relations developed at GObrra, the
oldest and largest schem, has served as a model for the others. After
attempts to use wage labor and a rental mystem falled, a partnership was
developed based on the traditional allocation of crop shares on lands
next to the scheme. Revanues were divided betveen the Government
(responsible for developing and providing irrigation to the land), a
corporation (responsible for providing agricultural services) and tenants
(responsible for supplying labor, need, tools and farm animals). Under
this system, the agricultural corporation deducted most of its productlon
costs for the different crops grown on the tenancies from the revenues
received from cotton sales.
31.       This arrangement, called the "Joint Account System," penalised
the more productive cotton growers, whose costs per quantity of output were
lower than those of the less productive farmers. The most serious
consequences of the Joint Account System, however, were felt when cotton
yields fell at the same time as other crops such as sorghum, groundnuts and
wheat became increasingly Important. These other crops are privately
marketed, and the corporation could not recover input costs at sale.
Land and water costs for these crops therefore had to be recovered from
cotton revenues. Cotton, bearing the burden of these other charges, became
less and less attractive to tenants, who increasingly devoted more
attention to other crops and off-farm activities, while corporations were
unable to cover maintenance costs and replace equipment. Declining exports
also led to shortages of the foreign exchange needed to buy spare parts and
inputs. Inputs were delivered late, cultivation techniques deteriorated,
and yields of all crops fell. Also, the producer price of cotton was held
low by the Government to maximize short-term budgetary revenues in the face
of a weak fiscal base strained for cash to finance new investments.
32.      Emerging Technical Production Problems. The cropping system
originally introduced in the irrigated areas in the 1920s has changed
dramatically. The old system was based on long staple cotton, with sorghum
as a food crop for those producers with adequate water, land and labor to
grow it.  The present system is more intensive and diversified and includes
*P    medium staple cotton, groundnuts, sorghum, wheat, and vegetables.
Competition for labor and field services, mainly in the period between
September and December, developed gradually as the system became
establisbed and water shortages becae common, partly because canals were
not regularly cleaned, and partly because of the competing labor demands of
the various crops at times of peak water usage. In addition, because soil
management was not appropriately modified as the intensified cropping
system was introduced, problems of soil fertility, water distribution and
drainage emerged. Infestation by cotton pests, mainly white fly (Bemisia
tabaci), recently reached crisis proportions, causing reduction in yields
and lint quality. A large proportion of Sudan cotton produced between
1982-1984 was sold at 25 percent below world market price because of poor
quality and sticky lint caused by the white fly. With less land in fallow,
and higher chemical input use, costly input/output imbalances have
appeared.



- 10 -
33.       The effect of all of these factors was a sharp decline in the
volume of exports of Sudan's traditional cash crops, extra long staple
cotton, sesame and groundnuts. The annual export volume of these three
crops averaged only 81,000 tons, 41,000 tons and 43,000 tons respectively
during the 1979-81 period, compared to 168,000 tons, 70,000 tons and 99,000
tons in 1972-74. Only because the terms of trade were in Sudan's favor
during the period, both for cotton and for oilseeds, was the decline in
value not more dramatic. Nevertheless, this reduction in agricultural
exports played a major part in Sudan's current economic difficulties.
34.       Strategy for Revival of Agricultural Exports.  Recognizing the
severity of the problem, the Government. with the help of the Bank, drew up
the Export Action Program (EAP) in 1980 designed to restore production to
the levels of the early 1970s. The EAP contained provisions for: (i)
urgently needed investments in spare parts, machinery and equipment in
order to arrest the decapitalization which has plagued the sub-sector; (ii)
allocation of foreign exchange to finance larger imports of current inputs;
(iii) a series of rehabilitation projects, with IDA support, to be carried
out in the 1980s, principally in the major agricultural schemes where
cotton is grown; and (iv) policy reforms and other actions such as
institutional reforms, support for research and extension, and revision of
the incentive systems intended to stimulate greater production.
35.       In line with the strategy embodied in the EAP, IDA financed
projects for the rehabilitation of the New Halfa (Credit 1022-SU), Blue
Nile Pump (Credit 1118-SU), and White Nile Pump (Credit 1119-SU) schemes.
Another IDA credit, to finance the rehabilitation of the Gezira irrigated
areas, was signed in August 1983, but only became effective in May 1985 due
to problems with cofinancing. A Sugar Rehabilitation Project, for the four
sugar units in the public sector, was signed in August 1984. All
rehabilitation projects include measures to improve management
capabilities, such as the design of regular work programs and improved
financial management, technical assistance and training.
36.       Results Achieved. The Export Action Program has reversed the
downward slide in production and productivity in the irrigated sub-sector.
After a further decline in 1980/81, cotton production in the irrigated
areas increased 59 percent in 1981/82 compared to the previous year,
another 23 percent in 1982/83 compared to 1981/82, and another 10 percent
in 1983/84 compared to 1982/83. Yields have increased for all the major
crops (cotton, groundnuts and sorghum). In the Gezira, for example, yields
of long and medium staple cotton have increased from 2.1 kantars/feddan
(k/fd) and 3.9 klfd, respectively, in 1980/81 to 4.2 k/fd and 5.8 klfd in
1983/84, representing 90 and 49 percent increases. These yields are back
to earlier historical levels, and reflect not only measures taken in the
context of the Government's Export Action Program as outlined above, but
also the much improved availability of critical inputs--water, seeds,
fertilizers, pesticides and machinery services. To sustain these
accomplishments and to raise production to higher levels, however, further
changes have to be made in the role and responsibilities of farmers, and
production technologies need to be upgraded.



- 11 -
Institutional Arrangements
37.       The Aaricultural Research Corporation (ARC). Agricultural
research in Sudan began with the establishment of the Shambat Research
Station in 1905 to investigate cotton production. With the expansion of
the irrigated sub-sector in the 1960's, a network of regional stations,
sub-stations and experimental sites (17 in total) was established,
covering the main agro-climatic and production zones of the irrigated
sector. Facilities at these stations have subsequently deteriorated and
some of the experimental sites have been discontinued for lack of adequate
financial support. Currently, the sub-stations can not attract qullified
research scientists because of inadequate housing and working
conditions; and there is now an imbalanced distribution of qualif.ed
research personnel. Farm and lab equipment is also aging and in need of
replacement if the research programs of the stations are to be
revitalized.
38.       ARC is relatively well staffed and employs 276 qualified
researchers supported by 483 field technicians. More than 70 percent of the
staff serve the irrigated areas.   The technician-to-scientist ratio of
nearly 2:1 is relatively high when compared with other developing
countries. Resources for conducting research, however, are inadequate.
In recent years, the bulk of ARC's constrained budget has gone toward
salaries, leaving inadequate funds available for other operating
expenditures. The effects of this decline in operating expenditures have
included the curtailment of field trials because of vehicle and fuel
shortages, discontinued subscriptions to scientific journals, unimplemented
research proposals, deteriorating lab facilities, and a paucity of spare
parts and farm equipment. At the same time, Sudanese scientists returning
from overseas training have increased the demand for office and housing
accommodation and work budgets, adding pressure to an already weakened
system. Salaries have remained low and this has led many trained
researchers to seek work opportunities outside Sudan. There is a
particular lack of well-trained agricultural economists, which has meant
that little attention has been given to evaluation of tenants' input
choices. Lack of a consistent economic perspective on research has
resulted in serious flaws in ARC recommendations to farmers.
39.       Future Orientation.  Research objectives should be kept modest
and attainable, and should be concerned primarily with achieving clearly
defined targets which give stress to the needs of producers. A strong
emphasis on adaptive investigations of new technologies is a high
priority. Future strategies should aim to bind all aspects of crop
management and production (including plant protection and integrated pest
management) into a cohesive research program.
40.       The National Extension Administration (NEA).  NEA is one of the
seven central directorates of Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
(MOAI). It is well staffed with over 120 specialists with university
degrees. Since the decision in 1981 to regionalize all agricultural
services, the extension management responsibility of NEA has gradually been
passed to the various regional Ministries of Agriculture, along with some



- 12 -
70 of NEA's former field staff. The effect of regionalization on NEA has
been to exclude it from the direct implementation of extension programs;
its role is now largely confined to providing advice and support to these
regional efforts. The attraction of NEA in the context of the proposed
project is that it consists of a group of skilled extension methodologists
and technicians. If strengthened, NEA could be entrusted to provide the
guidance and technical support which will be needed by the irrigated
corporations as they begin to redefine their extension approach.
41.       Agricultural Extension in Rahad and New Haifa, Agricultural
Production Corporations (APCs). Due to the APCs' overwhelming concern with
cotton production and the centrally-managed nature of this enterprise,
their field staffs have always been preoccupied with direct management
functions rather than with the provision of technical advice to tenants.
Given the severe problems faced by the APCs in providing machinery and
other inputs, it is not surprising that educating tenants was given low
priority, particularly in the case of the non-cotton crops;  yields for
these crops have been even further from their potential than for cotton.
As the IDA-financed rehabilitation projects have begun to provide machinery
and inputs crises, and as the incentives to cotton producers have improved,
it has become clearer to the APC managers that there is a strong residual
need to improve tenants' crop husbandry if high and stable yields of all
crops are to be achieved. Attempts at developing extension services in the
APCs to date have not involved any substantive attention to the role of the
field inspectors, the key corporation staff at field level. Extension
initiatives have either resulted in the establishment of a second line of
field staff in addition to the inspectorate, or in the creation of
specialist extension unit at APC headquarters. Neither of these approaches
has met with any tangible success.
42.       In conjunction with an IDA-supported study which has defined a
new role for the the field inspectorates, the Government of Sudan is
beginning to introduce the Training and Visit Agriculture Extension (T&V)
methodology into the APCs, in such a way as to build upon the strong
managerial structure of the inspectorate and its system of field
supervision. For the first time, a systematic extension program involving
the field inspectors will be initiated. This should result in superior
husbandry techniques being transferred from ARC research stations to
tenants, and in the transfer of profitable practices from the better to the
less competent or aware farmers.
43.       Agricultural Training.  Sudan has successfully established
agricultural schools and colleges capable of satisfying the country's
immediate numerical needs for agriculturally trained manpower. The
structure of the agricultural sector, however, is changing, and with it the
staff requirements, particularly in the APCs which require new sets of
skills for the 1980's. Little as yet has been done to assess the ability
of the training system to meet the growing needs in some disciplines, and
the changing needs in others.  The quality of higher agricultural training



- 13 -
needs to be substantially improved by strengthening field studies, and
adding economics, farm management and extension courses. There will
continue to be a major need for in-service training in the above fields for
graduates entering the APC8. This training should be developed and
implemented according to a regular analysis of APC.' heeds.
44.       None of the existiag agricultural institutions in Sudan has
developed a capacity for planning and conducting systematic in-service
training programs for the 950 agricultural personnel already employed by
the APCs. Although 65 percent of these officers have a university degree
in agriculture, only 2 percent have received any training in agricultural
economics, extension or farm management, yet they are expected to manage
the production of 6,000-7,000 fd each. The staff of all the APC Economic
Departments are poorly qualified. As a result, these departments have
contributed little in the way of providing financial and economic data on
the costs and benefits of newly introduced chemicals and farm inputs.
Despite the rapid changes in production technology (associated with the
introduction of new herbicides, insecticides, new farm machinery, seeds,
and fertilizers), little has been done to update the technical knowledge or
field skills of these officers. A special effort should be made to
establish in-service training programs for the APCs' field staff so as to
meet these needs.
45.       The University of Gezira (UG). The University of Gezira can play
a significant role in addressing the corporations' needs for qualified
field personnel and in upgrading the qualifications of the field
inspectors, agricultural managers and planners. This, however, has not
been possible up to now because the University is in its formative stage
and its teaching and in-service training policies are being developed and
defined, its staff is inadequate, its facilities and equipment are not yet
developed, and it is short on teaching materials. If supported, however,
UG can provide in-service training through the Faculties o.' Agricultural
Sciences and Economics and Rural Development, both of which are located at
Nisheishiba near the town of Wad Medani, the center of the irrigated area.
IV - THE PROJECT
Project Origin.
46.       Several Sudanese officials, including the Managing Directors of
three APCs and the Director of NEA, visited India to learn about the Indian
experience in strengthening links between research, extension and training,
and to assess the suitability of the Training and Visit (T&V) System of
agricultural extension to Sudanese conditions. A Bank identification
mission visited Sudan in February 1983 to identify the extension components
of the proposed project. Another mission, in cooperation with the Arab
Fund for Economic and Social Development, visited Sudan in March 1983 to
review the status of research and to identify the needs of ARC. The
findings of these missions were discussed with GOS, which agreed to appoint



- 14 -
a special committee to prepare a project to support research, extension and
training in the irrigated subsector. The proposed project was prepared by
the Sudanese Government. In April 1984, a task force was appointed by the
Government to assess the present and future role of APC agricultural
inspectors. The project was appraised in April 1984. A report entitled
"Agricultural Research, Extension and Training in the Irrigated
Subsector, "Staff Appraisal Report, No. 5320-SU dated November 13, 1985 is
being distributed separately. Processing of the project was delayed due to
the financial crisis and government changes in Sudan. Negotiations were
held in Washington, D.C. from October 16-18, 1985.  The Sudanese delegation
was led by Dr. E.A.A. Zaki, Under Secretary, Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning.
Project Rationale, Objectives and Description
47.       As the rehabilitation projects (para. 35) are implemented,
support for research and extension becomes the next logical step through
which further increases in yields and production stability can be
realized. The proposed project would support research to address the
technical production problems which have emerged as a result of increasing
intensification of cropping systems. By introducing the T&V extension
system, the proposed project would assist the corporations to convert the
inspectorate system into an extension service for all crops in the
rotation. Finally, in order to provide adequate training for staff working
in the irrigated sub-sector, the proposed project would assist the
University of Gezira (UG) to establish in-service agricultural training
programs and post-graduate studies in agricultural extension and
economics. Our proposed support for agricultural research, training and
extension accords with our overall strategy of assisting the Government to
increase production in the agricultural sector, which accounts for the bulk
of production and employment in Sudan and offers the best opportunity for
generating further economy-wide growth.
48.       The proposed project would provide support to the core research
programs in irrigated agriculture, strengthen the National Extension
Administration, establish a training unit at the University of Gezira, and
initiate extension activities at Rahad and New Halfa APCs. Adequate funds
would be provided for civil works, vehicles, farm equipment, laboratory
equipment, training, technical assistance and operating expenses.
Agricultural Research (US$16.0 million)
49.       This element of the project would support the core research
programs on irrigated agriculture through the provision of civil works,
vehicles, farm equipment, laboratory equipment, training, technical
assistance and operating expenses at ARC's headquarters, and on the
regional research stations, sub-stations and field testing sites financed
by the project. The project would strengthen the regional stations at
Shambat, Gezira, Rahad, Sennar and New Haifa, and the Shendi and Soba
substations. The provision of modernized facilities would allow each of
these stations to gainfully employ a critical mass of scientists and
technicians and would enable the program of research to be expanded to



- 15 -
cover problems now facing farmers in the irrigated areas more adequately.
Specifically, research on agricultural economics, farming systems and
integrated pest management would be expanded and adaptive research at field
testing sites would be increased with a view to producing extension
packages. ARC would carry out a well-defined research program for
integrated pest management, with the support of consultants acceptable to
the Association.
50.       Civil works (US$6.0 million).  These would include new living
accommodation (18 houses for senior scientists, 53 houses for technicians
and 11 rest houses and 9 apartments), laboratories, offices, stores,
glasshouses, garages and field laboratories; a small combined
library/seminar room would be built at Shambat and Rahad stations. As part
of the general improvement of research support facilities at Gezira
Research Station, a Plant Introduction Laboratory and a Quality Laboratory
would be constructed, with adjacent offices and cold stores. The project
would finance station development at all research stations. This would
include fencing, laud leveling, water channel rehabilitation and overhead
water tanks and piping. To enable ARC to provide centralized support
services for the agricultural research stations, a library/seminar complex
would be built at ARC headquarters at Gezira. An equipment maintenance and
repair facility would also be provided to enable ARC to hold spare parts
and repair facilities for laboratory equipment.
51.       Vehicles, Machinery and Laboratory Equipment (US$4.4 million)
would be provided to enable the research stations to function properly and
to enable scientists to visit off-station experimental sites regularly.
Cultivation and harvesting equipment including 14 tractors and associated
agricultural implements would be provided, including small plot equipment.
The obsolete ginning machinery at Gezira Research Station would be replaced
with six smallscale roller gins and one saw-gin. Laboratories and other
equipment would be provided to the regional research stations under the
project for basic general research purpose use.
52.       As part of the analytical support services for agricultural
research, the ARC Economics Section would be provided with two
mini-computers together with the necessary software to enable the section
to collate and analyze economic and field data. Printing and duplicating
equipment would be provided to the Communications Unit at ARC headquarters
and both funds would be available to purchase books and periodicals for the
ARC library.
53.       Technical Assistance and Training (US$1.8 million).  Funds would
be provided to strengthen interaction between scientists in Sudan and
expert technicians from other countries and international agricultural
research centers, especially in areas such as integrated pest management,
crop improvement and farming systems research. 72 man-months of short-term
consultancies would be provided in the following areas: (a) research
management and administration (24 mn-months); (b) integrated pest control
(24 man-months) (this is in addition to 60 man-months to be directly
financed by the Swiss and British governments); and (c) program review and



- 16 -
assessment of on-going research on crop improvement and farming system (24
man-months). Because sufficient staff are not available in plant
pathology, grassland agronomy, agricultural engineering and agricultural
economics, twelve MSc. training fellowships in these disciplines would be
provided to existing ARC staff. Of these, four fellowships would be
offered at the University of Gezira (plant pathology) and eight at overseas
universities (agricultural engineering, economics and grassland agronomy).
Funds would also be provided to enable 18 researchers to visit overseas
research stations, which are expected to cooperate with Sudanese research
programs on faba beans, maize, groundnut, sorghum and wheat.
54.       Adaptive Research, On-Farm Testing, and Research Grant Schemes
(US$3.9 million). The project would finance the incremental operating
costs at the agricultural research stations concerned. The operating costs
would be raised to a level which allows for the efficient use of the
manpower available. Under the research grant schemes, funds would be made
available to support research proposals on salient production problems and
would assist ARC to strengthen scientific linkages with other universities
and research institutions especially in conducting joint research programs.
Each ARC regional station would appoint, by no later than March 31, 1986,
one agronomist to be responsible for maintaining strong linkages between
research and extension. The Economics Department at ARC should be capable
of collecting seasonal data on the production cost of all crops, for use in
calculating the producer prices that the Government establishes annually.
The Government will announce the prices of cotton by no later than December
1 of each year and prices of wheat by no later than November 1 of each
year. These prices would be based on the criteria acceptable to the
Association and on information provided by the economic research unit of
ARC. Because the research stations at New Halfa, Rahad and Sennar are
closely associated with APCs and conduct research on topics of interest to
the farmers operating in conjunction with the APCs, the project would
propose that operating costs at these stations should be financed by the
respective APCs. This arrangement would ensure sustainability of funds for
adaptive and field testing research activities at these stations. Formal
agreements, satisfactory to the Association, detailing funding and planning
of research activities at each of these stations would be signed by the
research stations and the concerned APCs by no later than March 31, 1986.
The National Extension Administration (NEA) (US$2.6 million)
55.       Re-Organization and Strengthening of NEA.  Under the project, NEA
would be revitalized through the creation of a new division devoted to
extension support activities in the APCs, and through the provision of
equipment, technical assistance and training for the new division and for
other existing units of NEA. The new division in NEA would be headed by an
officer with the rank of Deputy Director, with qualifications and
experience acceptable to IDA. His appointment was confirmed at
negotiations. The division would consist of three sections, each staffed
by a small number of carefully selected extension professionals. Each new
section would be advised by an expert during its initial phase of



- 17 -
operation. The Field Supervision Nethods Section would provide guidance to
the APC inspectorates on the managerial and supervisory aspects of the T&V
system; the Extension Training Section would assist the APCs, ARC and UG
with extension orientation and technical training; and the Nonitoring and
Evaluation Section would advise the APCs on how to establish and maintain
their own internal extension monitoring and evaluation systems.
56.       Technical Assistance, Training, and Incremental Operating Costs
(US$2.0 million). Technical assistance would consist of one expert for each
of the three sections in NEA's new division (a total of 96 man-months), and
a communications expert for the Agricultural Information and Culture
Division (6 man-months). Training fellowships abroad would also be
offered. Incremental field supervision and operating costs would be
financed under the project.
Extension at Rahad and New Halfa
Agricultural Production Corporations (US$4.4 million)
57.       The proposed project would support the introduction of a T&V-type
extension methodology in the Rahad and New Halfa APCs. A coherent system
for identifying extension recommendations, transmitting them to farmers,
and evaluating their impact would be established in the two APCs, and would
be replicated in the other major irrigated APCs. This would involve
redefining the job descriptions ef APC inspectors and of certain other APC
staff, instituting regular technical training for inspectors, improving
working level contacts between them and local ARC researchers, and
providing expert extension advisory services to each corporation through
NEA. The reforms to be introduced into the field inspectorates are the
result of work done between June 1984 and March 1985 by a joint IDA-APC
Task Force. The Government would implement the revised job descriptions
for the APC field staff, as agreed upon between the Government and the
Association, in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the
Association. The principal actors in the new extension system would be the
field inspectors, whose visiting schedules would be regularized and adapted
to the requirements of genuine extension work. Implementation of the
program will require the construction of training, office and audio-visual
production facilities at Rahad and New Halfa headquarters, and a limited
quantity of staff housing (US$1.5 million). Vehicles for extension field
work and audio-visual equipment would also be needed (US$1.2 million). In
addition, training and incremental operating costs would be financed under
the proposed project (US$1.7 million).
Training at the University of Gezira (US$4.6 million)
58.       To strengthen institutional capabilities, assistance would be
provided under the project to upgrade the institutional capabilities of UG
in organizing and conducting agricultural in-service and post-graduate
studies. Under the project, funds would be provided to establish a unit to
conduct a systematic and regularly monitored job-related training
program for the 950 field personnel of the APCs and the 450 ARC field
technicians. The Training Unit would employ four full-time professional
staff specializing in training, curricula development and the production of
educational and training materials and publications. They would operate



- 18 -
under the supervision of the Dean of the Faculty of Agricultural Sciences
(FAS). The Government confirmed at negotiations the establishment of the
Unit and appointment of staff. Under the proposed project, offices and
library facilities would be provided as needed; up-to-date books and
journals and audio-visual equipment would also be purchased in order to
strengthen the teaching, research and training in agriculture and
economics.
59.       In addition, the project would provide a range of standard and
advanced laboratory equipment which will enable the Faculty of Agricultural
Science to furnish and strengthen the laboratories needed for post graduate
extension-related research and training for the corporation's staff, in
agro-ecology, fertilizer/soil/water relationships, herbicides, and residual
impact of chemicals on soils and crops. The project will also provide farm
machinery and resources to develop 200 fd of the 2,000 fd University Farm
in order that trainees gain hands-on practical farm waork experience. A
qualified farm director supported by two assistant farm managers would be
appointed by March 31, 1986. In addition to the institutional support,
assistance would be provided (US$1.5 million) to the University of Gezira
to establish an in-service training program capable of annually training,
in short courses (2-6 weeks), about 120 of the corporation's field staff
and 25 technicians from ARC research staff.
Project Implementation (US$1.3 million)
60.       Overall project implementation would be carried out and
coordinated by the Project Management Unit (PMU) established in MOA for the
project. The Unit would be supported by a project manager specializing in
research management and administration, a qualified accountant, a senior
bookkeeper, a procurement specialist, and two secretaries. The PMU would
engage specialists to administer the civil works program. In order to
speed project implementation, appointment of the above staff and
preparation of project civil works designs and specification and
procurement documentation will be financed under the PPF.
61.       Organization and Management.  While the PMK  would be the
coordinating agency for the implementation of this project, responsibility
for management and implementation of the individual components (research at
ARC, extension at NEA, RARCO and NRAPC, and training at UG) would be
devolved to each of the project entities.   Project components would be
implemented in accordance with annual work programs and budgets acceptable
to IDA for each of the above organizations.
62.       Mid-Term Review.  A mid-term review of each of the project
components would be carried out jointly by GOS and IDA no later than
January 31, 1989.  The mid-term review would include the recruitment of
international experts to review the performance of each project entity and
to assess the future requirements of the research, extension and training
programs.
63.       Annual Work Programs.  Annual work programs (AWPs) would be
prepared by each organization financed by the project. PHU would be
responsible for synthesizing these AWPs for the purpose of producing a



- 19 -
Project Annual Work Program. To strengthen the management capabilities of
the regional stations, assurances were obtained at negotiations that by no
later than March 31, 1986, a specialist in research management would be
recruited for two years for the project entities. The AWPs would provide a
key project implementation mechanism. Each would include (i) a review of
progress in the current year; (ii) a detailed description of the work to be
performed in the forthcoming year, including objectives, deployment of
equipment and staff; (iii) requirements cf additional staff, equipment and
fuel; (iv) a budget; and (v) a financing plan including foreign and local
currency needs and subventions required from GOS. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the annual work programs would be prepared by the
project entities and submitted to the Association for approval by no later
than April 30, 1986, and by no later than May 1 of each year for the
subsequent fiscal years.
64.       Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting would be the responsibility
of the PMU, under the supervision of the Steering Committee. Monitoring
and evaluation would be carried out principally through the Annual Work
Program mechanism and the proposed mid-term review.  In addition, under the
Project, independent consultants in research, extension and training would
be recruited annually to assess the performance of each project entity.
PMU will furnish IDA with quarterly progress reports in a format
satisfactory to IDA. It would also prepare the Project Completion Report
no later than six months after completion of the Project.
Project Cost Estimate and Financing
65.       The Project cost is estimated at US$$38.0 million including taxes
and duties of about US$5.2 million. The foreign exchange component is
estimated at US$20.1 million, or 61 percent of the total net project cost.
A detailed breakdown of costs is given in the Credit and Project Summary.
Project investment costs would be US$27.3 million wVile incremental
operating costs would amount to US$10.6 million.
66.       Following appraisal, cost estimates were revised to March 1985
prices and subsequently updated to September 30, 1985 baseline price
levels reflecting value fluctuations resulting from local and international
inflation during the project period. Physical contingency rates on project
components are 10 percent for all items except for the Research Grant, the
professional fees associated with civil works financed under the PPF, and
training for which a specific amount is allocated, for which no physical
contingencies are provided. Price contingencies for local costs have been
estimated at 25 percent in 1986, 18.7 percent for 1987, 16 percent for
1988, 15 percent for 1989 and thereafter. For foreign costs, price
contingencies have been estimated at 7.5 percent for 1986, and 8 percent
for 1987 and thereafter.
67.       An advance of US$0.7 million from the Project Preparation
Facility has been approved to cover the costs of (a) technical assistance
to prepare design documenzs and specifications, and to let (but not award)
contracts for civil works; to prepare plans for repairing existing
scientific equipment, establish a repair and maintenance facility and
review lists of additional requirements; (b) technical assistance to



- 20 -
prepare appropriate procurement packages for all project laboratory and
scientific equipment, vehicles and agricultural equipment; (c) providing
0.8 man-years of technical assistance for the NEA; and (d) appointing,
training and arranging study visits for the Project Manager.
68.       The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 20.8 million (US$22 million) would
finance about 67 percent of the total project cost, net of taxes and
duties, including all of the foreign exchange costs and about US$1.9
million equivalent (9 percent) of the local costs. The Government would
ftnance US$15.2 million equivalent of the local costs, plus taxes and
dutles. The Government would make available as grants about US$19.2
million of the IDA credit to ARC, NEA, and UG.  The balance of US$2.8 would
be passed on equity and grant basis to NHAPC and RAHCO. The amounts to be
provided on each basis will be set out in the agreed Project Annual Work
Programs.
Procurement
69.       Procurement of civil works comprising construction of houses,
other accommodations, other structures and site improvements and totalling
US$10.7 million would be packaged into a single contract. This will be
subdivided into 7 parts on the basis of geographical location and procured
by ICB (which would allow local firms to participate) in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Bidders would be invited to bid for any one or multiple
awards. The contract would then be awarded to those bidders (or that
bidder) whose individual bid for each package produces the lowest
aggregate evaluated bid for the entire contract. Qualifying domestic
contractors would receive a 7 1/2 percent preference over bid prices of
competing foreign contractors.
70.       Goods.  Vehicles, tracrors, tractor implements, other
agricultural machinery, workshop, audio-visual, office, library equipment
and initial spares totalling US$3.3 million will be grouped in appropriate
bidding packages and procured by ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive a preference of 15
percent. Small items to be purchased in limited quantities and costing
less than US$30,000 each will be procured by local shopping (LS) with at
least three price quotations for a maximum total amount of US$300,000. For
reasons of standardization and to accommodate existing lab facilities,
laboratory and scientific equipment including small experimental plot and
repair center equipment and initial spares will be procured under limited
international bidding procedures. Furniture which will be procured for
buildings located in scattered locations will be done by local shopping
with at least three price quotations.
71.       Others.  The agricultural training program of a total cost of
US$2.9 million equivalent including contingencies will be administered by
the University of Gezira. Consultants (US$ 2.1 million) will be selected
in accordance with World Bank Guidelines. Projects to be financed by the
Research Grant (US$ 1.6 million) would be selected by the ARC Technical
Committee and those costing more than US$30,000 would be subject to IDA
review prior to formal approval by ARC. Subscriptions to periodicals and
books for research, extension and training of a total cost of US$ 0.5
million equivalent will be done by direct purchase from overseas



- 21 -
suppliers. The balance of project costs consists of incremental operating
costs comprising salaries, per diem for training, vehicle and tractor spare
parts, fuel and services, building and other maintenance, labor and inputs
for on-farm trials, international travel, and conferences, for which
procurement is inapplicable.
72.       Contract Review by IDA.  All ICB and LIT bidding packages,
technical assistance contracts and all contracts valued at US$30,000
would be subject to prior review by IDA. The balance of contracts would be
subject to random post review by IDA after contract award.
Disbursement
73.       The proceeds of the IDA credit will be disbursed over a period of
seven years. The Association will disburse against: (i) 45 percent of
total cost for civil works; (ii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures, and
100 percent of local expenditures for items procured locally (ex-factory)
and 64 percent of local cost of other items procured locally, for vehicles
and agricuitural and laboratory equipment, machinery, spare parts, and
installation of electrical works; (iii) 100 percent of total cost for
training ard technical assistance; (iv) 85 percent of total cost for
research grants, and (v) 55 percent of total cost for services and field
work. During the project period, the proceeds of the credit would also
cover a gradually decreasing percentage of the local component of the
incremental operating costs averaging 55 percent during the Project life.
Disbursement against all items would be based on full documentation except
in the case of PMU, operating costs, contracts for goods and services
valued below US$20,000 which would only require statements of expenditure.
The PHU will be strengthened and qualified accountants and bookkeepers
would be added to it in order to establish each project entitiest project
related accounts.
74.       It is expected that the project will be completed on June 30,
1992 and the closing date of the credit will be June 30, 1993. Under the
proposed project, it is estimated that 50 percent of the credit will be
disbursed by the end of the fourth year, 75 percent by the end of the sixth
year and the balance by the closing date. This shorter disbursement period
of seven years is assumed relative to the disbursement experience for
agricultural sector credits in EAP countries in FY70-80 because of the
steps to be financed under the PPF.
75.       To facilitate timely disbursements, the Government will open a
Special Account in the Bank of Sudan on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association. The Association, at the request of the Government,
will deposit into the account an initial sum of SDR 250,000 which will be
used to finance eligible expenditures under the project. The account will
be replenished by the Association on the basis of documentation evidencing
eligible expenditures. The opening of the special account will be a
condition of effectiveness.



- 22 -
Accounts and Audits
76.       The project entities would maintain separate project-related
accounts. Each entity would provide annual financial statements to reflect
the financial performance and position of its project components and PMU
would prepare a set of consolidated project accounts. Audited financial
statements would be submitted to the Association not later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year. The Auditor General is, by law, the
auditor of project entities and has been accepted by IDA in other recent
Credits as an independent auditor. The quality of the Auditor General's
Staff is adequate to carry out the annual audits of all project entities
but the number and size of each project entity and the current backlog of
work is such that the increased workload placed on his staff as a result of
this project would make it unlikely that these audits could be carried out
on a timely basis in the future. At the same time, the project is only
financing a portion of every project entity's total activities. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations to reserve for the Association the right, at
its discretion, to request an independent audit of any one or more of the
project entities if such an audit is reasonably needed to clarify the
position of a project component within a project entity relative to project
objectives and/or legal documents and the Auditor General is unable to meet
such a request within the framework required by IDA.
Envirormental Impact
77.       The project would have substantial positive effects on the
environment. By supporting research on integrated pest management, the
project would reduce the possible negative impact of chemicals currently
being used for pests and weed control in the irrigated areas. Also, the
research program would support the improvement of forage and fodder
production which could provide additional supplies of animal feed and
consequently reduce pressure on land and reduce overgrazing. No farm
inputs of significant quantities are proposed under the project and
therefore no environmental damage should result from the project.
Benefits
78.       The main benefit would come from developing and refining
production technology designed to increase yields for all crops in the
rotation.  The proposed project would result in increased crop production
through the development of efficient agricultural technology and the
improvement of APC extension services to the tenants. The skills and
knowledge of existing field personnel will also be upgraded to respond to
the corporations' changing needs, tenants evolving problems and
demand for advanced and economically viable technologies. Initially APC
production would increase as more tenants employ recommended technologies
already known but not efficiently implemented or adequately adopted.
Additional increases, but at a much slower rate, would result as new
technologies are developed and accepted by tenants. Major project benefits
would be reflected in increasing production of food crops and income from
cash crops to a large portion of the farming population, mainly the
smallholders and poor farmers in the irrigated schemes. Because the direct



- 23 -
impact of technological innovation cannot be predicted, no attempt is made
to quantify the results of introducing new production technologies either
before or after project completion.
79.       An additional major benefit of the proposed training component
under the project would be to promote agricultural development by
increasing the supply of well-trained agricultural officers. The training
component will upgrade the skills of existing agricultural technicians and
prepare qualified staff for leadership roles in farm management;
strengthen the University of Gezira not only as an academic institution,
but as a center for continuous training and research in the irrigated
subsector; and will develop curricula and teaching materials which could be
utilized to strengthen field extension training.
Risks
80.       There is a risk that the links between the five entities
supported by the project will remain weak, which would impede effective
project implementation. Particular attention would therefore be paid to
ensuring joint planning, programming and monitoring of project components.
This task would be the responsibility of the Steering Committee and the
PMU.
81.       There is a risk that research projects financed by the Project
may not be fully responsive or relevant to the production problems facing
farmers. This Droblem is being addressed under the Project by supporting
regional stations' interaction with farmers and field production
personnel. Another problem is the ability of ARC and/or the willingness of
qualified scientists to move to the outer stations to support this proposed
regional research strategy. This problem is being addressed under the
project by providing adequate housing, transport, work facilities, and by
miadernizing existing experimental stations.
82.       There is a risk that NEA may not develop sufficient expertise in
T&V matters to be able to offer the corporations a truly useful set of
services. To these ends, TDA would review the qualifications and
experience of the NEA Deputy Director selected to head the new department
and would advise the Government regarding the recruitment of suitable T&V
experts. A joint IDA/GOS progress assessment of NEA's T&V work would be
conducted at the end of 1987 to assist with implementation.
83.       There is a feeling among APC staff that a strong emphasis on
extension may (through a lack of attention by the inspectorate to their
previous managerial, administrative and regulatory tasks) result in a drop
in efficiency in corporation services, and a loss of corporation authority
over tenants. This perception could lead to senior corporation staff



- 24 -
resisting readefinitions of inspectors' roles. These misgivings (shared
also by more junior inspectors) are in part the result of confusion over
what organizational adjustments wilL be entailed by the introduction of a
T&V-type methodology. The Government declded to set up the IDA/APC Task
Force to elaborate the exact details of the new roles of Field and Block
Inspectors partly in response to this confusion. The Task Force's work has
acted as a form of orientation, and has dispelled the doubts of many senior
APC officers.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
84.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments:
November 12, 1985



- 25 -
AnnexI
T A A L 8 IA                                     *^CS I
SIID^IIANL                               - A                   P8131tA
suDAN                 - SOCtAL tNo1C     DATA Sl T
SUDAN                             ENM6   GWOlP5 &muIN  Awalumm1  la
No                      (N    W     33?Dm ua  )In
191,/b     1970Lib wawr J T1                LAL          FUC S. 0t S
MA  (Dll 9. 0'
TOTAL                            2505.6     2305.8     2503.
ACKLCULUXAL                       647.0      677.0        .5
GM   UcaI  (M)                         ..         ..       400.0             236.8                   1063.8
IM  inriTw  li CAPITA
c(aLoUS or oIL lqIlVAILT)         40.0       11.0       70.0              62.3                    501.5
1133Lam  Am6 vITAE UTA?18T
POPULAfIONID-TEM  (ITISANIOS)  11165.0    13353.0    20607.0
URA PoMLATION CZ OF TOTAL)         10.3       16.4       20.2              20.1                    32.0
POPULATION P7.K10UNS
POPULATIM In TM  2000 (ILL)                            33.4
STATIONAIL POPULATION CHILL)                          102.0
POPULATION MONEY                                        1.9
POPULATION oNSm
PER sq. IN.                      '.5         3.5        8.3              33.2                    85.1
PEr So. IN. Acrt. LA             16.7       20.5       29.5             112.8                    124.8
PoPmUATX  AcZ SrTUCU (Z)
0-14 tRS                        U3.6       43.7       46.9              46.0                    43.
15-644 YS                       53.2        53.3       52.2              30.8                    51.5
65 AND AIM                       3.1         2.9        2.7               2.9                     2.7
POPLJATIN GIOUrI KATZ CZ)
TOTAL                             1.9        2.2        3.1               2.0                     2.6
UlNR                             6.S9        .8         6.3               6.4                     5.1
CR1UD1 WER  RATt {m TMalS)        47.0        47.0       46.               47.2                    47.0
c-=ID DRsAI RATE (PuR TOWS)       25.4        22.1       17.4              17.8                    15.0
Goss UzPu.0CTtOII am               3.3         3.3        3.2               3.3           -         3.2
FAMLY PLAJINIRG
A'CC.SQS. AAL (Tuows)            ..
USSC z or ARRIDON)                ..         .      5        /c.d         3.J                     6.4
INDIC 0 *000 PRDD. PER CAPrTA
(1949-71-100)                     92.0       100.0       66.0               3.3                    62.
Pit CAPITA, SUPPLY OF
CALORES (0or 3QUT3UTS)          60.0        92.0       92.0              67.7                    *0.S
PIOUDSIS 0CG      PERDAT)       61.0        4.0        61.0              51.9          S5.4
Or WHIC AlNMAL AIM PUILS        24.0       22.0       21.0 I/           16.7                     16-.
CamLD (ACZS 1-4)  AEM  mATE       42.0        32.0       19.0              23.1                    16.6
LU   DCPcT. AT SIM  (TAlS)        38.7       *1A         41.0              47.A                    52.0
DrANT HURT. RATE (M  wMS)        169.0       150.5      117.0             119.5                  IlO.
ACCESS TO SAn VA621 (%POP)
TOIAL                             ..        19.0       46.0 /f           27.1                    42.4
URBAN                             ..        61.0      4*.o 7             63.5                    67.5
URIAL                            ..         13.0       4A. 7!            19.3                    35J.
ACCESS TO nCTA DISPOSAL
CZ OF POULTION)
TOTAL                             ..        16.0       17. If            26.5                    20.9
04                                ..         ..        83.07'            65.4                    37.7
IURAL                             ..         ..         ..               2.6                     20.7
POPULATION Pu PTSICII           33230.0    14070.0     6930.0 4         27201.7                  11791.7
POP. PER NIJPSC P011            3010.0 /b  1720.0      1430.0            330U.4                   239.8
POP. P2 HOSPITAL NM
TOTAL                           970.0 IL   920.0 /I  1050.0 if         12734                     J1.1
1118AM                          130.0 79s. 190.0 71!  370.0 7'          420.2                     JA
MMAL                           4370.0 7K? 5130.0 7IL  1670.0 7         3292.3                   4571.9
ASSSIONS PuR ESPITL  M              ..         ..         ..                ..                     27.2
AVtlhGZ Sm OF W00SUOI
TOTAL                             ..         5.1
IJENA                             ..         3.7 /1     .....
tlUAL                             ..         ..
AVINACr NO. Of PDSONS/toN
WU34                             ..          2.5 /      .                  ..
TOAL                              ..         ..
WIUL                              .           ..                           ..
P3tCENACt 0? nELLIES w1TT  ELECT.
TOTAL~~~~~~~SAJ



-  26  -                                               Annex I
LI 8.Lt IA                                         PACE2
SuvDA                  - SOCIAL IND:CATU DATA SIr
SUDAN                               IRUERC  crOs CID  AVRU"S
M                        (HOST  (NOR  4C UT IKAX) /b
lbbCNr         WV TEC  AFRICA            mIDDU IlCO
1960._     1970t.k ItINAL.           soUSI or SANAIA      AMICA S. OF SAHAA
ADJUSTED HROLLNUZT RATIOS
PILIRYT   TOTAL                  2S.0        38.0       52.0               67.                       93.7
MALE                   35.0        A'.0        61.0              77.6                     LO.fl
FEIALE                1.0         29.0       43.0               54.9                      83.2
SEC0DAIIY: TOTAL                   3.0         7.0       18.0               13.5                      17.3
HALE                    542        10.0        20.0               17.9                     25.0
rFKALE                  1.0         *.0        15.0               9.1                      14.6
VOCATIONAL (7 OF SZCDNDARY)          3.6         1.6 It     6.0 /k.1          13.2                       5.9
PUPIL-TEACIER tATIO
PRInAIT                           41.0       U7.0        33.0               64.9                     61.1
SEODNOARY                         20.0        17.0       23.0               27.4                     25.5
CO_STZ
PASSENR CARS/NOUSAID POP             1.4         2.0        ..                 3.8                      20.8
RADIO RECEIVESITOUSAND POP          17.0 /.    80.3        71.9               55.8                     107.8
TV ECZCIVES/TIIOU3AXD POP            0.8 7i      3.2        5.4                2.6                     20.8
!INSPAtER tVDIVLY   EA
INTRZST") cIRaILATXON
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             4.6         9.2        1.0 Ie             5.0                      18.6
CDtEIA ANNUAL ArrEDANCE/CAPITA       0.9         ..         0.1                0.5                      0.4
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (MUS)           3701.0      6547.0     6386.0
FEMALZ (PERCENT)                   9.6        10.2       11.1               36.2                     36.2
AGRIaILTURE (PERCENT)             86.0       82.0        78.0        ~      77.5                     56.5
uNusUTrT (PERCCx)                  6.0         8.0       10.0 E              9.7                     18.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCNT
tOTAL                             33.2        32.8       30.7               39.3                      36J8
MALE                              59.3        58.2       54.2               50.9                      67.1
PEIW                               6.4         6.B        6.9               28.1                     27.2
ICONONIC DERPENOC  RATIO             1.6         1.4        1.5                1.3                       1.3
IO  DISTIBUTION
PERCeMT OF PRVATE INCOIM
RECEIVED ST
HIGHEST S OF HUSEHOLDS           20.9 /n.a   ..
HIGHEST z20 OF HOUSEHOLDS         50.1       49.2         . 
LOST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS             5.0/       5.1p
1.055 *O OF KOUSEHOLDS           13.9        14.5 7i
nrnmTr cARS
ESTIMATED ABSOLDIF POVERrY INCME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
U..                                            ..       137.0 If           165.!                     590.7
RURAL                              ..          ..         ..                95.0                    275.3
ESTImATE RELATIVE POVZrTr INSCOM
LEV CUS$ PER CAPITA)
uxu.                               ..          ..       115.0 /f           113.1                     545.6
RURAL                              ..          ..       1W.0 7F             67.6                    201.1
ESTDIATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOM LEVEL CZ)
URN                                ..          ..         ..                36.6
RURAL                              ..          ..          ..               61.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
NOTZS
/a   The group average for each indiator are population-wefgbted adtlinstic wasm. Coverag  of coantrie
among the indicator depends on 1avIlabLuty of datad 1i no uonLforo.
/b   Unless othbrvise noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Date foe  1970" betw
1969 and 1971; and date for 'Most Recent getiLte betowe  1981 ad 1983.
/e  1979; /d Ages 15-50 years. North only; /e 1977; /f 1978; L5 1980; /h 1962; / Government boepital
astblhmbmnt;  /5 1966: 7k Beginning 197i. the duration of gmral *ecodaAry *duection we  educd fro
a to 6 yarn; /1 Includes progra  of 5 training centece operated by Depertment of Labor and 17 hr
Car. 0encec. operated by Hini.try of Touch and Sport: I. 1963; In 196A; /o 0nduzun, uebso; A 1967-
68.
JN, 1985



-  27  -                                        Annex I
Page  3
UEFINmONS OF SOCIAL IriiDICATORS
Notes A1though the datA are drawn airm   rco aterallv juded the utost authoniatte and rdlab. It sbouldalso be noted that they may not be intemauonall'
comparabk beause of the Lack of sandard'aed delitntions and concep  used by diffehent counanes in colecting the data. The data are. nonethelss. utelul to
desnbe orders of mdpitude indiate ;ren-I, nd art  nzer sertain major diflenee between counmes.
The reference gromups are II he mtn  . a-. 5i1 ipoup of the subject country and .21 a country grast with somwha higher aerape income than the countri
graupoithesubjecacountr' ic:ept ter -Hih Income Otl Exporter. group where -iddle Income North Africa and Middle Ent is chosen because at gtronuer
oiio-culturalfiniies. In the refcrenc croup dau the avenrge are populton weighted anthmetic means for each indicator and shown anrd %hen m.ajon
ar thecountes n a group has Jaa ter t'.i rJdcaor Since the uerage of countes among the indicao  depends on the asiatblit ordauA nd i not uniforn.
caution must beeecaisd in relatinga3crae.ol one ndatcsor to another These averagesareonl useful in companng the %alauofone indicaor at * ume anlune
tbe coumry nd reference groups
AREA (thousand q.km.)                                              Crude BAth Rate (perthousand-Number of live births tn the eatr
TJeta-Total surfac area compnsing land area and inland waters;     per thousand or mnid-year popubtaiorn 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                         Crude Dih Rare iper rheatnd)-Nunber of deaths in the lear
Agricuhmnl-Estimate or agricultural area used temporarily or       per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
pemanently for crops. pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to   Gous RepAweie. Rau--Average number of daughters a woman
lie falow. 1960, 1970 and 1982 data.                               will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specfic fertility rates; usually five-vear averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-CNP per capita estimates at current          in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, calculated by same conversion method as World       FSAIy Puimateg-Acceptors, Anmal (thousandsn-Annual num-
Bansk .A tas (19381-83 basis): 1923 dam.                           berofacceptors ofbirth-control destces underauspices ofnational
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                     family planning program.
consumption of commercial pnmarv energy (coal and lignite.         Fiady Plari4g-Uses fpercen of niried wnseaaD-The percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-   tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
trcitv3 in kilopms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. W.ornen
1982 data.                                                        of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-19. althmui'h for
some countries contr"cptive usage is measured for ather age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                   groups.
Toed Populatio..f-Year, uhonsauds -As of July 1:1960. 1970.       FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 198 data.
index ofFood Prldactiax Per Cata (1969-771 - 10O-Index of per
Urban popultion Ipeieet of iotol)-Ratio of urban to total         capita annual production of all food commodittes. Produecton
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodttes
ability of data among countries: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.       include primary commodities e.g. sugarcane instead of sugart
Poplaion Pawjeeuiam                                               which ar edible and contain nutients teg. coffee and tea are
Popularion tn rear 2000-The projection of population for 2000.    excludedi.- they comprise cereals root crops. pulixN. oil  eds.
made for each economy separately Starring with information on     vegetables. frmuts. nuts. sugarcne and sugar beets. livestock. and
total population b) age and sex. fertility rates. mortalht rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each countri is !t.atsd
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters   on national average producer price weights: 19613-5. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the populauon became stationary.                 Per Capita Srply ofCalries (percent of requirementsr-Comput-
S:arinaarr population-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in Lountri
tality rates have not changed over a long period. whiic age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic pruduc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remnained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplie-
(ne reproduction rate = 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quanuues used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also   food processing. and losses in distnbuuon. Requirements were
constanL and the gruwth rate is zero. The stationary population    estimated by FAC based on physiological needs for normal acti'it%
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body ueights.
the population in the vear 2000. and the rate of decline of iertilitv  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 1 n percent for
rate to replacement lesel.                                        waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
ftPopulation Momentum-Is the tendency for population growth to     Per Capta Supply of Protein (grams per dayJ-Protetn content of
continue beyond the tine that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. 4et supplv of food is defined
achieved; that is. cvcn after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established b) USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is mcasured as   provide for minimun allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ulimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remnains at replace-  should be animal protein These standards.are lower than those of
ment lvel from year t onward. 1985 data.                           75 grams of total proton and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Popbuion Density                                                   average for the world, proposed by FAO an the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer 1100 hec-     Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                   Per Capita lrotea Suiply From Ainal eand Puse-Protein supply
Per sq.km. agricultural land-Computed as above for agricultural    of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day-: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                              1970 and 1977 data.
Popwlatio  Age Strtre (percentj-Children (0-14 years). work-       Chl (aqes I-4j Death Rate (per th ousad)-Number of deaths of
ing age (15-64 years). and retired 165 years and over) as percenage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 daut                  group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Population Growr  Rate (percent)-torratAnnual growth rates of      from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.       HEALTH
.   icin Growrh Rate (percentu-mrbea---Annual growth rates      Life Expectawy at Birt (years)-Number of years a newbom
of urban population for 1950-60. 196070. and 197'043 data.         infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortalit for aD people



-   28   -                        Annex  I
Page 4
at the time of of Its blhh were to $iy the amne throughout iti life  Ptspllqachr Ran. . Promay. and Je,coandnj-Totl studonts en.
1960. 1970 and 1913 data.                                     roli  in pnimary and secondry levels divided by numberi of
.wMnef fiew (per thommed)-Number of infsnts who die      tachers In the corespondlg lvels.
beore rching one yar of ap per thouand live births in a given
yuri 160. 1970 and 193 data                                   CONSUMPTION
Amce to S10    t       eme 4f pml whm, ud                     hA      r Car (par iheamd                        canr cr com.
,W-Number or people (toul. urhn  i-t rural) Wth reas-Able      prim motor cars mating ls than eight penons. excludes ambul-
ccm  to sae waor supply (include  trted surfac  waten or       acs. nUears  and military vehicle.
untreattd but uncontaminutd water such u that from protected  .a&  Reeed6rR (per  r h  Xeumndpepulj-AII types or eceiven
borehols. sprin and snitry wells) me perntagn of their mpec-   for radio broadcasts to gneml public per thousand of population;
dve populadons. In an urban ar  a public fountain or standpoint  exclude  un-licensed reeiven in countries and in yers when
located not mor thn 200 meurs from a hou may be considered    registration of rtdio mu was In effect: data for r ecnt yean may
u being within reasnab  acce  of that house. In rural areas   not be comparable sinc most countries abolished licensing.
reeonable acc  would Imply tht the houslib or membm of the
houselbold do not have to spend a disproportionat part of the day  ri' Receiv, (per th.mmdpapsdeaie-Tv receve rsor broadcst
fn Ietchn th fati∞ly's worin  pt ht                           to gnal public per thouusnd popuWation; excluda unlcenud TV
inm to Exowm Dhpad fpmm 4f popektim)--ofall arbole,           receives in countris And in yan when registration of TV mts wu
Aces m  wt. Dfpa (perct efe,l.an-wrl when  -  d
m  rual-Number of people (total urba  and rural) seve by       n t
eaae   dispoa u percent    of their rspetive populations.       SW∞ Cbkcin     (e t_ JaSd A         6ah.-Shows the aver
rea disposa may Include the collecion and disposal with or    nF crculation of -daily gnea interet newspwr dfne  u a
without tretmenmt of human creta and waste-water by water-    priodcal publicLtion devoted pimarly to recording pner  nws.
borne rsym or theuse  of pit privia and similar instations.   It is considered to be daily" if it appe   at ls t tour tim  a week.
Pbjitlm pe Physidn--Population divided by number of prac-     CIwm  Annual Atnaadee per Capoi pr Yew-Based on the
tsing physicans qualified from a medial school at university level.  numbe of ckets sold during the year. including admissions to
PapItl. per Nmq hrPo.-Pbpulation divided by number of         drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
pracge mal  nd female grduate nurse  assisant nurse. 
prctical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                        OR  F CE
Aiplalw per Hal Bd-eod, when, and roal-.Populatuion  r &a Labor orce (ehousan&s-Economically activ.e persons. in-
(totaL urba, and  ural) divided by their respive number of    cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewive,.
hopital beds available in public and private. gendni   n      students etc.. covering populaion of all ags. Definitions in
hopitals and reabilitatio  centem  Hospitals are establishments  vanous countnes are not comparable I 960. 190 and 1983 dAta.
permnnty staffed by at leat one physiCianl Establishments prov-  Femal rpercent)-Female labor force as percentage of tota labor
iding principany cusodial cae ame not included. Rural hospitals  force.
however, include heath and medal centes not permanently staffed  Apikuiwe rpereur)-Labor force in farming. forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assant nurse. midwife, etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-paient accommodation and provide a limited range  datL
of medical  ihities.                                          hnustry (percewj-Labor force in mining, construction. manu-
Admssios pr Hospata Bed-Total number of admissons to or       facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divitded by the number of beds.     force; 1960. 197 0and 1980 data.
Ridpadon  arepe  rj          a,      andfeade-Partiupaton
HOUSING                                                       or acivity rates are computed as totaL male, and female labor force
Avea  Sla of Hoaseal (persu pr howhoildj- troa  w, -  .       as prcentages of totaL male and female population of all age
adiwA-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILOs
lving quart  and their main dme. A boarder or lodger may or   participation rates rdlecting aWsex structure of the population. and
may not be induded in the household ror statistcal purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Aerc  NKmber of Persns per Reom-real. mrban. and uwa-         Econem c Dependency Redo.-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural    65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwelling  respectively. Dwdlings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                IMCOME DISTRIBLTION
Prcenae of Dwffi;g with Elacrift)-etoraI, wrhe. and rual-     Percmge of Total Disposabe Icome (both in cash and kind)-
Conventional dwellings with eectricity in living quarters as percen-  Accrwng to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total urban, and rural dwellings respecively,         hold incone.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROLPS
A    4wed Ewo     p,, Ra                                      The following estmates ae very approximate measur  of poverty
Prmay schol - total, mude ad femak-Gross totaL          an    leves, and should be intrpreted with considerable caution.
female enroment of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  Eimaed Absolwe Povey irme Leve t USS per capita y-*r*an
respecive pnriary school-ge populaons While many countries    ad       -Absolute poverty income levd is that income level
conider primary school age to be 6-11 years others do noL The  below whirh a mininal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differcnces in country prAcc  in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios givL For some countries with univemrl  E&merd Rdtie PovertY Incoe  LeI (SS per capr)-.r
education gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  and rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils ae below or above the country's standard prinary-school  avege per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
agF                                                           derived from the rural level with adjusment for higher cost or
Se        schoo - toal. mal and femal-Computed as above:    living in urban area
secondary education requires at leat four years of approved pri-  Essi-rwd PopaLee   Sdow Asoblte Poerry Income Levl (pe-
mry instrutEon provides geneaL vocationaL or teacher training  cent-mm  and rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
insruCtions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 yeas of age; correspond-  who are "absolute poor.-
ence courses  genally excduded.
Vocationa ErolLmeni (permt of secondory)-Vocational mnstitu-            Compartive Analysis and Data Division
tions indude technical, industriaL or other progrmms which operate    Economic Ana;ysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



- 29 -
ANNEX X
Page 5
SUDAN - COUNTRY DATA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
ANNUAL AVERAGE RATE OF CGONTE
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1983/84                           (S. Constant Prices)
USS ina.   S           1974/75-1978/79    1978/79-1983/64
GDP at Market Frices           6288.0   100.0               3.6                1.7
Gross Domestic Xuveetoent       870.7    13.8              0.6                -0.4
Crown National Saving           224.3     3.6              3.t               -10.0
Current Account  alance       -646.0    10.3               0.7                 4.1
Exports of Goods, YFS           877.0    13.9              0.7                 4.1
Imports of Goods, Nm5         1668.0    26.5               0.2                 4.0
OUTPUT 1t. LABOR, CORC 2/ AM
PRODUCTIvI  1X  1983/68
Value Added        Labor Force           V.A. Per Vorker
USS Kln.    Z       Kls.       I         USS   Z (of average)
Agriculture     1684.4    29.7       4.92     78.0        342       23.1
Industry         931.7    16.5      0.63      L0.0       1479      164.7
Services        3051.4    53.8       0.76     12.0       4015      447.1
Total      5667.5   100.0       6.31    100.0        898       100.0
GOVERIENM1=FINACE
Central Government - 1983/84
(LS=x Mine)      I of GOP lI
Current Receipts                 1469             14.7
Current Ezpenditura              1300             13.0
Current Surplus                   169              1.7
Capital Enxenditures             463               6.4
Unallocated Ezpenditures 3/       366              3.7
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES                   79/80   80181    81/82    82/83    83/84
(million LSd outstanding end perlod)
nbuey Supply                              1047.5  1445.2   1899.9    2605.0  3151.8
Bank Credit to Central Government (net'   719.0   914.5    848.7       677.2   775.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector and
Parastatals                             814.3  1118.6   1560.9    2229.6  2586.7
(Percentages)
Annual percentage changes In
Consumr Price Index 4/                      25.9    24.3     26.8     30.6      28.1
Bank Credit to Central Governuent            9.0    27.2     -7.2     20.2      14.5
Bank Credt to Private Sector
ad Parastatals                           24.7    37.4     39.5     42.8      16.0
L/ Factor Costs.
2/  Labor force estimates are based on EPD's Social Indicators Data Sheot.
1/ Includes some capital expenditures by other public entities.
4/ Calendar Year.
EAZ2E
May 28, 1985



- 30 -
UDAX - cowvmr  OATA                       Mnx  I
TRADE sBALAE AM CAPITAL nows                    Page 6
*ALNC  Or PAINES IITDLIMSA
19S0/J1   HUM2    19 2/83   19J331B         ynCuAiSE nXORTS (AVERAGE 1331/2-1953/UIl
Inv u1.          x
gxpett Goods AWS                 763       627        733       177                                              -
Imports Coed & IUs              1S2J      2034       1716      1665      Cotton                   19z.0          33.5
VAsOWeem Cap                   -1060     -1,07    -1033        -7t1       *orsTa                   S.6          10.3
laterest,  ?LT Debt             -105      -190      -191       -215      Grovaimuts                21.7           6.6
Otber Facteor Formts (me:)        -1        -5        -20       -20      Cun Arabic                51.2           J.5
Prlvate Tranafera                305       350        *15       360      son ame                    3.0            .2
Current blanco                 -4J1      -1252      -629       -66       Otbhr                    194.7          33.6
Public Grants                    122       176        662       336            Total              579.0         100.0
Dlrect lnvwstmat                  35        40         60        70
Public 3LT Loeane dlab.          499       685        219       194      EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEDKER 31. 1913
Pubilc 16L? lea  sm a_rt.         J6        97        5J         16
Total Pubic Not                  413       5U         161       173                                          US$ KI.L
Not Credit, DUI                  290        s0        122       -
capital nlwe (Lcl. error.                                                Public Debt, DOD, 1L?                5780.6 1/
a-d omiandeon)              -199       -11U      -196        203
Champe In Et fervas                                                      DESS SERVICE RATIO F03 1333/66
(- ledtcates lacru"a)        220        516       220      -141 3/                                             1
Pubilc Debt, mel. guaranteed           26.3
RATE OF EXCHIAJ                                                          Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Offlelal Rate:   Led 1.00 - US$ 0.40
US$ 1.00 - Led 2.50
Cameercial Rank   Led 1.00 - US$ 0.30
Floating late: US$ 1.00 - Lad 3.30
t__ /IDA LENDII, (March 31, '985) (MSIlio  'US$)
IBDtD    IDA
Outstandlng and Disbursed          40.9   845. I
Undisbursed                         0.0    364.4
Outstaiding    el. Undiabursod     40      1209.5
Not available.
1/ Total DOD (Including Wf, outatanding arrears. and mllitary debt) li, howevr,
estioated to US$6 1 billo an of December 31, 1983.
2/ ZEcheb   rats referm to Key. 1985.  For exchan_ rate
history pfior to that. refer to table 6.6 of the Statlstical Annex.
3/  In 1963/56 the net foreain resores *ltuatlon was extremly tight;
the reported increaeo my have resulted frm computinS Inaccuracies
In the short-term capital flows.                                                             UAZ1E
Kay 28, 1985



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN
(as of September 30, 1985)
Amount (US$ Million)
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan/                                                                      Undis-
Credit No.     Year   Borrower  Purpose               Bank          IDA    bursed
Seven Loans and nineteen Credits fully disbursed      139.0         320.2
Credit 782     1978   Sudan     Livestock Marketing                  25.0    9.48
Credit 804     1978   Sudan     Mcebanized Farming III               16.0    5.06
Credit 834     1978   Sudan     Agricultural Research                15.0    5.14
Credit 1006    1980   Sudan     Third Power                          65.0   20.15
Credit 1022    1980   Sudan     New Halfa Rehabilitation             40.0   23.66
Credit 1118 /1 1981   Sudan     Blue Nile Pump Rehab.                32.0   29.55
Credit 1119 7T 1981   Sudan     White Nile Pump Rehab.               35.0   31.40
Credit 1153 71 1981   Sudan     Second Tech. Assistance               6.0    3.07
Credit 1181 71 1981   Sudan     Western Savannah                     13.0    0.67
Credit 1201 71 1982   Sudan     Agricultural Services                18.0   14.17
Credit 1233 71 1982   Sudan     Second Port                          25.0    2.86
Credit 1388 71 1983   Sudan     Gezira Rehabilitation               80.0   78.95
Credit 1389 71i 1983   Sudan    Agric. Rehab. Program II             50.0    0.73
Credit F011*7l 1984   Sudan     Third Education Project              10.0    9.50
Credit 1451 71 1984   Sudan     Third Education Project               5.4    3.73
Credit 1450 71 1984   Sudan     Third Highway Project                16.0   16.00
Credit 1506 71 1984   Sudan     Sugar Rehab. Project                 60.0   60.00
Credit 1513 71 1984   Sudan     Petroleum T.A. Project               12.0    8.78
Credit 1525 Ti 1984   Sudan     Stock Route Project                   5.5    5.50
Credit 1614 71 1985   Sudan     Drought Recovery                    20.0   20.00
Credit 1624 71i 1985   Sudan  ** Power Rehabilitation Prog.          30.0   30.00
Total                                       139.0        899.1  378.40
of which repaid                           103.2         15.3
Total now outstanding                        35.8        883.8
Amount sold                    5.8                 8.4
of which repaid             5.8              -   8.4     -
Total held by Bank & IDA                     35.8        883.8
Total undisbursed                             Nil        378.4  378.40
/1 Credits denominated in SDRs (Credit 1118-SU and above) are shown in US$
equivalents, based on the exchange rate in effect at the time of
negotiations.
(Note: SDR amounts of these 16 credits are: SDR 25.1 million, SDR 27.5
million, SDR 4.9 million, SDR 11.2 million, SDR 15.7 million, SDR 21.5
million, SDR 74.2 million, SDR 46.4 million, SDR 9.6 million, SDR 5.2
million, SDR 15.5 million, SDR 56.4 million, SDR 11.6 million,SDR 20.2
million and SDR 30.3 respectively.)
* Not yet effective.
*l1 Special Fund Credit



- 32 -
ANINE II
Pae 2 of 2
5. STATmenT OF IFC INV1sTMI5Ts
(as of September 30, 1985)
Fiscal                                            (Amount in US$ million)
Year          Obllgor                               Loan   Equity  Total
1964 and       Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co.
1972           Textiles                             1.9    0.3     2.2
1976           Cotton Textile Mills                   8.7    1.3    10.0
1978           Seleit Food Production Ltd.           11.1    1.1   12.2
1978           Gezira/Naagil Textile Co. Ltd.         6.7    1.4     8.1
1980           Sudan Cement Company                    -     0.2     0.2
1982           White Nile Petroleum Co. Ltd.           -     0.3     0.3
Total gross comitments                28.4   4.6   33.0
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales                 6.9    0.6     7.5
Total co,nitmets now held by IFC      21.5    4.0    25.5
Total undisbursed by IFC               1.9    0.2     2.1



- 33 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  24 months
(b)  Project prepared by           : Governuent
(c)  Identification mission        : March 1983
(d) Appraisal mission              : April 1984
(e) Negotiations                   : October 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  (120 days after credit signing)
Section II - Special IDA Implementation Action:
A PPF of US$700,000 was approved to finance project start-up
activities (para. 67)
Section III - Special Conditions:
Condition of Effectiveness:
The opening by the Government of the Special Account (para. 75)
Other Conditions:
(a) ARC would carry out a well-defined research program for integrated
pest management with support of consultants (para. 49);
(b) Regional stations of ARC would appoint, no later than March 31, 1986,
one agronomist to be responsible for maintaining strong linkages
betmeen research and extension (para. 54);
(ce) The Government would announce the prices of cotton by no later than
December 1 of each year and prices of Wheat by no later than November
1 of each year (para. 54);
(d) The signing of the formal agreements, satisfactory to the Association,
by no later than March 31, 1986 between the research stations and the
concerned APCs (para. 54);



- 34 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(e) The Government would luplement the recommendations of the Task Force
on job descriptions of APC inspectors (para. 57); and
(f) A specialist in research management would be recruited uo later than
March 31, 1986 for two years for the project entities (para. 63).
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 35 -
Annex IV
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Procurement Program
(US$ million)
Procurement Method                  Total
ICB      LIT     LS         Other      NA        Cost
Civil Works          10.7      -        -         -         -          10.7
(4.0)    -        -         -         -          (4.0)
Vehicles               2.0     -        -         -         -            2.0
(1.0)    -        -         -         -          (1.0)
Agric. Equip.          2.6     -        -                                2.6
(2.3)    -        -         -         -          (2.3)
Other Equip.          -        4.9       .3                 -            5.2
-      (3.1)    (0.2)      -         -           (3.3)
Training & T.A.       -        -        -          4.8      -            4.R
-       -        -         (4.8)     -           (4.8)
Research Grant        -        -        -         -         1.6          1.6
(1.6)       (1.6)
Incremental
Operating Costs      -        -        -         7.0       3.4        10.4
_       _        _         (3.2)    (1.1)        (4.3)
PPF Refinancing       -        -        -         -         0.7          0.7
-       -        -          -       (0.7)        (0.7)
15.3     4.9      0.3       11.8      5.7        38.0
(7.3)   (3.1)    (0.2)      (8.0)    (3.4)     ( 22.0)
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by IDA.



ir             i              ar              r             ir             Jr             ir            Ir               i r 
SUDAN                                                       73
LOCATION OF RESEARCH STATIONS                                                   e
IN THE IRRIGATED AREAS
-ar                         L.   . _              ARAB   REPUBLIC   OF  EGYPT                                                       Tr
.   .......... ........     .  ,,,. O
r   -         .-   -. -..1~~~...   .. ... ....    ..      -7. .... .. ..            
! --    -  Y 1. A            ....   .....   ..- Jr
I   :j   :O?TT                                    fL* 
... . .                                                          ....
C H  A  D                                --|-                                             l    
Ni~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
I                          ,-i*  _ ;    -ADv                                                       kJ 
-cw
PM_bal lRl61  -- ad.-_ Bed
_Aclw C -btQ i\     +P--- ..
- PLad Rood
-   B-d Rwad U.d.e Co.0-mia,
-   R..Ld.B| cI ap                                                    a            _s_-.
-* _        o PL.~ aI C.ubI           li                                                    t   
0   S.aichd 1ae. odw  alerg.m
_   I.a...a.aI R                                                                  _                  Ja.  W        ---



