OFFICIAL REDIT NUMBER 1639 SU
oCU MENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Research, Extension and Training Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated     (\v\ c xd , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1639 SU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                         c, 1986,
between THE REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN (the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Project will be carried out with respect to Part A
by the Agricultural Research Corporation (hereinafter called
ARC), with respect to Part B by the National Extension Adminis-
tration (hereinafter called NEA), with respect to Part C by the
Rahad Corporation (hereinafter called RAHCO) and the New Halfa
Agricultural Production Corporation (hereinafter called NHAPC)
and with respect to Part D by the University of Gezira (herein-
after called UG) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to ARC, NEA,
RARCO, NHAPC and UG part of the proceeds of the Credit as pro-
vided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and ARC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿- 2 -
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and ARC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "APCs" means the agricultural production corporations;
(c) "PPC" means the Project Procurement Committee estab-
lished pursuant to Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agree-
ment (Gezira Rehabilitation Project), dated August 9, 1983
between the Borrower and the Association;
(d)  "PMU" means the Project Management Unit established
within the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(e) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(f) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated September 30, 1984 and
June 20, 1985 between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty million eight hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 20,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in US dollars a special account in the Bank of
Sudan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-3-
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time.   The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the   Association  shall  reasonably  request;   (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing May 15, 1996, and ending November 15,


﻿-4-
2035. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 15, 2005 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3,01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end:
(i) the Borrower shall carry out the overall coordina-
tion of all Project activities through PMU and
cause NEA, RAHCO, NHAPC and UG to carry out their
respective parts of the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, agricultural and re-
search practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project;
(ii) without limitation upon the provisions of sub-
paragraph (i) of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause Parts B, C and D of the Project to be
carried out in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement,
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion; and
(iii) without any limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause ARC to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreement all the obligations of ARC therein set
forth, shall take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources, necessary or


﻿-5-
appropriate to enable ARC to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with
such performance.
(b)  The Borrower shall make available part of the proceeds
of the Credit, in accordance with the Project Annual Work
Programs, to:
(i) ARC, NEA and UG as budgetary transfers; and
(ii) RAHCO   and  NHAPC   as  equity  contributions  and
grants  in   amounts  to  be  determined  pursuant
to the Project Annual Work Programs.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03 through 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the
Project shall be carried out by ARC pursuant to Section 2.03 of
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) determine the prices for cotton and wheat taking into
consideration the information provided by the economic research
unit of ARC, which is being strengthened under the Project, and
in accordance with principles acceptable to the Association; and
(b) announce, after consultation with the Association, the
price for cotton not later than December 1 of each year and the
price for wheat not later than November 1 of each year.
Section 3,05. The Borrower shall implement the revised job
definitions for the APC field inspectors, as agreed upon between
the Borrower and the Association, in accordance with a timetable
satisfactory tc the Association.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower (namely NEA and PMU) responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The   Borrower  shall  cause  UG, RAHCO    and NHAPC to
maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices their operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the parts of the Project to be carried out by them.
(c) The Borrower shall, or cause UG, RAHCO and NHAPC to:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraphs (a)
and (b) of this Section including the Special
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
dance   with   appropriate   auditing   principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(d) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the. Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Borrower shall, or cause UG, RAHCO and NHAPC
to:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraphs (a) and
(b) of this Section, separate records and accounts
reflecting such expenditures;


﻿-7-
(ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records   (contracts,  orders,   invoices,  bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by the said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) ARC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date  of  the  Development  Credit Agreement, an     extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
ARC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c) The Borrower's Act No. 44 of 1977 establishing ARC
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of ARC to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ARC, NEA, UG, RAHCO or NHAPC or for the suspension of
their operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:


﻿-8-
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b)  the events specified in paragraphs (c) and       (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the Special Account has been
opened in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (') of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by ARC, and is legally
binding upon ARC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date 120 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Economic Planning
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the G2neral Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P.O. Box 2092
Khartoum
The Republic of the Sudan


﻿-9-
Cable address:                           Telex:
EIMAR                                  22324
Khartoum
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                           Telex:
INDEVAS                               440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                      248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
THE REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
By       Sj      "        A
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By     /S    L   W    Aa   V     -WY-
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works              3,970,000          45%
(2) Vehicles, equip-          6,330,000          100% of foreign
ment, machinery                            expenditures,
and spare parts                             100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
64% of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3)  Consultants'             1,520,000          100%
services
(4)  Training and             2,650,000          100%
fellowships
(5)  Research grants          1,520,000         85%
(6) PMU's operating             850,000          100%
cost
(7)  Incremental operat-      2,360,000          55%
ing costs of
ARC's research
stations
(8)  Refunding of               700,000         Amount due under
Project Prepara-                           Section 2.02 (c)
tion Advance                               of this Agreement


﻿- 11 -
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Fiuanced
(9) Unallocated                 900,000
TOTAL              20,800,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to increase crop pro-
duction in the irrigated agricultural subsector through streng-
thening the technical capacity and efficiency of agricultural
research and extension services and introducing a training and
visit system as the basis for the Borrower's extension program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Strengthening of the Agricultural Research Corporation
1.   The construction and renovation of offices, staff houses,
laboratories and other research facilities at ARC head-
quarters and at the research stations in Ge-ira, Sennar,
New Halfa, Rahad and Shambat.
2.   The provision of vehicles, farm machinery, laboratory and
office equipment.
3.   The establishment of scientific contacts and exchanges with
relevant national and international research institutes.
4.   The provision of overseas fellowships and short-term career
development training.
5.   The support of the research stations' activities, including
adaptive research and improvement of interaction between
research and extension, and on-farm testing.
6.   The establishment and operation of a research grant scheme.
Part B:   Re-organization and strengthening of the National
Extension Administration
J.   The establishment and operation of a new division within
NEA with the responsibility to provide and supervise all
extension support activities in the APCs.
2.   The upgrading of NEA's Agricultural Information and Culture
Division.


﻿- 13 -
3.   The construction of an office building for the new division
and the provision of vehicles, equipment and training fel-
lowships for the two divisions referred to above.
Part C:   Extension at the Rahad and New Halfa Agricultural Pro-
duction Corporations
1.   The introduction and operation of , training and visit ex-
tension system at Rahad and New Halfa, including training of
field staff.
2.   The construction of staff houses and office, training and
audio-visual production facilities.
3.   The provision of vehicles and audio-visual equipment.
Part D:   Training at the University of Gezira
1.   The establishment and operation of a training unit designed
to upgrade technical skills and qualifications of APC field
staff.
2.   The provision of vehicles and laboratory equipment for the
Faculty of Agricultural Science.
3.   The development and operation of a training farm.
4.   The design and implementation of in-service and graduate
training programs.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1992.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Category" means Categories (1)
through (7) as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
(b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the   term  "Authorized   Allocation"  means  an   amount
equivalent to SDR 250,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdra-
wals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 15 -
expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by
the Borrower from the Credit Account in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eli-
gib*e Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice have
been or will be utilized in making payments for eligible expendi-
tures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any


﻿- 16 -
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Project Coordination
1.   The Borrower shall provide overall policy guidance for all
Project activities through the Project Steering Committee. Meet-
ings of this committee shall be convened as often as required,
but at least four times a year. The Project Steering Committee
shall, in particular, supervise the performance of PMU, period-
ically monitor Project progress and review the Project Annual
Work Programs prepared by PMU before they are submitted to the
Association.
2.   Within the policy framework provided by the Project Steering
Committee, PMU shall be the coordinating agency for the imple-
mentation of the Project. To carry out these functions, PMU shall
be supported by additional qualified staff, including a Project
Manager appointed by the Project Steering Committee. PMU shall
work closely together with all entities engaged in carrying out
the Project, monitor the provision of funds to such entities,
liaise with PPC to coordinate and handle all procurement matters,
collaborate with the Ministry of Construction and Public Works
with respect to the construction works under the Project, prepare
quarterly progress reports and ensure the timely preparation and
audit of Project accounts. Such reports shall form the basis of
the Project mid-term review to be carried out by the Borrower and
the Association not later than January 31, 1989.
Annual Work Programs
3.   For each year of Project implementation, PMU shall prepare a
Project Annual Work Program containing documentation on the
following aspects:
(a) a detailed description of the work to be performed by
each Project entity during the forthcoming fiscal year commencing
each July 1, including, inter alia, the schedules of activities
under the various components of the Project, housing and offices
construction program, recruitment and deployment of staff, vehi-
cles and equipment requirements, training plans;
(b) the budgetary proposal from the Borrower for the cor-
responding period setting forth for each Project component:


﻿- 18 -
(i) the proposed capital expenditure;
(ii) all proposed recurrent expenditures such as sala-
ries, travel allowances, fuel, repairs and main-
tenance, for ARC and its research stations sup-
ported by the Project, NEA, RAHCO, NHAPC and UG
with a breakdown of pre-development and incre-
mental expenditures;
(iii) a comparison of the proposed investment and recur-
rent budgets with the budget of the previous year;
and
(iv) a list of proposed expenditures for technical
assistance, studies and training;
(c) a financing plan with detailed semesterly projections
indicating funding requirements from the Government for the
various Project components;
(d) the proposed procurement program and procedures to be
applied thereto; and
(e) a detailed Project implementation schedule for the year
in question.
4.   The Project Annual Work Programs shall be supported by the
following information:
(a) a detailed staffing analysis and in-service training;
(b) details on the proposed training program including
summary of analysis of training needs assessment conducted by the
training unit of UG;
(c) detailed schedules of activities for civil works,
including land acquisition, final designs, bidding and construc-
tion; and
(d) details on specific extension activities to be under-
taken at RAHCO and NHAPC (including specific extension messages
to be promoted); on specific research programs which will be
initiated or continued at each regional research station (results
of previous seasons should also be included); on NEA extension
support activities (this should reflect the agreed demand of the
APCs for NEA services).


﻿- 19 -
5.   Each Project Annual Work Program shall contain a detailed
review of items which impinge on Project implementation, in
particular the requirements for agricultural inputs, and of any
other constraints beyond PMU control.
6.   PMTJ shall submit the Project Annual Work Program for fiscal
year 1986/87 not later than April 30, 1986 to the Project Steer-
ing Committee and the Association, and for the following fiscal
years, after approval by the Project Steering Committee, not
later than May 1 of each year to the Association for its review
and comments. The Association shall inform PMU of its acceptance
of, or comments on, each proposed Project Annual Work Program
within one month of receipt. Prior to the beginning of each
fiscal year, the Borrower will inform the Association of the
actual budgetary allocations and the corresponding revised
Project Annual Work Program.
7.   In order to enable PMU to prepare the Project Annual Work
Programs, each entity involved in carrying parts of the Project
shall prepare and submit to PMU not later than March 1 of each
year an annual work program covering the items referred to in
paragraphs 3 and 4 above as they apply to the respective entity.
Part B of the Project
8.   Part B of the Project shall be carried out by NEA. NEA's
newly created extension support division shall consist of:
-    a field supervision methods section;
-    an extension training section; and
-    a monitoring and evaluation section,
each section staffed with qualified extension personnel and to be
advised by a consultant during the initial phase of operation.
The new division's main responsibility shall be to provide
guidance, support and training to the APCs with respect to the
introduction of the Training and Visit Agricultural Extension
System. To further support the new extension methodology, NEA's
Agricultural Information and Culture Division, with the assist-
ance of a communications expert, shall produce extension publica-
tions, materials and radio broadcasts designed to inform exten-
sion staff at the APCs. Training fellowships for qualified staff
in this division shall enable it to carry out these additional
functions.


﻿- 20 -
Part C of the Project
9.   Part C of the Project shall be carried out by RAHCO and
NHAPC in their respective areas. To facilitate the introduction
of the new extension methodology, the corporations shall estab-
lish a coherent system for identifying extension recommendations,
transmitting them to farmers and evaluating their impact. These
tasks shall be undertaken by the field inspectors in cooperation
with ARC, NEA and other staff of the corporations. To this end,
the job descriptions of the field inspectors shall be redefined
to take into account their new responsibilities, and comprehen-
sive training for such staff, including adaptive trial work,
shall be organized and conducted within RAHCO and NHAPC. Audio-
visual and publication activities shall be included in the
corporations' extension programs. To estabish a regular extension
monitoring and evaluation system within the corporations, RAHCO
and NHAPC shall each employ a Subject Matter Specialist in agri-
cultural economics in their respective Economics Departments.
Part D of the Project
10. UG shall carry out Part D of the Project. To this end, the
university shall, through its training unit, develop and imple-
ment a training program, including:
(a) annual assessment and identification of training needs
for the APCs;
(b) curricula development for economic and agricultural
extension;
(c) production of training materials, manuals and technical
information; and
(d) management and administration of training courses.
11. To complement the training programs which shall consist of
annual in-service training programs for ARC research staff and
APCs field staff as well as advanced and graduate/post-graduate
courses in agricultural economics and extension, the university
shall establish a training farm or farm units designed to provide
practical hand-on training and to teach economic and technical
analysis of prevailing production practices and technology.


﻿- 21
SCHEDULE 5
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages.
3.   All civil works financed under the Project shall be divided
into seven bid packages on the basis of the geographical loca,'on
of the works to be carried out.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in The
Republic of the Sudan may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a
margin of preference to domestic contractors in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Laboratory, scientific and related equipment may be procured
under contracts awarded through limited international bidding
procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids in-
vited from a list of at least three qualified suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set


﻿- 22 -
forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding para-
graphs 2.8, 1.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.   Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $30,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of $300,000, may be procured under con-
tracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.   Periodicals and books for research, exLension and training
may be purchased directly from the overseas suppliers under
negotiated contracts.
Part E: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $30,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished
to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information re-
quired to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3
(the Special Account Schedule) to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be


﻿- 23 -
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower and ARC in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower and ARC shall employ the consultants
referred to in the Implementation Programs set forth in Schedule
4 to this Agreement and the Schedule to the Project Agreement,
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such con-
sultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  -*o      day of        ,
198 (
FOR SECRETARY


