OFFICIAL    CREDIT NUMBER 1639 SU
DOCU M ENTS
Project Agreement
(Agricultural Research, Extension and Training Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH CORPORATION
Dated           CU          10   ,1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1639 SU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       Q\,AckAA , 1  0, 1986, between
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT   ASSOCIATION  (the  Association)   and
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH CORPORATION (ARC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between The Republic of the Sudan (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty
million   eight   hundred    thousand   Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 20,800,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that ARC
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS ARC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ARC declares its commitment to the objec-
tives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Part A
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering,
agricultural and research practices, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for Part A of the Project.


﻿-2-
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, ARC shall carry out Part A of the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the
Schedule to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Association and ARC.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 5
to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. ARC shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03 through 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respec-
tively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part A of the
Project.
Section 2.04. (a) ARC shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Part A of the Project, the performance of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
(b) ARC shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by ARC of its obligations under this Agree-
ment.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ARC
Section 3.01. ARC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
agricultural and research practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. ARC shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and agricultural practices.


﻿- 3 -
Section  3.03.   ARC  shall   take  out  and  maintain  with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ARC shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b) ARC shall:
(i) have    its  accounts   and   financial  statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof and said records, as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, ARC shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,


﻿receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing    such
expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to exa-
mine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by the said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of ARC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date fifteen years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
ARC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For ARC:
Agricultural Research Corporation
P.O. Box 285
Khartoum, Sudan
Cable address:                   Telex:
ZIRRA FOR ARC                  22324
Khartoum, Sudan
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of ARC may be taken or executed by ARC's
Director General or such other person or persons as he shall
designate in writing, and ARC shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.


﻿-6-
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By    J   IC QXc 1VPU J   ,Y
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH CORPORATION
ByRM -caLu
Authorized Representative


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
Coordination
1.   ARC shall carry out Part A of the Project within the overall
framework as set by the Project Steering Committee referred to in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Responsibility for the coordination and implementation of the
Project activities under Part A of the Project shall be vested in
ARC's Technical and Financial and Administrative Committees; in
particular, the Technical Committee shall be responsible for
-    supervising the adaptive research program, including
the linkages between research and extension;
-    organizing the overall training courses and maintaining
cooperation with international scientific institutions;
and
-    establishing evaluation and reporting procedures.
Annual Work Programs
2.   ARC shall prepare and submit to PMU annual work programs in
accordance with the provisions set forth in paragraphs 3-7 of
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.      To this end,
each research station shall submit to the Technical Committee for
its approval annual work plans covering, inter alia, proposals
for the research programs to be conducted on the field testing
sites associated with the station, such work plans to be prepared
with the assistance of a research management specialist to be
employed not later than March 31, 1986. After approval by the
Technical Committee, the annual work plans of the research
stations shall be incorporated in ARC's overall annual work
programs.
Research Grant Scheme
3.   ARC's Technical Committee shall also be responsible for the
administration of the research grant scheme.
4.    After having identified the need for new research and the
priority ratings allocated to the different research topics, ARC


﻿- 8 -
shall, through advertisements, invite the submission of sub-
project proposals in the nominated fields for consideration under
the scheme.
5.   Research   sub-project  proposals   shall  be  submitted   by
interested parties to the Project Steering Committee which will
assign priorities and forward the proposals to ARC's Technical
Committee. ARC's Technical Committee shall evaluate these propo-
sals with the assistance of independent specialists to be
employed by ARC for this purpose.     The evaluation of research
sub-projects shall be carried out in accordance with criteria
acceptable to the Association.
6.   Research sub-projects, costing more than $30,000 equivalent,
shall be subject to the Association's review prior to ARC's
approval.
7.   After approval of a research sub-project by the Technical
Committee, the Administration and Finance Committee shall allo-
cate the required funds and enter into an agreement with the
applicant on terms and conditions which shall follow the model
contract as agreed upon between the Borrower, ARC and the Asso-
ciation.
8.   ARC's Technical Committee shall be responsible for monitor-
ing and evaluating the work carried out under the sub-projects.
Research Program
9.   The research program to be carried out by ARC staff with the
assistance of consultants, shall concentrate on agricultural
economics, farming systems and integrated pest management, and
adaptive research of field sites shall be increased with a view
to produce extension packages.
Research and Extension Linkages
10. The interaction between research and extension is organized
in each APC through a Production Committee which consists of a
representative of the respective corporation, a farmer repre-
sentative and a senior scientist from ARC's regional station
servicing the corporation. To strengthen the research/extension
linkages, each agricultural research station shall employ, not
later than March 31, 1986, an agronomist to act as secretary to
the Production Committee.


﻿-9-
11. Taking into account the services provided by ARC's regional
research stations to the respective APCs, ARC shall enter, not
later than March 31, 1986, into agreements with RAHCO and NHAPC
which shall be acceptable to the Association and which shall
provide, inter alia, for the funding of the research stations'
operating costs by the respective APC.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  -1 o   day of
198 6.
FOR SECRETARY


