Report No. 886-YU
Appraisal of the                                                                ,ga Uay
Yugoslavia
Oil Pipeline
(Yugoslavenski Naftovod Poduzece za Transport Nafte U Osnivanju)
October 7, 1975
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East, and North Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUrJAIJ.iTS
Currency Unit              -- +aosiaviga  Dinar (Din,)
Din. 1                        u us$oo059
US$1                       -  Di]t, J7W)
WEIGHTS AND MASA-RES
1 inch (in)                        -  2,54 CentImeters
1 meter (m)                        =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                   =  O.6214 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)           =  02386  s.-are mile 
1 cubic meter (m3)                 =  6.28-3 baxrels
=  0.80 to 095 metric tons of crude oil
1 barrell (bbl)                    =42 'S gallons (gal)
1 kilocalorie (kcal)               -  3,968 British thermal units (Btu)
0 0,001,6 kilowatt hours (kWh)
1 horsepower                       -  07)46l kilo-watt (kW)
1 Megawatt (MW)                    =  1,000 kilowatts (16-kkW)
1 Gigawatt hour (GWh)                 1 mil lion kilDwatt hours (106kWh)
1 long ton (lg ton)1/                 2,21iO pouids (lbs)
1metric ton (ton) -                   2,205 pounds (lbs)
1 short ton (sh ton)               -  20G0O pounds (lbs)
Tons oil equivalent (Toe)          -  10 million kilocalories (kcal)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVILATIONS
ANSI           -  American National Stand&us Inst:itute
API            -  American Petroleum Institute
CCITT         -  Comite Consultatif International Telegrafique et
Telephornique
CCIR          -  Comite Consultatif InternatLonal des Radiocommunications
dwt            -  Deadweight tons, oil carrying capacity of tanker in lg tons
FCEI          -  Federal Committee on Energy and Industry
IEC           -  International Electric Code
JUGEL         -  Union of Yugoslav Electric Power Industry
MATREZ         -  Federal Directorate for Reseries of Foodstuffs and Strategic
Stocks
NEC           - National (US) Electric Code
SAS           -  Social Accounting Service
JUGOSLAVENSKI NAF2C'OYGD
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/ Used throughout the report when referrLig t.o c;rude oil and pipe



APPRAISAL OF
THE YUGOSLAVIA OIL PIPELINE
(Jugoslavenski Naftovod Poduzece
za Transport Nafte U Osnivanju)
CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY ...........................................i
I.    INTRODUCTION           ..................... .................
II.    BACKGROUND  ........................................                            2
A.    The Country and the Economy  ....                 ..............         2
B.    Energy Resources  .............................                          3
C.    Energy Sector Policy and Organization                   ........         3
D.    The Oil and Gas Sector  .... ....................                        4
E.    Past Developments in Energy Supply and Demand.                           5
F.    Present Situation and Future Prospects                   .......         6
III.    THE BORROWER  ......................................                            7
A.    Background  .......           ........................... .              7
B.    Organization and Management  ...............            .. .             7
C.    Recruitment and Training  .................              ....            7
D.    Line Fill            ................................... .               8
E.    Insurance  .......          ........................... .                8
F.    Operations and Maintenance  ...............              ....            8
G.    Operational Arrangements with Clients and
Others  .      .....................................                   9
H.    Investment Plan  ......            ....................... .             9
IV.    THE PROJECT  .......................................                          10
A.    Objectives           ...................     ................          10
B.    Description  ...... ............             ................          10
C.    Status of Engineering  ...........           ..    ...........         12
D.    Cost Estimate  ...............         ..      ...............         12
E.    Financing Plan  .......... ..              ...................         14
F.    Implementation  ...............          ..     ..............         15
G.    Disbursements  ...............         ..      ...............         17
H.    Ecology and Safety ..........................17



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
V.   FINANCIAL EVALUATION ...............................         18
A.   Financial Forecasts ............ .. ............        18
B.   Tariffs      ......................   . ................  19
C.   Cash  Flow   ...... ............. .................     20
D.   Audit   ....... ..............  ...................     20
E.   Special Loan Repayment Guarantees ....     ........     20
VI.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ................................         21
A.   General   ......................................        21
B.   Demand Projections ........  ;:    .................    21
C.   Size of the Proposed Facilities ....      ..........    22
D.   Alternatives to the Proposed System .... ......         22
E.   Project Benefits .....................                  23
F.   Sensitivity to Changes in Traffic Growth  .....         23
G.   Beneficiaries and Employment ....       .............   23
H.   Impact on Alternative Means of Transport                24
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....      ........    24
ANNEXES
1. The Energy Sector ir. Yugoslavia
2. Tanker Terminal
3. Duties of The Foreign Consultants
4. Detailed Project Cost Estimate
5. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
6. Budget and Accounting Procedures
7. Bases and Assumptions Used in Financial Ana:Lysis
8. Revenue Accounts
9. Balance Sheet
10. Cash Flow
11. Resume of Transport Agreements
12. Background and Assumptions Used in the Justification of the Project
13. Design Codes and Standards
CHARTS
1. Organization Chart (World Bank 9761)
2. Schematic Diagram of the Pipeline System (World Bank 9754)
3.  Project Schedule  (World Bank 15172)
>APS
1.  Location of The Pipeline System (IBRD 11536)
2.  Location of Hydrocarbons and Coal (IBRD 11617)



APPRAISAL OF
THE YUGOSLAVIA OIL PIPFLINE
(Jugoslavenksi Naftovod Poduzece
za Transport Nafte U Osnivanju)
SUMMARY
i.        Yugoslavia's energy resources are lignite and coal (97%), hydrocar-
bons (oil and gas 3%) and hydropower. At the 1975-1990 forecast level of
consumption, lignite and coal will last some 260 years. Despite the large
coal reserves and hydroelectric potential, Yugoslavia is not self-sufficient
in energy; the low quality of the coal makes long distance haul uneconomic and
limits its use to power and steam generation while development of the hydro-
electric potential has been hampered by administrative considerations.
ii.       Energy producers, consumers and the authorities are in the process
of negotiating social agreements which will define the interrelationship of
all parties. The Government created a Federal Committee on Energy and Indus-
try (FCEI) to study long-term energy policy; the Committee's findings are
that: (a) Yugoslavia should limit its dependence on imported fuels by substi-
tuting coal and hydropower for the former wherever feasible; (b) conservation
measures should be adopted where appropriate but not at the expense of econo-
mic development and (c) pricing policies should be revised to support a
national energy policy. The Government has agreed to discuss these findings
with a Bank mission scheduled to visit Yugoslavia in the fall of 1975.
iii.      These measures should provide a logical framework for energy devel-
opment in Yugoslavia. The Government's energy demand forecasts which were
lowered after the oil crisis show total energy demand to increase three times
between 1975 and 1990. Hydrocarbons demand will increase at the same pace
as total energy and imports of crude oil are expected to increase from 7.9
million in 1975 to 28 million tons in 1990. Considering Yugoslavia's current
low per capita energy consumption, these projections are reasonable.
iv.       To handle the increased volumes of oil imports three oil and gas
enterprises decided to build the necessary facilities and the Government has
asked the Bank for assistance in financing the facilities for the project
which will provide an oil port and overland transport of crude oil by pipe-
line to five inland refineries and to Hungary and Czechoslovakia. The crude
oil will be imported through the Adriatic Port of Omisalj. Besides the oil
port, the project will comprise seven pump stations, five oil storage tank
farms, a control system and 736 km of pipelines. The project will lower the
cost of inland transport of oil in Yugoslavia.
v.        The project costs, net of duties and other local taxes, are estimated
at Din. 6,532.2 million (US$384.2 million) of which Din. 3,675 million
(USS216.2 million) would be foreign exchange and Din. 2,857.2 million
(US$168.0 million) represent the local currency expenditure.



- ii -
vi.       This would be the second loan to Yugoslavia in the pipeline sub-
sector. The first loan (Loan 916-YU, June 1973) was made for the Naftagas
Pipeline Project to transport and distribute natural gas to industrial con-
sumers in Serbia and Vojvodina and contemplated future expansion into Kosovo,
a less-developed area. Due to a tripling of the price of pipe, this project
is facing a large cost overrun which the Borrower and the local guarantor
bank is unable to finance.  The restructuring of the project and a revised.
financing plan are now being considered.
vii.      The project would be financed by the Bank loan (US$49 million) at
8.5% repayable in 18 years including a grace period of four years; other for-
eign loans will be from Kuwait (US$125 million), Libya (USS70 million),
Hungary (US$25 million) and Czechoslovakia (US$25 million). The local loans
will be for US$26.5 million, US$59.0 million and US$20.5 million respectively
from three oil and gas enterprises, the Federal Petroleum Fund and two banks.
The proceeds of all loans total US$400 million and will cover the project
costs including taxes and interest during construction on the Kuwait and Bank
loans. Bank financing would be parallel with that of other foreign lenders.
viii.     The Borrower would be Jugoslavenski Naftovod Poduzece za Transport
Nafte U Osnivanju (Naftovod), an enterprise established by three oil and gas
enterprises in Yugoslavia, INA, Naftagas, and Energoinvest. Naftovod would
be responsible for project implementation and for oPeration of the facilities
except the port. Consultants have been employed to carry out design and
construction supervision.
ix.       The foreign exchange costs of consultants, construction, two tugs
and oil loading arms would be financed under the Bank loan and would be pro-
cured under international competitive bidding except for the services of
foreign consultants. The Kuwaiti loan will comprise cash and the supply of
pipe, and the Czechoslovakian loan comprises pipe and construction services
for the Sisak-Hungary section of the pipeline.
x.        The construction period would start in March or April 1976; Stage I
(16 million tons annual capacity) would be completed in May 1978, and Stage
II (20 million tons) would be finished in 'May 1979.
xi.       The project will start earning revenue from 1978 at the completion
of Stage 1. The financial forecasts indicate that it will earn sufficient
revenue to meet all liabilities and generate funds for financial reserves.
xii.      The pr,ject will provide economical transport of crude oil to five
Yugoslav refineries. When compared to expanding the existing means of oil
transport, railways and barges, the rate of discount at which both cost
streams are equalized is 50% after taking account of foreign transit revenues.
xiii.     In view of the problems with recent cost overrtns in Yugoslavia,
special overrun guarantees have been provided. To cope with unforeseen
emergencies, which might create temporary liquidity problems, special debt
service guarantees have also been provided. In view of the very tight proj-
ect schedule, contingency planning will be provided to help ensure that the
facilities required for the foreign transit are completed in time.



- iii -
xiv.      Subject to agreement on the issues set forth in this report, the
project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$49 million to Jugoslavenski Naftovod
Poduzece za Transport Nafte U Osnivanju. A reasonable term for the loan is
18 years including four years of grace.






APPRAISAL OF
THE YUGOSLAVIA OIL PIPELINE
(Jugoslavenski Naftovod Poduzece
za Transport Nafte U Osnivanju)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and INA, Naftagas,
and Energoinvest (the Founders) have asked the Bank to help finance a pipe-
line project to transport imported crude oil from an Adriatic port to five
inland refineries and Hungary and Czechoslovakia. Jugoslavenski Naftovod
Poduzece za Transport Nafte U Osnivanju (Naftovod, the Borrower) was created
to implement the project and operate the facilities.  The project was pre-
pared by the Borrower with the assistance of consultants.
1.02      The concept of pipeline transport of imported oil dates back to
1969 when the Founders proposed rival pipeline schemes. In 1973 the Founders
pooled their activities and the project was selected as being the most econom-
ical scheme. The Bank was asked to participate in financing the project
with the principal aim of attracting other foreign loans on reasonable terms.
To enable the Bank to influence project execution, a loan of US$49 million is
recommended. The proposed facilities will transport "transit" oil to Hungary
and Czechoslovakia at a profit and will provide economical oil transport to
the inland refineries. The project comprises an oil-receiving port in Omisalj
Bay, five oil storage tank farms, seven pump stations, 736 kilometers (km) of
various sizes of pipelines, and the services of foreign engineering consult-
ants.
1.03      The project is estimated to cost Din. 6,409.4 million (IJS$377 mil-
lion) including all contingencies and local taxes. The foreign exchange com-
ponent is estimated at Din. 3,284.4 million (US$193.2 million) or 51% of the
total.*
1.04      Including the Bank a total of five foreign lenders are contributing
US$294 million, while local financing in the amount of US$106 million is be-
ing contributed by six Yugoslav lenders. The financing plan includes inter-
est during construction of Din. 390.6 million (US$23 million).
1.05      This report is the result of an identification mission in December,
1973, and pre-appraisal and appraisal missions in Septerber, 1974, and
January, 1975, respectively. The appraisal. mission consisted of Messrs.
P. Bourcier (Economist), A. Krishnan (Financial Analyst), J. Ristorcelli
(Engineer), and H. Harries (consultant).
*    Net of duties and other local taxes but including interest during con-
struction, the project is estimated to cost Din. 6,532.2 million
(US$384.2 million).



- 2 -
II. BACKGROUND
A.  The Country and The Eoomy
2.01      Yugoslavia is a federation of six republics and two autonomous
provinces. It has an area of 255,804 km2 and a population of 21 million
growing at 1% per annum. It has a socialist market economy, in which most
of the means of production are owned by society as a whole, but are entrusted,
through a system of self-management, to the control of the workers that use
them. There is a private sector, accounting for only 15% of GDP, which is
made up of small farms and small commercial enterprises 1-rincipally in the
retail and service trades.
2.02      In the social sector decisions are decentralized and largely out-
side the scope of government at any level, although there are policies for
mandatory coordination in certain instances. The basic principle for all
economic decision-making is self-management by the workers. The basic
decision-making units are called Basic Organizations of Associated Labor
(BOAL) which are technically identifiable units which could, at least in
principle, function independently. In most instances, several BOALs are
integrated into Work Organizations of Associated Labor through revocable
contracts knonm as Self-Management Agreements. The affairs of BOALs and
work organizations are governed by councils elected by all the workers.
2.03      When the economic activities of workers are of concern to others,
such as in public utilities and public services, Self-Managing Conmunities of
Interest are established by the organizations of associated labor in these
fields and the beneficiaries of their products or services. The Communities
of Interest provide the framework for developing, financing, and regalating
the activity concerned. They are a recent development and many of them are
still in the process of being established.
2.04      The economy has grown at the high rate of 5.5% per annum over the
last two decades, and GDP per capita, measured in real terms, at 4.5% per
annum. Wide disparities exist between regions; compared with the national
average of about US$900 (1973), per capita GDP is one-third in Kosovo and
nearly double in Slovenia. Industry, which now accounts for 40% of GDP, has
grown about 9% per annum. Agriculture now accounts for 20% of GDP, and its
growth rate has been about 2.5% per annum. The projected trend of economic
growth implies continuation of the past high-growth rate in overall energy
demand, and, more particularly, electricity, oil, and natural gas (para.
2.19).



-3-
B. Energy Resources
2.05      Yugoslavia's main energy resources are lignite, coal, and hydro-
power (Map 2). Total fossil fuel reserves are estimated at 4,100 million
tons of oil equivalent (Toe) with low-grade coal and lignite accounting for
97% and hydrocarbons for 3%. Reserves of coal and lignite are located in
Kosovo (70%) and Bosnia-Herzegovina (20%). Reserves of oil and gas are
located in Vojvodina (40%) and Croatia (60%). Hydro resources represent about
60,000 million kWh/year and 70% df it is located in Croatia, Serbia, and
Bosnia-Herzegovina.
2.06      Despite large coal reserves, Yugoslavia is not self-sufficient in
energy and has to rely on imports of hydrocarbons and coking coal to satisfy
internal demand. This is principally due to the low quality of lignite and
brown coal which prohibits transport over long distances and limits its use
to power and steam generation. Annex 1 gives a detailed description of energy
reserves.
C. Energy Sector Policy and Sector Organization
2.07      National energy policy is based on restraining dependence on im-
ported fuels, particularly oil, through greater development and utilization
of indigenous sources, and this has been accounted for in the preparation
of the project (Annex 1, para. 24). Until recently the role of the Federal
Government was limited to pricing and foreign borrowing. The functions of
planning and policy-making in the energy sector and the coordination of the
energy programs of the Republics were assigned to a Federal Committee on
Energy and Industry (FCEI) created in 1974. It consists of representatives
of local governments and energy and industry sectors.
2.08      Responsibility for implementing energy policy lies, as in most
other sectors, with the energy enterprises which are the principal agents in
the development of energy. They draw up their development and investment
plans and arrange financing. A large number of enterprises are members of
professional associations which represent them within the Federal Chamber of
Economy. Power enterprises belong to the Union of Yugoslav Electric Power
Industry (JUGEL) and coal producers to the Association of Yugoslav Coal Pro-
ducers. These V-dies have no executive power and cannot coordinate adequate-
ly the development of the energy sector. There is not, so far, a similar
body in the oil and gas industry.
2.09      Since 1965 coordination between various subsectors (electricity,
coal, and hydrocarbons) has been weak particularly in resource allocations.
Investment decisions were made on a local basis without due attention to
country and sector development. This was particularly true in the power
sector and together with lack of adequate funds it resulted in severe power
shortages in 1973. This situation is not expected to improve until 1977/78.



-4-
2.10      The recent constitutional changes and the increase in the world
price of energy, particularly oil, have brought about two major changes:
(i)  relations between energy enterprises, users, and local and
Federal Authorities are now regulated by "social agreements"
which will form the framework of the future development of
the sector for a period of five years, and
(ii)  through FCEI the Federal Government is now playing a more
significant role in the formulation and implementation of
long-term energy policies (para. 2.07),. and a statement on
energy policy by the Federal Executive Council recently ap-
peared in the document entitled "The Basis of Common Policy
for the Long-Term Development of Yugoslavia."
2.11      Social agreements in the power and coal. industries are in the final
stage of negotiations; the oil industry was expected to complete its dis-
cussions and sign the agreements by the end of 19,75. These agreements will
define, inter alia, the quantitative objectives to be achieved for a partic-
ular branch, the investment program and financing plan of that branch for the
next five years and the pricing policy.  Since these agreements involve pro-
ducers, users, and local and Federal Authorities, it is expected that they
will improve coordination within and among branches. Some positive results
have already been achieved by eliminating duplication among individual devel-
opment plans. There is, however, room for improvement in the definition of
sector priorities and in project preparation and implemertation.
2.12      The studies sponsored by FCEI should provide a rational framework
for the selection of priorities and the formulation of adequate development
strategy. It has initiated studies covering the immediate, medium, and long-
term future (1985-1990) with the objective of submitting proposals to the
Federal Govermnent by mid-1975.  Preliminary results of these studies were
discussed by the mission and were found to be a substantial improvement on
past performance. Although it is too early to ma.ke a final judgment as to the
eventual efficiency of the new procedures, Yugoslavia has now an adequate
tool to deal with energy problems, and positive results should materialize
soon. In agreement with Federal Authorities, the Bank has scheduled a mis-
sion to review the findings and recommendations of FCEI.
D. The Oil and Gas Sector
2.13      The oil and gas sector consists primarily of two large integrated
domestic enterprises, INA and Naftagas, which cover all activities in the oil
and gas industry from exploration to distribution. of final products. In
addition there is one enterprise dealing with oil refining (Energoinvest)
and several enterprises dealing with the distribu.tion of refined products.
All these enterprises are independent and to a large extent competitive;
however, they are linked together by market agreements regarding the purchas-
ing of crude oil and the distribution of products. They also cooperate



-5-
closely in the preparation of tariffs for approval by the Federal Government
which coordinates the imports of oil.  By year-end 1975 Yugoslavia expects
to sign long-term oil supply contracts covering 80% of the country require-
ments over the five years ending in 1980.
2.14      Coordination between these enterprises in the past has been in-
adequate; in many instances they could not agree on common development pro-
grams and some projects have been delayed considerably by conflicting re-
gional interests. This is the case for the proposed project which was first
initiated in 1969, and for which agreement was not reached until the end of
1973. The situation, however, is improving considerably, partly as a result
of the efforts of FCEI, and partly as a result of the proposed project which
led to intensive discussions on long-term supply and demand projections,
pricing policies, and development of domestic refining capacity. Within this
framework, the oil and gas enterprises have agreed on common supply/demand
figures until 1985-1990 (Annex 1, para. 27) and have also agreed to lower
refining capacity expansion to satisfy the projected demand. These will be
finalized in the social agreement presently under negotiation (para. 2.11)
and have been used as the basis for the project.
E. Past Developments in Energy Supply and Demand
2.15      After a period of relative stagnation, overall energy consumption
increased rapidly from 1967 to 1973 at an average rate of 8.2% per annum com-
pared with an average GNP increase of 6.4% per annum. During the same period
the structure of demand changed considerably and coal whiLch had been tradi-
tionally the predominant fuel in Yugoslavia was surpassed by oil. This was
due primarily to the development of a modern industrial sector (40% of GDP)
and to the rapid growth of road transportation. In 1973 total oil consump-
tion accounted for over 40% of the total demand compared to 28% in 1967. Oil
is used mainly in the industrial and transportation sectors, which account
for 84% of total demand for main oil products; oil and gas consumption in
power generation has always been and will remain margi;ial, as most of the in-
crease will be based on the use of domestic coal.
2.16      Domestic oil production has not kept pace with demand and Yugo-
slavia has to rely increasingly on imports to supply its six domestic refin-
eries (Rijeka, Sisak, Bosanski-Brod, Novi Sad, Pancevo, and Lendava). In 1973
oil imports accounted for 70% of total internal demand for refined products.
Traditionally, the USSR has been the main foreign supplier of oil; however,
in recent years Yugoslavia has been importing increasingly from the Middle
East (Iraq, Iran). Russian crude is imported through the Danube by barge,
while Middle East crude is imported through Adriatic ports and transported
by rail to the refineries of Sisak and Bosanski Brod; in 1974 oil and oil
products transport on the Yugoslav railways accounted for about 7% of total
freight traffic, and the cost of oil imports represented about 12% of all
imports.



- 6 -
F. Present Situation and Future Prospects
2.17      Since Yugoslavia is a large importer of crude oil, it was seriously
affected by the oil crisis; the problem, however, wa- more one of prices than
of availability. Because of the poor quality of domestic coal, possible sub-
stitution of coal for oil is limited and only minor adjustments could be made
in the short run to reduce the country's dependence on foreign oil.  The main
steps taken were increases in the price of refined oil products and the crea-
tion of an equalization fund to align the price of domestic crude with world
market prices; as a result, consumption growth slowed down to 6% per annum
in 1974 compared to 7.7% in 1973.
2.18      Before the oil crisis it was expected that total energy demand
would continue to grow rapidly and would increase 3.5 times between 1973 and
1990. Oil demand would continue to grow faster than overall demand and would
be primarily satisfied by imports, since domestic production was not expected
to meet more than 9% of the total energy demand.. Natural gas would also be
developed based on exploitation of domestic resources and on imports from the
USSR and North Africa and by 1990 hydrocarbons would account for more than
51% of total energy demand.
2.19      Following the oil crisis these projections were lowered and the
preliminary results of studies sponsored by FCEI] show that total energy con-
sumption will increase 3 times over the next 15 years reaching about 83 mil-
lion Toe by 1990. Hydrocarbon demand will grow at the same pace as total
demand; however, the volumes of oil imports in 1990 will be almost identical
to those projected previously because:
(i) previous projections were based on fast growth in the use
of natural gas which is not likely to materialize. Recent -
evaluations of domestic fields have been somewhat disap-
pointing and import possibilities at competitive prices are
limited; and
(ii)  previous projections for domestic oil production were over-
optimistic. It is now estimated that domestic production
would start declining after 1985 to reach 5 million tons
in 1990 instead of 8 million previously considered.
2.20      Based on these projections it is now considered that import of
crude oil will increase from about 7.9 million tons in 1975 to 28 million
tons in 1990, at average rates per annum declining from 11% between 1975 and
1980, to 8% and 7% between 1980 and 1985, and 1985 and 1990, respectively.
Host of this oil would be imported from the Middle East through Adriatic ports
and would have to be transported to the inland refineries. Conventional
transport of such volumes of oil by rail is not economical and it was, there-
fore, decided to build the pipeline.



III.  THE BORROWER
A. Background
3.01      The three principal oil and gas enterprises of Yugoslavia, INA of
Croatia, Energoinvest of Bosnia-Herzegovina, and Naftagas of Serbia (the
Founders), have jointly established a new enterprise, JUGOSLAVENSKI NAFTOVOD
(Naftovod) to design, build and operate port and pipeline facilities for
the transport of imported crude oil to five local refineries and for transit
to Hungary and Czechoslavakia. The new Enterprise has been registered in the
District Commercial Court in Rijeka; its headquarters will be in Rijeka with
offices in Zagreb and Belgrade. Naftovod will be the Borrower. The Enter-
prise will charge the foreign offtakers at agreed commercial rates and local
refineries at cost, both arrangements being covered by take or pay clauses
in the transport contracts.
B. Organization and Management
3.02      Currently and until completion of construction, Naftovod is an
"enterprise under foundation" and a Council of 12 members, six appointed by
the Founders and six by Naftovod, which will be the governing body responsible
all policy decisions. The General Manager, guided by a Coordinating Commit-
tee of six members (two from each Founder) will execute the Project in accord-
ance with the Council's decisions. During this phase Naftovod, assisted by
local and foreign consultants (para. 4.04), will be responsible for project
execution. It will employ over 100 staff, 40 of whom have already been ap-
pointed; no difficulties are envisaged in recruiting the balance. -
3.03      At the start of commercial operations, the Council will be substi-
tuted by a Workers' Council and the Coordinating Committee will look after
the interests of the Founders. The Enterprise will then consist of five
departments, namely: (1) Technical, (2) Economic and Financial, (3) Legal
and Personnel, (4) Commercial, and (5) Operations, comprising a total of 350
staff (Chart 1). The proposed organization appears suitable, and the manage-
ment staff thus far appointed are capable and diligent.
C.  Recruitment and Training
3.04      No difficulties are anticipated in the recruitment of the majority
of the skilled personnel, as experienced staff are available in the various
refineries which employ thousands of skilled workers. Most of them will re-
quire only familiarization with the new facilities and the pipeline's operat-
ing procedures. However, Naftovod will have to train staff in some special
skills, such as electronics, instrumentation, and oil dispatching and schedul-
ing. A program of training has yet to be worked out; this will be done by



-8-
the foreign consultants (Annex 3). The specialized training will very likely
involve less than 40 individuals, and it will be carried out partly on the
job in Yugoslavia, partly in foreign suppliers' plants, and in part in simi-
lar European facilities. The Bank has Naftovod's agreement to begin implement-
ing the specialized training program no later than May 31, 1977.
D. Line Fill
3.05      The initial supply of crude oil to fill the pipeline and the storage
tanks, the line fill, would amount to about US$30 million. In the case of
pipeline companies who are common carriers, the line fill is either provided
by them as part of their capital investment and tariffs charged accordingly
or supplied by the users and treated by them as their "sailing stock." This
latter procedure is common in Europe. In the case of Naftovod, the line fill
will be provided free of cost by the Federal Directorate for Reserves of Food
Stuffs and Strategic Stocks (MATREZ), who will have first call on the line
fill in case of a national emergency.
E. Insurance
3.06      Adequate insurance coverage for all assets and third-party risks,
including possible damage from oil spills, will be provided; adequate pro-
vision for insurance has been made in the revenue accounts.
F. Operations and Maintenance
3.07      The local refineries, under the coordination of the Federal Govern-
ment, and Hungary and Czechoslovakia will be responsible for arranging de-
livery of the crude oil to Naftovod at the oil port.
3.08      Handling the tankers and operating the port facilities will be the
responsibility of the Port of Rijeka (para. 3.12 b(i)).
3.09      Naftovod will be responsible for receiving the crude and delivering
it to the offtakers. Basic transport agreements have been signed between
Naftovo.d on one hand and Hungary, Czechoslovakia, and the Founders on the
other; detailed operational arrangements have yet to be agreed (para. 3.12
(a)).
3.10      Electric power for the operation of the system will be provided by
local enterprises. Naftovod will install telecontrol systems to serve the
pipeline in areas where the Federal Communications Authority has no such in-
stallations. In other areas, largely from Sisak eastward, Naftovod will lease
cable facilities from the appropriate communications authorities (para. 3.12
r) (ii) ).



- 9 -
3.11      The principal maintenance depot will be located in Sisak and a
smaller one in Omisalj.  The maintenance crews of the various refineries will
be available to Naftovod during emergencies. The project estimate includes
Din. 44.2 million (US$2.6 million) for warehouses, shops, and maintenance
equipment; this is adequate.
G. Operational Arrangements with Clients and Others
3.12      The Bank has Naftovod's agreement that it will sign:  (a) by Novem-
ber 15, 1975, operating agreements with the seven offtakers covering technical
and operational matters, such as batching procedures, metering and custody
transfer, types of crude, including physical and chemical properties, sche-
duling of oil receipts and shipments, etc., (para. 3.09), and (b) by May 31,
1977, the following agreements:
(i)  a port operations agreement with the Port of Rijeka for
providing normal port facilities and services, which
will ensure that Naftovod will receive suitable compensa-
tion for the port facilities financed by the project and
turned over to the port authority (para. 3.08 and Annex 2,
para. 11), and
(ii)  a telecommunications and power supply agreement with the
appropriate authorities for the lease of communications
facilities and the supply of power (para. 3.10),
and that prior to such signature it will submit the draft agreements to the
foreign consultants for their advice and thereafter the draft agreement
under b(i) to the Bank for its review and approval.
H. Investment Plan
3.13      The proposed project is the first and major part of a series in
Naftovod's investment plan which provides for the project and for increases
in capacity to handle the traffic to 1990. The investment program totals
Din. 8,315 million during the period 1975-1990; this includes Din. 6,800
million for the project and Din. 1,515 million, for expansion to ultimate
capacity (para. 4.01). The mission found that refineries' demand forecasts
were high because they overlapped due to a lack of coordination (paras. 2.11
and 2.14) and this led to inflated projections which were corrected after some
discussion. To help ensure proper coordination in preparing future demand
projections, the Bank has Naftovod's agreement not to undertake capacity ex-
pansion programs without prior consultation with the Bank.



- 10 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01      Stage I of the project will be completed in 1978 and comprises the
facilities to transport 16 million tons of petroleum per year; Stage II will
be completed in 1979 and will increase the capacity to 20 million tons annual-
ly. The facilities are capable df being expanded to 34 million tons yearly,
the throughput in 1990. The project will provide substantial earnings to
Yugoslavia from the transit of foreign oil and economical transport of crude
to the Yugoslav refineries.
B. Description
4.02      The project is the least cost solution tCo oil transport and it com-
prises (Chart 2 and Map 1) an oil port, five oil storage tank farms, seven
pump stations, 736 km of pipelines, a control system and engineering services.
The project will be designed to the codes and standards listed in Annex 13
and will consist of:
(a)  the procurement of two tugs of about 2,000 horsepower each and
several launches, to assist the tankers to and from the berths;
(b)  the procurement and installation of two marine berths in Omisalj
Bay capable of handling tankers from 30,000 dwt to 350,000 dwt,
including mooring dolphins, power, bunkering, fire-fighting and
water-supply facilities, and navigational aids at the approaches
to the port.
(c)  the procurement and installation of an oil storage tank farm
with a capacity of approximately 720,000 m3 (about 612,000
tons), including piping, utilities, and a fire-fighting system;
(d)  the procurement and installation of:
(i)  approximately 173 km of 36-in pipeline between Omisalj
and Sisak with a short lateral pipeline to the Sisak
refinery;
(ii) two pump stations (Omisalj and Melnice) totalling ap-
proximately 17,500 kW;
(iii) a maintenance depot at Omisalj housing specialized equip-
ment and personnel;
(iv) a pressure-reducing station between Melnice and Sisak;



- 11 -
(v) a buffer oil storage tank farm at Sisak with a capacity
of about 70,000 m3 (approximately 60,000 tons);
(e)  the procurement and installation of:
(i) approximately 105 km of 28-in pipeline from Sisak to
Virje and Gola 1/ (Hungarian border);
(ii)  a 7,500 kW pump station and a maintenance depot at
Sisak;
(iii) a buffer oil storage tank farm of about 30,000 m3
(approxlmately 25,500 tons) capacity at Virje;
(iv)  a pump station at Virje of about 600 kW, and
(v)  a 67 km long 12-in pipeline between Virje and the
Lendava refinery;
(f)  the procurement and installation of:
(i)  approximately 138 km of 28-in pipeline between Sisak
and Slobodnica with a 4.5 km lateral pipeline between
Slobodnica and the Bosanski Brod refinery;
(ii)  two additional pumps at Sisak with a total power of
3,200 kW, and
(iii) a buffer oil storage tank with a capacity of 40,000 m3
(approximately 34,000 tons) at Slobodnica;
(g) the procurement and installation of:
(i)  a 16-in pipeline about 85 km long between Slobodnica
and Negoslavci;
(ii)  a 4,100 kW pump station at Slobodnica;
(iii) a 22-in 78 km long pipeline between Negoslavci and
Novi Sad with a short lateral pipeline between Novi
Sad and the Novi Sad refinery;
(iv)  a 2,300 kW pump station at Negoslavci,
1/   At Gola a connection will be made with the Hungarian pipeline which will
be built to transport the crude oil into Hungary and to Ctechoslovakia.



- 12 -
(v) a buffer oil storage tank farm of 40,000 m3 (approxi-
mately 34,000 tons) at Novi Sad;
(vi) a 2,600 kW pump station at Novi Sad,, and
(vii) a 86 km 18-in pipeline between Novi Sad and the
Pancevo refinery;
(h) the incorporation into the system of an existing 16-in pipeline
between Slobodnica and Negoslavci;
(i)  the procurement and installation of a supervisory control
system including telecommunications, telemetering and tele-
control;
(j)  the services of pipelines engineering consultants to do the
basic designs, tendering and project plarnning and to provide
overall supervision during implementation.
C. Status of Engineering
4.03      The project is based on a feasibility study by INA Engineering
(Zagreb) and INEG Consultants (UK) and optimization studies by Industropro-
jekt, Zagreb consultants. Although final designs have not yet been started,
sufficient preparatory work has been done to define! the project and make
realistic cost estimates. Slight reductions in the size of the facilities
may be indicated upon completion of final designs.
4.04      Naftovod has assigned overall design responsibility to Industro-
projekt of Zagreb, assisted by Omniam Technique des Transports par Pipelines
(OTP, a French firm) who will be responsible for designs, tender preparation,
project coordination, and some of the duties outlined in Annex 3. Industro-
projekt may, at its discretion, subcontract further work to other competent
local firms on terms and conditions acceptable to Naftovod and the Bank.
Naftovod informed the Bank that it will assign overall responsibility for
construction supervision also to Industroprojekt assisted by OTP, who will
carry out the remaining duties in Annex 3. These arrangements are satis-
factory.
D. Cost Estimate
4.05      The project is estimated to cost Din. 6,409.4 million (US$377 mil-
lion) including all contingencies and local taxes plus interest during con-
struction of Din. 390.6 million (US$23 million) on the proposed Kuwaiti and
Bank loans. The foreign exchange component is estimated at Din. 3,675 million
(US$216.2 million) or 54% of the total. Customs duties and other local taxes
are estimated at Din. 267.8 million (US$15.7 million).



- 13 -
4.06      The basic components of the project and their estimated costs
(rounded) are shown below; further details are shown in Annex 4.
% of Basic
----Din Million ------   -----US$ Million-----   Project
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total        Cost
A. Port Facilities      224.7    202.6   427.3   13.22   11.92   25.14          9.3
B. Terminals, Tanks
and Pump Stations   580.0    607.5 1,187.5   34.12   35.74   69.86         25.9
C. Pipelines            958.2  1,488.0 2,446.2   56.35   87.52  143.87         53.3
D. Telecommunication
& Control             21.1    124.3   145.4    1.24    7.31    8.55          3.2
E. Owners supervision,
training & consult-
ants                 312.8      69.4   382.2   18.40    4.08   22.48        8.3
Basic project cost   2,096.8  2,491.8 4,588.6  123.33  146.57  269.90    100.0
F. Contingency
allowances
1. Physical          285.1    231.7   516.8   16.77   13.63   30.40    11.3
2. Price             743.1    560.9 1,304.0   43.70   23.00   76.70    28.4
Subtotal F         1,028.2    792.6 1,820.8   60.47   46.63  107.10    39.7
G. Total project
cost               3,125.0  3,284.4 6,409.4  183.80  193.20  377.00   139.7
4.07      The estimate was prepared by Naftovod and the consultants; it was
reviewed by the Bank and found adequate. Although it is not anticipated that
foreign contractors alone will win many bids due to the advanced state of
the contracting industry in Yugoslavia, some participation by foreign con-
tractors is expected. The above estimate reflects Naftovod's and the Bank's
judgment of the most likely degree of participation by foreign contractors
(para. 4.15). The foreign exchange costs of the project could increase to
US$213:2 million or decrease to US$179.2 million based, respectively, on
maximum and minimum awards to and participation by foreign contractors. The
estimate provides an overall physical contingency of 11.3% which is ample.
Price contingencies of 15% and 12% were applied to local costs for 1975 and
thereafter, respectively; foreign costs were escalated at 11% and 8%, respect-
ively, in 1975 and thereafter. These escalation factors are in accordance
with current Bank guidelines.



- 14 -
E. Financing Plar
4.08      The project is expected to be financed frc, the sources shomn below.
Interest during construction on all loans biit Kuwait's and the Bank's proposed
loan (para. 4.11) will accrue but will not be payable until operations start
and Naftovod has made adequate provisions for this in its operating budgets.
The interest during construction on the Kuwait and Bank loans, US$23 million,
is covered by the financing plan.'
US$ (Million)    Interest Rate  Grace  Repayment
Local     Foreign    Annual %       Period  Period
(1)  IBRD                                   49.0        8.50         4.0       14
(2)  Kuwait                                 125.0       8.50         4.0        8
(3)  Hungary                                 25.0        8.25        3.0        6
(4)  Czechoslovakia                          25.0        8.25         3.0       6
(5)  Libya                                   70.0       9.00         3.0        7
(6)  Founders                    26.5                     -          6.0       25
(7)  Petroleum Fund/i /2         59.0                    2.00        3.0       15
(8)  Local Banks/2          *    20.5                   12.0          3.5       7
Totals              $106.0      $294.0
Grand Totals               $400
/1   The Federal Petroleum Fund was created to cover investments and emergen-
cies in the oil sector and its revenues are derived from a tax of Din.
0.15/liter on Petroleum products, levied by the Federal Government.  It
will have reserves of nearly Din. 3 billion by the end of 1975 and is
accumulating further reserves at a rate of some Din. 1.7 billion annually.
/z   Grace period likely to be increased to tally with Bank loan.
4.09      All loans are considered firm.  Protocol agreements have been signed
with Kuwait and Libya, the Founders have signed an agreement covering their
contribution, the draft contract with the local banks has been agreed and the
Federal Executive Council will shortly give formal approval to the loan from
the Petroleuml Fund.  Basic Transport Agreements with Hungary and Czechoslovia,
stipulating the loan amounts, were ratified in December 1974.
4.10      Bank financing would be parallel with that of other foreign lenders.
The loan from Kuwait would include the supply of some 58,000 tons of pipe
representing about 33% of its loan; the balance would be in cash and the
Borrower plans to finance mainly local expenditures with it. The Hungarian
loan will be in fully convertible currency while the Czechoslovak loan is
likely to be in the forrmi of 28-in pipe (about 15,000 tons) and construction
services for the Sisak-Hungarian border pipeline. The Libyan loan would be
used to finance both foreign and local expenditures. A condition of loan
effectiveness is the effectiveness of the other loans.



- 15 -
The Loan
4.11      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$49 million with repay-
ment in 18 years, including a grace period of four years which corresponds with
the construction period. The proposed Bank loan would cover the foreign ex-
change costs of consultants, construction services (para. 4.14) and procure-
ment of two tugs and oil loading arms. These elements would be disbursed in
rhythm with construction or late in the procurement cycle, and this would
provide the Bank with an effective means of influencing project execution
(paras. 4.15 and 4.16). Retroactive financing of foreign consultants' ser-
vices to May 1975 in an amount not to exceed US$0.5 million is provided.
Cost Overrun Guarantees
4.12      Loan proposals did not provide cost overrun guarantees with the ex-
ception of the local banks who had agreed to guarantee overruns in propor-
tion to their contribution to the project, 50; this is inadequate.  During
appraisal the Bank asked the Federal Authorities and Naftovod to consider
covering cost overruns with guarantees from: (a) the Petroleum Fund; or (b)
the Founders; or (c) the five refineries. The Bank has now obtained confirma-
tion that the Founders will provide this guarantee and a condition of loan
effectiveness is that the Founders Agreement will be suitably amended.
F. Implementation
Land Acquisition
4.13      According to Yugoslav regulations many formalities have to-be com-
pleted before the land required for the project can be acquired and construc-
tion work can commence. These involve obtaining approvals in principle (this
has been done), based on preliminary studies and then construction permits
based on final designs and estimates; the approvals and permits are granted
by many committees in each Republic. Although no serious impediments are anti-
cipated, the complex procedures involved could delay the project. It has
been agreed that Naftovod shall promptly take all such action as shall be
necessary and shall supply evidence satisfactory to the Bank that it has ob-
tained all construction permits and acquired all the land and right-of-way
permits require I for the project.
Procurement
4.14      Procurement under the loan would be by international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank Group's "Guidelines for Procurement."
(For construction contracts the loan would cover foreign exchange costs of
these contracts whose total value is estimated at US$160 million excluding
project materials and pipe and the laying of the Sisak-Gola pipeline which
would be financed by other loans and with the exceptions noted below). Ex-
ceptions would be: (a) construction contracts estimated not to exceed



- 16 -
US$100,000 (provided that in the aggregate they do not exceed US$1,000,000)
which would be procured by local shopping, and (b) construction contracts
estimated not to exceed US$500,000 (provided that in total they do not exceed
USS9,000,000) which would be procured by local competitive bidding. Local
shopping and competitive bidding in accordance with local procedures are
appropriate for the above contracts because they are geographically dispersed
and the amounts involved are such that foreign firms would not be interested.
Moreover, these contracts would cover mostly preparatory works such as site
preparation and construction of materials yards wrhich should be awarded early
in view of the tight schedule, and international competitive bidding would
involve delays. Bank staff has reviewed the local procedures and they are
acceptable since they ensure adequate competition. The construction costs
to be financed by the loan would exclude project materials since these would
be financed by other foreign loans. Yugoslavia has no preference treaties,
and bids for the tugs and loading arms included in the Bank loan will be com-
pared on a CIF basis net of customs duties; a preference of 15% of the CIF
price or the actual customs duties, whichever is the lower, will be given to
local manufacturers who qualify as preferred bidders.
4.15      In view of the specialized nature of the work and of the tight proj-
ect schedule (para. 4.17), the Bank has Naftovod's agreement to prequalify
construction contractors under the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement; it would
thus assist Naftovod in screening contractors, particularly local ones, who
might be fully occupied in the many oil and gas projects being undertaken in
Yugoslavia and who might require the cooperation of international contractors.
Local contractors are competent to construct the port facilities, pump sta-
tions, tanks and most of the pipelines and depending on their commitments are
likely to bid for these contracts. The most probable outCome will be a mix
of local contractors and joint ventures of foreign and local firms, and this
is the basis for the project estimate.
4.16      As stated in para. 4.10, the Kuwait and Czechoslovak loans involve
the supply of some 73,000 tons of pipe. It is important that the pipe be made
according to internationally recognized standards, reasonably priced and sup-
plied in accordance with the project schedule. The Borrower provided the Bank
with an engineering report on the capabilities of the Kuwait Metal Pipe In-
dustries Mill. The report states that the qualit:y of the pipe produced by
the Mill is good, but it casts some concern as to the ability of the Mill
to supply the pipe in time to meet the construction schedule. Any delay in
the delivery schedule will, however, be detected in time for Naftovod to ob-
tain supplies from alternative sources. The Bank has Naftovod's agreement
to select and hire competent inspection agencies to inspect all pipe at the
Mills.
Project Schedule
4.17      The schedule for the project is very tight (Chart 3) since Stage I
is to be completed and operating by May 31, 1978 and Stage II one year later.
Failure to start delivering oil to all offtakers by May 31, 1978 could subject
Naftovod to penalties and to avoid this, extremely careful planning is needed.



- 17 -
This will require that Naftovod place orders for pipe and long lead materi-
als for Stage I in late 1975 at the latest and follow the progress of these
orders with extreme care. In some cases, premiums for early deliveries
will be required, but they will be well within the contingency allowance.
Since the Omisalj tank farm and the pipelines lie on the critical path, this
will require starting site clearing, grading and blasting in 1misalj this fall
or very early in 1976 and pipeline construction soon thereafter; moreover, at
least two construction crews each for the pipelines, tank farms and pump sta-
tions will be required. Valuable time has been lost in obtaining financing
but with proper controls and good planning, Naftovod should be able to meet
the target completion date for Stage I. If construction slips and timely
completion is threatened, contingency plans would give priority to the facil-
ities required to deliver oil to the foreign offtakers, and the Bank has
Naftovod's agreement to assign such priority and to seek the refineries' agree-
ment not to impose penalties on Naftovod for failure to deliver oil according
to schedule. The timely completion of Stage II does not pose serious problems.
G. Disbursements
4.18      Loan disbursements would cover:  (a) the foreign exchange costs of
the foreign consultants (b) the foreign exchange costs of construction con-
tracts - the Bank would disburse against the foreign exchange costs, estimated
at 38% of total costs for foreign firms and 25% for local firms or joint
ventures - and (c) the costs of two tugs and loading arms for two berths if
procured abroad or 75% of their total costs if procured locally, up to US$4
million. Disbursements are expected to take place over four years from the
fourth quarter of 1975 to the fourth quarter of 1979. The estimated schedule
of disbursements is given in Annex 5. Since this is a self-contained project,
any surplus loan amounts on completion of the project should be cancelled.
H. Ecology and Safety
4.19      Environmental impact studies and related recommendations will be
made by four Yugoslav agencies 1/ and the UNDP Study Group for "Protection
of Human Environment in the Yugoslav Adriatic Region." These organizations
will also monitor the project during construction.
1/   Institute Ruder Boskovic (Zagreb), the Hydrographic Institute of the
Navy (Split), the Institute for Oceanography and Fishing (Split), the
Biological Institute of the Yugoslavian Academy of Arts and Sciencies
(Dubrovnik).



- 18 -
4.20      The following are some of the environmental protection measures
recommended in the feasibility study:  (a) a floating boom and skimmer (Annex
2) to contain any oil spills inside the harbor and to remove any spilled oil;
(b) a 15,000 ton capacity tank and API separator to receive slops from the
tankers with backwash filtration of the settled water from the separator and
of storm water from oil operating areas, and biological percolation of these,
as well as sewerage, so that the oil content of the processed water will be
less than 5 parts per million, and (c) oil storage tanks to be surrounded by
dikes of such a height that the enclosed area will be able to contain one-
and-a-half times the tank volume as safety in the event of tank leaks. The
Bank has (a) Naftovod's agreement that these or similarly effective measures,
such as purifying all effluents from the installations, monitoring for pipe-
line leaks and air pollution, etc., will be taken, as well as any reasonable
measures recommended by the environmental study agencies, and (b) the Federal
Government's assurance that it will take such action, within its constitution-
al powers, as necessary to ensure the expeditious and effective institution
and implementation of such measures.
4.21      Installation of the pipelines will pose no threat to the environ-
ment. They will be buried at sufficient depth to avoid interference with
land cultivation, highways, railways, natural drainage, and animal migration.
At water crossings, they will be either suspended by a structure sufficiently
high to avoid interference with shipping or buried deep under the river beds.
They will be a silent, nearly invisible, and clean means of overland trans-
port. The only visible signs of the pipeline system will be its storage tank
farms and pump stations, and the former are required, in any case, by rails
and barges, while the latter will be noiseless, clean, and unobtrusive.
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. Financial Forecasts
5.01      In 1978, the traffic handled will be 8.3 million tons increasing
to 16.7 and 19.8 million tons, respectively, in 1979 and 1980. Revenue Ac-
counts and Balance Sheets were prepared by Naftovod staff on the standard
Yugoslav pattern. These have been modified where necessary for the finan-
cial analysis. A description of the budget and accounting procedures is
given in Annex 6. Bases and assumptions used in the financial analysis are
given in Annex 7, Revenue Accounts to 1988 in Annex 8, Cash Flow Statement
in Annex 10 and Balance Sheet in Annex 9.  Represeintative Revenue Accounts
for 1978, 1979 and 1980 are shown below:



- 19 -
1978       1979        1980
--------Din. Million------
Operating Revenue                                 760      1,486       1,554
Operating Expenses                                 88        193         239
Depreciation                                      178        315         315
Surplus                                          494         978       1,000
Interest Charges                                  277        606         586
Repayment of Loan                                 185        415         454
Operating Ratio                                    35         34          36
Interest Coverage                                  1.7x       1.6x        1.7x
Debt Service Coverage /1                           1.4x       1.3x        1.3x
/1   Surplus + depreciation , interest and loan repayment.
5.02      Naftovod is protected by the take or pay clause in the transport
agreements. The Revenue Accounts (Annex 8) show that under the existing
transport arrangements sufficient surplus is generated to meet all expendi-
tures including debt service, and, therefore, the Enterprise is financially
sound. To ensure the continuance of this, the Bank has Naftovod's agreement
that it will not, without prior consultation with the Bank, consent to any
modification of the contracts which would affect the agreed quantities of
crude oil to be transported and the basis of charges therefor.
B. Tariffs
5.03      The agreements with the Founders provide for the annual revision
of the tariffs payable by them on the basis of the actual expenditures in-
curred by Naftovod, plus a surplus limited to 25% of the gross salarie's and
wages. Under this arrangement, Naftovod would normally not incur a loss.
As to Hungary and Czechoslovakia, the tariffs payable by them are laid down
in the respective agreements, which provide for annual revisions according
to price indices for steel, labor and electricity. Without providing for
any changes in the price of steel 1/ but, allowing for inflation in wages
and electricity (para. 1, Annex 7), Naftovod is expected to make a substan-
tial profit from transit oil beginning with Din. 118 million (US$7 million)
in 1978 and totalling up to Din. 1,439 million (US$85 million) by 1988. If
allowance is made for an increase in the price of steel, the profit is likely
to be even more. The yearly profit has been shown separately in the Revenue
Accounts as "Profit from Transit."  According to existing agreements, this
profit is to be passed on to the refineries. A resume of the provisions in
the transport agreements is given in Annex 11.
1/   At the end of November 1974, the average price increase of the steels
cited in the agreements was 34% over the base price of November 1973.



- 20 -
C. Cash Flow
5.04      The Cash Flow (Annex 10) shows that the surplus funds available to
Nafto,cd increase from Din. 2.3 million (US$0.13 million) in 1978 to Din.
214.8 million (US$12.6 million) in 1988.  The initial working capital will
be provided by the Founders.
D. Audit
5.05      The annual financial statements of Naftovod will be checked by the
Social Acrounting Service (SAS), a separate statutory organization responsible
for such work (para. 3, Annex 6). The staff of SAE; is being trained to enable
it to carry out audits in accordance with standards, acceptable to the Bank
(para. 5, Annex 6) and it is expected that staff will be suitably trained by
1979. The Bank has Naftovod's agreement to have its annual financial state-
ments audited in a manner acceptable to the Bank anid to submit them within
six months of the end of each year.
E. Special Debt Service Guarantees
5.06      The foreign offtakers have signed transport agreements with Nafto-
vod containing take or pay clauses which provide that the offtakers will pay
Naftovod 80% of the tariff for any amount of allocated capacity not utilized
by them; likewise Naftovod will pay the offtakers 80% of the tariff for any
agreed amount of oil that it fails to deliver. The take or pay clause is
voided by events of force majeure. Naftovod and the Founders have signed
a sf,ilar agreement except that only events of force majeure lasting more
than six months would void the take or pay commitment.
5.07      A total shutdown of the pipeline for periods exceeding a few days
is extremely unlikely and as mentioned in para. 5.02, Naftovod is expected to
earn sufficient revenue to cover all expenditures. A severe fire or an ex-
tensive landslide could shut down the pipeline for 2 to 3 months and the six-
months clause mentioned in para. 5.06 could pose a financial threat to Nafto-
vod, because, in such an event, it would not only lose its revenue from all
seven offtakers, thus causing it tc be unable to meet debt service, but it
would also have to pay t. the local refineries an amount that would approach
its lost revenues.  The same situation would arise if project completion were
delayed or if unusual problems were to be met during commissioning and _tiart
up of facilities. Naftovod has obtained guarantees from the local banks to
meet these financial commitments in case of need, other than the debt service
obligations with regard to the Bank loan, which is; guaranteed by the Federal
Government. In the event of a shutdown of the pipeline for a short period,
the estimated operating surplus available at the end of the year would be
.-ore than sufficient to cover the annual debt service of the Bank loar.



- 21 -
VI. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
6.01     According to recent projections for energy supply and demand in
Yugoslavia, it is expected that internal demand for hydrocarbons (oil and gas)
will increase from 13 million Toe in 1974 to about 40 million Toe in 1990.
A large part of the incremental demand will have to be imported from eastern
Europe, North Africa and the Middle East, and transported from the ports of
entry to the main oil processing and gas consumption centers. While there is
presently no economic alternative to pipelines for overland transport of gas,
oil can be transported by a variety of means (road and rail tankers, barges,
pipelines). Therefore, the economic feasibility of the proposed crude oil
pipeline system was evaluated by comparing the cost of transporting oil
through the pipeline with the cost of conventional transport.
B. Demand Projections
6.02      Annex 1 gives details of future energy supply and demand.  Demand
projections used to size the project were derived from studies sponsored by
FCEI after the oil crisis of 1973-1974 and are considered reasonable. They
are lower than pre-crisis projections and reflect efforts being made under
government coordination to conserve energy and to substitute domestic fuels
(mostly coal) for expensive foreign oil. Current energy demand projections
for Yuigoslavia are 15% and 18% lower than pre-crisis projections in 1980 and
1985 respectively. This is comparable with the expected decrease in total
energy demand in the European Economic Community (EEC) for the same period,
according to a recent study 1/ by the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development (OECD). However, the increase in demand for hydrocarbons
would be larger in Yugoslavia (3.0 times between 1972 and 1985) than it would
be in the EEC (1.8 times). This is due mainly to the limited scope for
energy conservation in a country which has low per capita consumption and low
quality coal, which in most instances cannot now be substituted economically
for hydrocarbons. 2/ However, the sensitivity of the feasiblity of the pro-
posed project was tested against lower demand figures (para. 6.08).
6.03      Since domestic production is not expected to increase substantially,
(para. 2.19) net oil imports in Yugoslavia should increase from 8.7 million
1/   Energy Prospects to 1985, OECD Paris 1974.
2/   Coal gasification and liquefaction on a commercial scale in Yugoslavia
are not expected to occur before 1985 to 1990 and would, therefore, not
threaten the viability of the project.



- 22 -
tons in 1975 to 11.7 million tons in 1978, the first year of operation of the
proposed pipeline and to about 20 and 28 million tons in 1985 and 1990 re-
spectively. These figures do not account for any substantial discovery of oil
in Yugoslavia or off-shore; if commercial discoveries should take place, the
new fields could be connected to the pipeline which crosses the main potential
areas (Map 2) and the flow of oil could even be reversed in some sections of
the pipeline. A discovery off shore would imply that oil would be lifted by
tanker from the drilling site and unloaded at the Omisalj terminal in much the
same fashion as imported oil. It is therefore not expected that new domestic
discoveries would threaten the economic feasibility of the pipeline.
C. Size of the Proposed Facilities
6.04      The pipeline system and the terminal facilities were sized to handle
about 34 million tons of oil annually by 1990 (24 million tons for the Yugoslav
internal market and 10 million tons in transit for Hungary and Czechoslovakia).
Naftovod used computer simulation models to optimize the size of the pipeline
and tanker terminal. The methodology used was satisfactory and led to reduc-
tion in the diameter of the Sisak-Slobodnica section of the line and in tank-
age capacity. Naftovod, however, has decided to maintain the diameter of the
first section (Omisalj-Sisak) at 36" for which the study shows the optimum
size to be 34". The main reason behind this decision is that transit traffic
might increase in the future (discussions have talcen place with Austria), and
that it would be difficult to increase the capacity of the first section of
the line to satisfy additional transit requirements, since it crosses diffi-
cult mountainous terrain. In the light of the comparatively small difference
in initial investment costs (less than US$3 million, i.e. 0.75% of the total
project cost) this decision is acceptable. The project was compared with
other pipeline alternatives, in particular to one linking the port of.Ploce
with the inland refineries, and was found to be the least cost solution.
D. Alternatives to the Proposed System
6.05     Since most oil imports are expected to come from the Middle East
and North Africa, the next best alternative to the pipeline system is a com-
bination of rail and inland water transport. Such an alternative would re-
quire substantial investments in ports and railway facilities and the acqui-
sition of railroad tank cars and barges. Since it would require frequent
crude oil transfers from one mode to another, it would increase the risk of
pollution, particularly in the main waterways. Estimates prepared by Nafto-
vod, with the assistance of consultants, show that total investments of about
US$300 million would be required to expand existing and create new port and
railway facilities at Koper, Bakar, Bar, Pancevo, Novi Sad, Bosanski-Brod,
Sisak and Lendava. In addition, the transport of 34 million tons of oil
would require the acquisition of some 12,500 rail tank cars and 750 locomo-
tives and of barges and pusher tugs at a cost estimated at about US$460
million.



- 23 -
E. Project Benefits
6.06      The total project cost, including the cost of expansion to ultimate
capacity, is estimated at Din. 5,940 million (US$350 million) excluding taxes,
customs duties, interest during construction, and price contingencies. No
adjustment was made for shadow labor costs or rate of exchange. The value of
the land used by the pipeline proper was not included, since it will be re-
stored to its normal use after construction; however, project costs include
compensation for crop and property damage along the pipeline and land values
for pump stations and tank farms.
6.07      The comparison of the project cost and of the next best alternative
shows that the rate of discount which equalizes both cost streams over 20
years is 50%. This high rate indicates that the facilities should have been
built sooner. Assumptions and details of the calculation are in Annex 12.
F. Sensitivity to Changes in Traffic Growth
6.08      If oil import demand should be lower so that the traffic in 1990 is
only 85% of the projections (a conservative assumption), the pipeline would
still be the least cost solution for the transport of oil, and the rate of
discount which equalizes both cost streams over 20 years being in excess of
43%.
G. Beneficiaries and Employment
6.09      The benefits derived from the project would be savings in transporta-
tion costs which are estimated at slightly over 1% of the average sales price
of oil products because oil is an expensive commodity. These marginal savings
can be passed on to the consumer without significantly increasing demand, thus
the beneficiary would be the public at large.
6.10      During construction, the pipeline will provide employment to some
2,000 persons while during operations some 350 staff will be employed. The
increase in the transport of oil products and other cargo resulting from nor-
mal growth of the economy will, in a short time, make up any temporary slack
created by the pipeline in the railways and the few local waterways carriers
involved (paras. 6.11 and 6.12).



- 24 -
H. Impact on Alternative Means of Transport
6.11      The present requirement of about 12 million tons of crude oil per
annum "or all the refineries in Yugoslavia is transported from overseas by
tank'.ers and by rail and barges inside Yugoslavia.  About 4 million tons are
receaivd in Rijeka by tankers for the Rijeka refinery.  Of the remaining
8 million tons, about 5.4 million tons are transported by rail from other
ports in the Adriatic and from domestic oil fields and the remainder, about
2.6 million tons, by barges on the Sava and Danube Rivers.
5,12      The construction of the pipeline will divert crude oil traffic from
the railways and barges. However, this should not be a problem because rail
and river traffic is already congested. Since most of the oil moving in the
Inland waterways is transported in barges of foreign flags the impact of this
diversion on the local carriers will be minimal. Many of the railway wagons
are fairly old and not likely to be in use very long, while others are on
hire from foreign countries and can be returned when no longer required.
Although oil and oil products account for only 7% of total rail traffic, the
railway authorities are aware of the pipeline project and have taken it into
-ccount in their projections of future rail traffic and investment programs.
Because of the increase in the anticipated consumption of oil products in
the country, the railways and local water transport enterprises will profit
from the increased transport of refined products.
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Agreement has been reached on the main :issues referred to in the
preceding chapters and more particularly on cost overruns (para. 4.12), proj-
ect schedule (para. 4.17) and Debt Service Guarantee (para. 5.07). Subject to
the conditions of effectiveness referred to in paras. 4.10 and 4.12, the pro-
posed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$49 million to Naftovod for a
term of 18 years including four years of grace corresponding to the period of
construction.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THE YUGOSLAVIA OIL PIPELINE
(Jugoslavenski Naftovod)
The Energy Sector in Yugoslavia
A. Background
1.        The main part of Yugoslav proven energy reserves consists of low-
grade coal (brown coal and lignite) located in Kosovo and Serbia, and of a
sizeable hydro power potential in Croatia, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Serbia.
Known hydrocarbon reserves (oil and natural gas) located mainly in Serbia
and Croatia are relatively small. Other potential sources exist (nuclear,
geothermal and oil shales) but have not yet been investigated in sufficient
detail to be evaluated accurately. A description of the reserves is given
in Table 1, and their location is shown on Map 2.
Coal
2.        Coal reserves amount to about 4,000 million tons of oil equivalent
(Toe) or about 260 years at average 1975-90 consumption. The largest part
of the reserves (83%) consists of coal with an average heating value of about
1,900 kcal/kg (7,520 Btu/kg) and high water and ash contents. The size and
location of the deposits makes them suitable for open pit, mining each with an
average annual production of about 12 to 15 million tons (2.50 to 3.00 mil-
lion Toe).  Brown coal reserves account for about 15% of total coal reserves;
individual deposits are generally small and scattered and most of them are
not suitable for open pit mining because of the depth of the layer (150 to 500
m). The average calorific value of Brown coal is about 3,500 kcal/kg (13,860
Btu/kg). Hard coal accounts for 2% of the total coal reserves. MIost depo-
sits have highly complex features and steeply dipping strata; the layers are
thin and irregular and normally occur at considerable depth, limiting the
use of modern mechanical equipment. The use of domestically produced house
coal is limited because of its high sulphur content (1 to 9%); the average
calorific value is about 6,420 kcal/kg (25,400 Btu/kg).
Hydroelectricity
4.        Total economicallv exploitable hydropower generation potential in
Yugoslavia is evaluated at about 60,000 million kWh p.a.  At the end of 1973
only 30% of this potential was developed with an average production capability
of 18,000 million kWh. The underdeveloped potential is spread rather evenly
over the country. While it is recognized that further development would be
justified, this has been delayed by lack of appropriate resources and admin-
istrative considerations.



PaNNEX 1
Page 2
Hydrocarbons
5.        Total proven recoverable oil and natural gas reserves are estimated
at about 100 million Toe and they account for 2.5% of  total Yugoslav energy
reserves (about 16 years and 13 years at average 197j-1990 oil and gas
consumption respectively). Known reserves evaluated at -15 million Toe are
located in the Pannonian Basin (north and northeastern part of Yugoslavia)
and are producing an average of 3 million tons of oil and 1,000 million m3 of
gas annually. Exploration has recently started in the Dinaric Basin offshore
the Adriatic coast where potential oil and gas-bearing structures exist. So
far three gas-producing wells have been drilled but no commercial exploita-
tion has started. Probable recoverable reserves in the Dinaric Basin are
estimated at 200 million tons of oil and 37 million Toe of natural gas.
6.        Local production of oil, supplemented by irports (para. 12) is
processed in six refineries (Rijeka, Sisak, Bosanski-Brod, Pancevo, Novi
Sad and Lendava) with a total annual refining capacity of about 12 million
tons (Map 1).
Nuclear Fuel and Other Non-Conventional Fuels
7.        Potential uranium bearing areas cover some 170,000 km2 of which
65,000 km2 have been explored. Preliminary estimates show that some 36,500
tons of uranium concentrate (U308) could be recovered. Further investigations
are being carried out to refine these estimates and to prepare the develop-
ment of the most promising deposits which are in Slovenia.
B. Past Supply and Demand for Energy
8.        Per capita consumption in Yugoslavia is 15% below the world average
and about 40% of the West European average. There are, however, considerable
variations in the level of consumption among the various Republics and Prov-
inces. The highest levels are reached in Croatia and Serbia which are fairly
developed, and the lowest in elontenegro and Kosovo. From 1965 to 1973 annual
per capita consumption grew from about 8.5 million keal to 12.6 million kcal,
an average rate of 5% p.a.
9.        Until the mid-sixties coal had been the predom-nant fuel and Yugos-
lavia was almost self-sufficient in energy except in oil production, which
had to be supplemented by imports. After a period of relative stagnation
following the economic reforms of 1965, overall energy consumption increased
rapidly from 1967 to 1973 at a rate of 8.2% p.a. compared with an average
GDP increase of 6.4% per year. During the same period the structure of con-
sumption changed considerably and coal was surpassed by hydrocarbons, prin-
cipally oil. The share of hydroelectricity stayed almost constant while the
use of natural gas remained marginal. This was due mainly to the rapid
development of modern industrial sectors (31% of GDP) based on heavy industry



ANTNEX 1
Page 3
(mining and metallurgy) which are energy-intensive and require high-grade
coal or liquid fuels, and to the rapid growth of road transport (Table 2 and
3).
10.       Most of the coal is used near the mining site, mostly in power and
steam generation which account for 70% and 30% of the total consumption
respectively. The relatively small volumes of hard coal produced locally are
used in the residential sector and by light industry. Coking coal for iron
and steel industry is imported. 'In 1973 total coal consumption accounted for
39.5% of the total internal demand compared to 64.3 in 1965.
11.       About 84% of the demand for oil products is accounted for by the
transportation and industrial sector, the remainder being divided between
agriculture (6%) and residential and commercial usage (10%). At present,
demand for petrochemicals is low but is expected to grow in the future as
feedstock requirements for fertilizers and plastics increase. The use of
fuel oil for power generation has traditionally been limited; in 1973 the
first oil-fired plant was commissioned, while four more were under construc-
tion. Following the oil crisis, steps were taken to restrict further construc-
tion of such plants (paras. 25 and 26).
CONSUMPTION OF MAIN REFINED PRODUCTS BY SECTOR IN 1973/1
(000 Tons)
Gasoline  Diesel Oil  Fuel Oil   Total  % of Total
Agriculture                   30          350         100       480       5.6
Transportation             1,350        1,700         520     3,570      41.8
Industry                     315          520      2,280      3,115      36.3
Power Generation              10          150         380       540       -6.3
Others                        35          500         320       855      10.0
Total                1,740        3,220       3,600      8,560    100.0
/1   Source:  Federal Chamber of Economy_ excludes kerosene and aviation and
bunker fuels.
12.       From '965 to 1973 oil consumption grew from about 3 million tons to
10.8 million to. s at an average rate of 17.5% p.a., almost three times faster
than overall internal demand for energy. Growth between 1965 and 1970 was
20%, reflecting the substitution of liquid fuels for solid fuels (mainly
lignite) in the industrial sector.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
PAST DEMAND FOR OIL PRODUCTS
(000 Tons)
1965         1970           1973
Local Production                    2,063         2,854          3,332
Imports                             1,503         5,543         7,810
Total                          3,566         8,397        11,142
Less Exports                          420            595           301
Gross Internal
Demand                              3,146          7,802        10,841
13.       Domestic oil production has not kept pace with the fast growing
demand and Yugoslavia has to rely increasingly on imports to supply its
dorestic refineries. Net imports of oil and refined products, whith in 1965
accounted for 34% of internal demand for oil, rose to about 70% in 1973.
Crude oil accounts for almost all the imports, and oil products are imported
only to balance refinery yields or to make up for seasonal shortages. Tradi-
tionally, the main foreign suppliers have been the Eastern European countries,
mnainly the USSR, although, in recent years Yugoslavia has bought increasing
volu:nes from the Middle East (Iran and Iraq).  Presently crude oil from the
USSR is imported through the Danube ports to supply the inland refineries of
Sisak, Bosanski-Brod, Pancevo and Novi Sad (Map 1), while crude oil from the
Middle East is imported at Rijeka on the northern Adriatic coast.  Crude oil
is transported to the refineries by barges, railroad tank cars and a short
pipeline linking the Bosanski-Brod refinery to Opatovac on the Sava River.
14.       Yugoslavia has relatively important reserves of natural gas in
Serbia and Croatia which so far have not been fully developed because of the
lack of resources to finance transport and distribution facilities. At pres-
ent, consumption is low at about 1,000 million m3/year (0.9 million Toe)
and limited to Vojvodina and a small part of Croatia. However, this situation
will change rapidly when the Naftagas Project (Loan 916-YU) becomes opera-
tional in 1977-1978. It is expected that natural gas consumption will in-
crease fourfold by 1980 and demand will be met by local production and imports
in a 50/50 ratio. Yugoslavia recently entered into an agreement with the
USSR for the import of up to 3,000 million m3 (2.7 million Toe) annually
starting in 1976. This gas will be allocated to Naftagas, INA and Petrol
(Slovenia). There are also plans to import liquefied natural gas from North
Africa to Bosnia and Slovenia, but negotiations are at an early stage and it
is doubtful whether gas would be available prior to 1980-1982. Natural gas
is used primarily in industry and petrochemicals as feedstock; public distri-
bution to households is marginal.
15.       Industry accounts for more than 60% of total per  demand, the
remainder being divided between the residential and corummerzial sectors in
a'!out equal ratios.  Agriculture, including irrigation, accounts for only 1Z



ANNEX 1
Page 5
of total demand. From 1965 to 1973 final demand for power on the Jugel sys-
tem grew from 15,500 GWh to 35,100 GWh an average rate of 11% p.a. Power
generation capacity increased from 3,700 MW to 8,400 MW, of which hydropower
accounts for 55%. Demand outside the Jugel system (some distribution enter-
prises and captive plants) decreased from 700 GWh in 1965 to 380 GWh in 1973
while generating capacity outside Jugel from 1,100 MW to 500 MW. Despite con-
siderable efforts to develop new generating capacity, there are still some
shortages of power, particularly in the summertime, and consumption restric-
tions have to be imposed.
C. Organization of the Energy Sector
16.       As in most other sectors, the energy enterprises are the principal
agents in the development of energy. They draw up their development plans,
and investment programs and arrange financing. Most power companies are
members of Union of Yugoslav Electric Power Industry (JUGEL) and coal pro-
ducers are united in the Association of Yugoslav Coal Producers. There is
not, so far, a similar body in the oil and gas industry which is dominated
by two very large enterprises, Naftagas and INA.
17.       Theoretically, the Federal Government has no control over the
energy sector; however, it controls most of the fuel prices and has initiated
studies to improve coordination between energy producers and define a national
energy policy. Energy producers, consumers, local authorities and the Federal
Government are in the process of negotiating "social agreements" wh4ch will
define the relationship of each part for the next five years. These arrange-
ments will form the framework of the future development of the sector and
will define inter alia the quantitative objectives to be achieved, the invest-
ment program and the financing plan by branch and the pricing policy. The
electric power and coal industries are in the final stage of negotiating such
agreements and have already agreed on production and consumption targets for
the next five years. Discussions are still in progress in the oil industry
and are expected to be completed by the end of 1975 (agreement has already
been reached on future oil requirements until 1980).
18.       While "social agreements" should provide the framework of a national
energy policy in the short run, the Government has sponsored a group of ex-
perts in the energy field to study Yugoslavia's long-term energy policy. The
Government has also created an energy committee to improve coordination with-
in the Sector.  This group submitted an interim report a year ago that was
accepted as a working document. However, the Federal Government requested
that further studies be carried out to determine the effect of the 'energy
crisis" on the development of the Sector. The final report is being completed
and its main conclusions are:
(i) Yugoslavia should limit its dependence on imported fuels,
and domestic energy resources should be developed within
reasonable economic justification. In particular coal and



ANNEX 1
Page 6
electricity (hydro or coal-fixed thermal plants) should be
substituted for imported oil to the maximum extent feasible.
(ii)  Hydrocarbons should be used only when coal cannot be
substituted for oil or natural gas.
(iii)  Conservation measures should be adopted when and where
appropriate to save energy and more particularly hydro-
carbons, but not at the expense of economic development.
(iv)  Pricing policies should be revised to support the national
energy policy.
These conclusions have the support of the Federal Government and were taken
into account while drafting the social agreements for the coal and electric
power industries, and while negotiating these agreements with oil and gas
enterprises. It is still too early to make a judgment on the efficiency and
reliability of the new procedures for setting national arnd regional energy
policies. However, preliminary results are encouraging; discussions are
taking place among energy producers and consumers that should lead ultimately
to better coordination of future development plans and to a more realistic
approach than in the past. Some practical results have already been achieved
in the oil and gas sector and substantial reductions of demand projections
were achieved by eliminating duplication among individual development plans.
However, these procedures are new and complex and some prOb'Lems are to be
expected in the realization of the plans.  The main difficulties are likely
to arise in the financing of energy-related facilit-ies. The proposed financ-
ing plans (Table 6) overall do not include adequate provision for inflation,
and it is to be expected that enterprises would have some difficulties in
securing adequate funds to achieve their targets and thus may have to delay
some of the proposed projects. However, the refining subsector app.ars to
have provided adequate estimates for its financing plans.
19.       The new procedures are an important step towards the formulation
of a national energy policy based on the rational evaluation of future re-
quirements and on coordinated investment programs. This is evidenced by the
proposed project which is sponsored by three enterprises which heretofore
had been competing with each other with several pi?elne schemes.
D.  Present Situation and Future Prospects
The Impact of the Oil Crisis
20.       Because of its heavy dependence on imported oil, Yugoslavia was
hit hard by the increase in the world price of oil. The problems created by
the energy crisis were more ones of price than of volume. Yugoslavia was
not affected by the embargo, but the cost of imported oil rose from an esti-
mated $25/ton in 1972 to about $100 in 1974, causing the oil imports bill to



ANNEX 1
Page 7
increase by about $600 million (about 9% of total imports of goods and ser-
vices). Because of the limited technical possibilities of substituting coal
and electricity for imported oil, only minor adjustments could take place in
the short run. These were mostly increases in the retail price of refined
products, twice in 1974. At the same time the government initiated studies
to determine substitution possibilities for the long run.
21.       The "oil crisis" had a direct effect on energy pricing policies.
Energy producers had been requesting that fuel prices be such that the users
would pay the same price per unit of energy, whatever its form. Attempts have
been made to link the price of gas and fuel oil, and the oil industry was
successful in obtaining that domestic crude oil be priced at the same level
as imported oil. However, the government has been somewhat reluctant, for
several reasons, to increase substantially the price of electricity and coal,
thus depriving the coal and power industries of adequate finances for expan-
sion.
22.       Energy pricing policy is presently under review and the proposals
made by energy producers appear reasonable. The problem of aligning domestic
oil prices with those of imported oil has been solved through an equalization
fund and an increase in the price of refined products. Gas producers have
submitted a request for a substantial increase in gas prices to bring them in
line with those of refined oil products, and thus avoid uneconomical alloca-
tion of scarce resources.
Future Energy Demand
23.       Before the oil crisis, it was projected that energy consumption
would continue to grow at a ranid pace until the end of the century, as
Yugoslavia would be catching up with more developed countries. Demand projec-
tions prepared in 1971 showed that total internal demand was expected to grow
at an average rate of 7.2% until 1990, to reach about 90 million Toe, equiv-
alent to 3.5 times the 1973 level. According to these projections, hydro-
carbons demand was expected to grow faster than total internal demand and by
1990 oil and gas demand would account for 40% and 11% of the total, respectively,
and coal for only 30%. These projections were based on a continuing substitu-
tion of oil and natural gas for coal and a high level of imports which would
reach 35% of total demand by 1990.
24.       As a  esult of the increase in the world price of oil, these projec-
tions were lowered; it is now expected that overall energy demand will grow
at an average rate of 6.9% until 1990, reaching 83 million Toe.  Hydrocarbons
will grow at the same pace as tot-J demand.  However, the volume of oil im-
ports in 1990 will be identical to those projected before the oil crisis
(although the total demand will be less) because:
(i) Previous projections were based on fast growth in the use of
natural gas, which is not likely to materialize. Recent
evaluation of domestic fields has proved to be disappointing



ANNEX 1
Page 8
as far as gas recovery is concerned and the estimates for local
production in 1990 have been lowered from 6,000 million m3 to
3,000 million m3. At the same time Yugoslavia has been experi-
encing difficulties in signing import agreements for natural
gas and LNG. The USSR, which was expected to deliver up to
4,000 million m3 annually starting in 1976-1977, has only
agreed to 3,000 million m3, and negotiations for the import of
LNG from Algeria are at a standstill. Therefore, additional
volume of oil will have to be imported.
(ii) Previous projections for domestic oil production were also
too optimistic, and it is now estimated that domestic pro-
duction will start declining after 1985, to reach about 5
million tons by 1990 instead of 8 million tons previously
considered.
The revised projections are given in Tables 3, 4 and 5. They are prepared
by a group of Yugoslav experts and are endorsed by the oil and gas industry.
They do not account for any new discoveries in Yugoslavia as it is not expect-
ed that new fields can begin producing before 1980.
Coal
25.       The share of coal in total internal demand will continue to decrease
until 1980 and will then level off. This is due to the coming onstream of
four oil-fired power plants that were started before the oil crisis; between
1980 and 1990 coal will account for more than 30% of the incremental demand
ccQ;pared to 7% from 1965 to 1973.
Oil and Refined Products
26.       The demand for oil will continue to grow rapidly until 1980, partly
because of the incremental demand of new oil-fired power plants, partly be-
cause of the time required to implement conservation measures and substitute
coal for oil. However, from 1975 onwards the share of oil in total demand
should remain constant.
27.       As domestic production is not expected to grow substantially, im-
ports will increase considerably reaching 85% of oil internal demand by 1990.
PROJECTED OIL DEMAND
(000 Tons)
1975      1980       1985       1990
Total internal demand   12,300    18,900    25,100    33,000
Domestic production       3,600      4,500      5,200     5,000
Imports (net)
Crude oil               7,900    13,400    19,900    28,000
Refined products          800      1,000        -         -



ANNEX 1
Page 9
Most of the imported oil is expected to come from the USSR, the Middle East
and North Africa to the Adriatic coast. It will thence have to be transported
to iTnland refineries. Such transport by 1990 would represent about 16,000
million ton/kms, equivalent to about 70% of the total freight traffic projec-
ted for the railways in 1975.
Natural Gas
28.       As explained in para.24(i) the prospects of widespread use of
natural gas by 1990 have been reduced substantially. It is expected, however,
that natural gas will cover a substantial part of the need of eastern Yugos-
lavia, which is at the farthest (-nd of the proposed pipeline system, thus
minimizing oil transport costs.
Power
29.       It is the intention of Yugoslavia to fully develop its hydro
potential by the year 2000. Hydropower will continue to grow and by 1980
will begin to be supplemented by nuclear-power generation which by 1990 would
account for 25% of primary electricity generation.



-a7X1
APPRAISAL OF
TIFE YUGO3L_AVIA CIL PIPELINE
Potential Ener-7 Resources/i
(million tons of -il equivalent)
Hydro/2
Energy      Coal      Oil     Gas     Totai ___
Bosnia and
Herzegovina             147        835                         982     91
Montenegro                 45         52                          97      2
Croatia                   107        175        44      21      345       7
Macedonia                  42         40                          82      2
Slovenia                   70        144                         214      4
Serbia                    143      2,770        22      31    2,966      64
Total              554       4,o14       66       52    4,686    100
%                               812  6     1       1      100
/1   Proven reserves only, no allowance was made for potential oil and gas dis-
coveries in the Adriatic (Dinaric Basin).
Excludes nuclear fuel estimated at the equivalent of 9,000 million kWh
per year.
/2   Based on average production of 40,000 million kWi per year for about
50 years at 2,800 kcal per kWh.
Source: Federal Committee for Energy and Industry
October 1975



APPRAISAL OF
THE YUGOSLAVIA OIL PIPELINE
Past Supply of Energy 1965-1974
(000 tons of oil equivalent)
Average
Late of Growth
1965       1966       1967        1968       1969       1970       1971        1972       1973        1974L1          R
J. Domestic Production (Primary Energy)
liard coal                                                   724        702         564        518        422        399         438        371        357         360               (8.0)
Brown coal                                                4,077       3,911      3,501       3,689      3,663      3,488       3,621      3,563      3,548       3,550               (1.6)
Lignite                                                   4,149       4,104      3,753       3,720      3,717      4,265      4,736       4.803      5,159       5,665                3.6
Total coal                                          8 950      8,717      7.818       7,927      7,802      8,152       8,795      8,737      9,064       9'575                    /2
Cr,de oil                                                  2,063      2,222      2,374       2,494      2,699      2,854       2,961      3,200      3,332      3,400                 4.2
Natural gas                                                  307        374         429        543        679         909      1,070      1,155      1,236       1,500               19.5
Hydroelectricity                                           2,318      2,549      2,749                  3,801      3_803       4,036     4_639       4,230      4,850                 8.6
Total                                              13,638     13,862      13,370    14,000    1      1     15,_718    16,862    17731    17,862    19_325                       3.9
2.  ImporEs
Coal and coke                                              1,494      1,305      1,028       1,214      1,269      1,314       1,468      1,424      1,604       1,650                  -
Crude oil and refinled produ,cts                           1,503      2,614      3,328       3,743      4,027      5,543       5,966      7,155      7,810       8,100               20.6
Gas
Electricity                                                  111         54          31         84         42          82         44         22          78
Total                                               3,108      3.973      4.387       5.041      5,338       6,939      7,478      8,601        9,492     9,750                13.5
3.  Exports3
Crude oil and refined products                               420      1,167      1,038         572        450         595        600        307         301        200                (8.0)
Others                                                       102         86         146         87         173        264        238        507         440        300                13.0
Total                                                 522      1,253       1,184        659         623        859        838         814        741        500                  -
Gross Internal Demand (I + 2 - 3)                            16,224     16,582      16,573     18,382      19,696     21,798     23,502    25,518    26,613        28,575                 6.5
/I  Based on six months estimates.
2    - means less than 1%.
'3 Includes secondarv enerav.
Note: Lower calorific Value:
Hard coal                             6,200 kcal/kg
Brown coal                            3,880 kcal/kg
Lignite                               2,270 kcal/kg
Cr,de oil and refined products   10,000 kcat/kg
Natural gas                           9,300 kca l/m
Hydroelectricity                      2,580 kcal/kWh
Source:  Federal Institute for Statistics, Naftovod
OcLnhb-, 1975



ANNEX 1
"abl_ 
APPRAISAL OF
THE YUGOSLAVIA OIL PIPELINE
Structure of Yugoslavia's Internal Demand
for Primary Energy
(Percent)
----- Actual ------           ------------------ Projected -----------------
1965           1970           1975           1980           1985           1990
Electricity:
Hydro                          14.2           17.2           18.4           17.2           16.5           14.7
Nuclear                 .        -              -              -             2.3            3.5            5.3
Sub-total             14.2           17.2           18.4           19.5           20.0           20.0
Solid Fuels (coal
and lignite)                   64.3           43.1           36.1           31.5           31.5           31.3
Hydrocarbons:
Oil                            19.5           35.6           40.5           39.5           39.5           39.8
Natural Gas                     2.0            4.1            5.0            9.5            9.0            8.9
Sub-total             21.5           39.7           45.5           49.0           48.5           48.7
TOTAL                100.0          100.0          100.0          100.0          100.0          100.0
OCD Europe:                                      /1
Electricity (hydro                                                                  /2             /2
and nuclear)                                 4.5          n.a.       10.5 - 10.0   16.0 - 15.1         n.a.
Coal                                          22.3          n.a.        18.5 - 17.2   14.7 - 14.0        n.a.
Oil                                           63.1          n.a.        50.0 - 55.1   47.8 - 52.8        n.a.
Gas                                           10.1          n.a.        21.0 - 17.7   21.5 - 18.1        n.a.
TOTAL                               100.0                     100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
/1   1972.
/2   Oil at $6 and $9 per barrel.
Source:  Tables 2 and 5, OECD Energy Prospects to 1985
0(>tober, 1975



ANNEX 1
lTble 4
APPRAISAL OF
THE YUGOSLAVIA OIL PIPELINE
Supply/Demand Projections for
Hydrocarbons 1975 - 1990
('000 tons of oil equivalent)
---   Original Projections -------        -------Revised Projections-
1975      1980      1985       1990        1975       1980      1985       1990
I. Projected Demand
Crude Oil and
Refined Products      12,500    21,000    30,000    37,000        12,300    18,900    25,100    33,000
Natural Gas              3,000      6,500     7,700    10,300        1,500      4,500     5,700      7,300
Total              15,500    27,500    37,700    47,300        13,800    23,400    30,800    40,300
r.  Supl
Local production:
Crude Oil              3,800      6,ooo     7,000     8.000        3,600     4,500      5,200     5,000
Natural Gas            3,000      3,500     4,500     6,ooo        1,500      1,800     2,000     3,000
Sub-total           6,800     9,500    11,500    14,000         5,100     6,300      7,200     8,000
]riports:
Crude Oil              7,900    14,000    23,000    29,000         7,900    13,400    19,900    28,000
Refin d Products (net)   800      1,000      -          -            800      1,000      -
Natural Gas              -        3,000     3,200      4,300        -         2,700     3,700     4,300
Sub-total           8,700    18,000    26,200    33,300         8,700    17,100    23,600    32,300
Total              15,500    27,500    37,700    47,300        13,800    23,400    30,800    41,300
Source:  Federal Secretariats for Finance and Flaanning
Naftagas, Naftovod, Mission's estimates.
October, 1975



ANNEX I
Tablc 5
APPRAISAL OF
THE YUGOSLAVIA OIL PIPELINE
Projected Primary Energy Demand 1975 - 1990
(000 tons of oil equivalent)
Average Rate
Average Rate             Average Rate              Average Rate       of Growth
1975    1980      of Growth       1985      of Growth       1990      of Growth       1975 - 1990
I. Internal Demand
(original projections)
Electricity:
Hydro              5,600   8,250                    10,500                    12,200
Nuclear              -      1,100                    2,200                     4,400
Sub-total       5,600   9,350        10.5        12,700         6.3        16,600         5.4              7.5
Coal,               11,000  15,000          6.3       20,000          5.2       26,000         4.6              6.6
Oil_1               12,500  21,000         10.5        30,000         7.4       37,000         4.2               7.5
Natural Gas          3,000   6,500         16.5         7,700         3.4       10,300         6.o               8.5
Total          32,100  51,850        10.0        70,400         6.4        89,900         5.0              7.2
'I. Internal Demand
(revised projections)
Electricity:
lIydro             5,600   8,250                    10,500                    12,200
Nuclear              -      1,100                    2,200                     4,400
Sub-total       5,600   9,350        10.5        12,700         6.3        16,60C         5.4              7.5
11,000  15,000         6.3        20,000         5.8        26,009         4.6              5.9
il1         2       12,300  18,900          8.9       25,100          5.9       33,000          5.6   -          6.8
Natural Ga/L         1,500   4,500        24.0          5,700        4.8         7,300          7.8             11.0
Total          30,400  47,750         9.4        63,500         5.9        82,9C0         5.5              6.9
Difference (%)               5      13                        14                        11
/1 Includes 1.1 nillion tons for power generation.
2T Original projections reduced to take into account recent
import agreements with the USSR.
Source:  Federal Secretariats for Finance and Planning
Naftovod, Mission's estimates.
October, 1975



APPRAISAT, OF
THE YUGOSLAVIA OIL PIPELINE
Energy Sector Financing Plan 1975-1980
(Din. Million)
Coal                                Oil                                 Gas                                  Power
Local     Foreignt                  Local     Foreign                  Local      Foreign                  Local        Foreign                    Total
Currency   Exchange   Total         Currency   Exclhange   Total       Currency   Exchange   Total         Currency      Exchange      Total
A. Application of Funds
t.  Exploration                                                  22,000      3,000    25,000          5,500      2,600      8,100         -             -           -          33,100
2.  Production                8,000      4,500    12,500          8,000      5,000    13,000          2,500      1,600      4,100       36,000        20,000      56,000       85,600
3,  Processing                                                    5,000      7,000    12,000            -                                                                      12,000
4.  Transport                                                     1,800      6,700      8,500         6,200      2,500      8,700       12,000         6,000      18,000       35,200
5.  Distributtion                                                 3,800                 3,800                                           40,000                    40,000       43,800
Total               8,000      4,500    12,500         40,600    21,700    62,300          14,200      6,700    20,900        88,000        26,000    114,000       209,700
B.  Sources of Funds
1.  Internally generated        500                   500        27,300                27,300         7,000                 7,000        8,000                     8,000       42,800
2.  Government grants         6,500                 6,500         8,000                 8,000         3,500                 3,500       75,000                    75,000       93,000
3.  Local loans               1,000                 1,000         5,300                 5,300         3,700                 3,700        5,000                     5,000       15,000
4.  External loans              -        4,500      4,500                   21,700    21,700                     6,700      6,700                     26,000      26,000       58,900
Total               8,000      4,500    12,500         40,600    21 700    62,300          14,200      6,700    20,900        88,000         26,000    114,000       209,700
Sources: Federal Secretariat for Finance
October, 1975



ANNEX 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THE YUGOSLAVIA OIL PIPELINE
(Jugoslavenski Naftovod)
Tanker Terminal
Location
1.        Several sites were considered for the tanker terminal.  The pro-
p>ed sive at Omisalj Bay was found to be the most suitable.  This site is well
protected from the prevailing winds and the entrance can be easily approached
.'.I-ectly from the sea without turns. There is unlimited area for swinging
:nkers outside the entrance, and in settled conditions, swinging could even
ta place easily and safely inside the Bay, off the berths.  Further, since
tnlE.rs will normlally be berthed head to sea, they will be able to leave the
t_;- , with little or no outside assistance in case of                 Thisgency.  Tis
ltva., 'hich has a rocky bottom, x.ater depth of 30 m and Cous ,ot need any
rxdg-' ig work, allows for the construetion of three or more -Iorlgside berths
:  western side of the Bay. Also, the layout of the Bay allo.1ws the im-
pIn' e-i..tation of practical and effective ste-ps to prevent oil Rollution. of the
adjal-znt sea area.
2.ar Size, Number of Berths
'L        The tonnage sizes of tankers, existing, being built, and on order
tt '-e end of 1974, have been tPken int:o consideration to assess the number
of    ths at the tanker termini2..  There is no reason to s-X,r.ose that the
-.:1i   terminal wil vary appieclably from these within the tinie scale of
tn. Woiect.  This assu-Lation is  uriforced by the plans fo- axpansion of the
Suez Canal, which l.:t the size :' -ar-kers using the Canal to 150,000 dwt
starting in 1977 and t.J 250,000 dl sLarting in 1980.  To a1::ow for the pos-
sibilitv of short and nK . aul cru'dve arriving from North .-nd West Africa
in larger tankers, and to  op-Oly with the provisions of the transit contracts
which stipulate the minimuli-  --- of tanker, the Dort will Be able to accommo-
date ships from 30,000 to 350,5000 .iwt.
3D        All berths would be designed to take the smallest .3;id largest
tankers,expected to calP at Om.isaij bea-<iuse of the randomness of tanker
arrivals and normal port Jperating prc:-edures whIch require tankers to be
berthed in their arrival sequence.
4.        To estimate the number of berths required, a computer program was
adopted. The program used variables such as type of tanker, size of storage
tanks, unloading rate, pumping rate, annual traffic, types of crude oil,
lenth of tanker stay and average occupancy of storage tanks. Based on the
computer study it was found that two berths are sufficient until a yearly



ANNEX 2
Page 2
throughput of 25 million tons is reached (1984). Thereafter, a third berth
will be needed. No additional berths are needed for tankers discharging
bunker fuel oil since sufficient spare capacity will always exist with two
or three berths.
Type of Berths
5.        Since the terminal is intended solely for tankers, a dolphin-type
structure is recommended. Because it is required to berth tankers of differ-
ent sizes ranging from the small to the very large crude carriers (VLCC), the
governing factor in the location of dolphins is the straight side of the
smallest tanker when in light condition. For this project 4 dolphins are
needed at each berth. The ballards on the shore would be capable of with-
standing a pull of 150 short tons applied at any angle between 300 above or
below the horizontal, while the ballards on the dolphins would be capable of
withstanding a pull of at least 75 short tons. All ballards would be located
so as to allow the ropes to run close to horizontal, irrespective of the
draft of the tanker at different conditions of discharge.
Navigation Aids
6.        To facilitate navigation during day and night and to reduce the
probability of accidents, two lighthouses each 20 m high are needed at Punta
Erta and at Punta Kijac as well as adequate leading lights, berthing lights
and marking buoys.
Handling Characteristics of VLCC
7.        These tankers differ very little from other ships when proceeding
at full speed under normal deep sea conditions. However, when at port water
area, their reaction to engine orders is slow. The result of an order-takes
considerable time to take effect and any wrong or excessive order takes a
long time to correct. In particular, with the engines going astern, it is
extremely difficult, if not impossible, to predict the direction in which the
ship's head may swing. Thus it is essential that a pilot be on board while
the tanker is proceeding through the narrow channel between Cres Island and
the mainland. Two tugs (about 2,000 horsepower each) would join the tanker
when clear of the channel, and two further tugs of the same capacity would
join when the tanker is about 3 miles off the terminal entrance. The tanker
would approach the terminal at slow speed so as to arrive in front of the
terminal in stopped condition without having to resort to large astern engine
commands.
Fire Protection
8.        In view of the relatively limited fire-fighting resources aboard
tankers, they are dependent on shore installations for assistance in fire
fighting should an emergency arise when a tanker is berthed at the terminal,
and fire-fighting facilities at the berths would be provided. Experience has



ANNEX 2
Page 3
shown, however, that in certain circumstances, fire and heat conditions at
the unloading platform may seriously hinder the fire-fighting effort from
shore. Therefore, floating fire-fighting equipment would also be available
at Omisalj.
Oil Pollution
9.        One of the most serious problems concerning the operation of 9misalj
terminal is the effect of oil pollution on the environment. Minor oil spills
are inevitable in the day-to-day operation of the terminal. According to the
law of probability, a major spill may occur after some time and may be caused
by fire, explosion or collision between two tankers or by a tanker striking
the Jolphins at speed or at the wrong angle. Spillage of possibly some
40,000 to-s of oil, which may happen if a ship's tank is ruptured, could thus
be expected, and adequate foolproof measures would be available to deal with
the situation. The most effective method by which pollution of the above
nature imay be contained inside the terminal area is by using "a floating
boom." Such a device would be provided and moored in position at the entrance
of Daisalj Bay with a gate to allow tankers to enter and leave safely. In
the event of a major oil spill, a small motor boat can easily swing the gate
into the closed position.
10.       The most efficient method to remove a spill which has been contained
inside the terminal by the floating boom is by using skimmers.  In view of
the land-locked nature of the Omisalj Bay, and the fact that there is no
tidal flow in the Adriatic, any residue from dispersants and absorbents will,
.ver a period of time, build up into a highly undesirable sludge on the
harbor's bottom and may eventually find its way into Rijeka Gulf. Thus all
precautions would be taken to reduce the probability of major spillage and
all efforts would be exerted to contain and remove it as quickly as possible,
if it happens.
Operation - Administration
11.       It is expected that Naftovod will entrust the Rijeka Port Enterprise
or a similar organization with the operation of the Omisalj port facilities
which are estimated to cost about Din. 720.6 million (US$2.4 million). The
port authority will meet all operating costs, provide port services 1/ and
any facilities that may be required in addition to those included in the
project. The port authority will collect the prescribed port charges which
will be similar to those prevalent in other ports in the area such as Genoa,
Trieste, and Lavera. Fr: the use of the facilities provided by Naftovod, the.
port authority will ha..e to pay an annual charge which should cover at least
debt charges amounting to Din. 90 million (US$5.3 million). Naftovod, Lcw-
ever, expects to enter into a more profitable arrangement.
1/   Pilotage, tugs, launches, mooring, berthing, etc.



ANNEX 3
APPRAISAL OF
THE YUGOSLAVIA OIL PIPELINE
(Jugoslavenski Naftovod)
Duties of the Foreign Consultants
The foreign consultants, with assistance from local consultants,
shall assume full responsibility for the following tasks:
(i) Executing basic engineering designs, including hydraulics, for
the entire project up to 20 million tons of capacity per year,
including provision of economical options for expansion to 34
million tons per year.
(ii)  Checking and certifying detailed designs, main drawings, speci-
fications and other documents prepared by the local consul-
tants.
(iii)  Checking and certifying all bid documents before issue and pre-
paring the technical evaluation of bids.
(iv)  Carrying out project planning, scheduling, and control includ-
ing critical path analyses, and contingency planning to ensure
that the State I transit facilities are completed and operating
by May 31, 1978.
(v) Expediting of project materials and equipment, not supplied by
construction contractor(s), until the construction contract(s)
is awarded and the construction contractor(s) takes over this
function.
(vi)  Coordination of project materials and equipment inspection and
testing, and of construction inspection and supervision.
(vii)  Preparing an operational organization structure, operating and
maintenance job descriptions and designing and implementing a
training program for Naftovod staff.
(viii) Checking and certifying operating and maintenance manuals.
(ix)  Checking and certifying the procedures for the start-up and
commissioning of the facilities.
(x) Reviewing Naftovod's operational arrangements with clients and
others.
The above tasks are estimated to require an input of 50 man-years.



'A  'A    ZI'I"A.I'AI"AV'A                             -  -                                                                                                                    2
AAAA                                                          A    A    A        A                    A    A    A    'A                                                 A
- - -    A 'A          A                                                          2
'A        AAA        A--                                                                                                                                    -    AA           A
C'A'AA  A    'AA                                                                 'A    A    A    A         A          'A                                                A
'A   A    A       A    AA      AA                                                                                                                                AC'   'A          'A
'A"    '    'A C' 'AA  C'                                                                                                   A    'A    A    A
A    -    ACACA    'AAAA          A                                                         'A    A    A
'A   A    A A 'A "'  A A 'A'AA                                                                                  'A   A'   'AC'    A    A             A    'A
A    A'.  'A    AA'AC'A                                                                A    'A  CA  C'
CA' AA'AA'A                           A                                 A    A    A    A   'A            -         A          A         A    'A
'A      AA'A"AC''AAA                            A                         A            A    A                    'A    A    A          C'        A    C'      'A         CA
A                    A'AAAAA!
AA'A                                                             -      A'  'A          'A    A         A    'A               A         A    A       A          A
A          A'A'A                            A                         A             A         A    'A         -                               'A   A.      A         C'
A        'A'A'A'A'AAAA'AA                                                     A           -          A    'A         A    A               A               A       A
AAA'AAAAA                                                          'A   A                  'A
'A           AA'A'AA         'AA'A                                             A       A                    A               'A                              'A      A         A
A    A    C'        "AC''  A                                                           -                    A               'A
-         'AA'C'A'A
'AAA  'AAAAAA
'A  g'AAAC'A-'A'A                                                                                                                                                                    AC
'A  AAAAAA'A5                                                                                                                                                                          C'
  AAA'A'A'AA'A
A'AAZ'A    AAA                                              'A                                 -          'A 'A'A'A'A                         -            A' 'A 'A
AAA'A'A'AA'AA                                                       ' '  'A 'A 'A 'A'A'A'A'A'A'A'A'A'A'A'A'A'AA.
A  AAAA'A'AA                                                       'A                'A 'A'A'A'A'A'A'A  'A 'A 'A 'A 'A
A    AC'
A  'AC            A'AAA'A
'A                  AAAA'A
C'                   AlA
I
F:
'A I
A'A  A A                             'A
'               '                            .          'A '   'AC,    'A  'A  'A  'A  'A  'A..   'A                     'A  'A
'A9    --                                          'A'A'A                                                                                        P
'A 'A 'A A            'A
'A        'A              F
h
'A               'A  'A           'A'A'A'A'A'A'A   'A    'A  'A  'A 'A
'A  'A  'A  'A         'A  'A                                             AC"
'A                  'A 'A A
F:'A'A'
I
F:
'AC-C'A   'A
r
'A  'A                            'A  'A'A'A'A'A'A   'A  CA 'A  'A
K
I''' A
'A   CA  'A  'A  'A            '                  'A'A                      'A        'A  'A          'A
A               C?  'A  'A    A    'A   [    'A   'A 'A 'A 'A 'A 'A 'A                      'A  'A  'A  'A  'A  'A
V
'A  'A  'A  'A                              'A  'A  'A  'A  'A  'A  'A  'A  'A  'A  'A
'A        'A  'A                            'A'A'A'A'A'A                    'A  'A  'A  'A  'A



ANNEX 5
APPRAISAL OF
THE YUGOSLAVIA OIL PIPELINE
(Jugoslavenski Naftovod)
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal                                            Cumulative Disbursements
Year and Quarter                                          at End of Quarter
us$ (OOO's)
1975/76
December 31, 1975                                                 500
March 31, 1976                                                  1,200
June 30, 1976                                                   1,500
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                              5,800
December 31, 1976                                               6,100
March 31, 1977                                                  9,4o.00
June 30, 1977                                                  12,700
1977/78
September 30, 1977                                             16,00
December 31, 1977                                              19,300
March 31, 1978                                                 25,800
June 30, 1978                                                  29,100
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                            32,400
December 31, 1978                                              37,000
March 31, 1979                                                 40,000
June 30, 1979                                                  42,300
1979/80
September 30, 1979                                             45,600
December 31, 1979                                              49,000
Source: Mission Estimates
October, 1975



ANNEX 6
Page 1
APPRASIAL OF
THE YUGOSLAVIA OIL PIPELINE
(Jugoslavenski Naftovod)
Budget and Accounting Procedures
1.        The accounts of the Enterprise will be presented in the prescribed
Balance Sheet and Revenue Account forms for such enterprises; they include
the value of fixed assets, depreciation, current assets and liabilities, in-
come and expenditure and the surplus that is available for appropriation.
This surplus referred to as "DOHODAK" is a gross figure that represents the
social surplus that the Enterprise generates. From the annual revenue, only
certain items of expenditure, such as material operating costs, maintenance
expenditure, sundry office expenses, and depreciation charges are deducted
to arrive at this surplus. Other items of expenditure, such as salaries and
wages, rates and taxes, interest charges, etc., are not deducted in calculat-
ing the social surplus. They are treated as appropriations from the surplus.
The balance remaining after such appropriations, usually 25% of the gross
salaries and wages, is retained by the Enterprise as a Fund for Financial
Reserves (for meeting future investments, losses in particular years, etc.)
and for welfare expenditure.
2.        The accounting year for the Accounts and the Budget is the calendar
year. An Annual Revenue Budget and an Investment Budget are to be prepared
by Naftovod as is done by all other enterprises in Yugoslavia. The Budgets
are approved by the Workers' Council. The Investment Budget is to be in
keeping with the overall Energy Policy and Investment Program approved by the
Federal authorities and Republic Economic Councils. Interim financial state-
ments will be compiled for the periods ending 30 June, 30 September, and 31
December of each year and will be compared with the corresponding budget pro-
visions, suitable explanations being given for variations.
3.        The annual accounts of the Enterprise are presented to the Workers'
Council by the end of February and thereafter submitted to the Social Account-
ing Service for check and certification. The Social Accounting Service (SAS)
is an independent statutory organization responsible for the payment (Giro)
operations throughout the country and for the check and control of all organ-
izations, including Government and Army.
4.        The normal day-to-day transactions of Naftovod will be conducted
through Yugobanka of Belgrade and the United Bank of Zagreb and SAS. All
vouchers have to be approved by SAS before they can be presented to the banks
for payment. All transactions will be recorded by SAS and daily statements
forwarded to the Borrower, who will verify the statements with the records
maintained by them. No expenditures will be approved by SAS unless it is
within the budget provision. Thus, SAS will not only check the annual ac-
counts, but also exercise a degree of control over the normal accounting
transactions of Naftovod.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
5.        The audit procedures of SAS are not entirely satisfactory.  This
has already been considered by the Bank and a training program for the staff
of that organization was provided as part of Loan 916-YU (Naftagas Pipeline
Project). This training program is continuing in cooperation with foreign
consultants and with the Bank, and it is expected that suitably-trained staff
will be available for conducting the audit by 1979.
6.        The accounts of the Borrower will also be subject to certain internal
checks which will be conducted annually by special inspectors appointed by the
Workers' Council to insure that the various transactions are in accordance with
statutes and orders issued by the latter.



ANNEX 7
APPPAISAL OF
THE YUGOSLAVIA OIL PIPELINE
(Jugoslavenski Naftovod)
Basis and Assumptions Used in Financial Analysis
1.        Operating expenses have been calculated on the following assump-
tions: (a) total operating staff of 350; (b) total annual salaries and wages
escalated at 15% per annum; (c) electricity charges escalated at 10% per
annum; (d) maintenance costs and sundry office expenses escalated at 5% per
annum.
2.        Depreciation is provided on the assumption that the assets will be
fully depreciated in 22 years.
3.        Operating income: the receipts from domestic refineries have been
calculated to cover the estimated expenditures, including debt service, and
a surplus amounting to 25% of gross salaries and wages; the receipts from
Hungary and Czechoslovakia were based on the tariffs and quantities in the
transport agreements.
4.        Debt Service: annual interest charges and repayment of loans on the
basis of the terms and conditions expected in the agreements with,the respec-
tive lenders.
5.        Interest during construction on the IBRD and Kuwait loans are in-
cluded in the project cost.
6.        Working capital requirements estimated at Din. 30 million.
7.        No allowance has been made for investment of surplus funds and
income therefrom.
8.        Additional investments, Din. 1,515 million met out of Surplus (5
million) and Loan (1,510 million).
9.        The cost of line fill has not been taken into account as it is to
be supplied free by MATREZ.



APPRAISAL OF
THE YUGOSLAVIA OIL PIPELINE
(Ju_oslavenski Naftovo.,
REVENUE ACCOUNTS - YEARS ENDED DEC. 31
(Din Millions)
1978             1979             1980             1981             1982             1983             1984             1985             1986             1987             1988
I INCOME
a.  Transportation Charges                  670.3          1396.1            1464.7           1276.4           1286.2           1286.9           1253.0           1245.5           1216.3            1260.0           1308.7
b.  Receipt from Port                        89.9             89.9             89.9             89.9             89.9             89.9             89.9             89.9              89.9             89.9            89.9
Total                                   760.2         1486.0             1554.6           1366.3           1376.1           1376.8           1342.9           1335.4           1306.2           1349.9           1398.6
SI EXPENDITURE
a.  Variable;Electricity                     27.4             59.2             97.6            107.4            118.1            129.9            142.9            157.2            172.9            190.3            209.3
b. Fixed
1.  Maintenance                          8.5             20.3             21.2             22.3             23.5             24.6              25.8            27.0              28.5             29.9             31.3
2.  Salaries and Wages                  16.3             42.8             49.2              56.6            65.1             75.1              86.2             99.2            113.9            131.0            150.7
3.  Sundry Expenses                      3.1              7.3              7.7              8.1               8.5              8.8              9.3              9.8             10.3             10.8             11.4
4.  Taxes and Raten                      6.0             14.3              15.1             15.8             16.7             17.6             18.8             20.0             21.6             23.3             25.3
S.  Insurance                           26.1             47.6             47.6             47.6              47.6            47.6             47.6             47.6              47.6             47.6             47.6
6.  Trade Association Fees                 .5              1.0              1.0              1.0              1.0              1.0              1.0              1.0              1.0              1.0              1.0
Total                                   87.9            192.5            239.4            258.8            280.5            304.6            331.6             361.8            395.8            433.9            476.6
III  DEPRECIATION                                177.9            315.3            315.3            315.3             315.3            345.6            345.6            362.2            362.2            362.2            381.6
IV  TOTAL EXPENDITURE                           265.8            507.8            554.7            574.1             595.8            650.2            677.2            724.0            758.0            796.1            858.2
V  SURPLUS                                     494.4           978.2             999.9           792.2              780.3            726.6            665.7            611.4            548.2            553.8            540.4
VT  INTEREST                                     277.2           605.8             586.4            399.3            338.9            314.9            266.8            226.8            190.1            158.6             124.4
VII  CAPITAL LEVY*                                  6.9            100.1            139.2            195.5            235.9            249.7            199.1            124.0              68.3            99.8            114.6
VIII  PROPIT FROM TRANSIT TO HUNGARY
& CZECHOSLOVAKIA**                        118.1            171.7             172.1            93.3             79.3             53.4             88.4            145.9            171.4            172.7             173.8
IX  RECEIPT FROM PORT,*                          89.9             89.9             89.9              89.9             89.9             89.9             89.9             89.9             89.9             89.9             89.9
X  RETAINED SURPLUS                              2.3             10.7              12.3             14.2             16.3             18.7             21.5             24.8             28.5             32.8             37.7
XI  SURPLUS AS % OF GROSS FIXED ASSETS                             14.3             14.7             11.7             10.9              9.7              8.7              7.7              6.9              6.8               6.5
XII  RETAINED SURPLUS AS % OF GROSS FIXED
ASSETS                                                       0.1              0.2              0.2              0.2       .      0.2              0.3              0.3               0.4              0.4              0.5
XIII  DEBT SERVICE  COVERAGE *0*                                      l.3              1.3              1.2              1.2              1.2              1.2               1.4              1.5              1.5              1.5
NOTES:
* Difference between loan repayment and depreciation
**  To be paid to refincries
***  Surplus + deprecilion ,i intercst, and loan repayment
SOURCE:      Zissis- derived from Naftovod data
October, 1975



APPRAISAL OF
THE YUGOSLAVIA OIL PIPELINE
(JugosolansKi Nl  vo.)
BALANCF SHIRT - AS AT DEC, 31
(Din. Millions)
1978            1979            1980             1981            1982             1983            1984             1985            1986            1987             1918
ASSETS
Fixed Ansots - T..s.                                      6361.8           6800.0          6800.0           6800.0          7135.3          7470.6           7663.9          7861.6           7861.6          8081.7           8315.0
Less DepreciatIon                                          177.9            493.2           808.5           1123.8          1439,1          1784.7           2130.3          2492.5           2854.7          3216.9           3598.5
Net                                                    6183.9           6306.8          5991.5          5676.2           5696,2          5685.9           5533.6          5369.1           5006.9          4864.8           4716.5
Wnck in Progress                                            213.2                            __              335.0            334.7           195.0           196.7                            225.0            229.9
St,htotal                                              6397.1           6306.8          5991.5           6011.2          6030.3          5880.9           5730.3          5369.1           5231.9          5094.7           4716.5
Cnrrent Assets - Net                                         53.3            43.0             55.3            69.2             85,2           103.4           124.4            149.2            176.0           207.1           244.8
Total Assets                                               6450.4-         6349.8          6046.8           6080.4          6116.1           5984.3          5854.7           5518.3          5407.9           5301.8          4961.3
LLABII.LIIES ASS 00UITY
L.ng-tenn Debt                                             6441.2           6229.8          5775.3           5599.5          5383.3           4983.0          4633.3          4147.1           3941.6          3704.6           3208.4
Equity
Earned 5urplus                                             2.3             13.0            25.3             39.2            55.2            73.4             94.4           119.2            146.0           177.1            214.8
Oquity in Foilitiso*                                       6.9           107.0            246.2           441.7            677.6           927.9          1127.0           1252.0          1320.3           1420.1          1538.1
Total Liabilities and Eqelity                               6450.4          6349.8          6046.8           6080.4          6116.1           5984.3          5854.7           5518.3          5407.9           5301.8          4961.3
Debt/Eqoity Uatie                                            99/1            98/2             95/5            92/8            88/12            83/17           79/21            75/25           73/27            70/30           65/35
*Capital levy plus norplus in-ested in project e-possi-n
SOURCE:  Mission dei-ed fr- Nsftered dtat
October, 1975



ANNEX 10
NN    N                                                     N o ~  0   a'o d      1
01       e          s -N                                                            N   -.    - N         e
Na' -_ rN    >                                                                       <
N     N                                                  N    N    N   N    .    
N I 0 '                                                                     N    N    N
N                 N- Ns                                                      N         N      f 
N                  cc<                           N                            N    a'   N    
N                  a' N                                                 N    N    N    N >   
NN- 
XZI    =                   n          O~~~N                               N                         oo     N  x  
ol ;1~~~~ at                                          N             N                               N><      0    N    N
3~~ ~      ~ 0N                                                                                     N         a    N    N    N    N
R~~ ~ ~ ~                                a'   N               a' g *        N                                 N
N1                  Nd N                                                N       
N O       ~       >               -'        a'      N             N0                                   N     N    N    N     0    N
Ig                                                                    a;oa;0 aS;a;e              e 
N                  N-      o            N                  o'                 o    N    N          N    N
ai ~ ~ ~    ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     o   N        r.   N   .r   NY <        
r~~ ~ ~                            N    Nl N,R_S3             N  N
a  at               .t            a~~~~~~~~~~
a ~~                                                                                ..a.
a    tG)   0             0        o                       at             ao   a_
gt    N    tO                                                  i'     8          -    8a
0,-a    a    a  a'           Nat-ta               N    a~~~~~~~~~~~
at.    a    .-.a  S   ~~~~~~~~~~                 -o 
at            aa    a    aN                -.         Nao_             _     -    a
a    0,-a   .2  <    a    Naa2a'aaa    A    a    a,- ~ ~ ~
aa-A  Nt                  Na,-.             ~       ~        n 
-t    a      0-    a    a.     ~     ~     ~      u 
a ~~~O                                                                                Nv  N    a 



ANNEX 11
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THE YUGOSLAVIA OIL PIPELINE
(Jugoslavenski Naftovod)
Resume of Transport Agreements
A.   Agreements with the Founders
1.        The Founders are responsible for providing the following amounts
free of interest to Naftovod for meeting the project costs:
(a)  Energoinvest-Bosanski-Brod refinery           Din. 150.0 million
(b)  INA-Sisak refinery                                  100.5 million
(c)  INA-Lendava refinery                                 49.5 million
(d)  Naftagas-Pancevo refinery                           105.0 million
(e)  Naftagas-Novi Sad                                    45.0 million
Total                                               450.0 million
2.        The refineries are liable to pay transportation costs for the full
reserved capacity as specified below:
Years          1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983        1984      1985
-----------------------(million tons per year)-----------------
Sisak           1.5     3.2      3.9     4.0      4.0     4.4       5.0      5.8
Lendava         0.4     0.8      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.1       1.2       1.5
B.Brod          1.2     2.1      2.4     2.8      2.8     2.8       2.9       3.1
Novi Sad        0.6     1.1      1.2     1.2      2.0     2.0       2.2      2.3
Pancevo         1.4     2.9      3.5     3.6      3.9     4.1       4.3      4.7
3.        The refineries shall provide a guarantee of their business banks
for the payment of the transportation costs.
4.        Naftovod shall repay the contribution of the Founders in 25 years
in equ4l semi-annual installments, the first installment becoming due 3 years
after the completior of construction.
5.        Transportation costs for the crude oil are to be paid by the refine-
ries for the total reserve capacity per year on the following basis:
(a) Total actual fixed operating costs of the relevant section of
the pipeline for transporting the reserve quantity. The fixed
costs will include the amount required for repayment of loans
that is not covered by normal depreciation.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
(b) Variable costs in proportion to the quantity actually
transported.
(c) If, in any particular year, the contracted quantity of
crude oil is not transported because of Naftovod's fault,
the users shall pay only the fixed cost in proportion to
the quantity actually transported.
(d)  If, in any particular year, Naftovod fails to transport
the stipulated quantity of crude oil, it is liable to pay
a penalty amounting to 80% of the transportation costs for
that year for the quantity not transported.
6.        The profit from the transport of crude oil to Hungary and Czechoslo-
vakia shall be used to reduce the transport costs of the Founders.
7.        Events of Force Majeure relieve either party of its obligations
provided the condition or consequences of such events shall last more than
six months.
B.   Agreement with lIungary and Czechoslovakia
1.        The Yugoslav party undertakes to construct the port and pipeline
within 36 months after the contract comes into force.
2.        The contract shall remain in force for 20 years from the commence-
ment of operations of the pipeline.
3.        The Yugoslav party undertakes to construct the pipeline according
to the following specifications:
(a) The port and terminal will be able to receive tankers up to
200,000 dwt.
(b) The number of tankers to be handled on behalf of Hungary and
Czechoslovakia annually will be between 50 and 70.
(c) At the border crossing the pipeline diameter will be 28 inches.
4.        Crude oil will be transported according to the schedule and at the
basic rate per ton given below:



ANNEX 11
Page 3
Hungary                     Czechoslovakia
Quantity        Rate per Ton    Quantity       Rate per Ton
(million tons)         (US$)      (million tons)       (US$)
1978                   1.5               4.19           1.7              3.84
1979                   3.0               3.65           3.6              3.46
1980                   3.5               3.38           4.3              2.74
1981                   4.0               2.92           5.0              2.18
1982                   4.5               2.62           5.0              2.18
1983                   5.0               2.18           5.0              2.18
1984                   5.0               2.18           5.0              2.18
5.        If, for any reason other than Force Majeure, either party fails to
deliver or supply the stipulated quantity in any year, 80% of the transporta-
tion costs for the unused capacity in that year will be paid as penalty.
6.        The Czechoslovak and Hungarian parties agree to provide respectively
goods and services, and cash totalling US$25 million each for the construc-
tion of the pipeline project.
7.        If, for any reason, except Force Majeure, either party fails to
deliver or take the stipulated quantity, it is liable to pay compensation to
the other.
8.        Port charges payable by ships are not included in the transportation
costs, but the Yugoslav party guarantees that the total port charges payable
by the oil tankers will not exceed the usual charges paid by tankers transport-
ing oil for Yugoslavia.
9.        The basic transportation fee given in Paragraph 4 above will be
revised annually according to the following escalation formula:



ANNEX 11
Page 4
B   -   1           E   -   1          L
P  =  P  (0.33 + 0.35       n          + 0.20   n         + 0.12  n  -  1)
n     o                   B                   E                  L
Nov. 1973           Nov. 1973          Nov. 1973
Where
index n   the year for which transportation fee will be calculated
index n - 1 = the year previous to the year n
P         corrected transportation fee for the year n
n
P       = basic transportation fee in US dollars/ton
0
B  -  1         =    Ratio of price of thick sheet metal for the year
n                   n - 1 to November 1973, expressed in national cur-
B                    rencies of Germany, Belgium, France, Luxembourg,
Nov. 1973-           and Italy.  It is based on the publication "Iron
and Steel Products", edited by European Community
Commission, 1041 Bruxelles, 200 rue de la Loi,
Batiment Berlaymont.
E  -  1         =    Ratio of cost of electricity for the year n - 1 to
n                   November 1973.  For this purpose, the average prices
E                    quoted in the official Yugoslav Statistical Yearbook
Nov. 1973            will be taken.
L               =    Ratio of wages in the Oil Processing industry for the
n -  1              year n - 1 to November 1973.  For this purpose the
L                    average wages quoted in the official Yugoslav Statis-
Nov. 1973            tical Yearbook will be taken.
10.       In case of changes in the rate of exchange of the US dollar in
relation to other European currencies as compared to the average rate in
November 1973, suitable adjustment will be made in the transportation fees
every quarter.
11.       Basic transportation fees and escalation formula will be in force
for 8 years after the pipeline commences operation.
12.       Both parties will provide bank guarantees to ensure fulfillment
of the commitments.



ANNEX 12
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THE YUGOSLAVIA OIL PIPELINE
(Jugoslavenski Naftovod)
Background and Assumptions Used in
the Justification of the Project
A.   Background
1.        As explained in Annex 1, Yugoslav internal demand for oil is expect-
ed to grow from about 12.5 million tons in 1975 to about 33 million tons in
1990. Since domestic production is not expected to be developed substantially,
the largest part of the Yugoslav consumption would have to be imported from
the USSR, the Middle East and North Africa, and transported from the ports
of entry on the Adriatic coast to inland refineries. Although various modes
of transport could be considered for such volumes, it is widely accepted that
pipelines are usually the least cost solution. The economic evaluation was
therefore based on the comparison of the proposed pipeline with conventional
modes of transport.
B.   Projected Demand
2.        The projected traffic demand for the pipeline system is given in
Table 1. It has been provided by Naftovod and is in agreement with Govern-
ment projections (Annex 1) for the part which will supply the inland refine-
ries and with contractual volumes for transit traffic to Hungary and Czecho-
slovakia. The allocation of the domestic traffic to each refinery was made
according to their development plans.
C.   Alternatives to the Pipeline
3.        Two alternatives can be considered:  (i) railways and (ii) inland
water transport. The railway alternative could reach all refineries provided
that adequate terminAls and sidings are built at the main ports of entry (Bar,
Bakar and Koper) and at the refinery sites. Railways could also be used to
accommodate the transit to Hungary and Czechoslovakia. Inland water transport
would be adequate for the supply of the Novi Sad, Pancevo, Bosanski-Brod and
Sisak refineries; it would be inadequate for the Lendava refinery and for
transit. The inland water transport alternative would be less reliable than
the railway alternative (particularly for the supply of Sisak and Bosanski-
Brod) since rivers are already congested and have a somewhat irregular traffic.
4.        Optimization studies carried out by consultants show that the next
best alternative to the pipeline is a combination of rail and inland water
transport. Rail would be used for transit and to supply Lendava, Sisak and
Bosanski-Brod, while inland water transport would be used to supply Novi Sad



ANNEX 12
Page 2
and Pancevo. The cost of this alternative is estimated at about Din. 12,860
million (US$756 million), of which Din. 5,020 million (US$295 million) are
for expansion of port and railway facilities and Din. 7,840 million (US$461
million) for the acquisition of locomotives, rail tank cars, pusher tugs and
barges (Table 3).
5.        Direct operating costs would be about Din. 0.17 per ton/km and Din.
0.05 per ton/km for the railway and for inland water transport respectively.
They would include fuel and labor costs as well as direct maintenance costs.
6.        The cost stream of the rail and inland water transport alternative
is given in Table 3. Transit revenues have been estimated on the basis of
existing Yugoslav rail and inland waterway tariffs; operating costs are net
of transit revenues.
D.   The Proposed Pipeline System
7.       -The cost of the project is estimated at about Din. 5,940 million
(US$350 million) excluding taxes, price contingencies and interests during
construction. It includes subsequent investments to increase the initial
capacity up to 34 million tons. Operating costs include power, labor and
maintenance costs and were derived from similar facilities in Europe and ad-
justed to reflect Yugoslav conditions. Transit revenues were based on actual
costs of transporting oil and not on the tariffs and are, therefore, very
conservative. Operating costs are net of transit revenues.
E.   Comparison of the Two Alternatives
8.        The comparison of the two alternatives shows that the rate of dis-
count which equalizes both cost streams over 20 years is 50%. The feasibility
of the proposed project is not very sensitive to a decrease in domestic traffic
of about 15%. Under this assumption the rate of discount which equalizes both
cost streams over 20 years is in excess of 43%.



ANNEX 12
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
THE YUGOSLAVIA OIL PIPELINM      -
(Jugoslavenski Naftovod)
Crude Oil Throughputs, 1978 to 1997
(in millions of tons)/1
Omisalj-     Omisalj-    Omisalj-
Sisak        Sisak        Sisak-       Sisak-      Slobodnica    Novi Sad    Virje-
Domestic      Transit      Total       Slobodnica      Novi Sad     Pancevo    Lendava
1978        8.3
1979       10.1           6.6        16.7          6.1            4.0           2.9         0.8
1980       12.0           7.8        19.8          7.1            4.7           3.5         1.0
1981       12.6           9.0        21.6          7.6             4.8          3.6         1.0
1982       13.7           9.5        23.2         8.7             5.9           3.9         1.0
1983       14.4          10.0        24.4          8.9            6.1           4.1         1.1
1984       15.6          10.0        25.6          9.4            6.5           4.3         1.2
1985       17.4          10.0        27.4        10.1              7.0          4.7         1.5
1986       18.6          10.0        28.6        11.0              7.7          5.2         1.6
1987       20.0          10.0        30.0        11.9              8.5          5.9         1.7
1988       21.3          10.0        31.3        12.6             8.9           6.0         1.9
1989       22.7          10.0        32.7        13.0             9.0           6.0         2.0
1990       24.0          10.0        34.0        14.0             9.0           6.0         2.0
1991       24.0          10.0        34.0        14.0             9.0           6.0         2.0
1992       24.0          10.0        314.0       14.0             9.0           6.0         2.0
1993       24.0          10.0        34.0        14.0             9.0           6.0         2.0
/1  Design properties of crude oil are 0.85 specific gravity and a viscosity of 24
Centistokes at 10 degrees Celsius.
Source: Naftovod
October, 1975



APPRAISAL OF
THE YUGOSLAVIA OIL PIPELINE
Imported Crude Oil Requirements
(million tons)
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Yugoslavia
Refineries
Rijeka/L          5.0      5.5     6.0     6.2      6.4     6.6     6.8      7.0     7.2      7.4     7.6      7.8     8.0
Sisak             1.5      3.2     3.9     4.0      4.0     4.4     5.0      5.8     6.0      6.4     6.8      7.7     8.0
Lendava           0.4      0.8     1.0     1.0      1.0     1.1     1.2      1.5     1.6      1.7     1.9     2.0      2.0
Bosanski Brod     1.2      2.1     2.4     2.8      2.8     2.8     2.9      3.1     3.3     3.4      3.7     4.0      5.0
Novi Sad          0.6      1.1     1.2     1.2      2.0     2.0     2.2      2.3     2.5      2.6     2.9     3.0      3.0
Pancevo           1.4      2.9     3.5     3.6      3.9     4.1     4.3      4.2     5.2      5.9     6.0     6.0      6.0
TOTA L        10.1    15.6    18.0    18.8    20.1    21.0    22.4    23.9    25.8    27.4    28.9    30.5    32.0
/1   The Ri,ieka refinery will not be supplied by the pipeline.
/2   Includes re-exports
Source:  Naftovod                                                                                                         1g
October, 1975



APPRAISAL OF
THE YUGOSLAVIA OIL PIPELINE
CJugoslavenski J'aftovod)
Economic Justification
(Din. million)
--Alternative I: Rail and Inland Waterway Transport--    ----Alternative II: Pipeline----         Net
Ports and Rail-   Barges and        Operati                Investment    Operating             Cash Flow
way Facilities    Rolling Stock       Costs-     Total       Costs          Costs/l   Total   (I & II)
1975                                                                             200                       200     :(200)
1976                    600                                          600       1,3h0                     1,340      (740)
1977                 1,005             1,770                       2,775       2,630                     2,630       145
1978                 1,205               515             (250)     1,h70      1,160           (130)      1,030       h4o
1979                    860              370              (10)     1,220                       (50)        160     1,060
1980                   300               930               (5)     1,225                       (h0)        360       865
1981                    200            1,035              (50)     1,185                        20          20     1,165
1982                   300               220              (20)       500                        40          4o       460
1983                    250              250              (ho)       h60                        60          60       hoo
1984                   100               1hO               30        270                        70          70       200
1985                    100              965               80      1,145                        95          95     1,050
1986                   100                                190        290                       130         130       160
1987                                                      265        265                       150         150       115
1988                                                      320        320                       170         170       150
1989                                                      460        460                       195         195       265
1990                                                      520        520                       215         215       305
1991                                                      520        520                       215         215       305
1992                                   1,500              520      2,020                       215         215     1,805
1993                                     400              520        920                       215         215       705
199h                                     170              520        690                       215         215       475
The Rate of Discount at which the difference between the Net Present Value of both alternatives is equal
to zero is 50%.
q 3
I   thDirect operating costs less transit revenues.                                                                       (D
Source:  Naftovod and Mission   estimates
October 1975



ANNEX 13
APPRAISAL OF
THE YUGOSLAVIA OIL PIPELINE
(Jugoslavenski Naftovod)
Design Codes and Standards
ANSI B 31.4          Liquid Petroleum Transportation Piping Systems
ANSI B 16.5          Steel Pipe Flanges and Flanged Fittings
ANSI B 16.9          Steel Butt Welding Fittings
API 5LX or 5LS       Steel (Seamless and Welded) High Test Line Pipe
API 6D               Steel Gate, Plug, Ball and Check Valves for Pipeline
Service
API 610              Centrifugal Pumps for General Refinery Service
API 650              Welded Steel Tanks for Oil Storage
API 1104             Standard for Welding Pipelines and Related Facilities
API 82100100         Manual on Disposal of Refinery Wastes
IEC and NEC          Electrical Standards (or Yugoslavian Standards where
these are applicable)
CCITT and CCIR       Regulations and Recommendations
Yugoslavian General Building and Civil Engineering
Standards
Yugoslavian Fire and Safety Requirments
Source:. Naftovod



I



YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF THE YUGOSLAVIA OIL PIPELINE
(J ugoslavenski Naftovod)
Organization Chart
Council
Workers'Council                   (During Construction)
Coordinat ng                       General Manager
Committe          I
Asst General Manager                                          Asst. General Manager
Technical Affairs    |Economic Affairs
Technical & Maintenance                Operations                           ers3 &n                  Commercial               Economic & F
World Bank-9761(R)
rr






Y U G OSLAV I A
APPRAISAL OF THE YUGOSLAVIA OIL PIPELINE
1I J.g.,OI-ks. NW0-d)
VISJE TERMINAL      S_.- D_.-  ithhenKc DElr   tIlE P,p.In. Sys-n,
SLOBODNICA TEIRMINAL
AND PUMP STATION                                                                                                      NOVI SAD TERMINAL
AND PUMP ST ATION                                                                                                                      UMSTIO
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SCAE TRA
V18l, LENDAVAVIC - NOVI SAD PIPELINE IVA ,
OOA_ ~~~~~~~~SISAK - SLOLA~C  PIIEL-18"'LNE
PRESSUR  REDLEDNIACIRMNA
AU   UPSTATION            /<                                                                N   IM   1A   NNG7LV                                                                                                  ADPM   TT
1~~~~~~~~~~~~.S                     I    -  S IESAR    PIIVELT  9+INEFA^2
W~t
~~i OMISALJ T-Mi  S        TISAK                                                                   PIEINET-1-11t
) ~ ~ ~   33 n   173 vm                                                                                                    MA~~~~~~~~~~~~TN F-- UM
MELNICE PUMP STAT10F  (  E;M                                                                       -+F-i    M^IN LlNe tjMP s^ne~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1"O






YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF THE YUGOSLAVIA OIL PIPELINE
(Jugoslavenski Naftovod)
Project Schedule
1975                        1976                                  1977                                  1978                        1979
3Q       40       10        2Q        30       4Q       1Q        2Q       3Q        40       1Q        2Q       30        40       1Q       2Q
Appointment of Engineering
Consultants and Pipe
Inspection Agencies
Design, Procurement, Ins-                                                                                                                                  I
pection & Commissioning                                                                  _ _ _
_ _ _ ~~~~~~C'                                                                       C
5/31                                  5/31
Training                                                                                                             -      -
Agreements with:
Port of Rijeka
Offtakers
Power Enterprises and
Telecommunications Authorities
Pipeline Materials                          A
Pipeline Construction                                          A
Tank Farm Materials                            A          A                   D                                                      -
Tank Farm Construction                                     A         _            _  _        _         _          _                          -  
Pump Station Materials                         AM                  A        D_       __
Pump Station Construction                                            A                                  _
Port Facilities, Materials                                     A                        D
Port Facilities, Construction1                                       A
Telecomms, Telemetry, etc.                                         A                                        D
Materials & Installation
LEGEND
A  =  Contract Award                     I =  Phase 1, 16 million tons/yr.
D O   Materials delivud to site         II =  Phase 11, 20 million tonstyr.
* -  Start of Activity                  C  =  Commissioning
V  =  End of Activity                                                                                                                                                                                             
tn
/ Excluding Piping which mould be                                                                                                                                                                                ,
installed under Tank Farm V/ork                                                                                                                                             World Bank-15172






BR D  11586
UU\                       w /  1                                      1                                        2 X  F    .MAY
~~~~~~~~T K4  ASNl \t MIUEI C T  P ULF1Z RDI A  
YUG0StAVIA-                                              T                                                                                                            'J \ t. \-                                                   JE'P
A R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                     AOS 
APPRAISALOFTHEYUGOSl~~~~~~~AVPSEIAELILP.IN EIEEMDTKR/T,                                                                                                                                  ,t                               + ,                                     T                               >
IRA ~  ~     ~     ALWY 
( JUGOSLAVENSKI  NAFTNGROVOD) GRUNEAPA UGLUENV A7R                                                                                                                                                            <tA\LSOVC                                                   .
AOSUPRSTAARRRR ~        ~              ~              P GAUG                                                     AUN/                                      .\+>S
T                                                                                                    A NK  F ARM   sC  - -  5X.9 S / _ ^ 0 S 0 V O rs Y rK sr aA I v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$   O   S A 
IA                                                                                                                                                                     `   c                                                                                                      savERIN,~~~NRRW GyE  N
43~~~I-                             A   PUNDE   L NTEA TIOS                                                                                                                            57<%\4hKI       
All                      ROARS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ill
,fENAIURLE   CNL    GEREDEURIRT STAISN- ,\(IAR S PL
* IN         tXSTNEPARIFNF                                                                                    -                                             / X  |~                                          SEELS P                     REZIU,R  A,6USEN
ET PI,T                                                               ,                                               ' s                                  KUMANG EE RJAE  G N  N                                ,32
ARS N TFKANDARDAUGES5S                                                                                                                              USKGA                                                                          H        3 
'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~RLARS .A 'L,pNp RARKDW GAUG                                                        IpPCP  K"                                          ,.           'ATV                           EE
-        - +  aTeRENUaTISU[AJAUIRN                                                                                              RAI ApI MP Ap                                                                           C EDfOL      A  I   
-55                             ERR             O             5POS~SED NEW  LlaFK A L B A N I A t g A OKADKKXuKuRCANRUM                                                                                                                                GA
42R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S                                                                               JIERSD                                                               S  E    R    BntXtf 
YUGC LAV        AVGGtAA5                                                                                                                                              _.,                                             EE
LOCA ION     F       TH  PIELINPEA NIHWYSTE                                                                                                                 M 00 2D  TG EO 50 SO  70  R                            CAAA0aI                            lTL        ;
OTHER MAIN RIIA05                       KILDiETERS                  TAd bOurdaracr rAn,e on Ibl. NgOV do laoW D                                \         gr ,                             GEJLt                    T5~~~~~~~ITI.V 
BGuNGKEesGF RPUBILS AG AUGNDMUK PGsINES mlY edonel olsc;etanr bv 11e l 5E
_ . -  NTERNATIGNAIGDUNDARIES~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KOS                                                                                                      htrdl0dtd/lt
11                       IbU                             IG                           17o                             IS-T  R7DPC_NG STAT2D2






H    u   N    0    A    R    y
AUSTRIA
ova
J
Q-
olo
S  L 0 V EljA
LJUBLJANA 0                                                                                                                                    05ubotica'
Q)
N
TkSTt
J                         Kor
Koper_-_--                                      lova
C)             Sisk                                                     0 ijeka
V 0 J V 0 D   N A
-A        T          I        A                                        VI                                   IN
c        R
is ij                                              1111,T
Rovi
J                                                               ki 5, 'od-r                                             \      Pancevo
ni                                                                                                                                                                                 0
Puld"                                                                                                                                                          BELGRADE
Bo n j a C'
Luka
B 0  S N  I A -
4#4kZvornik
H E R Z F G 0 V I N A
OZenica                                                                                                      Bor
(DZodor
cp
Sibenik
Joblanica 0
c
Nis
"V,
Y UGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF THE YUGOSLAVIA
OIL PIPELINE
Ptoce, 0
(JUGOSLAVENSKI NAFTOVob)
LOCATION OF HYDROCARBONS AND COA                                                                                                   M 0 N, T E, N: E G R
Co
Exploration under wcly                                                                                                                                                                 I
Dubroynik             ' '   I  I       I   I I   /                              ,  1%
i                                                                                                                                                    o
Resources ndiccited                                                                                                                                         5,          v   o
TiTOGRAP                                                                  r
Prospective areas
Refineries
Project oil p,peline
Cocil deposits,
I        Iliard coal
Brown coal
Lignite
Autonomous province boundaries                                                                                                                              M       A     C     E      D    0     N    I
International boundaries
20          60    80   100
L
ORFFCF
2p        4p         6p        8p        1?0
Vid-



