aFIL                                   CIRCuLATIN~G COPY
.P LL  }0TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
CIRCULATING COPY
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK                Report No. P-1672a-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
JUGOSLAVENSKI NAFTOVOD PODUZECE
ZA TRANSPORT NAFTE U OSNIVANJU, RIJEKA
(YUGOSLAV OIL PIPELINE ENTERPRISE)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR AN
OIL PIPELINE PROJECT
October 22, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRE1CY EQUIVALENTS *
Currency Unit                      Yucgoslav D:inar (Din.)
US$1                               Din. 17 .CO
Din. 1                             US$o0.o588
Din. 1,000                         US$58 .82,.
Din'. 1,000-,000                   US$58,823.53
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since Julyr 13, 1973.
The carrenCr eguivaleIits given abo ve are as of Mlay 30, 1975.
Fiscal Year                        January I - December 31



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO JUGOSLAVENSKI
NAFTOVOD PODUZECE ZA TRANSPORT NAFTE U OSNIVANJU, RIJEKA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
equivalent to US$49.0 million to Jugoslavenski Naftovod Poduzece Za Transport
Nafte U Osnivanju, Rijeka (Naftovod), with the guarantee of the Socialist
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, to help finance an oil pipeline project. The
loan would have a term of eighteen years including four years of grace. Inter-
est would be at 8-1/2 percent per annum. Co-financing for the project is being
provided by agencies in Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Kuwait and Libya.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic mission visited Yugoslavia in November 1972; its
report entitled "The Economic Development of Yugoslavia" (R74-1) was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors on January 2, 1974. An updating Economic
Memorandum (662a-YU) was distributed to the Executive Directors on June 23,
1975. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
3.        The Yugoslav economy has experienced rapid growth during the last
two decades, with total GDP at constant prices having increased by an average
rate of 6.3 percent, and per capita GDP at 5.2 percent annually. In 1973,
per capita GNP came to about US$900 (World Bank Atlas methodology). This
impressive record of growth was accompanied by some fundamental structural
changes in the economy which has moved towards a modern industry/service
oriented urban society. The share of agriculture in GDP declined from 38 to
20 percent while the share of industry and mining increased from 16 to 37
percent.
4.        The population growth rate averaged 1 percent per year during the
last two decades, but with considerable regional variations ranging from 1.6
percent in the less developed republics and provinces to 0.7 percent in the
developed ones. The structural changes in the economy permitted a sizeable
transfer of labor force from agriculture to industry and services. However,
by 1974 nearly 42 percent of the active population was still engaged in
agriculture and forestry, mostly on small private farms; industry (including
mining, construction and handicraft) accounted for 28 percent, services for
20 percent, and the remainder was working abroad or unemployed.
5.        The socio-political framework evolved through several constitutional
amendments which were consolidated in the new constitution of 1974. It
strengthens three important features of the socio-political system of
Yugoslavia. First, self-management, whereby the use and control of the



socially owned means of production is entrusted to the workers' collectives,
is the fundamental right and obligation of every "basic organization of
associated labor" (the smallest technologically identifiable unit of operation)
in every sector and activity. Second, the responsibility for most important
social and policy decisions has been shifted from the Federation down to the
republics and provinces, and on to the communes. And third, the management
and financial responsibility for social activities (like health, education,
welfare, etc.) is transferred from the realm of the state to "communities of
interest" (decision-making bodies which comprise delegates of both suppliers
and users of the specific se-rvices). Responsibility for certain economic
activities affecting large segments of the society (like communal services,
power production, highways and water management) can be - and progressively
is - similarly organized through communities of interest.
6.        The social sector, which includes government, most enterprises and
institutions such as libraries, hospitals, theatres and schools, has the
leading role in economic and social devleopment; it accounts for 85 percent
of GDP and employs over half of the total labor force. The private sector
is predominantly comprised of peasant farms (with a 10 hectare limit to land
holdings) and small enterprises (with a 5 person limit on the number of non-
family workers), mainly in handicrafts, construction, trade, transport and
tourism. In the past the private sector has been relatively neglected by
government policy. However, lately more attention is being devoted to pri-
vate farmers with a view to accelerating the growth of agricultural production
and reducing the rural/urban income disparity.
7.        Regional income disparity - with a gradient of GDP per capita falling
generally from North to South - has emerged as one of the most important de-
velopment issues of the country. Four distinct regions can be distinguished
by stage of development. The Republic of Slovenia is the high income region
with almost double the national average. The Republics of Serbia, Croatia
and the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina - make up the middle income regions,
ranging from 100 to 125 percent of the national average. The Republics of
Bosnia-Herzegovina, Montenegro and Macedonia - with per capita GDP between 67
to 75 percent constitute the upper group among the officially designated "less
developed regions". The Autonomous Province of Kosovo, with an average in-
come of only 33 percent of the national average, is at the bottom of the
spread. These inter-regional disparities can be traced back further to intra-
regional disparities. Within Republics and Provinces the spread between
communes can extend over the range of 10 to 1, and it is the prevalence of
stagnating poor rural communes within the less developed regions which largely
determnines the disparity between the regions.  The rate of economic growth
of the less developed regions as a whole was only slightly below the average
for Yugoslavia, but due to the faster population growth (1.6 percent per
year versus 0.7 percent in the more developed regions) the income disparity
had tended to widen significantly during the last two aecades.   In order to
reverse this trend and to accelerate economic growth anc social development
in the less developed regions, mechanisms have been &nsituted for sizeable
transfers of financial resources.  in i973. credits on highly fiavor al:e terms
(containing a grant element of around 50 percuac) were maade available through



- 3 -
the "Federal Fund" to the less developed regions in the amount of almost
US$300 million, equivalent to more than 20 percent of their total investment
in the social sector. An additional US$120 million for social services were
transferred as budgetary grants.
8.        Open unemployment has not been a serious problem and is estimated
to be only around 3-4 percent of the resident labor force in 1974. However,
this low rate conceals three important aspects of the employment problem.
First, an estimated 1 million out of a total labor force of around 9 million
(in 1974) has assumed temporary employment abroad. Second, there is some
evidence of growing regional and occupational imbalances, due to low inter-
regional mobility of labor and to unmatched skill requirements in a fast
changing economy. And third, severe underemployment persists in the private
agricultural sector.
Recent Developments
9.        In 1974, Yugoslavia recorded a rapid increase of GDP of 8 percent
in real terms as compared to 5 percent and 4 percent in 1973 and 1972 respec-
tively. Industry was the leading sector with an estimated growth rate of 11
percent in 1974; however, the growth of agricultural production, enhanced by
favorable weather conditions, and of services (with the exception of tourism)
also accelerated during the year. This rapid expansion of economic activity
permeated the whole economy. Investment outlays grew in nominal terms by
almost 50 percent and consumer incomes by close to 30 percent during the year.
The resulting rapid increase in total demand for goods and services was re-
flected both in the rise of employment and of imports - both in nominal and
real terms - and domestic prices. The gain in total employment amounted to
about 5 percent in 1974 and exceeded for the first time the natural increase
of the labor force. The industrial price index rose by almost 30 percent
while the cost of living index rose less rapidly by some 21 percent. Since
income and fiscal policy leave, for institutional reasons, little room for
demand management, the major response to the inflationary pressures was in
terms of monetary policy. After an expansionary phase during 1972 and 1973,
the money supply increased by only 24 percent as compared to a nominal in-
crease of social product of about 36 percent. The shift to a large deficit in
the balance of payments materializing in 1974 also contributed to the increased
effectiveness of the monetary policy.
10.       The balance of trade deficit increased from US$1.7 billion in 1973
to almost US$3.7 billion in 1974 both on account of an increase in the volume
and the rapid rise in the price of imports and the stagnation of real exports
(the terms of trade for the country are estimated to have deteriorated by
about 10 percent). The traditionally large surplus for invisibles (mostly
from workers remittances and tourism receipts) failed to compensate for the
large trade deficit and the country recorded a current account deficit in ex-
cess of US$1 billion in 1974 as compared to a surplus of US$464 million in
1973. To counteract the situation, the import regime was gradually tightened
since August 1974, affecting a large variety of consumer goods and some capital
and intermediate goods. In addition, the National Bank raised the intervention



-4-
point in the foreign exchange market, in effect devaluing the dinar by about
7 percent as against the currencies of Yugoslavia's major trading partners.
The large current account deficit has led to some loss of foreign exchange
reserves; after gains of US$632 million in 1973, the official reserves fell
by US$345 million in 1974. In addition net foreign borrowing, which averaged
US$390 million during 1971-73, increased to around US$65n million in 1974.
Coranercial import credits from suppliers and credits from financial institu-
tions continued to be the major sources of foreign capital. Long-term funds
re'lated to financing of development are being made available mainly by the
IBRD and some bilateral donors (particularly the Federal Republic of Germany).
Yugoslavia has also been one of the beneficiaries of the IMF's Special Oil
Facility. Yugoslavia's medium- and long-term external debt outstanding as of
December 31, 1973 was US$4,319 million (disbursed onlv) and is expected to
have increased to about US$5.1 billion during 1974. Debt service payments
amounted to about 14 percent of foreign exchange earnings (including workers
remittances) in 1973 and about the same ratio is estimated for 1974.
Prospects for 1975
11.       The economic program of Yugoslavia for 1975 envisages a slowdown of
overall growth to about 6 percent in real terms. This, in combination with
a reduced rise of import prices should ease the inflationary pressures. The
good harvest in 1974 should affect favorably both food exports and imports.
Measures have also been taken to encourage other exports, especially to oil
exporting countries and to the non-convertible currency area where valuable
raw materials can be obtained in exchange for Yugoslav manufactured goods.
Workers' remittances and receipts from tourism are expected to increase mar-
ginally. While these changes may lead to some improvement in the country's
balance of payments, there is little hope that the current account deficit
will be significantly reduced during the current year. Yugoslavia will there-
fore need to continue to raise foreign capital on a fairly large scale, mostly
from established channels such as the Euro-currency market, suppliers credits
and the W4orld Bank. In addition, greater use may be made of credit lines
from COMECON countries, and efforts to open up new sources of capital in OPEC
countries will be enlarged.
Medium- and Long-Term Objectives and Prospects
12.       The aggravation of major economic problems during 1974, such as
rapid inflation and balance of payments pressures, has led to a reappraisal of
developnrent objectives. In the light of the recent shift of relative prices
7 n favor of raw materials, ,nore emphasis will be given to the development of
Yugoslavia's owr. natural resources, mainly at the expense of processing in-
dustries.   In this connection, the development of the energy sector is given
the highest priority. It focuses on electric power, where the generating
capacity is likely to fall critically short of the rapidly rising power re-
quirements of the expanding economy.   The development of the power sector will
iargely be based on the large unutilized hydropower potential and soft-coal
reserves of: the country.  Other -riority activities are ferrous metallurgy,
so-u.e segrenr.s of nor-ferrous metallurgy (notably lead, zinc, copper, nickel and



- 5 -
bauxite/aluminum), technologically advanced production equipment, basic
chemicals including petroleum refining, agriculture and food processing,
interrepublic transportation, multipurpose works, and housing and basic
construction material.
13.       This emphasis on accelerated development of the raw material basis
and the deepening of the economic infrastructure requires a more capital-
intensive investment pattern, associated with longer time-lags between invest-
ment and output. To sustain this development path, both continued high bor-
rowing abroad and an increased savings rate will be essential. Therefore,
the income policy - i.e. the guidelines governing the distribution of enter-
prise income between workers' income and accumulation - will have a crucial
role.
14.       The new Five Year Plan (1976-1980), presently under preparation,
will focus on the implementation of these objectives. For growth, an average
rate of 7 percent per year is proposed as feasible, comparing with a target
growth rate of the present Plan of 7.5 percent and an expected realized
growth rate of 6.5 percent. For employment, the average planned growth rate
would come to about 3 percent with annual increments exceeding the natural
increase of the labor force by growing margins. This would permit more
vigorous pursuit of two major social objectives: the reduction of the number
of temporary migrants abroad, and an increased absorption of the rural under-
employment into the social sector. The economy will continue to be open to
the world market although the compositon of foreign trade is expected to
change with a reduced share for raw material, semifinished products and
consumer goods on the import side, and an increased share for agricultural
products and manufactured goods on the export side. Workers' remittances
will decline (relatively, and possibly in absolute terms), but rising tourism
receipts are expected to compensate for this loss in invisible exports.
15.       The reduction of regional disparities is another priority objective
of the new Five Year Plan. To that end, the transfer of financial resources
to the less developed regions in the form of loans at concessionary terms for
economic investment and budgetary grants for social development will be con-
tinued and will increase at a rate of around 7 percent per year in real terms.
Since most of the natural resources of the country, including hydropower, are
to be found in the less-developed regions, they will, in additon to the trans-
fers, benefit from the increased emphasis on the development of basic indus-
tries and power which will to a considerable degree be financed through direct
financial contribution from the consuming regions.
16.       The new Five Year Plan will be prepared according to the self-
management principle as stipulated by the Constitution of 1974, i.e. largely
from the bottom up. Planning commences at the level of individual working
organizations (economic enterprises or social institutions) and proceeds in
a unifying process of converging consensus finding. Working organizations
set out their initial programs, coordinate them horizontally (within the same
activity) at the level of the Republics or Provinces and - for the priority



- 6 -
sectors - at the level of the Federation, and they reconcile them vertically
with supplying and/or consuming activities, again on a regional and national
level. At an advanced stage of consultation and adjustment, the socio-
political organizations (communes, Republics and Provinces, the Federation)
will join the planning process in order to ensure the integration of overall
economic and social objectives and constraints. The consolidated programs
of action, which in their totality will constitute the operational portion
of the Plan, will be codified in the form of "social contracts" or "self-
management agreements" which are legally binding for the whole Plan period
unless renegotiated in the case of major deviations occuring in the course of
Plan implementation. The new Plan, thus, will differ from the previous Plan
in strengthening and formalizing the commitments for implementation by enter-
prises, banks and government institutions.
Creditworthiness
17.       In spite of the present unsettled conditions, the prospects for
Yugoslavia's continued economic growth during the next decade are good. The
country's endowment of natural and human resources, its relatively low de-
pendence on imported primary energy, its pragmatic approach to economic
problems and its readiness to undertake institutional changes, combine to
give grounds for a favorable assessment of future prospects. Due to the
size and structure of external borrowing during 1974 and the years to come,
the debt service ratio is expected to gradually increase over the next few
years, from 14.4 in 1974 to 14.8 in 1976. However, taking into account
Yugoslavia's debt service record and the measures taken in the past to control
balance of payments problems, as well as the prospective growth of production
and structural improvement of the balance of trade, Yugoslavia remains credit-
worthy for a substantial amount of Bank lending.
18.       Many of the high priority projects in Yugoslavia have a low foreign
exchange component due to the relatively advanced state of Yugoslav industry
and the competitiveness of Yugoslav contractors. Were the Bank to confine
its lending to the foreign exchange costs of projects, an adequate contri-
bution to Yugoslavia's external capital needs could be made only by spreading
the lending over a large number of projects, including some of lesser priority.
It is therefore appropriate to provide for some measure of local expenditure
financing in the Bank's lending program, especially in the less-developed
regions.
PART II - BANK GROUT OPERATIONS IN YUGOSL-VIA
19.       The Bank has made 35 loans totalling about US$1,181 million to
Yugoslavia.  Of this amount approximately 50 percent (US$571.4 million) has
been for 13 loans for the transportation sector - seven for highways totalling
US$220 million, four for railways totalling US$248 million, US$59.4 million
for the Naftagas pipeline, and $44 mil_Lor, for the Port of Bar Pro4cz:.  Bank
lending has generally concentrated on infrastructure i,ncluding, in addition
to the transportation loans, power (four loans tota-1ing US$205 milLion),



- 7 -
telecommunications (one loan for US$40 million), three multipurpose projects
totalling US$103 million and US$6 million for the Dubrovnik Water Supply and
Wastewater project. Nine loans have also been made for industry and two each
for tourism and agriculture. IFC has made investments in nine Yugoslav enter-
prises totalling about US$130 million.
20.       The Federal Government of Yugoslavia with Bank encouragement has
recently streamlined the procedures for declaring loans effective. Guarantee
Agreements for all loans which formerly required approval from each republic
and autonomous province can now be approved by a Federal Coordinating Committee.
The average time required to declare loans effective is expected to be reduced
from six to three months. Over $140 million were disbursed during FY75, com-
pared with $59.4 million in FY74.
21.       The major objectives of Bank lending to Yugoslavia are to accelerate
development in the less-developed regions of the country; to promote agricul-
tural development, particularly among the small private farmers by providing
basic infrastructure and credit for the financing of farm development, equip-
ment and processing facilities; to promote structural reforms in major sectors
of the economy through improved coordination and the strengthening of institu-
tions; and to provide Yugoslavia with long-term external capital and thus
reduce the country's dependence on short-term external borrowings.    These
objectives are basically the same as those which have guided Bank lending in
previous years, but efforts to give special support to the less-developed
regions are being strengthened.
22.       Over the next two years loans envisaged for less developed areas
include the initial loan for a major multipurpose water development program
designed to provide flood control, industrial and domestic water supply,
irrigation, and sewerage; the second loans for agricultural and industrial
credit; and loans for irrigation. Highway, railway and power transmission
projects during the same period will both assist the less-developed regions
and promote structural reforms in the transport and energy sectors. IFC is
currently investigating several new investment opportunities to encourage
joint ventures which would provide technical, management and marketing
expertise as well as long-term capital.
23.       In addition to substantial assistance given in identifying and pre-
paring projects for Bank financing, the Bank is providing technical assistance
in several areas. A series of regional studies of the four less-developed
regions of Yugoslavia was initiated two years ago and two studies, covering
Kosovo and Bosnia-Herzegovina, have been completed. This fall, the third
study, of Macedonia, will be completed and the field work for the fourth
(Montenegro) will begin. This series, when completed, will contribute to
better assessment of development programs and will assist in formulating
development strategies for these regions. A Bank assisted study on the
improvement of the financial mechanism has been concluded and its recommenda-
tions have been included in draft legislation for a new banking law. A Bank



- 8-
assisted training program for auditors of the Social Accounting Service, which
audits all enterprises and Government activities, including Bank financed
projects, has progressed satisfactorily and further training is underway in
cooperation with an English accounting firm. Assistance from EDI, as well as
Bank operations, has been directed towards the improvement of project evaluation.
24.       The level of Bank lending has risen substantially to an average of
about US$200 million during the period FY74-76. Although this represents only
a small proportion of the country's need for external finance, it would be
equivalent to almost one-third of the annual long-term official capital in-
flow in convertible currencies. The outstanding debt to the Bank is expected
to remain at less than 10 percent of Yugoslavia's total external debt. Serv-
ice on Bank loans as a proportion of total debt service would decrease from
4.8 percent in 1973 to 4.5 percent in 1976.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
25.       Traditionally Yugoslavia has covered a large part of its energy
needs from its own resources, but the degree of self-sufficiency has been
falling. In 1965 domestic production accounted for 84 percent of consumption
on a calorific basis, but by 1973 the percentage had dropped to 67. This
trend, coupled with the sharp increase in world energy prices nearly two years
ago, explains why Yugoslav national energy policy is now based on restraining
dependence on imported fuel through the development of indigenous energy re-
sources.
Energy Resources
26.       Yugoslavia's main domestic energy resources are lignite, coal and
hydro-power. Lignite and coal account for 97 percent of the fossil fuel re-
serves (hydrocarbons for the balance). Most of the lignite and coal is of
poor quality and is located in Kosovo and Bosnia-Herzegovina. Since trans-
portation over long distances is not economic, it is used mainly for power
and steam generation. Hydro-power resources amount to about 60,000 million
kWh/years, 70 percent of which are located in Croatia, Serbia and Bosnia-
Herzegovina. About 2.5 percent of total Yugoslav energy resources are proven,
recoverable natural gas and oil reserves. Most of the gas lies in Vojvodina
and the oil in Croatia and possibly off-shore in the Adriatic. Preliminary
surveys suggest that some 36,500 tons of uranium concentrate could be recovered
from an area of 170,000 km2 with suitable geological formations.    The most
promising deposits 1.ie in Slovenia.
Demand and Suplv
27.       After a period of relative stagnation, overall energy consumption
-increased rapidly from 1967 to 1973 at an average rate of 8.2 percent per
annur.1 compared with a-n average GNP increase of 6.4 percent per annum.  During
the same period the structure of demand changed considerably and coal, which



-9-
had been traditionally the predominant fuel, was surpassed by oil. This was
due primarily to the development of a modern industrial sector and to the
rapid growth of road transportation. In 1973 oil consumption accounted for
over 40 percent of the total demand compared with 28 percent in 1967. The
industrial and transportation sectors account for 84 percent of total demand
for oil products. Oil and gas consumption in power generation has always
been and will remain marginal, as most of the projected increase in capacity
will be based on the use of domestic coal and hydro-power.
28.       Domestic oil production which, in 1973 amounted to about 3.3 mil-
lion tons, has not kept pace with demand and Yugoslavia has to rely in-
creasingly on imports to supply its six domestic refineries (Rijeka, Sisak,
Bosanski Brod, Novi Sad, Pancevo, and Lendava). In 1973 oil imports ac-
counted for 70 percent of total internal demand for refined products. Hither-
to, the USSR has been the main foreign supplier of oil. However, in recent
years, Yugoslavia has been importing increasingly from the Middle East (Iraq,
Iran). Russian crude is imported through the Danube by barge, while Middle
East crude is imported through Adriatic ports and transported by rail to the
refineries of Sisak and Bosanski Brod.
29.       Since Yugoslavia is a large importer of crude oil, it was seriously
affected by the oil crisis although the problem was more one of prices than
availability. Because of the poor quality of domestic coal, the possibility
of substituting coal for oil is limited and only minor adjustments could be
made in the short-run to reduce the country's dependence on foreign oil. The
main steps taken were increases in the price of refined oil products and the
creation of an equalization fund to align the price of domestic crude with
world market prices; as a result, the increase in the consumption of oil
slowed down to 6 percent per annum in 1974 compared to 7.7 percent in 1973.
30.       Before the oil crisis it was expected that total energy demand would
continue to grow rapidly and would increase 3.5 times between 1973 and 1990.
Similarly it was expected that oil demand would continue to grow faster than
overall demand and would be satisfied primarily by imports, since domestic
oil production was not expected to meet more than 9 percent of the total
energy demand. By 1990 it was confidently expected that hydrocarbons would
account for more than 51 percent of total energy demand.
31.       Following the oil crisis these projections were lowered.    Prelim-
inary studies show that total energy consumption will increase by only 3
times over the next 15 years reaching about 83 million tons of oil equivalent
by 1990. Hydrocarbon demand will grow at the same pace as total demand.
However the volume of oil imports in 1990 will be almost identical to that
projected previously because the previous projections were based on rapid
growth in the use of natural gas which is not likely to materialize since
recent evaluations of domestic fields have been disappointing.     Furthermore
the previous projections for domestic oil production were over-optimistic.
It is now estimated that domestic production will start declining after 1985
reaching 5 million tons in 1990 instead of 8 million as previously projected.



- 10 -
32.       Based on these projections it is now considered that imports of
crude oil will increase from about 7.9 million tons in 1975 to 28 million
tons in 1990, at average rates per annum declining from 11 percent between
1975 and 1980, to 8 percent and 7 percent between 1980 and 1985, and 1985
and 1990, respectively. Most of this oil will be imported from the Middle
East through Adriatic ports and transported overland to the inland refineries.
Sectoral Organization
33.       The Yugoslav system of decentralized economic management does not
facilitate coordination between the various Republics and Provinces. Further-
more it is not yet clear how the emergence of self-managing communities of
interest in the power sub-sector, responsible for all aspects of the supply
and demand for power, will affect the situation. However there has been a
determined effort at closer coordination within the energy sector as a whole
over the last two years, encouraged by the Bank and by the changing interna-
tional oil situation.
34.       In 1974, following discussions with all the Republican and Provin-
cial governments, the Federal Executive Council issued a document entitled
"The Basis of Common Policy for Long-Term Development of Yugoslavia". A
Federal Committee on Energy and Industry (FCEI) was set up with responsibility
for coordinating the planning and implementation of energy programs. These
developments are evidence of the governments' desire to create a more rational
framework for development within the sector. Under the aegies of the FCEI,
studies have been carried out which will form an integral part of the next
Five-Year Plan, currently in the final stages of preparation. The main ele-
ments of energy policy over the next few years emerging from these studies
are that Yugoslavia should limit its dependence on imported fuels and develop
domestic sources to the maximum extent possible, that coal should be used in
preference to hydrocarbons whenever feasible, and that national energy re-
sources should be safeguarded in a manner consistent with maintaining the
nation's overall economic growth. It is too early to assess how well these
policies will meet the country's needs. But the substantial reductions in
the level of demand projections already made through the elimination of dup-
lication in individual enterprises' development plans, suggest that better
coordination should prove beneficial. The proposed project, in which three
enterprises normally in competition are cooperating together, is a reflection
of this trend.
Pri,oes
35.       Energy pricing policy is presently under review. The problem of
aligning domestic oil prices with those of imported oil has been solved
through the mechanism of the equalization fund and an increase in the price
of refined products. Gas producers are seeking comparable increases in gas
prices. However, given the serious attempts to keep inflation under control,
the authorities have been reluctant to increase the prices of other sources
of energy.



36.       In spite of Yugoslavia's relatively low dependence on imported oil,
increases in the price of oil are bound to affect the government's efforts
to improve the external payments position. In 1973 oil imports amounted to
US$259 million, or 6 percent of commodity imports. For 1974 oil import pay-
ments were of the order of US$900 million, at an average c.i.f. price of
US$100 per metric ton (US$13 per barrel), equivalent to about 13 percent of
imports of goods and services. The impact on the balance of payments has
been to contribute to a substantial current account deficit in 1974, which
will continue in later years, instead of the surpluses Yugoslavia has recent-
ly enjoyed.
37.       The Bank's main involvement in the field of energy thus far has been
the four loans made to the power sector, where the emphasis has been on high
priority generation projects and on extending the national grid. The Bank has
also made one previous loan in the pipeline subsector, for the Naftagas project
(Loan 916-YU of June 25, 1973), which provides for the facilities to transmit
natural gas from Vojvodina, and later from Hungary, to industrial consumers in
Vojvodina and Serbia (see Annex II). A Bank sector mission currently in the
field is reviewing with the Yugoslav authorities their proposals for the
development of the energy sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       As their main source of crude oil has shifted from Russia to the
Middle East, Yugoslavia and some of her eastern neighbors have long been con-
sidering the most suitable means of bringing Middle Eastern crude, presently
transported by rail from various Yugoslav ports, to the refineries. It became
apparent that a pipeline system connecting an Adriatic port of entry with
Yugoslavia's five inland 1/ refineries, and those of her neighbors, would be
economic. The Bank helped to determine the most favorable pipeline system
within the context of a transport sector survey in 1971. Subsequently, in
July 1973, the three leading oil and gas enterprises in Yugoslavia - INA,
Energoinvest and Naftagas - formed a consortium which later became known as
Jugoslavenski Naftovod, to carry out the project. The Yugoslav government
asked the Bank to participate in the financing of the project in order to
facilitate the raising of other external finance on reasonable terms. A
feasibility study was carried out by INA Engineering, a Yugoslav concern, and
a UK firm of consultants. The project was prepared in 1974 and appraised in
January, 1975. Negotiations were held in Washington in July, 1975. The
Yugoslav Delegation, which was led by Mr. Juraj Kontent, Legal Advisor,
Naftovod consisted of representatives from the Federal Government and Naftovod.
1/   The sixth, at Rijeka, is at seaboard and would not be served by the
pipeline.



Project Description
39.       The project, which is summarized in Annex III and described in
detail in the report "Appraisal of the Yugoslav Oil Pipeline" (Report No. 886-YU
dated October 7, 1975), would consist of the construction of an oil port at
Omisaij, just south of Rijeka, 736 'mi of pipeline, storage tanks, pump stations,
a control system,-, sundry equipment anrd engineering services.  It would provide
overland oil transoortatior facjiAties -with a capacity to pump by 1979 20 mil-
lion tons of oil annually, ircluding 6.6 million tons in transit to refineries
in Huungary and Czechoslovakia.  The project would be the main part of Naftovod's
invest.Tlent program! desigred to handle bulk oil transport through 1990.  The
balance of the program would consist of increasing the port, storage and pump-
ing facilities sufficiently to enable the system to handle the ultimate capa-
city of 34 m-illion tons by 1990, including 10 rmiillion tons in transit. The
project would only cover construction within Yugoslavia.    It would be carried
out in two stages. Stage I would comprise the facilities to transport 16 mil-
lion tons of petroleum per year and would be completed by 1978.    Stage II would
bring the total capacity up to 20 million tons by 1979. The ultimate expansion
of the pipeline system, and terminal facilities to handle 34 million tons an-
nually by 1990 (Stage III) is not included in this project.
40.       Naftovod used computer simulation models to optimize the size of the
pipeline and tanker terminal.. The methodology used was satisfactory and led
to reduction in the diameter of the Sisak-Slobodnica section of the line and
in tankage capacity. Naftovod, however, has decided to maintain the diameter
of the first section (Omisalj-Sisak) at 36" for which the study shows the
optimum size to be 34".   The main reason behind this decision is that transit
traffic might increase in the future (discussions have taken place with
Austria), and that it would be difficult to increase the capacity of the first
section of the line to satisfy additional transit requirements, since it
crosses difficult mountainous terrain. In the light of the comparatively
small difference in initial :lnvestment costs (less than US$3 million, i.e.
0.75% of the total project cost) this decision is acceptable.
Implementation
41.       The project would be implemented by Naftovod, a new enterprise set
up to construct and operate the pipeline, which would transport crude oil
from the ocean terminal to the off-takers. While still involved in construc-
tion Naftovod would, in accordance with Yugoslav practice, have its internal
affairs ruled by a governing body appointed by Naftovod and its founders.
14her. the pipelIne starts o?e.:at_.ng, the council would be replaced by the
no!rmal Wor er- .ouncil, e:ected by t;h. staf-f of the enterprise.  From the
ouatset there wti` ne a business com-mittee made up of six founders' represen-
-at4ves plUs >>Naftovod"s gcerne-al -ange r, to advise .Naftovod's management on
policy matters. Nearly ha>: of Naftovod's p-resent establishment of about
.00 people has been recruited.  There is an ample reservoir of experience in
p:peline constrcucttion an, cna a:TiOn and Naftovod should not encounter any par-
Zi cuar difILcuity ir bri`g-    ±y S staff up o strength.   However the project
wou,l` Drov`dtc -or train-n;. -a sreclal skills like instrumentation and oil dis-
v,atching, .o begin no later t:han May 31, /977.  (Section 3.04).



- 13 -
42.       Under agreements already signed Naftovod will incur penalties if
it fails to start deliveries to both domestic and foreign refineries by May 31,
1978. The construction schedule for Stage I is geared to completion by this
date. This schedule is very tight, and Naftovod has undertaken to make every
effort to meet it. However, should any unforeseen development make this im-
possible, Naftovod has agreed to seek the agreement of the five Yugoslav
refineries (owned by its Founders) to postpone the start of oil deliveries to
them, as well as take all measures within its powers to minimize construction
delays, so as to meet its commitments to deliver to the foreign offtakers
(Section 3.11). Acquisition of all land and access to land required for the
project has been approved in principle by the communes or other local authori-
ties concerned, and Naftovod will complete arrangements for final purchase or
access as required to permit construction to proceed on schedule (Section 3.09).
Delays in finalizing land acquisition should not occur, since this project has
been formally designated a project of national importance by the Assembly of
the Federal Republic, thereby giving Naftovod the right to expropriate any land
that it could not otherwise acquire on reasonable terms.
43.       Overall engineering responsibility has been assigned to Industro-
projekt, a local engineering consulting enterprise, assisted by French con-
sultants, who would be responsible for designs, tender preparation, coordina-
tion and supervision. (Section 3.02). Competent inspection agencies would
be employed to ensure that the pipe provided by Kuwaiti and Czechoslovak
mills, meets acceptable standards (Section 3.03) (see para. 47 below).
44.       The port facilities financed under the project would be operated by
the Rijeka Port Enterprise in accordance with an agreement to be entered into
by May, 1977 between Naftovod and the Port (Section 3.06). The refineries
would arrange for the supplies of crude oil.
Project Costs and Financing
45.       The project would cost US$377 million, including local taxes (US$15.7
million) and contingencies amounting to nearly 40 percent of basic project
costs. Price contingencies account for the major share (72 percent) of the
contingency allowances; physical contingencies account for the balance (28
percent). Both allowances are in accordance with Bank Guidelines and are
considered adequate. The foreign exchange component would be US$193.2 million,
or 51 percent of total costs. Interest during construction on all loans but
Kuwait's and the Bank's proposed loan will accrue, but will not be payable
until operations start; interest will be paid during construction on the
Kuwait and Bank loans, and US$23 million is included for this purpose in the
financing plan.



- 14 -
46.       The terms and conditions of the financing for the project would be
as follows:
US$ (Million)      Interest Rate   Grace    Repayment
Local      Foreign      Annual %      Period     Period
(1)  IBRD                           49.0       8.50            4.0       14
(2)  Kuwait                        125.0       8.50            4.0        8
(3)  Hungary                        25.0       8.25            3.0        6
(4)  Czechoslovakia                 25.0       8.25            3.0        6
(5)  Libya                          70.0       9.00            3.0        7
(6)  Founders           26.5                    -              6.0       25
(7)  Petroleum Fund     59.0                   2.00            3.0       15
(8)  Local Banks        20.5                  12.00            3.5        7
Total            $106.0 /1   $294.0 /1
Grand Total            $400 /1
/1   Includes interest during construction on Kuwaiti and Bank loans.
The proposed Bank loan of $49 million would cover 13 percent of total project
costs, or 25 percent of foreign exchange costs, and would be for a period of
18 years, including 4 years of grace. The loan would cover the foreign ex-
change costs of construction services (save for the stretch of pipeline from
Sisak to the Hungarian border which Czechoslovakia would finance and construct),
consulting services, and the procurement of two tugs and oil loading arms.
Bank financing would be spread over the construction period in parallel with
that of other foreign lenders. There would be a small amount, not exceeding
$500,000, of retroactive financing of consultants' services dating from
May 1, 1975.
47.       All the financing for the project has been secured.    Agreements with
Czechoslovakia and Hungary were signed last December and with the Libyan Arab
Foreign Bank in June 1975. A protocol agreement has been signed with the Kuwaiti
Government and detailed negotiations have been completed with the Kuwait Foreign
Trading, Contracting and Investment Company. The loan from Kuwait would include
the supply of 58,000 tons of pipe equivalent in value to about 33 percent of
the loan. Similarly the Czechoslovakian loan would be in the form of 28 inch
pipe and construction services for the stretch of pipeline from Sisak to the
Hungarian border. The loans from Hungary and Libya would be straightforward
financial participations. All local funds for the project have been secured.
Since the participation of all the financing agencies is crucial to the proj-
ect, Naftovod has agreed that effectiveness of all financing agreements would
be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan (Section 7.01(a)).
48.       Kuwaiti and Libyan participation is linked to the Bank's appraisal
and continued involvement in the project. The proposed loan will enable the
Bank to play a part in ensuring that sound engineering standards are main-
tained throughout construction.



49.       The agreements between Naftovod and its founders, the owners of the
five refineries, provide for annual revisions of Naftovod's tariffs to take
account of operating costs plus a surplus equal to 25 percent of its gross
salaries. These measures should guarantee Naftovod substantial annual operat-
ing surpluses rising from $0.13 million in 1978 to $12.6 million by 1988, after
all expenditures, including debt service, are met. Naftovod has agreed that
it would not amend the offtakers' contracts on matters relating to capacities
and tariffs, without prior consultation with the Bank (Section 3.10). The
agreements with Czechoslovakia and Hungary provide for tariff charges indexed
t o the price of steel, labor and electricity and should enable Naftovod to
make a net surplus on transit totalling $85 million over the period 1978-1988
which would be transferred to the refineries.
50.       Naftovod has entered into take-or-pay agreements with the future
offtakers which provide that the offtakers would pay 80 percent of the tariff
f or any allocated capacity not utilized; likewise Naftovod would pay 80 percent
of the tariff for any agreed amount of oil that it fails to deliver. The take-
or-pay clauses are voided by events of "force majeure" qualified, in the case
o f the agreements with the Founders, as events lasting more than six months.
Temporary shutdowns of the pipeline lasting a few days should pose no finan-
cial threat to Naftovod, and a total shutdown for periods exceeding a few days
is extremely unlikely. However, to guard against the possibility that a major
hazard like a fire or landslide might close the pipeline for up to six months,
or that project completion might be delayed, Naftovod has obtained guarantees
from the two local banks that are participating in the financing of the project
to meet these financial commitments in case of need, other than the debt serv-
ice obligations on the Bank loan (Recital (R)(v)). The latter is of course
guaranteed by the Federal Republic.
51.       Should cost overruns occur in the project, they will be covered in
two ways. First, the Founders have agreed to finance all cost over-runs,
and appropriate amendment of the Founders' and the Founders-Naftovod Agreements
is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 7.01(b). Second,
the local banks will provide for cost over-runs in proportion to their parti-
cipation in the project. These two arrangements will ensure that cost over-
runs, if any, will not aggravate the already tight implementation schedule.
52.       The Federal authorities have agreed to finance on a grant basis the
initial supply of crude oil to fill the pipeline and storage tanks included
in the Project (Section 2.02, Guarantee Agreement).
Audit
53.       Agreement has been reached that Naftovod's accounts for the year
1979 onwards would be audited by the Social Accounting Service in accordance
with the procedures now common to most recent Bank projects (Section 5.02).



- 16 -
Procurement
54.       Procurement under the loan would be by international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank Group's `Guidelines for Procurement".
Exceptions would be: (a) construction contracts not exceeding US$100,000 pro-
vided that in the aggregate they do not exceed US$1 million, would be let
by local shopping, and (b) construction contracts over US$100,000, but not
exceeding US$500,000, provided that in the aggregate they do not exceed US$9
million, would be let after local competitive bidding. These exceptions are
appropriate because the works concerned are geographically dispersed and the
amounts involved too small to interest foreign firms. The construction costs
to be financed by the loan would exclude all construction materials and
equipment and the'related transportation cost (if imported), since these are
to be financed by other foreign loans. Yugoslavia has no preference treaties,
and bids for the tugs and loading arms would be compared on a CIF basis net
of customs duties; a preference of 15 percent of the CIF Price, or the actual
customs duties, whichever is lower, would be given to local manufacturers.
55.       In view of the specialized nature of the work and the tight proj-
ect schedule Naftovod agreed to prequalify construction contractors under the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. The Bank would thus assist Naftovod in
screening contractors, particularly evaluating the capacity of local con-
tractors who might be fully occupied in other oil and gas pipeline projects
being undertaken in Yugoslavia and hence might require the cooperation of
international contractors. Local contractors are competent to construct the
port facilities, pump stations, tanks and some of the pipelines; the most
probable outcome of the bidding would be a mix of local contractors and joint
ventures between foreign and local firms.
56.       The Kuwaiti and Czechoslovak loans would together involve the supply
of some 73,000 tons of pipe. It is important that the pipe be made according
to internationally-recognized standards and supplied in accordance with the
project schedule. Naftovod has provided the Bank with an engineering report
prepared by consultants establishing that the mills in question can supply
good quality pipe, but raising some question as to whether the mills can
supply the pipe in time to meet the construction schedule. Any delay in the
delivery schedule will, however, be detected in time for Naftovod to obtain
supplies from alternative sources. Naftovod has also agreed to select and
hire competent inspection agencies to inspect the pipe at the mills (Section
3.03).
Disbursements
57.       Loar. d'isbursemTents would cover the foreign exchange costs of the
foreign consultants, the foreign exchange costs of construction contracts
with foreign firmis or 25 pe-rcent of the total cost of local construction
contractors, and the total .oreign exchange costs of two tugs and loading
arms for two berths if procuired abroad or 75 percent of their total cost if
procured locally. Disbursements are exDected to take place over a four-year
period frof,, the fourth quarter of 1975 to the fourth quarter of 1979.



Rate of Return
58.       The comparison of the project cost and that of the next best alter-
native, a combination of rail and inland waterways, shows that the rate of
discount which would equalize both cost streams over 20 years would be 50
percent. This high rate of return indicates that the facilities should have
been built sooner. If oil imports were lower than forecast so that the traf-
fic in 1990 were only 35 percent of the projections (a conservative assump-
tion), the pipeline would still be the least cost solution for the transport
of oil, and the rate of discount which would equalize both cost streams over
20 years would be in excess of 43 percent.
59.       The benefits derived from the project would be savings in transpor-
tation costs which are estimated at about 1 percent of the average sales
price of oil products. During construction, the pipeline would provide em-
ployment to some 2,000 persons while during operations some 350 staff would
be employed. The increase in the transport of refined oil products and other
cargo resulting from normal growth of the economy would, in a short time, make
up any temporary slack created by the pipeline in the railways and the few
local waterways carriers involved.
Environment
60.       The land in which the pipe would be buried would be restored to
its normal use. The pipe would be laid deeply enough to avoid interference
with land cultivation, highway and railway crossings, natural drainage, and
animal migration. Under the aegis of a UNDP Study Group for "Protection of
Human Environment in the Yugoslav Adriatic Region", environmental impact
studies are being carried out by various consultants. The Guarantor and
Naftovod have separately agreed to implement the measures recommended to,
inter alia, contain oil spills, receive slops from tankers and purify all
effluents from the installations (Section 3.05 (Loan Agreement) and Section
3.03 (Guarantee Agreement)).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Jugoslavenski Naftovod,
the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Arti-
cle III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft
resolution approving the above loan, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
62.       Special conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan were noted
in Paragraphs 47 (effectiveness of all other financing agreements - Section
7.01(a)), and 51 (provision for financing cost overruns - Section 7.01(b)).



- 18 -
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments



Page I
CO0NTRT DATA - Th0ILGSAVIA
AXEA                                              POPULATION                                   =8ITT
255,01,   kml                                       20.q6  s.ioe. (mid-1973)                       22      N      l     b.lu
SOCIAL INDICATORSRfrncCotre
Off PBS CAPITA US$ (ATLA  BASIS) /1                            375             890 /a          89'0       1,210         3,390  b
DE2GRAP1IC
r&Wthrate (Pe, thouand)                                 21              19             8 1.1        -19 /       10.,2 
Crude death rate (per thou.and)                               ii               9             9.2            9 u        10.
I,fact mortality rate (par thounad lIte birth.)               28              3   .           38     ~     1 ~        20.1
Le  ctoyat birth (years)                              62              68              69d          71'L        71.3 
Oros. anuiiort/                                              1.31313                                                   22
Fpoulatio  gotrae                                            1.2              .                0          11           09
Population groth r-te - orbam                                    z 
Al.aruur       (pmrosn)
0-11                                                       63             27~,             25  a        28         23.0
65odoor61                                                                 654             66  a        63          6360
Age dependency  atio /1                                      0.6             0.5             0.   :         6          o3.6
Econonc d.peod-oy ;M. A                                      1.              0.9             0.7 kO       1.1          0.9
Urban popalation os pre,o.t of total                          208~           39 LL.".         12 Zb-       69/1.1     38.1  0.
Family ple-itg. No. of acceptors   uolte     (thou.. 
No. of u..ers (1 of narriad ae
X~rIb       r force (thousands)                              8,300          8,900           10.110   200   ~          27,100 
Peroentap  employed in ogrioltoes                           57             45Li                          28 ,        7.2  s
Peroonnttge unemplyed                                        7/           3. L               0            1          1.1
DIren  of ocinlincome -soj-d by highest 5%                 17 /1..         15                 L.
Par oant of notional I---.w romived by bighest 20%            Li Is..        12 
Poroent of natiol .. oom. ro-i-od by loosst 20%                7  ..          7             23.0 /.
oroent of ..ti ...l in-ne    roc-i-d by Ioussi 40%            19 1t          2 9 
DISTNRXUTION OF LAND OWN~ERSHIP
% ownd by wrallest 10% of 0aner,
Poplatonperpholojan..                                       180               3   .            30 Z.i      720 53.       60/.
Populatio  pen nu,sing P.rson                                5    03  l     380 /i          20            950/         330 7
Population pen bospital bed                                  19o            170             120 MI          0           90~
Per capita calorie supply a3 % of rsquirace,nt.              115            121             111           107          121
Per napita protisi  supply, total (gr-  Per doy)             g 9 /          92              971           81           88
Of ha,hl,b,anol and poNo                                    27           2~29              2              O5
Death rate 1-L ye.ar /7                                      i.7            2.5             2            09             56
Ad3etd a8 priosry schol .oru.1esnt ratio                      91             91             109           83           132
Adjusted     e=o00day school enrollment ratio                31-             h5              62           19            61
Ysar, of shooling provided, first and second level            12             12           12-IL            13        12-15
Vo..ational -nr1le-t as 8 of -a, -chol ..r..l1sont            72             7               50 IR.        0            18
Adult literacy rote %                                         77             is                           5~L/ Va       99 X,n,,ba
"'7iiia     No. of Per.ons pun room (urban)                                                        ad 3                 0.7 /0
Porosnt of occupied onts aithat piped water                                   6                                        08 .o  .34"
Acrass t elsoinnitll(m  % of total P,pulation)           -   I.                           9 7   J                  0
P.,an   of    -Io poplti    connected to .s.a..tnilaity2                                         ad of
CONSRGIGTION
p~~eie  rpu  1000 pupultion                          81             171 4b          150 /b       210 /         329b
P.ssungr oars. per 1000 pupl.tit                              3              Li ~            .957                      253
Electric power cos-ption (kwh p-c.)                         529 LI        1570 rb         1.931 Zb     191           161
Newsprint -nwnption P.c. kg pun year                        2.3             L.2/b           2.8 Tb       6.0         1.
Notes: Figures refer either to the leteni periode or to             nooio     a   rmoet.1 teeas'roitre, body -eights, wae
ths oIet.:tynar. Latest period. refer in principle to              distribution by age ad ae" of natiOal POPu11imtoA.
ths years 1956-60 or 1966-70; ihe li.t.i yearn i, pl.          L.6  Protein standards (reqirm  nte) for all nontrias a   estab-
dipI. to 1960 nod 1970.                                            Itched by USDA F-nwel teeRob. Sernio     provide for a 010150.
A   The Per Copito GNP F.ti-tai  ie at moket prior for             ellowano  of 60 gron of total protein par day, ad DO woe     of
-ar oth-r thn 1960,.cal-ulted by tin 00-     con-rion          anma and pulse protein, of which 10 grams ehold be animl
teohniq.e as thn 1972 World Bunk Atlla.                        protein.  The.se tadard. are enmasht lseen than tho     of 75
/. Averag. runber of daughters per uonn of reprrduotle             groom of total protein an  23 groo  of anleal protein an an
oge.                                                           anerage for the word, prnposed by PAO In the Third World Food
Pcpulation grothb rtor or    for inn docodr ending in           Sorry.
1960 and 1970.                                             /7  S-n studies baresmuggested that orude death ratee of children
P atin of PnPulotion under 15 and 65 and over to popolo-          age. 1 throogi 4 na  be osod as a firot opproatoatino intda  of
tion of agos 15-61 for age depoodeny ratio and to labor         na-n-tritino.
fnrce of ogeo 15-6h for oco.omic dependency ratio.         L/. Percntage enrolld of morreepondilog population of school gag
d   PAO reference   tand.rds roprnt phy.Ii.ogi-l in-                as defi,,ed for each cootryn.
qior.xnnts for corra ..tiinty nod health, taking
A    1973;   A~ 1972;    /c 190-71-,;    Ld  1970-72;   /- 1970-75;    /f I1960-72;     &  For the definition of urban oee
bUasorPin Yearbook 197   p. 129;   A   Citie., t-n and 183 other 1-naltiem     haring urban nocin-econ,alo
cbaroinnio;on;   L-71   itie o3  f 10,000 or cors inhbitants;  Z,j 1971;        Ratio of Populntinn under 15 and 65
and or to total labor foc-e;     LIEsimate;       I.    efitnno       avIlable      I   1969;   /o  1971;  ~     eimp
hoe  nthereotoo s-Rg-.c lh    Yr fntn e1963e uoe. H.-     192;h.      RatIo of Meg stred Job seekere to active
POPulato;         foltrdol;           e~~16    ~   ~   buooo;       l.1968;-     /   Percent of eslarled wkrier  mannig
less than 1,300 Lei;   /.  Percent of salarIed onrkers morog =mo     than 2,500 Le;     zz  Nb.nero   the register not all
-crInig to tin coutry;     Lz 1961;;    an_  Palti-io  oducatio  only; ~a     15 Yearn andi ...r;       Urban only;
/ad  1966;   /me  Tntal, urban ad rural      ,A   Percetage of dwelling.; ~jWater pipd in          -e      h   nldigodree
.assitant nidvees nod midwifery nod nurng oumliarles.ed                                      i.     7    Ilig        dv,,
1970
Agriol.ct-e land hold by ...clnl rector-  clur         15.1
Agric-ltre lu-d bold by pri-cat    -nol-hoid.rs        81.9
nollolcof Fed,rn1 intPublic or lemot,Y an an  bjection countrY in bared onthe lcln    --oonl   Lies naiclaind by the
too  c-trie-, or cell or c- tn foot 1181, tin grecier port of fcclo          around -c   million norbrs teoporarily
abroadl boo found -npicy-et i. tic Federal hncclllc of Cor__cy.
11  July 18, 1975



ANNEX I
Page 2
IMPORT DETAIT,
(million US$)
Av.
A.  Constant (1972) Prices        1967-69     1972     1973     197421/  1975-?/  1976?-/
1.  Food                         131       207      228      243      225      225
2.  Other consumer goods         309       296      296      353      370      388
3.  Petroleum                     83      161       208      185      220      230
4. Other intermediate goods     1,262    1,875    2,194    2,651    2,888    3,077
5. Capital goods                 547       689      833      902      960    1,022
6. Total goods c.i.f           2,332    3,227     3,759    4,334    4,663    4,942
7. Non-factor services           299      594      532       529      550      575
8.  Total goods and NFS        2,631    3,821    4,291     4,863    5,213    5,517
B.  Price Indices (1972 = 100)
1.  Food                        83.9       100      150      189      190      200
2. Other conslmer goods         78.9       100      121      145      170      195
3. Petroleum                    81.1       100      143      451      450      500
4. Other intermediate goods     81.4       100      115      167      173      181
5. Cavital goods                78.9       100      121      145      165      182
6. Non-factor services          78.9       100      124      155      170      178
C.  Current Prices
1. Food                          110      207       341      459      428      450
2. Other consumer goods          244      296       357      512      629      706
3.  Petroleum                     68       161      297      843      990    1,150
4.  Other intermediate goods    1,027    1,875    2,512    4,423    4,996    5,569
5.  Capital goods                432       689    1,004    1,305    1,584    1,860
6.  Total goods                 1,880    3,227    4,511    7,542    8,627    9,735
7. Non-factor services           236      594       657      820      935    1,023
8.  Total goods and NFS        2,116    3,821     5,168    8,362    9,562   10,758
1/ Estimates.
2/ Projections
July 18, 1975



ANNEX I
Page 3
EXPORT DETAIT
(million US$)
A.  Constant (1972) Prices               Av.       19      1973    1974/     19752/   1976
1.  Meat                               245     247      182      75        75      125
2.  Other agricultural products         54      21       50      55        75       86
3.  Wood                                69      83      107      80        90       95
4.  Steel                               65      51       88      93       102      108
5.  Copper                              37      53       46      38        40       4L
6.  Other primary metals                71      82      100     125       135      148
7.  Machinery and equipment            375     544      621     664       730      803
8.  Fabrics and clothing               203     274      259     260       265      270
9.  All other goods                    597   1,019      944   1,130     1,366    1,437
10. Total goods                      1,714   2,237    2,397   2,520    2,878     3,116
11. Non-factor services                743   1,188    1,288   1,347     1,414    1,484
12. Total goods and NFS              2,457   3,425    3,685   3,867    4,292     4,600
B. Price Indices (1972 = 100)
1.  Meat                              62.9     100      136     172       170      178
2.  Other agricultural products       83.5     100      104     185       185      195
3.  Wood                              77.9      100     130     195       205      220
4.  Steel                             51.3      100     111     156       156       160
5.  Copper                           120.5      100     122     171       170      180
6.  Other primary metals             103.6      100     115     140       140      155
7. Machinery and equipment            78.9      100     117     142       161      177
8.  Fabrics and clothing              78.9     100      121     135       142      151
9.  All other goods                   78.9      100     117     154       164      184
10. Non-factor services               78.9     100      120     150       163      181
C. Current Prices
1.  Meat                               154     247      247     129       128      223
2.  Other agricultural commodities      45      21       52     102       139      168
3.  Wood                                53       83     139     156       185      209
4.  Steel                               33       51      98     145       159      173
5.  Copper                              44      53       56      65        68       79
6.  Other primary metals                74       82     115     175       189      229
7.  Machinery and equipment            296     544      727     943     1,175    1,421
8.  Fabrics and clothing               160     274      313     351       376      408
9.  All other goods                    471    1,019   1,107   1,739     2,237    2,637
10. Total goods                      1,330   2,237    2,853   3,805    4,656     5,547
11. Non-factor services                586   1,188    1,546   2,021     2,339    2,687
12. Total goods and NFS              1,916   3,425    4,399   5,826     6,995    8,234
1/ Estimates.
2/ Projections.
July 18, 1975



Page c
SUMMRY BATANCE OF PAYNTS
(million US,t)
1967-69    1972     1973    197)4V  1975_'   197f5
1.   Imnorts (inc.NFS)              2,116    3,821   5,163   8,362    9,562  10,758
2.   Pxports (inc. NFS)              1,916   3,)425  )4,399  5,826    6,995   8,23)4
3.   Balance of goods and NFS         -200    -396    -769  -2,536   -2,567  -2,524
L.   Tnterest (net)                    -62    -1148   -17)4    -185    -271    -396
5.   WTorkers' remittances             139     889   1,310    1,512   1,693   1,8)45
6.   Other -factor services (net)      -17       -      10        -       -       -
7.   Current transfers (net)            38      74      87      109     125     125
8.   Balance of current accounts      -101     419     46L  -1,100   -1,020    -950
9.   M & iTT loans 1/
a.  Disbursemnents               419      838   1,020   1,235    1,867   1,9)46
b.  Repayments                  -210     -507    -616    -870     -997  -1,096
c.  Net disbursements            209      331    )404     365      870     850
10.   IMF drawings                       -7      22       -        -       -       -
11.   Other short term 2/               -69     -97    -205      297     150     100
12.   Use of reserves                   -33    -675    -663     438        -       -
Memo Items
13.   Reserves (net), end period       -120     145     689     481      481    )481
1L.   Debt service ratio 3/            13.2    15.1    13.8     1l.)4   1)4.6   1L.8
15.   External debt outstanding
and disbursed, end period:
Total                        1,785    3,552   4,319   5,100
IBRD                           212      317     352     465      597     701
16.   IBRM service as percentage
of total debt service            6.4      4.9     4.8     3.9      -.1     4.5
1/  Net of export credits; including private direct investment.
2/  Includes errors and omissions, IMF account, National Bank and
commercial bank credits.
3/  On exports (incl. MFS) nlus workers' remittances.
Ii/  Estimates.
5/  Projectitons.
July 18, 1975



ANNEX I
Page 5
SELECTED ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
Av.                 Actuals               ,Projections                  Growth Rates                        As % of GDY
1967-69      1972       1973      1974 -    1975      1976       1965-70      1970-73       1973-76      1972      1974       1976
National Accounts
(average 1967-69 prices; million US$)
GDP                                       10,542      13,491    14,177    15,311    16,230     17,204        4.7           5.8          6.6        99.8      102.3     101.7
Gains from terms of trade                       1         26        -5      -350       -380      -293                                               0.2       -2.3      -1.7
GDY                                        10,543     13,517    14,172    14,961     15,850    16,911        4.7           5.8          6.1       100.0      100.0     100.0
Imports (incl. NFS)                        2,116       3,074     3,455     3,913     4,196      4,440       11.5          7.5           8.7        22.7       26.2      26.3
Exports (import capacity, incl.NFS)         1,918      2,755     2,941     2,726      3,069     3,398        7.7           9.4          4.9        20.4       18.2      20.1
Resource gap                                 198         319       514     1,187      1,127     1,042                                               2.3        7.9       6.2
Consumption                                 7,628      9,763    10,259    11,285     11,962    12,680        6.2           5.6          7.3        72.2       75.4      75.0
Investment (incl. stocks)                  3,113       4,073     4,427     4,863     5,015      5,273        4.0          7.4           6.0        30.1       32.5      31.2
National Savings                            3,013      4,350     4,672     4,297     4,512      4,829        3.0          10.9          1.1        38.2       38.7      28.6
Domestic Savings                            2,914      3,754     3,913     3,676      3,888     4,231        1.1           6.5          2.6        27.8       24.6      25.0
Price Indices (1967-69 = 100)
Import price index                          99.9       124.3     149.6     213.7     227.9      242.3        2.8          9.7          17.0
Export price index                          99.9       125.5     149.3     189.4      202.8     223.1        2.8          14.8         14.3
Terms of trade index                        100.0      101.0      99.8      88.6       89.0      92.1        0.0           0.1         -2.6
Public Finance
(current prices; million US$)
Current receipts                                        2,951      3,421     4,139
Current expenditures                                   2,938     3,493     4,160
Budgetary savings                                         13       -72       -21
Public sector investment                                 241       276       329
1/ Estimates.
July 18, 1975



Page I
TIIE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at August 31, 1975)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year           Borrower                Purpose         Bank   Undisbursed
Thirteen Loans fully disbursed                                 326.2
531     1968   Yugoslav Investment Bank       Railways          50.0      0.7
657     1970   Yugoslav Investment Bank       Telecommuni-      40.0      0.4
cations
678     1970   SFRY                           Roads             40.0      1.9
751     1971   SFRY                           Roads             35.0      4.1
752     1971   Hotel "Bernardin", Piran       Tourism           10.0      5.2
777     1971   SFRY                           Multi-purpose     45.0     37.2
water
782     1971   "Babin Kuk' Hotelsko
Turisticki Centar,
Dubrovnik                      Tourism           20.0     14.5
836     1972   Twelve Electric Power
Enterprises in Yugoslavia      Power             75.0     36.8
894     1973    Stopanska Banka, Skopje       Agricultural
Industries     31.0     17.9
916     1973   Naftagas                       Gas Pipeline      59.4      34.8
947     1973    Kikinda                        Iron Foundry     14.5       7.4
965     1974    IMT                           Tractor Factory   18.5      10.8
966     1974    FOB                            Iron Foundry     15.0      12.4
990     1974    Bosnia-Herzegovina Road Fund   Roads            30.0      10.8
1012    1974    Stopanska Banka, Skopje        Industrial
Credit         28.0     26.4
1013    1974   Privredna Banka Sarajevo       Industrial
Credit         22.0     20.9
1026    1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                      Railways          93.0     86.7
1060    1974   Port of Bar                    Harbor Expansion 44.0      44.0
1066    1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik              Water Supply
and Wastewater   6.0      6.0
1129*   1975   Vojvodjanska Banka             Agricultural
Credit         50.0      50.0
1136*   1975   Elektroprivreda Sarajevo       Power
Bosne i Hercegovine                             70.0     70.0
1143*   1975   Republic Road Organization     Roads
in Slovenia, Montenegro
and Serbia                                     40.0      40.0
Total (less cancellation)                      1181.1    539.0
of which has been repaid                      122.3
Total now outstanding                          1058.8
Amount sold                       7.7
of which:  Amount repaid        6.1             1.6
Total now held by Bank                         1057.2
Total undisbursed                                        539.0
*    Not yet effective.



AiNNEX II
Page 2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMFNTS (as at August 31, 1975)
Type of        Amount in US$ million
Year           Obligor                       Business       Loan   Equitv  Total
1970      International Investment Corpora- Investment       -       2.0    2.0
tion for Yugoslavia           Corporation
1970      Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.P.A. Automotive      5.0      8.0   13.0
Industry
1971      Tovarna Automobilov in Motorjev   Automotive       7.5     2.3    9.8
Maribor (TAM) /Klockner-      Industry
Humboldt Deutz A.G. (KiD)
1972      FAP-FATMOS Belgrade/Daimler       Automotive     13.0      3.0   16.0
Benzz A.G.                    Industry
1972      Sava/Semperit                      Tires          4.0      1.5    5.5
1973      Belisce/Bell                      Pulp and Paper 13.4       -    13.4
1974      Zelezarna Jesenice/ARNMCO          Special Steel  10.0      -    10.0
1974      Salonit Anhovo                    Cement Plant   10.0       -    10.0
1975      Rudarsko Melaturski                Steel         50.0       -    50.0
Total Gross Commitments                               112.9       -   129.7
less cancellations, terminations
repayment and sales                               54.8      2.4  57.2
Total Commitments held by IFC                          58.1     14.4  _72.5
Total Undisbursed                                      67.8      6.3   74.1
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 531 Belgrade-Bar Railway: US$50.0 million Loan of March 22, 1968;
Closing Date: December 31, 1975.
Tlhe completion of this project was originally scheduled for 1973
but geo-technical and other construction difficulties in mountainous terrain
are expected to delay operation of the line at least until 1976. The Closing
Date will be adjusted when the final completion date is known. As a result
of inflation and cost overruns, the total project cost has increased from
$225.5 million to $350.0 million. Supplementary finance has been made avail-
able from Yugoslav sources.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Loan 657 Telecommunications: US$40.0 million Loan of February 20, 1970;
Closing Date: December 31 1975
After initial delays the Bank-financed part of the project is pro-
ceedirg satisfactorily and is now nearing completion. The installation of
trunk exchanges which are not financed by the Bank, has been delayed and
will be fully completed by 1976. At that time the full benefit of the proj-
ect will be realized. The loan amount is likely to be fully disbursed at the
closing date. The finances of the Telecommunications Branches of the YPTTEs
are sound.
Loan 678 Fourth HIighway:  USS40.0 million Loan of May 28, 1970;
Closing Date: December 31, 1975.
After an initial delav of about one year in starting work on the
Sarajevo-Zenica section because of difficulties in acquiring the right-of-wav,
and delays due to inclement weather in 1974, work on this section has been
proceeding satisfactorily and it is expected to be completed by November 1975.
All other road sections are open for traffic. The Closing Date has been post-
poned from June 30, 1974 to December 31, 1975.
Loan 751 Fifth Highway: USS35.0 million Loan of June 18, 1971;
Closing Date: September 1, 1976.
After an initial delav of about eight months in fulfilling the
conditions for effectiveness of the loan, construction work on all sections
has progressed well. All road sections but one are open for traffic. Com-
pletion of the remaining section has been delayed due to lack of funds.
While costs have increased, future earmarked revenues from fuel taxes, par-
ticularly on purchases of fuel by Italian motorists crossing the border to
buy cheaper fuel in Yugoslavia, have decreased. The final section is now
expected to be completed by September, 1977.
Loan 752 Bernardin Tourism: US$10.0 million Loan of June 18, 1971;
Closing Date; June_30, 1976.
There have been delays in implementation. of the project due to
delays in making the loan effective, appointing consultants, providing the
necessarv infrastructure and approvals by local authorities. As a result
disbursements are behind schedule.   Bids received in July 1974 indicated that
the project, if it were to he implemented as originally envisaged (2,50() beds)
would cost- approximatelv 100 percent above the originally estimated cost of
US$25.6 mlion.   This increa.se was mainly (lue to rapi(d inflatlon in constrtic-
tion costs.   ihe 3ank and the project sponsors have agreedI to finance a ro-
ducecl complex ccntaining somc@ 1,616 beds (Amendment to Loan 752-YU, December
16, 1974, R74-258). The total cost would be US$39.9 million requiring addi-
tional financing of about US$14 million. Financing for the revised project
has been agreed upon and formal commitments are expected to be entered into
in due course. Construction has begun and the execution of the port hotel
and vacation village is progressing satisfactorily; however, serious construc-
tion problems with regard to the foundations have been encountered in the case
of the cliff hotel, the complecion of which has been delayed for at least a
further sLx months.



A"NNEX II
Page 4
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The start of project work was delayed for one year. However, con-
struction is now underway with the main dam scheduled for completion by late
1976 and the irrigation networks in 1977. Project costs are currently esti-
mated to be about 19 percent above the appraisal estimate. Additional funds
are being provided by the Province of Kosovo. Disbursements are proceeding
in line with the revised schedule. Arrangements for land consolidation and
agricultural extension services have been delayed although discussions are
underway with consultants to carry out necessary studies.
Loan 782 Babin Kuk Tour4sm: US$20.0 million Loan of July 21, 1971;
Closing Date: July 31, 1976.
There have been delays in the implementation of the project due to
delays in making the loan effective and in mobilizing consultants. According-
ly disbursements are behind schedule. Although these problems have now been
largely resolved, the project is almost two years behind schedule. Bids for
civil works and estimates for other components indicated that the project
would cost at least twice as much as originally estimated (US$49.9 million).
This increase is largely due to rapid inflation in construction costs. The
Bank and the project sponsors have agreed to finance a reduced complex con-
taining some 2,034 beds. The total cost would be US$51.5 million requiring
additional financing of about US$1.6 million. This additional financing for
the revised project has been arranged but in light of the increased financial
commitments necessary from the local banks and a re-evaluation of the finan-
cial capabilities of the sponsor necessary to implement a project of this size,
the local banks and the Borrower have proposed and are discussing with the
Bank a change in sponsorship. This proposed change in sponsorship will be
submitted to the Executive Directors for their consideration after being fully
reviewed by the Bank. Meanwhile, construction has begun and is proceeding
well with tenders for fixed and moveable equipment and furniture having been
invited.
Loan 836 Power Transmission: US$75.0 million Loan of June 23, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
Project execution began about one year behind schedule mainly
because of coordination difficulties and inherent delays in reaching agree-
ment among 12 borrowers. (This is the first attempt at countrywide coordina-
tion In the sector). All main contracts have been awarded and construction
is proceeding satisfactorily; however, the cost of the project has increased
84 percent from $225 million to $415 million chiefly due to escalation in
overall costs, including both civil works and equipment. The cost overrun is
expected to be financed from funds from the Federal Republic of Germany and
the borrowers' own resources.  Action on appointment of Management consultants
to help improve planning operation and management of the inter-connected power
system is still pending. To ensure a more even distribution of disbursements
over the construction period, the Bank as of July 1975 has been only disbursing
on foreign expenditures. Early difficulties with reporting, changes in the
organization of the sector, and determination of the financial performance of
individual borrowers have largely been resolved.



ATNNEX II
Page 5
Loan 894 Agricultural Industries (Macedonia): US$31 million Loan of May 25,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Forty-two of the expected 43 social sector subloans, and 41 private
sector subloans (81 percent of the amount allocated) have been approved by the
lending institution.  Private sector demand for subloans already exceeds fi-
nancing available under the project. Eight social sector sub-projects have
been completed and twentv-nine are under construction. Progress is being
made on the three studies encompassed by the project.
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: USS59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30 1977.
This loan became effective on March 22, 1974, after about four
months' delay. Bids received on pines and equipment exceeded appraisal es-
timates and civil works costs have increased so that project costs are now
about 93 percent above the appraisal estimate. Accordingly the project has
been redefined. Phase I is a reduced version of the original plan. Phase
II would provide for a pipeline extension to link up with the pipeline to
be constructed under the proposed Sarajevo Air Pollution Control Project, for
which supplementary Bank financing will be proposed. Naftagas will obtain
additional local currency financing required for Phase I and II. Final
agreement on the revised project is expected shortly.
Loan 947 Kikinda Iron Foundry: US$14.5 million Loan of November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
This loan was declared effective on Mav 28, 1974 after four months
delay, which was primarily due to the extra time required for the ratification
of the Guarantee Agreement bv the Federal Assembly. Project implementation
is about four months ahead of schedule. Total project costs now are about
13 percent (Din. 79.0 million, about US$4.6 million equivalent) above appraisal
estimates due to large increases in local costs. Financing of this cost over-
run has been arranged with a local bank.
Loan 966 FOB Iron Foundry: US$15.0 million Loan of February 22, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
This loan became effective on May 28, 1974. Project implementation
is proceeding on schedule. Local costs are about 50 percent (Din. 173 million,
about US$10.0 million equivalent) above appraisal estimates due to design
changes and domestic inflation. Financing of this local cost overrun has been
arranged with a local bank.
Loan 965 IMIT Tractor Factor Expansion: US$18.5 million Loan of February 22,
1974; Closing Date: December 31 1 977.
This loan became effective on June 11, 1974. Project irmplementation
is proceeding satisfactorily and disbursements are underway. Due to delays



ANN EX I-L
Page 6
in obtaining import permits, the project is now expected to be completed two
months behind schedule. Local costs are about 7 percent (Din. 97 million,
about US$5.6 million equivalent) above appraisal estimates due to domestic
inflation. Financing of this local cost overrun has been arranged with a
local bank.
Loan 990 Sixth Highway: USS30.0 million Loan of Mav 31, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
This loan was declared effective on December 10, 1974. Two out of
six road sections are nearly complete and work on other sections has progressed
considerably. One of the road sections is being executed on an alignment
different from that agreed with the Bank and the borrower has submitted a
request for inclusion of the alignment in the project. This request is being
reviewed.
Loan 1012 Macedonia/Kosovo Industrial Credit: US$28.0 million
Loan of June 21, 1974; Closing date: December 31, 1978.
This loan was declared effective on December 19, 1974. Progress
has been satisfactory, and it is currently expected to be fully committed by
the end of 1975 and disbursed by mid-1977, a year or more ahead of appraisal
estimates.  The reasons are: use of Bank funds to finance a greater than
anticipated proportion of the foreign exchange requirements of projects
financed by the banks, due to the suitability of Bank funds for investors'
projects and the overall scarcity of investment resources in Yugoslavia; and
the banks' ability to adapt quickly to the methodology proposed by IBRD for
appraisal of projects submitted for Bank financing.
Loan 1013 Bosnia Herzegovina/Montenegro Industrial Credit: US$22.0 million
Loan of June 21, 1974; Closing date: December 31, 1978.
The note under Loan 1012 above applies also to this loan.
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway: US$93 million Loan of July 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
This loan was declared effective on February 12, 1975 and disburse-
ments have begun. The project consists of the 1974-76 slice of the railways'
investment plans. About 40 percent of investments planned for 1974 have been
delayed, due principally to lack of finance and late deliveries by suppliers.
Nevertheless, there has been substantial progress on Bank-financed investments
in the Belgrade and Zagreb railway enterprises and all railway enterprises
expect to complete those investments by the end of 1976 as planned, except
for some delay in the Sarajevo railway enterprise.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: USS44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
This loan was declared effective on June 13, 1975. In general the
Project is progressing well, but settlement of compensation to occupiers of
expropriated land and construction of alternative housing must be accelerated
to enable the construction of the railway marshalling yards serving the new
port facilities in due time.    The Bank contacted the Government of the
Republic of Montenegro which is actively intervening in this matter.
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water Supply and Wastewater: US$6 million Loan of
December 24, 1974; Closing Date:
This Loan was declared effective on June 26, 1975.
Loan 1129 Agricultural Credit: US$31.0 million Loan of June 20, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is November 17, 1975.
Loan 1136 Buk Bijela Hydropower: US$70.0 million Loan of June 30, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is December 1, 1975.
Loan 1143 Seventh Highway: US$40.0 million Loan of July 18, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is November 17, 1975.



ANNEX III
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA: OIL PIPELINE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Jugoslavenski Naftovod Poduzece za Transport Nafte u
Osnivanju, Rijeka (Yugoslav Oil Pipeline Enterprise).
Guarantor:           The Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Amount:              US$49 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:               Amortization in 18 years, including a 4 year grace period,
with interest of 8-1/2 percent.
Project              The project would provide an oil receiving port and over-
Description:        land transport of crude oil by pipeline to five inland
refineries and to Hungary and Czechoslovakia. On com-
pletion, the installations would have a capacity of 20
million tons annually.
(a) The Port facilities would comprise:
(i) two marine Berths and related equipment capable
of handling ships from 30,000 dwt to 350,000 dwt,
(ii) two 2,000 hp tugs and several launches, and
(iii) one 612,000 ton oil storage tank farm.
(b) The overland transport facilities would include:
(i) 736 km of main pipeline varying in size from
12 to 36 inches and lateral pipelines to re-
fineries,
(ii)  7 pump stations,
(iii) 2 maintenance depots,
(iv)  1 pressure reduction station,
(v) 4 buffer oil storage tank farms (with a total
capacity of 153,500 tons), and
(vi)  an existing 16 inch pipeline to be incorporated
into the system.



ANNEX III
Page 2
The project would also include a supervisory control sys-
tem using telecommunications, telemetering and tele-
control systems and engineering services for design, proj-
ect planning and the supervision of construction.
Estimated Cost:                                          US$ Million
Local     Foreign     Total
A.  Port Facilities                               13.2       11.9      25.1
B.  Terminals, Tanks, and Pump Stations           34.1       35.8      69.9
C.  Pipelines                                     56.4       87.5     143.9
D.  Telecommunications and Control                 1.2        7.3       8.5
E.  Owners' Supervision, Training and
Consultants                                18.4         4.1      22.5
Sub-Total                   123.3      146.6      269.9
F. Contingency Allowances
a.  Physical                                 16.8       13.6      30.4
b.  Price                                   43.7        33.0      76.7
Sub-Total                    60.5       46.6      107.1
G.  Total Project Cost                           183.8      193.2     377.0
Financing Plan:
US$ Million Percent of   Interest   Grace    Repayment
Equivalent      Total     Rate %    Period   period
(years)  (years)
IBRD                  49.0          12         8.50      4.0       14
Kuwait               125.0          31         8.50      4.0        8
Hungary               25.0           6         8.25      3.0        6
Czechoslovakia        25.0           6         8.25      3.0        6
Libya                 70.0          18         9.00      3.0        7
Founders              26.5           7          --       6.0       25
Federal Petroleum
Fund                59.0          15         2.00      3.0       15
Local Banks           20.5           5        12.00      3.5        7
400.0 /1       100
/1   Includes interest during construction on Bank and Kuwaiti    Loans.



ANNEX III
Page 3
Estimated Disbursements:
Amount (US$ Million)
IBRD Fiscal Year   Annual           Cumulative
1976           1.5                 1.5
1977          11.2                12.7
1978          16.4                29.1
1979          13.2                42.3
1980           6.7               49.0
Procurement:        Procurement would be by international competitive bidding
in accordance with the Bank Group's "Guidelines for Pro-
curement". Exceptions would be: (a) construction contracts
not exceeding US$100,000 provided that in the aggregate
they do not exceed US$1 million, and (b) construction con-
tracts with an estimated value more than US$100,000, but,
not exceeding US$500,000, provided that in the aggregate
they do not exceed US$9 million. The construction costs
to be financed by the loan would exclude all project
materials and the overseas transport thereof, if imported.
Local contractors are competent to construct the port
facilities, pump stations, tanks and some of the pipelines
and, depending on their commitments, are likely to bid for
these contracts. The most probable outcome would be a
mix of local contractors and joint ventures of foreign
and local firms. Yugoslavia has no preference treaties.
Bids for the tugs and loading arms would be compared on a
CIF basis net of customs duties, a preference of 15 per-
cent of the CIF price, or the actual customs duties,
whichever is lower, would be given to local firms who
qualify as preferred bidders. Retroactive financing of
foreign consultants' services dating from May 1, 1975 not
to exceed $500,000 would be included.
Technical            Consultants:  Pipeline engineering consultants to assist
Assistance:         in the preparation of plans and specifications for the
Project, the preparation of bidding documents, and the
supervision of construction. Overall engineering respon-
sibility assigned to Industroprojekt, Zagreb, assisted
by Omnium Technique des Transports par Pipelines (OTP),
Paris.
Rate of Return:     50 percent.
Appraisal Report:    Report No. 886-YU
Date: October 7, 1975
Railways, Ports, and Pipelines Division
Projects Division
EMENA Regional Office



- :A U S T R I A  Lv _ CCRSOIA '- /
A, t£-                      YOZa>                                                                              Kr      <   -<< _ t3 \ 8       LG A R Y
L V V  A                                                                                     7-~~STU~  E~N   I1
YUGOSLAVIA   t  r   +         \              % <       \-x <             ^>\         7                    >~~~~~~~~~~7~MAA 
lu .... ... ~~~                            -            -.I              ~          5~~1ir~
^3R ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~A * PFUhSTAYIOE                                7  X      )     hKI 
8 PRESSUKRE SUGGINESSTATIONw  4tvtH.<rwJSEI
PROJECT  F FEA lhE °P YIINY                          '   I       \   0)   ,   t             /   u RD5EVACs   t'   J   KRIVAPALANKA:4 J
____ PROJECT REELINEINSES f lOR0/WAOI9 %~ 
-      EXIETING RFETIZ
PR___OSES PI06EOIE INShEToVKCN 
I IRIIITERhATIDhALETANMARDO AU6ENS rJE ~bi
OYT1ER SCANDARDOSC GAUKDRfC\GETVRSI
N'  ARRDWR GAUOE So+f 
t+    UND-5 WIER COhSTRUCTIOhN)5A                                                             (  <    iAOEDO2   fRSU  UIAI}TUfC 
P~~~ RDPT5ES NEW LINES                                                       r  AE lN                      I ANA,,
-CRAVIOAS    AL   CAR RIAUR
R AVIOADLE CARALSUDRDSRCIR)t                                                                                YRE  .      GVLJA  fJ
"   SEAPORTS*
$f  INLAND PORTS                                                            (.                 \TUA_/                  *l
4.  AINP'EEtS                                                                                  F                               5
E UROWEAN AISAWfAYS                     S  U SOrfTR r2  40dsla ohow olSN  f70wr2CF3h \jRD+
---    EDUNDARIE3JOPFREFUDLICSARDAUTCRDltJG PSOPNCES  EAEYRSThraTnd,A s 4 \51  INS O
_  .- -   IEITEONUTEYNUL ESUNEARIOS                            Weld SaA end
IRT                      IS          R~~~~~~~~~~~~T  o
o   'F'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BN1c
Gosm    A    F P z F G 0 v I N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l



