Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
/  _ /     --2  7>(   -   
Report No. 9313-GH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
MAY 1, 1991
Western Africa Department
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Cedi (¢Z)
US$1   =  ¢340
¢100   =  US$0.29
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated, all weights and measures
used in this report are metric.
I metric ton        =      2,205
1 metric ton (m ton)   =   2,205 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)      =      2.47 acres (ac)
I kilometer (km)    =     0.62 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)         =      3.28 feet (ft)
I millimeter (mm)    =     0.04 inches (in)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
LIST OF ACRONYMS
AGDP                 Agricultural Gross Domestic Product
APCC                 Agricultuial Policy Coordinating Committee
ARI                  Animal Research Institute
ASRP                 Agricultural Services Rehabilitation Project
CIDA                 Canadian International Development Agency
CIMMYT               Centro Internacional de Mejoramiento de Maiz y Trigo
(International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center)
COCOBOD              Cocoa Board
CRI                  Crops Research Institute
CRIG                 Cocoa Research Institute of Ghana
CSD                  Crop Services Department
CSIR                 Council for Scientific and Industrial Research
EAP                  Environmental Action Plan
ERP                  Economic Recovery Program
FPRI                 Forest Products Research Institute
GAINS                Ghana Agricultural Information Network System
GARIS                Ghana Agricultural Research Information System
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
GGLP                 Ghana Grains and Legumes Project
GHASTINET            Ghana Scientific and Technical Information System
GLDB                 Grains and Legumes Development Board
IAB                  Institute for Aquatic Biology
IARC                 International Agricultural Research Center
IBRD                 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                  International Competitive Bidding
ICRISAT              International Center for Research in the Semi-Arid Tropics.
IDA                  International Development Association
IITA                 International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
ILCA                 International Livestock Center for Africa
INIBAP               International Network for the Improvement of Bananas and
Plantain
IPBGR                International Board for Plant Genetic Resources
IRRI                 International Rice Research Institute
ISNAR                International Service for National Agricultural Research
LCB                  Local Competitive Bidding
MEC                  Ministry of Education and Culture
MFEP                 Ministry of Finance and Economic Plannitng
MIST                 Ministry of Industry, Science and Technology
MLNR                 Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources
MOA                  Ministry of Agriculture
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 



MTADS               Medium Term Agricultural Development Strategy
NARC                National Agricultural Research Committee
NGO                 Non-Governmental Organization
ODA                 Overseas Development Administration (UK)
OPRI                Oil Palm Research Institute
PPMED               Policy, Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
Department
PAG                 Planning and Analysis Group
PCR                 Project Completion Report
PCS                 Project Coordinating Section
PPS                 Priorities and Planning Section
RGB                 Research Grants Board
SAFGRAD             Semi-Arid Food Grain Research and Development
SDR                 Special Drawing Rights
SMS                 Secretariat and Monitoring Section
SOE                 Statement of Expenditure
SPAAR               Special Program for African Agricultural Research
SRI                 Soil Research Institute
TCAFF               Technical Committee for Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries
URADEP              Upper Region Agricultural Development Project
VORADEP             Volta Region Agricultural Development Prcject
WARDA               West African Rice Development Agency



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SU.MMARY.                  ..............................  i
I.   INTRODUCfLO    .....................................                          1
II.   BACKGROUND  .................................1... 
A.  Economic Setting  ....................................  1
B.  The Agricultural Sector . ................................ 2
m. THE AGRICULTURAL RESEARC4 SYSTEM .............                                 4
A.  The Instituticnal Framework .    ............................. 4
B.  Research Management ....................                                6
C.  Research Funding ..................  7
D. Staffing ................. 9
E.  Research Facilities .................   10
F.   Research Programs .................   11
G. National and International Linkages .13
H. Potential and Constraints .14
IV. THE PROJECT .16
A. Rationale and Objectives .16
B. Project Design .16
C. Summary Description .17
D. Detailed Features .18
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .22
A. Project Cost Estimates .22
B. Proposed Financing Plan .23
C. Procurement .24
D. Disbursement.                                                           25
E. Auditing and Reporting .                                                27
F. Financial Implications .27
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Ghana in November
1990, comprising Messrs. I. Hill (Mission Leader, Agriculturalist), A. Spurling, (Agriculturz.!
Research Specialist). Mr. C. Ranade (Economist) and Ms. K. Singh (Economist) assisted
with the appraisal. Ms. Singh and Messrs. T. Ulbricht (Consultant Research Management
Specialist) and R. Baker (Consultant Laboratory Specialist) participated in the pre-appraisal.
Messrs. A. Pritchard and C. Antholt were the peer reviewers for the project. Messrs. A.
Seth and E. Lim are the managing Division Chief and the Department Director, respectively,
for the operation.



VI.  PRJC    MLM,AD    ................................. 28
A. Organization and Management .28
B.   Development of the Research Management System .28
C. Research Planning and Coordination .31
D. Project Management .32
E. Mid-Term and Completion Reviews .35
F. Technical Assistance .35
G.  Implementation Schedule and Supervision .36
VII.  BcNEFITS. U JSTIFICATION AND RISKS .......                ............... 38
A.  Bencfits and Justification ................................  38
B.   Risks ...................................                               38
C.   Environmental Effects  ................................  39
D.  Impact on Women ...................................   39
VIII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS  .......                     .............  39
FIGURES
1.    Organization Chart ....................................    42
2.    Proposed Structure of Technical Secretariat ........     ...............  72
ANNEXES
1.    Current Research Programs
2.    Methodologies for Setting Research Priorities
3.    Selected Research Programs
4.    Research Grants Scheme
5.    Research/Extension/Producer Linkages
6.    Summary Cost Table
7.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
8.    National Agricultural Research Committee
Membership and Terms of Reference
9.    The NARC Technical Secretariat
Functions and Job Descriptions
10.  Research Institute Management Board.
Membership and Terms of Reference
11.   National Commodity Research Committees
12.  The Project Steering Committee
13.  Technical A-sistance and Local Consultancies
14.  Project Implementation Schedule
15.  Project Supervision
16.  Documents Available in Project File



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           The Republic of Ghana.
Credit Amount:      SDR 16.3 million (US$22.0 million equivalent)
ITerm:              Standard, with 40 years maturity.
PrQject escription:  The project would initiate a long-term process to strengthen Ghana's
agriculturi. research system, in order to L,nerate improved
technologies, thus contributing to national development objectives and
growth in the agricultural sector. Emphasis would be given to the
development of processes and institutional arrangements to ensure that
research priorities accord with national development priorities, the
needs of farmers ri' I the sustainable use of Ghana's natural resource
base. Important objectives of the project include the formulation of a
long-term National Agricultural Research Plan (NARP), support for its
implementation and the improvememt of the research management
system and research-extension linkages.
The project would be irnp'emented over five years and include five
main components: (i) Research Management Development which
would include the establishment of a National Agricultural Research
Committee to set research priorities, and of its Technical Secretariat;
*he development of a National Agricultural Research elan; and the
improvement of management systems at national, irstitute and
program levels: (ii) Human Resource Development which would
provide for in-country and foreign post-graduate and technicai
training, with an emphasis on twinning arrangements with foreign
institutions to ensure relevance to Ghanaian conditions: (iii)
Rehabilitation of Research Facilities through rehabilitation of existing
buildings, and the supply of vehicles and equipment to provide
institutes with a core capability to undertake research: (iv)
Improvement of Library and Information Systems through the
establishment of the Ghana Agricultural Information System in
research institute, university and Ministry of Agriculture libraries:
(v) Research Program Support for the implementation of the National
Agricultural Research Plan and selected research programs; the
establishment of a Research Grants Scheme, for use by the
Universities and other competent public and private sector agencies;
and the development of research/extension linkages through on-farm
adaptive research programs.



, jj ,
Estimated Project Costs: 1/
............ US$ Million.
Research Management Development        0.8         1.0         1.8
Human Resource Development             2.1         0.2         2.3
Rehabilitation of Research Facilities  6.8         2.8         9.6
Library and Informaton Systems         2.1         1.3         3.4
Research Program Support               5.5         3.3         8.8
Total Base Cost                       17.3         8.6        25.9
Physical Contingencies                 0.9         0.5         1.4
Price Contingencies                    1.7         0.5         2.2
Total Project Cost                    19.9         9.6        29.5
1/   Including duties and taxes of US$3.0 million
Proposed Financing Plan:
reign         LA          TQta
............... .US$ Million.
IDA                      18.1         3.9        22.0
ODA (UK)                  1.8          -          1.8
Government of Ghana        -          5.7         5.7
ITlnI                    19.9         9.6        29.5
Estimate IDA Disburegments:
FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96 FY97
..................... .US$ Million.
Annual             1.9   6.6   4.7   3.2   3.3  2.3
Cumulative         1.9   8.5  13.2  16.4  19.7 22.0



- ,ii -
ftlect Benefi:     nThe project would provide support for research in agricultural
technology that would contribute to .;ustained growth in the sector.
Improvements to the research management system would lead to the
identification of research priotities that reflect development objectives
and the needs of the farmer. The long-term framework for research
provided through the development of a National Agricultural Research
Plan, assured operational funding, improvement of essential research
infrastructure and measures to involve universities and other
competent agencies in the national research effort would enhance the
quality of research, ensuring that Ghana's previous investments in
agricultural research infrastructure and trained manpower would be
fully utilized. By facilitating information flows from farmers to
researchers and vice versa, the improved research/extension linkages
supported by the project would further improve on-going and planned
research programs. These improvements would, with the assistance of
the Special Program for African Agricultural Research (SPAAR),
enable future support from donors and the International Agricultural
Research centers to be focused in an effective way.
Elika:              A slowing down or reversal of the pace of economic recovery that
would affect economic growth and lead to shortfalls in operational
funding would adversely affect the project, but it would be minimized
by the initial high :evel of participation by IDA in funding operational
costs. Another risk relates to the effectiveness of mechanisms to
ensure that research is responsive to both development priorities and
the needs of farmers, but agreements have been reached on the status,
membership, terms of reference and operating procedures for a
coordinating co-.nmittee to achieve tk.ese objectives. At the same time
the project would develop closer linkages between researchers,
extension staff and farmers. Unsatisfactory quality of research is one
firther risk, but this would be minimized through project support for
manpower development and training and linkages with international
research institutes.
BoRate of Retuarn:  Not applicable.



A A
R-EPUBLIC OF GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
1. INTRQDUCTION
1.1    Ghana has had a well established agricultural research system since be..re
independence with a number of research institutes concentrated in t;e National Department of
Agriculture, the West African inter-territorial research system and, to a smaller extent, the
universities. Immediately after independence a National Research Council was established,
followed by a number of other in%ttutio,ial changes that led to the formation of the Council
for Scien.tific and Industrial Research (CSIR) in 1968. Agricultural research has continued to
develop within this framework, but the economic situation of the country since the late 1970s
has been such that research has suffered from severe under-funding. Nevertheless, a core of
well trained researchers remains and Government recognizcs the crucial role to be played by
agricultural research in raising productivity, exploring the options for crop diversification,
and increasing growth in the igricultural sector. This has been clearly articulated in
Government's recent Medium Term Agricultu! al Developmeit Strategy (MTADS) which
emphasizes the need to increase the role of L"ers of research results in setting priorities,
forging closer research/extension linkages and increasing the level of funding for agricultural
research.
1.2    As part of the strategy for further development of agricultural research, Government
commissioned a review of the present status of the research system, funded through the
Agricultural Services Rehabilitation Project (ASRP). This was undertaken with the assistance
of the International Service for National Agricultural Research (ISNAR). It was followed by
a more detailed assessment of institutional arrangements and the mechanisms for setting
research priorities by a team of Ghanaian researchers and users of research results, with some
assistance from ISNAR. Short-term research programs, the development -1 a long-term
National Agricultural Research Plan and the funding, £taffing and physical requirements for
national agricultural research were also examined. The conclusions and recommendations of
the second phase of the review were discussed at a workshop in Accra, in May 1990, and
proposals for the future development of the agricultural research system agreed. It is on the
basis of these agreements, which resulted from a consultative process involving Government,
the Ghanaian research community and agriculturalists, that the present project has been
designed. The focus of the project is, therefore, on developing mechanisms to ensure that
research programs respond to agricultural deve;opment priorities and to the needs of farmers.
The project would also provide support for these programs within the framework of a
National Agricultural Research Plan.
11. BACKGROUN
A. Economic Setting
2.1    Past Perfmance. Inappropriate macro-economic policies, compounded by weak
overall economic management and a series of adverse external circumstances resulted in
negligible growth during the 1970s. Between 1980 and 1983, the situation worsened as real
GDP declined at an average annual rate of 5 percent. The Cedi was significantly overvalued,
producer prices were low and Government controls and participation in the economy



-2 -
excessive. The unfavorable economic situation was exacerbated by drought and consequent
bush fires in 1982-33.
2.2   Present Situation. The adoption of the Economic Recovery Program (ERP) in 1983
reversed the decline in the economy. The introduction of macro-economic adjustment
measures and prudent economic policies, including the dramatic devaluation of the currency
from Cedis 36 to the US dollar in 1983 to 2 'edis 334 in June 1990, have had positive results.
Real GDP grew at an annual average rate of 5.9 percent between 1983 and 1987, 6.2 percent
in 1988 and 6.1 percent in 1989. The balance of pavments has improved from a deficit of
greater than one percent of GDP in 1980-83 to -- estimated surplus of 2.2 pt.rcent in 1989,
whilst inflation has boen reduced substantially.
2.3    Key Development Obiectj. Over the medium-term, the Government's economic
adjustment program aims at a real GDP growth of 5 percent per annum, furtier reduction in
inflation rates and increases in the ratio of investment to GDP to at least 16 percent, and that
of savings to GDP to at least 8.5 percent. A significant role is envisaged for thy private
sector in the structural adjustment process, through new investment in production, processing
and marketing in all sectors of the economy. This would be paralleled by divestiture of state
owned enterprises, continued liberalization of the exchange rate, rationalization of the trade,
tariff and tax policies, improved pubiic sector management, and the maintenance of positive
real intere'st rat,s to encourage investment and mobilize domestic savings.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.4   Fertrmance of the.Sector. Agriculture is the mainstay of the Ghanaian economy,
contributing more than 75 percent of merchandise exports ai,; about 50 percent of GDP. It
employs about 6C )ercent of the labor force. As with other sectors, agriculture was severely
hindered by the adverse economic policies of the 1970s and erly 1980s. Food and cash crop
output declined, which combined with a rising population resulted in a decline in the per
capita food production index from 100 in 1974-76 to 62 in 1983. The measures adopted
under the ERP have resulted in significant improvements: agricultural outpr.: as measured by
sectoral GDP has grown in real terms for five successive years and in 1988 achieved its
highest level since 1974. Nevertheless, since growth in other sectors has been more rapid so
that agriculture's share of total GDP has fallen from 55 percent in 1982 to 47 percent in
1988. In the past, cocoa contributed almost 30 percent of agricultural GDP, but this has
declined to about 15 percent in recent years. The gap has been filled by roots and tubers and
by plantain. Cereals have also shown a steady increase in output, with total production in
1988 reaching a twenty year high. Increases have been due to both increases in yield,
particulrmy for cereals, and in the area plantel. Despite these achievements, there was a
foodgrLma deficit in 1987 of the equivalent of about 128,000 tons, or about 6% of demand,
which was met by imports. This deficit is expected to increase to about 750,000 tons by the
Year 2000.
2.5    Characteristics of the Sector. Ghana's agriculture Is predominantly smaliholder,
traditional and rain-fed. Farming systems have developed over time as adaptations to the
major agro-ecological zones in the country and at a time when the population was sparse and
land abundant. Common factors are the use of bush fallows to restore soil fertility, mixed
cropping to minimize risks and in the north of .he country, the widespread integration of
livestock into the farming systems. Women play an important role in the sector, and often



-3-
mnake decisions about the type and area of crop to be planted, as well as having a key role in
weeding, harvesting and processing. ;n the forest zone tree crops are significant with cocoa,
oil palm, coffee and rubber of particular importance. The food crops in this area are mainly
inter-cropped mixtures of maize. plantain, cocoyam and cassava. The transition zone is
characterized by mixed or sole cropping of maiza, legumes, cocoyam or yam, with tobacco
and cotton the predominant cash crops. Cotton and tobacco are also important in the savanna
zone, where the fnod crops are mainly sorghum, maize, cowpeas and yam in the wetter areas,
whilst sorghum, inillet and cowpeas predominate in the drier north. Rice is locally important
in all zones, grown in seasonally flooded valley bottoms. There is little use of purchased
inputs and land preparation is manual in most areas, though ox-ploughing is important in the
north and mechanization is used by some large enterprises. Average yields are low
throughout the country. Livestock are important in all zones, though small ruminants and
poultry predominate in the south, where trypanosomiasis is a consaraint to the keeping of
cattle. Productivity in this sub-sector is low due to animal nutritional and health constraints.
2.6   (jovernment Objectives. Government's long term objectives for the agricultural sector
include self sufficiency in food and raw materials, higher employment and incomes in rural
areas, food security, regional balanced growth and a greater contribution of the sector to
GDP, foreign exchange earnings and government revenue. To achieve these objectives, the
Government has formulated a Medium Term Agricultural Development Strategy with the
assistance of the World Bank. !he strategy is predicated on the premise that Ghanaian
farmers wil! respond to suitable incentives to increase production of both cash and food trops.
It would focus on promoting those crops in which Ghana has a clear comparative advantage.
It is based on both productivity increases and area expansion, using existing proven
technology to ensure sustainable use of the land resources. In the livestock sector the priority
would be to improve nutrition and productivity, through closer links with the crop sub-sector.
The strategy would also aim to strengthen agricultural support services such as extension,
fertilizer and seed supply, marketing and storage, and processing. Agricultural research
would be a key element of the strategy, for although technology presently exists to improve
production of many crops, continuing improvement of the technology would be essential to
maintain growth in the sector. Sustainable use of natural resources is also an important
objective for G;vernment and to this end the Enviromnental Protection Council is preparing
an Environmental Action Plan (EAP). The EAP will be an important policy document
affecting development in many sectors, including agriculture.
2.7    Bank Sector Assistance Strategy. In parallel to World Bank support for the ERP
through structural adjustment lending, a number of projects have been financed within the
agricultural sector to overcome particular constraints. These include the Cocoa Rehabilitation
Project and the Second Oil Palm Project, to provide a broad spectrum of support to the cocoa
and oil palm sub-sectors; the Agricultural Services Support Project, to develop a rang- of
agricultural services; the Rural Finance Project to improve the efficiency of financial
institutions; and he Agricultural Diversification Project, to promote the production of tree and
horticultural crops and gradually reduce Ghana's over-dependence on cocoa. An imporant
element of all these projects has been the development of the role of the private sector in
production and input supply. Support has also been provided to the forestry sub-sector
through the Forest Resource Management Project. In order to assess how growth in the
agricultural sector could be further increased and what policy and institutional reforms are
required the Government, in collaboration with the Bank, has completed the MTADS. The
strategy proposes improvements in the incentive framework and increasing carefidlly targeted



- 4 -
public expenditure to improve sector management, infrastructure and agricultural support
services, with specific project lending for, amongst other things, research, extension, seed
production and livestock. Implementation of the strategy will be supported through an IDA
financed Agricultural Sector Adju,tment Loan, presently being appraised.
2.8  QO   going Projects of Other Donors. A number of bilateral and multilateral donors are
providing substantial support to the agricultural sector. This includes projects or programs to
assist with rural development, extension, fertilizers, animal health and agricultural research.
Those with a specific focus on agricultural research include the support provided, throughout
the 1980s, by the Federal Republic of Germany for buildings, equipment, research facilities
and technical assistance for the development of the Nyankpala Agricultural Research Station
of the Crops Research Institute. CIDA have financed the Ghana Grains and Legumes Project
(GGLP) which has focused on maize and cowpea research and has made an important
contribution to developing research extension linkages by bringing extension and research
staff together on farmers' fields. The project is now in its third phase, with funding assured
for a further five years. As part of the World Bank assisted Cocoa Rehabilitation Project, the
British ODA is providing equipment, vehicles, technical assistance and research support to the
Cocoa Research Institute of Ghana over a five year period. The World Bank Agricultural
Services Rehabilitation Project is also providing funds for rice and cotton research. The
Special Program for African Agricultural Research (SPAAR) is taking an increasingly active
role in attempting to coordinate donor support for agricultural research.
2.9    LessonsLear. An important lesson to be learnt from the experience of donor
support for the agricultural sector since about 1983 is the need for specific projects to be
undertaken within the framework of an agreed strategy for the sector. This lesson is equally
evident from the experience of donor support for agricultural research. The lack of a
mechanism to identify research priorities and of a long-term National Agricultural Research
Plan, has meant that donor funded research programs have not always been complementary,
and have sometimes overlapped. Another important lesson is to be learnt from the
mechanisms used to develop successful linkages between researchers and extension workers in
the CIDA assisted GGLP. This brings research and extension staff together in zonal meetings
to plan the annual program of trials, followed by further meetings on farmers' fields at
planting, flowering and harve3t, at which farmer experience is used to determine any
necessary modifications to the following years trials. It is also clear that a team approach to
research programs, supported by adequate research facilities in terms of equipment, vehicles
and operational funding, motivates research groups and generates an effective research
environment. This is further enhanced oy training opportunities and linkages with
international institutions. The proposed project would respond specifically to these lessons.
III. THE AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SYSTEM
A. The Institutional Framework
3.1    Virtually all agricultural research in Ghana is undertaken by public sector agencies.
The CSIR was set up in 1968 in order to advise Government and promote and coordinate
research efforts, which are divided amongst several ministries. These include the Mhistry of
Industry, Science and Technology (MIST), of which CSIR is now a part, the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA), the Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources (MLNR). In addition, the
.



universities under the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC), and parastatal organizations
such as the Cocoa Research Institute of Ghana (CRIG), under the Ghana Cocoa Board
(COCOBOD), contribute to agricultural research. The relative contribution of these agencies
to the overall agricultural research effort is reflected by the number of person-years of
researcher time, with about 52% of the total in CSIR, 16% in the Universities, 10% in CRIG
and 22% in the Ministry of Agriculture and other quasi-government agencies. The various
groups of agencies are discussed in the following paragraphs.
3.2    CSIR. CSIR has a mandate to advise Government on the use of science and
technology for development, to promote and coordinate research that will advance
development and to establish and operate any necessary research institutes. CSIR is presently
under MIST. CSIR is headed by a Director General, assisted by a 26 member Council, a
Secretariat and five technical sub-committees; for Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries; for
Industry and Technology; for Health and Medicine; for Natura' Sciences; and for Social
Sciences. Six of the 12 institutes within the CSIR are agricultural or agriculturally related, as
described below, though others undertake some research which has application to agriculture.
3.3    Agricultural Research Institutes. Agricultural research institutes under the CSIR
include those for Animal, Crops, Food, Oil Palm, Soils and Aquatic Biology.l/. Each
institute is semi-autonomous and headed by a Director, assisted by a Management Board.
Overall coordination is provided through a Director's Management Committee, chaired by the
Director General of CSIR, whilst members of the Management Boards provide linkages with
other research and government agencies. The Forest Products Research Institute has similar
management arrangements, but is responsible to the Forestry Commission.
3.4    The Cocoa Research Institute of Ghana (CRIG). Cocoa research was separated from
the CSIR in 1973, when it came under the management of the Ghana Cocoa Board
(COCOBOD). CRIG was the headquarters of the former regional West African Cocoa
Research Institute, so there has been a long history of research work since 1938. The
Director of CRIG is responsible to the Chief Executive of COCOBOD, and its Management
Board so cocoa research programs are decided with little reference to other agricultural
agencies, such as the MOA.
3.5    The Universities. There are three Faculties of Agriculture; at the University of
Ghana, Legon, at the University of Science and Technology, Kumasi, and at Cape Coast
University. All were established to provide higher level education in Agriculture, but all have
a commitment to research, with a focus on differing agro-ecological zones. Each Faculty is
headed by a Dean and falls within the normal administrative structure of the University.
Linkages to other research agencies in Ghana are provided through informal researcher
contacts and more formally by university representation on the governing body of CSIR and
the Management Boards of the research institutes.
3.6    Ministry of Agriculture. Most of the research activities undertaken within the MOA
have been linked to regional development projects. The Volta Region Agricultural
Development Project (VORADEP) and the Upper Region Agricultural Development Project
I/ Animal Research Institute, Crops Rese~arch Institute, Food Research Institute, Oil Palm
Research Institute, Soil Research Institute, Institute for Aquatic Biology.



-6-
(URADEP), which have both come to a close, included research components, which
provided a means of undertaking well supervised variety and on-farm trials in conjunction
with the institutes. The Department of Animal Health and Production, the Fisheries
Department and the Crop Services Department undertake some research, but lack of qualified
staff forms a constraint.
3.7    Other Research Organizations. The Ghana Grains and Legumes Development Board
(GLDB) plays an important role in adaptive research, mainly on maize and cowpeas, closely
linked to the work of the Crops Research Institute and the donor assisted Ghana Grains and
Legumes Project. The Forest Products Research Institute and the Ghana Atomic Energy
Commission both undertake some research of agricultural significance.
B. Researgh Manage t%
3.8   Policy Formulation. Although CSIR has the responsibility to advise Government on
science and technology policy, its constitution does not specifically include the formulation of
research policy in any one sector. However, recognizing the need for such policy
formulation, CSIR established the Planning and Analysis Group (PAG). In addition, the
Technical Comm Atee for Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (TCAFF) was set up to advise
on science and technology policy for the agricultural sector. However, an initial report
prepared by the TCAFF does not concentrate on research policy as such, whilst the PAG has
been unable to address the issue, due to limited resources, Consequently, CSIR does not, at
present, provide a lead in formulating agricultural research policies with clear linkages to
national development objectives. The proposed Agricultural Research and Development
Advisory Committee within the MOA, has terms of reference that include the formulation of
research policy, but the committee has not yet been formally established.
3.9    Determination of Priorities and Resource Allocation. None of the committees or units
described above are respoinsible for determining research priorities, or have the authority to
allocate resources to particular research proposals. The lack of a functioning mechanism to
set these priorities, with the authority to allocate financial resources, is reflected by the
dispersed nature of much of the research effort. This is clearly an unsatisfactory situation and
forms a major constraint to the effective operation of the agricultural research system. The
way in which priorities are set and resources allocated at present, is described below.
3.10   Program Formulation and Budgeting. Program formulation usually begins at the level
of the research station, based on proposals put forward by individual researchers. In some
cases problems are put to researchers by the Director, the Head of Department, or through
informal contacts with MOA staff. Some programs are adopted, either because of the
personal enthusiasm or forcefulness of the researcher or his supervisor, or because of the
availability of funds. Both the Nyankpala station of the Crops Research Institute (CRI) and
the Ghana Grains and Legumes Project have more formal processes for deciding research
priorities, based on forward planning and review of research themes. Budgeting for research
programs is closely associated with program formulazion, with budgets initially prepared by
individual researchers and subsequently considered by a budget sub-committee of an Institute's
Management Board. Capital and recurrent budgets are prepared and considered separately,
despite their impact on each other; a research program may require both operational funds and
a particular piece of equipment. Personal emoluments are met in full for all approved posts,
so only operational expenses are variable and there is no incentive for an Institute Director to



- 7 -
cut support staff in order to increase available resources for operational costs. In addition,
funds are rarely fungible. Budgets are submitted to MFEP for individual institutes and
although ;ecurrent and capital costs are justified in terms of research programs, MFEP have
no way of assessing the relative priority of various programs, so budget cuts are often
arbitrary. After the new budget becomes effective in January, release of capital funds is
meant to be quarterly, but delays are common and often make it impossible to undertake
proposed research programs. The research institutes are seldom given any explanation for
budget cuts, delays or non release of approved funds.
3.11   Program Management. Research proposals put forward by the Directors of Institutes
are considered by the Management Boards. Their role is thus, essentially, one of review,
rather than of planning of programs. This is significant as the Boards are the only forum in
which the users of research results, or their representatives from the MOA, have an
opportunity to influence research programs. Even Research Committees appointed by the
Management Boards review on-going programs, rather than deciding on future programs,
though they may identify omissions which may lead to an expansion of a particular program.
Further, the Management Boards of individual institutions never consider relative priorities.
between programs that are the responsibility of other agencies. The primary function of the
Management Boards is, in fact, the management of the physical means of carrying out
research and not the substance of the research programs. This is reflected by the frequency
of meetings, usually monthly, at which the agenda is mainly concerned with issues of finance
and personnel. The meetings are therefore concerned with the use of funds, or staff for
agreed programs, and not with the allocation of resources to particular priorities.
3.12 National Commodity Committees. There are two national commodity committees, for
maize and soyabeans. Research on maize, undertaken in a number of different institutions, is
coordinated by a National Committee, with technical leadership provided by CRI. There is a
similar National Committee for soya beans. These arrangements aim to avoid duplication of
research effort in these two commodities.
C. Research Funding
3.13   Overall Funding Level. The 1989 review of the research system undertaken with
ISNAR assistance estimated that total research expenditure in 1987 amounted to C 2,768.6
million, equivalent to 0.73% of AGDP, or US$0.72 per hectare of arable lauvd. Of this total,
about 55% was recurrent expenditure. More recent data provide less comprehensive
estimates, but the 1991 budget shows an increase in expenditure for CSIR agricultural
research institutes from 0.36% to 0.43% of AGDP. MTADS projections for research
expenditure are summarized below.
1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
. .......................... Cedis.
Investment             1990    2587    4027    3073    3073
Recurrent              2777    2947    3126    3316    3453
TIalI         4767    5804    7153    6389    6527



-8 -
The total for 1995 remains at slightly less than 1% of projected AGDP. The proportion of
research expenditures contributed by donors has varied considerably from year to year over
the last decade. Because of data constraints it is not possible to compare expenditure directly
with overall levels of agricultural research funding in other developing countries. It would
seem, however, that although funding of agricultural research is less than 1 % of AGDP,
Ghana spends at least as much on the sub-sector as many developing countries of similar size.
3.14   Funding by Commodity and Institution. Consideration of the proportion of
agricultural research funds spent on the ma.jor commodity groups shows that cocoa received
about 45% of all research funding, though it contributed only 13% to AGDP. This is due
partly to donor support for cocoa research and partly to the fact that cocoa production has
been very low, but still remains of crucial importance to the economy. The large increases in
production in the last two years will also change the ratio of funding to AGDP contribution.
By contrast, agriculture and livestock research receive 50% of total funding, while
contributing 71 % of AGDP, and funding for forestry and fisheries research remains at a low
level, though forestry contributes almost 19% of AGDP. Funding of specific research on the
environment and natural resource management has been extremely limited, though several
research institutes have a mandate to undertake such work. The allocation of research funds
between the various research institutes broadly reflects total funding allocations, but in every
case, funding in real terms is significantly lower than in 1974.
3.15   Funding Per Scientist. The level of funding per scientist, particularly of expenditure
other than salary, shows whether scientists have adequate resources to work with. A
comparison of the total recurrent costs per scientist in 1974 and 1987 shows that there has
been a severe decline from US$56,700 in 1974 to US$33,140 in 1987, in constant 1987 US
dollar terms. Even more significantly, operating cost per scientist, that is recurrent
expenditure net of salaries and allowances, has fallen from US$20,500 in 1974, to US$10,100
in 1987. These figures a-mount to US$34,100 and US$16,800 per researcher year,
respectively, assuming 60% of time is spent on actually doing research. In 1989, in the CSIR
institutes concerned with agricultural research, actual recurrent expenditure per researcher
year, net of salaries, was even lower in dollar terms, amounting to only C 1.04 million
(US$3,900). The figures rise to C 1.21 million (US$3,900) if donor funding for operational
expenses is included, and C 3.90 million (US$12,570), including cocoa research. The 1974
level of funding provided for effective research operations. The present level is grossly
inadequate, with the exception of some sections of the Crops Research Institute and CRIG,
which receive substantial donor support. Although reduced funding has affected all sectors
over the same period, the lack of operational funding is critical and forms one of the major
constraints to effective agricultural resear" in Ghana at present.
3.16   One of the reasons that operating -5sts per scientist are so low is the high proportion
of total recurrent expenditure devoted to salaries. More than 70% of all CSIR recurrent
expenditure is used for salaries, and in some institutes the figure is as high as 80%, though
the figure is lower for the CRI. The high proportion of expenditure on salaries is not due to
salary levels, which are low, but rather to the large numbers of support staff in many of the
institutions. For, example, the Soil Research Institute has 46 support staff per scientist and
the Oil Palm Research Institute has 57. The reasons for this .    been discussed previously,
but some rationalization of the numbers of support staff is necessary.



- 9 -
D. Saffing
3.17   Staff Numbers. Data concerning the total number of researchers in each of the
agencies are incomplete. In addition, many staff spend only part of their time on research,
whilst some senior staff within the research officer grades are largely concerned with
administration. However, data collected by the Government/ISNAR review team showed that
about 320 scientists spend at least some of their time on research, to which must be added
about 40 scientists on study leave. There are about 30 women engaged in research activities,
with the highest number in the Food Research Institute. The Review also showed that these
researchers spend about 150 person years on research, of which about 20% is concentrated in
the Crops Research Institute, 10% each in the Cocoa and Food Research Institutes and about
15% in the three universities. The remaining time is unevenly distributed between the
remaining Research Institutes and the MOA. The ratio of research staff to technical staff in
the CSIR institutes is low and varies from 1:0.20 in the Oil Palm Research Institute to 1:0.92
at the Crops Research Institute, Kumasi.
3.18   The Review also showed that very large numbers of support staff are in place in
certain of the institutes. For example, there are over 500 sup-ort staff at the Oil Palm
Research Institute (OPRI), although this may be due to the large number of staff required for
management of plantations and the production of oil palm seedlings. In other cases, it may
simply be due to the fact that staff establishments have remained unchanged over many years,
even though the nature of the work done by the institute has evolved. The data also indicate
that in some institutes a large number of senior staff are administrative and not involved in
research. A review of staffing needs is urgently required, with re-deployment of staff, if
necessary.
3.19   Staff Specializations. Oualifications and Experience. Data collected during the
research review indicated that the specializations amongst present researchers in Ghana cover
all the important aspects of agricultural science. About 30 percent of all researchers are
trained in crop sciences, such as genetics, agronomy, horticulture entomology or pathology.
About 15 percent work on livestock related research, 10 percent are specialized in soil
science, 10 percent in agricultural economics and the remainder in a range of other
disciplines. The question as to whether the number of researchers in each specialization is
appropriate, depends on the priority attached to research into particular topics, itself
dependent on the formulation of a national agricultural research plan. About two-thirds of
CSIR researchers have post-graduate degrees, but less than 20% have a Ph.D. Virtually all
the agricultural scientists at the universities have post-graduate degrees and almost half of
them have Ph.D degrees. In the Ministries and other quasi-government agencies, there are
few Ph.Ds, but almost half have M.Sc degrees. Thus, Ghana has a research staff that is
better qualified than in many other developing countries. However, almost 70% of scientists
in the CSIR, the Ministries and other research agencies have less than 10 years experience.
Even in the universities, 50% are relatively inexperienced. The preponderance of young
scientists is due to the large numbers who left the research institutes due to the economic
crisis of the late 1970s and early 1980s. Thus, only 40% of the scientists employed by CSIR
in 1975, remain in post and only 15% of the loss has been due to retirement or death. There
is no direct correlation between research productivity and length of experience, but the high
proportions of inexperienced staff creates problems of supervision and training.



- 10-
3.20   Staff Salaries and Benefits. The incomes received by agricultural research staff are
low in absolute terms and are an important constraint to research productivity, as many
scientists and support staff spend time on secondary income earning activities, often merely to
meet subsistence needs. However, the prospects for significant increases in salaries are poor,
as CSIR and university staff already receive higher salaries than equivalent staff in the MOA
and other high professional staff, in part due to the 50% inducement allowance paid to
research grade staff. Similarly, the prospects for changing the flawed pay structures, in
which the maximum pay differentials within staff categories are only 60-70%, are slight. The
top-bottom income differential in CSIR is 8:1, only slightly less than the target of 10:1 for the
civil service as a whole. The most important non-salary benefit available to staff is housing.
However, this is in short supply and often in poor condition. Rent allowance is paid to staff
who do not receive housing, but as it is set at only 20% of basic salary, is inadequate to meet
the cost of housing in urban areas. The Staff Housing Loan Scheme is also inadequate. The
maximum ioan available is C 2.0 million, which does not cover the cost of even the most
basic house in Accra, and high interest rates mean that loan repayments may exceed the
monthly salary of some staff. A review of salaries for research staff within the overall review
of civil service salaries is important. However, given the limited possibilities for increasing
salaries of research staff it is important to ensure that working conditions are such that
researchers get professional job satisfaction.
3.21   Promotion. For research scientists in the CSIR system, the procedures and criteria
used for promotion have been essentially similar to those used for university staff. The
appropriate Promotion Panel receives recommendations from two external assessors, who rely
entirely on the candidate's written output. Primary emphasis has, until very recently, been
given to publications in scientific journals, which has meant that there is little incentive for
staff to participate in programs to strengthen linkages with farmers. Promotion criteria have
been recently reviewed and greater recognition is now given to work that may not lead to
research publications, but makes an important contribution to solving farmers' problems.
E. Research Facilities
3.22   Institutions. The agricultural research system in Ghana is served with a network of
established research institutions, listed in Para 3.3. Although they are well provided with the
necessary land to undertake their functions, their buildings and housing are badly in need of
rehabilitation. This is due to lack of funding for maintenance and repair, during the economic
crisis of the 1970s and early 1980s. New buildings have been provided in some stations
through donor funding, as at Nyankpala. Elsewhere, planned improvements are often
constrained by lack of funds. For example, the Crops Research Institute is unable to move
into almost finished new buildings in Fumesua, because funds for completion are not
available. There is, therefore, a considerable need for upgrading and rehabilitation of many
of the essential buildings and other structures in the agricultural research system. There is
also a very considerable lack of equipment for undertaking research, although there are
exceptions where equipment has been provided under donor programs, as at Nyankpala. The
OPRI and two institutes outside the CSIR system that contribute to agricultural research, the
Cocoa Research Institute of Ghana and the Forest Products Research Institute, receive
substantial support under other World Bank assisted projects.
3.23   Research Stations. A total of thirty two agricultural stations have been established at
vari )us times in the past to provide facilities for research, though many are seldom used for



- 11 -
current research programs. A recent Government Committee on the Reactivation of
Abandoned Research and Agricultural Stations recommended that twenty should be
rehabilitated. The 1990 Research Review team proposed a more radical reorganization of the
research stations, with eight national stations to be run by the research institutes,
complemented by a further six regional research stations, to be run by the MOA, provide
services to the institutes, as well as forming foci for the Ministry's adaptive research and
extension programs. In addition, the university research stations and farms would provide
facilities for national research programs. This network of stations would provide facilities for
research in all the major agro-ecological zones of the country. This pioposal was approved at
the May 1990 Research Workshop 2/.
3.24   Universities. The Faculties of Agriculture at the three universities were established
primarily for undergraduate tuition and their buildings and facilities reflect this objective.
With some refurbishment facilities are adequate for the present numbers of about 150
undergraduate students. Funding and facilities for research by well qualified staff or by post
graduate students are extremely limited, as equipment and supplies are for the most part
obsolete or lacking. Consequently, there are only about 20 graduate students undertaking
agricultural research in the universities and virtually all research is dependent on staff
obtaining funds from donors for special programs.
3.25   Information Services. Ghana's library and information services were once considered
to be amongst the best in Africa, but have suffered severe decline since 1978. Most buildings
are either new, or in reasonable repair, out many are inadequately furnished and cannot be
kept cool or free of insects. Few libraries have photocopying facilities or even typewriters,
so that librarians are unable to produce accession lists or current awareness bulletins. More
significantly, there is a lack of properly trained staff, so that some libraries are staffed by
assistants without the necessary training in library science. Although there is a cadre of
professional librarians, none have any experience of modem information technology. Local
facilities for training specialists are stretched and provision for overseas training is inadequate.
Of particular importance is the lack of funds to purchase books and periodicals, so that
researchers lack information on current developments in their specialties, either in the region,
or worldwide. This must be one of the major constraints to the effective functioning of the
research system in Ghana at present. Further, the lack of access to research publications
draws into question the ability of the university system to provide post-graduate training.
F. Research Programs
3.26   Sub-Sectoral Programs. An indication of the range of research topics and the de facto
priority attached to them is provided by the number of researchers contributing to the various
programs. A total of about 150 person-years are devoted to 56 research topics being
undertaken in 32 institutions. A comparison of researcher time allocated to sub-sectors, with
the contribution of those sub-sectors to AGDP indicates some congruence, as shown by the
figures below.
2/ Strategy for Rehabilitation of the Agricultural Research System. CSIR Report to the
Ministry of Agriculture, 1990.



- 12 -
% AGDP  % Research Jim
Agriculture and Livesiock                  70               67
Cocoa                                      17               11
Forestry                                    9                6
Fisheries                                   3                4
3.27   Commoditv Programs, The characteristics of the main commodity research programs
are descrioed briefly here and in more detail in Annex 1. Amongst the food crops, there is a
concentration of vwork on maize, which receives almost 11% of all researcher time. This has
resulted in the release of improved varieties and regularly up-dated recommendations for
fertilizer application and other cuaLural practices. Similar advances have been made for other
cereals, such as sorghum and rice, though available improved varieJies of sorghum are not so
widely accepted by farmers and further testing of new varieties of rice is underway. For
legumes, research has resulted in the development of a tested technology for cultivation of
cowpeas, but it is dependent on the use of agro-chemicals for pest control. Research into
soyabeans at present includes the testing of new varieties developed elsewhere in the region,
varietal improvement through hybridization and improvement of husbandry practices. The
non-cereal staples of cassava, yam, cocoyam and plantain received only 5.4% of research
time, even though they contribute almost 59% of AGDP. Most of this was devoted to
cassava, where the testing for disease resistance has resulted in the selection of four high
yielding varieties, three suitable for gari production and one for fresh use. There has been
little research into cocoyam whilst for plantain, research over a long period by the University
of Ghana has been constrained by a shortage of funds and has, therefore been limited,
focusing mainly on establishing a collection of cultivars and techniques for propagation.
3.28   For the industrial crops the focus is on cocoa research. Priority is given to research
into: the control of Cocoa Swollen Shoot Virus Disease through entomological, breeding and
agronomic studies; genetic improvement of cocoa; control of Black Pod and capsids; and
agronomic practices to improve the establishment and management of cocoa. Research on
coffee includes development of new hybrids and disease control, and research into sheanut
and cola has involved the establishment of germplasm collections and the study of insect
pests. The objectives of the oil palm research program are varietal selection; development
and demonstration of good nursery and agronomic practices; monitoring of pests and diseases
and investigation of control measures. Coconut research is concentrated on the control of
Cape St. Paul Wilt Disease and rubber research is restricted to observations on clonal and
fertilizer trials established some years ago. Cotton research is focused on varietal selection,
control of pests and the improvement of agronomic practices.
3.29   Livestock research programs are in a state of transition. Until recently, much of the
available effort was focused on tsetse research and little on animal nutrition and pasture work.
Recent changes to the program have meant that the imbalance is being redressed and poultry
and cattle breed improvement programs, the development of animal feeds from agricultural
by-products, the use of medicinal plants to control animal diseases and the development of
livestock equipment have all been initiated. Marine fisheries research is the responsibility of
the Marine Fisheries Research Unit of the MOA and has been mainly restricted to monitoring
of fish stocks. Aquaculture research is undertaken by the Institute of Aquatic Biology, but
has been severely restricted by lack of facilities and funds.



- 13 -
3.30   Socio-Economic Research. Agricultural economists contribute to most on-going
commodity research programs to investigate the financial and economic returns of newly
developed technologies. Until recently, there has been little farming systems research, but
CRIG is giving particular emphasis to such work and it is being introduced in CRI. There
has been little recent study of the economics of livestock production in Ghana. The Institute
for Statistics, Social and Economic Research in the University of Ghana undertakes broader
sectoral studies.
3.31   Future Research Needs. In general, the thrust of on-going research programs has
been appropriate and technologies to increase yields in almost all the main industrial and food
crops have been generated. However, the research has been too dispersed to provide
significant breakthroughs in all but a few commodities. There is, thus, a need for an
improved focus on clearly identified priorities. The major chJdlenge for future agricultural
research is to adapt new technologies to traditional farming systems, in particular to overcome
constraints due to labor availability and the costs of production. This will require careful
socio-economic research, with a clear recognition of the gender specificity of farming
responsibilities. The development of new varieties reu;istant to pests and diseases is of high
priority, whilst effective crop protection, particularly that based on biological control and
integrated pest management, and post-harvest technoiogy is urgently required. In the longer
term, research is needed into natural resource management technologies, such as methods of
maintaining soil fertility and soil physical properties under intensive cropping systems, linked
to research into measures to control erosion, such as agro-forestry, t-iat ,an be integrated into
existing farming systems. Aspects of agricultural engineering also require research, such as
field mechanization using draft animals. Livestock research is another focus for future
research, particularly research on nutrition using locally available feeds and crop residues.
Research should also include a greater emphasis on agro-climatology. with reference to
optimal timing of farming operations, crop water requirements and drought physiology.
3.32   Adaptive Research. A number of different agencies undertake adaptive research in
Ghana. Within the MOA, the Crop Services Department has the responsibility for adaptive
trials on a national basis. However, limited funding and few adequately qualified a"^
experienced staff, severely constrain the work done by the Department. One of the most
effective programs of adaptive research has been implemented by the CIDA funded Grains
and Legumes Development Project, working with the CRI and GLDB. The program has
focussed on maize and cowpeas, with on-farm trials and demonstrations. The research
institutes also undertake some on-farm adaptive trials, but it is only in the last few years that
such work has been given much priority.
G. National and International Linkages
3.33   Research/Extension Linkages. MOA extension staff have, in the past, claimed that
contact with research staff is inadequate and that the results of research are not relevant to
farmers' needs. The prevalence of this opinion amongst extension staff points to a serious
lack of communication, which forms a constraint to the rapid adoption of new technology. It
is, in part, due to the lack of overall research planning and priority setting, but also to a lack
of incentives for research staff to devote time to developing links with extension staff. There
are, however, successful examples of close research extension linkages developed in Ghana,
such as VORADEP and the Ghana Grains and Legumes Project, discussed below. The spread
of the T and V extension system in eight districts, with an emphasis on regular training of



- 14-
extension staff involving research staff and subject matter specialists, is also contributing to
better research extension linkages.
3.34   Successful research/extension linkages developed by the Grains and Legumes
Development Project, stem from a close involvement of research staff in both the CRI and
universities, and extension staff of the GLDB and the MOA. All are involved in setting
research priorities for maize and cowpeas, in the implementation of the program and in
communication of research results. This multi-disciplinary commitment to all three stages of
the process is the key to the successful linkages. Details of research programs are decided by
the Research Sub-committee of CRI, with representation from both the MOA Extension
Department and the GLDB. These are then reviewed at the regional level, whilst
implementation involves trials and studies on CRI stations, MOA sites and farmers' fields.
Results are interpreted by CR1 staff, but conclusions discussed with regional MOA staff, at
national workshops and finally with farmers, using detailed written guidelines for the
approved technology. Close research extension linkages were also developed in VORADEP
because the project included a strong component for adaptive research. This led to the
establishment of an adaptive research unit within a regional pioject. Research and extension
were both under the control of the project manager, who was able to ensure that both worked
in an integrated manner.
3.35   Researc/University Linkae. There are no formal mechanisms for the coordination
of university and institute research and linkages depend on the interests and personalities of
senior research staff. Given the research skills available in the universities, there would be
many advantages in establishing means whereby collaborative programs could be established,
with the universities undertaking fundamental research and the institutes dealing with applied
and adaptive research aspects.
3.36  International and Regional Research. Most research institutes have a number of
linkages with International Agricultural Research Centers and regional research networks.
Regular contacts are maintained with IITA, CIMMYT, WARDA, ILCA, IPB9R, ICRISAT,
MRRM, SAFGRAD, INIBAP and ISNAR. l/ The linkages are primarily commodity based
and apart from technical exchange and collaborative work, sometimes include funding
support, staff training, supply of literature and participation in workshops.
H. Potential and Constraints
3.37   Potential. The agricultural research system in Ghana has the potential to make
substantial contributions to the development of the sector in the medium to long term. There
are agricultural faculties in the universities that produce an adequate number of graduates for
recruitment into the research services. National research institutes have been established to
undertake commodity and factor research programs, with a reasonable level of autonomy,
under the CSIR. The MOA and a number of parastatal agencies have the responsibility for
agricultural development and recent changes, particularly in their extension services, mean
that their ability to transfer research results to the producers is being improved. The proposed
National Extension Project will further strengthen this capability. In addition, there is a well
qualified cadre of research staff in Ghana, both in the research institutes and in the
I/ See List of Acronyms.



*15 -
universities. The system is, therefore, well placed to respond to improvements in research
planning and management, institutional arrangements and physical infrastructure.
3.38   Constrain.  Despite its long history and a good performance in earliet years, the
research system in Ghana does not, at present, live up to its full potential to improve
agricultural growth. This is due to a number of constraints as follows:
(a) Policy Formulation. Determination of Priorities and Resource Allocation. An
impoitant constraint to the operation of the research system is the fact that the existing
committees of CSIR and the MOA do not take a lead in formulating research policy,
in determining priorities that reflect national agricultural development priorities or iP
the allocation of resources to such priorities. This is reflected in the dispersed nature
of the research program and leads to the criticism that the research system is not
responsive to farmers' needs. Although CSIR can authorize research contracts, the
research skills available in the universities are not used to the best possible advantage.
Resource allocation is further complicated by the present methods of budget
m                           preparation and approval and the inadequacy and irregularity of actual releases.
(b) Institutional. Coordination between the research agencies and the users of reseai;h is
not always effective.
(c) Staffing. Although research staff in Ghana are well qualified, many lack experience
which makes considerable demands on more experienced staff for supervision and on-
the-job training. This is exacerbated by the low ratio of technical staff to researchers.
A particular constraint is the lack of qualified instrument technicians, which means
that even simple laboratory equipment is commonly unavailable to researchers due to
the lack of spare parts and the inability of technicians to effect repairs. Numbers of
other unskilled support staff are often excessively high, so that much of the recurrent
budget is spent on salaries, leaving little for research operations. Available funds are
rarely fungible. Although the salaries of research staff compare favorably with other
Ghanaian professionals, they are low by international standards, which makes it
difficult to retain research staff in Ghana. For those who stay, promotion criteria
have until relatively recently been based predominantly on publication of research
findings. This has been a constraint to their involvement in work with extension staff
and farmers that may not lead to publishable material.
(d) Facilities. Inadequate maintenance of facilities during the last 15 years has resulted in
their deterioration, often to a point where they need replacement. Similarly, lack of
investment in both laboratory and field equipment means that most existing equipment
is either non-functioning or obsolete. Of equal importance is the lack of effective
information services, so that none of the institutes or university libraries are able to
provide research workers with access to current literature and research findings
elsewhere in the world. This situation provides a severe constraint to all research
programs.
(e) Funding. The absolute level of funding for agricultural research constrains the overall
size and content of the research program. More significantly, recurrent funding per
researcher, excluding salaries, is only about US$10,000 per year, less than half of
what it was in 1974. This low level of funding for research operations seriously



- 16-
constrains the ability of all research workers to undertake meaningful research
programs.
(f) Research Extension Linkage. The lack of formal linkages between research workers
and extension staff constrains the dissemination of research results. There are
successful models of such linkages in Ghana, such as the system developed under the
GLDP, but it is difficult to extend therr more widely, partly because the system does
not reward researchers for time spent on extension work and partly because of their
cost in terms of funds and manpower resources.
IV. TH-E PROJECT
A. Rationale and Objectives
4.1    The F -oject would support the sectoral objectives set out in the Country Strategy
Paper id in the MTADS. Thus, it would promote accelerated agricultural growth through
improvements in the productivity of crops and livestock and through diversification of farming
systems. This would help to increase agriculture's contribution to rural incomes and
employment, to domestic food supply, to net export earnings, to efficient import substitution
and to government revenues. The project would specifically respond to elements of the
country strategy by increasing production through technology improvements; by developing
the research system as an essential supporting service to the agricultural sector; by improving
the planning, management and budgetary procedures of the agricultural research system; by
human resource development; and by providing a mechanism to improve donor coordination.
Emphasis would be given to the development of processes and institutional arrangements to
ensure that research priorities accord with national development priorities, the needs of
farmers and the sustainable use of Ghana's natural resource base. Other significant project
objectives would be the formulation of a long-term National Agricultural Research Plan
(NARP), the provision of support for the implementation of the NARP through human
resource development, improvements to research facilities and the creation of strong research-
extension linkages leading to the sustained development of improved technology.
B. PWi§gt Design
4.2    The project is designed to contribute to growth in the agricultural sector by ensuring
that research programs are cost-effective and related to agricultural development priorities.
Thus, the project is designed not only to complement existing research programs but also
takes account of proposals to improve extension services, that is, the means of delivering
research results to the farmers, and measures that will improve the supply of necessary inputs,
such as seeds and fertilizere.
4.3    Resear   Stratg. The pioject is designed to initiate a research strategy that builds
on the strengths of the existing research system and addresses the constraints that have been
identified. It would, therefore, involve researchers, extension staff, farmers and political
decision makers in the determination of research priorities and the development of a National
Agricultural Research Plan. This would be dependent on diagnostic surveys that take into
account Pat only technical problems related to a specific commodity, but the sustainable use
of natural and human resources within the farming system as a whole. Thus, the strategy



- 17 -
would be for research to be undertaken with a clear understanding of the existing socio-
economic framework, with particular attention paid to gender specific tasks and
responsibilities within the farming system. The process of identifying priorities would be
consultative rather than top-down and committee-oriented. r-iae strategy for implementation of
agreed priorities would be to assist Government to further develop a core capability for
research, based on approximately the present numbers of research staff. Staff training, the
maintenance of an improved research infrastructure and the provision of adequate operational
funding would be integral to the development of this core capability. The process would be
gradual, so the project can be considered as the first phase of a process which could be
further supported by donor funding in the future. The core capability would, however,
represent Government's long-term commitment to agiicultural research. With improved
research management at national, institute and program levels, the strategy would be to use
resources in the most efficient way by identifying the most appropriate agencies to undertake
research programs in an integrated manner. This pluralistic app,roach would, through the
workings of NARC, in the future involve tile research institutes, the MOA, the universities
and private sector agencies, though there is at present no privately funded research in Ghana.
C. Summary Description
4.4    The project would be implemented over a five year period and would have five
components, listed below with the main activities in each:
-      Research MaPagement Development. The establishment of a National
Agricultural Research Committve (NARC) and its Technical Secretariat to
ensure research priorities are linked to national development priorities, to
develop a National Agricultural Research Plan and to improve the
management of the research system at national, institute and program levels.
-      Human Resource Develogment. The development of research skills of present
and future professional and technical research staff, by the provision of post-
graduate and technical training through long and short courses, with an
emphasis on twinning arrangements to ensure relevance to Ghanaian
conditions.
-     Rehabilitation of Research Facilities. The rehabilitation or completion of
buildings and the provision of equip.nent and transport for research institutes.
The provision of equipment and transport to support agricultural research
programs in the universities. The improvement of facilities at six MOA
stations to serve as Regional Research Stations.
Library and Information Systems. The establishment of the Ghana
Agricultural Information Network System in research institute, university and
MOA libraries.
Rgsear q_Prwgram Sup12o . Support for national research programs identified
as part of the National Agricultural Research Plan through provision of
adequate research facilities and operational funding. Additional funding for
selected field-oriented research programs in pineapple, plantain, soya beans,
cotton and rice. The establishment of a Research Grant Scheme and the



- 18-
development of linkages between research and extension staff and the
producers.
D. Detailed Features
Research Management Development (US$1.8 million)
4.5    The project would support the operation of the National Agricultural Research
Committee (NARC), a sub-committee of the Agricultural Policy Coordinating Committee
(APCC), as the apex body to formulate a national agricultural research policy and to
determine agricultural research priorities at the macro-level. This would include all research
institutes and universities and provide a framework for the development of a National
Agricultural Research Plan. A Technical Secretariat would be established in CSIR to provide
services to the NARC. The development of a management information system, the
establishment of National Commodity Committees and formal external reviews of institutes
and research programs would all be supported as means of improving research management
and coordination. The project would provide for rehabilitation of offices, equipment,
vehicles, local consultancies, a limited amount of Technical Assistance and incremental staff
salaries.
Human Resource Development (US$2.3 million)
4.6    The project would make an important investment in the development of human
resources within the agricultural research system. Identification of the human resources
needed to support the research system is dependent on completion of a human rem: -ce
development plan, itself dependent on the completion of the NARP. 7inance would be
available for post-graduate degree training, both foreign and local In biological and social
sciences. Significant funding would be provided for short courses, acluiding courses in
research management, and for attachments to universities and internat onal research institutes,
together with provision for attendance at conferences and seminars. 'irnining for technical
staff would also be included through special courses and on-the job traving. The emphasis in
all the training provided under the project would be on its relevance v. Ghanaian conditions.
Consequently, twinning arrangements with foreign universities or inst.- `Aions would be
promoted, so that students studving for degrees overseas would do all dieir field work in
Ghana. Funds would also be available to enable students and staff in (;ib naian universities to
benefit from exchange visits by staff from the twinned institutions.
Rehabilitation of Research Facilities (US$9.6 nmillion)
4.7    Research Institutes. The project would finance the improvement o0 research facilities
in five of the CSIR institutes involved in agricultural research. These are the Institutes for
Crops Research (CRI), Food Research (FRI), Aquatic Biology (A1B), Soils Research (SRI)
and Animal Research (ARI). Project funds would be available for the rehabiliation of
existing offices and laboratories, where necessary, ard for the completion of a number of
buildings that have been under construction for some years. The project would also provide
essential equipment and laboratory supplies for the development of a core research capability
in each institute. Major items of equipment have been identified individually and lump-sum
provision made for minor equipment, laboratory glassware and chemicals. Computing
facilities in all institutes would be installed or expanded. The minimum number of vehicles



- 19 -
required to undertake meaningful field research would also be provided, together with tractors
and other field equipment where necessary. Recurrent costs of operation and maintenance
would be financed and the project would also provide funds for necessary field research
equipment and expenses, to ensure that field experiments can be undertaken: these would
include small items such as hand tools, sprayers, protective clotliing and agro-chemicals. The
project would make an important contribution to equipment maintenance, through special
training for instrument technicians, the provision of mobile workshops to the Scientific
Instrument Center, and funding of a Scientific Instrument Engineer under technical assistance
arrangements for the first two years of the project.
4.8    Project support to the SRI would enable SRI staff to undertake soil surveys and to
provide soil analytical services in support of the survey, and on demand from other research
institutes, the MOA and farmers. Other research undertaken at the SRI, and in particular soil
fertility research, appears to duplicate work done at the CRI, which would be financed by
project support to that institute. Another special case is the Animal Research Institute (ARI),
as until very recently, the research program lacked a focus, present facilities are poor and
staff numbers limited. In addition, the new buildings under construction at Katamanso seem
unrelated in size to present program needs and staffing levels. The project would include a
lump-sum allocation for liv-stock research, but disbursement would be dependent on the
completion of a clear program of research work, related to the immediate needs of the sector,
and complementing research being undertaken at the universities. This planning is currently
underway. It would have to be accompanied by a plan for the effective use of space and
facilities available in the ARI and MOA stations.
4.9    Universities. In addition to the Research Grants Scheme (Para. 4.16), the project
would provide limited funding for improvement of research facilities in the three Faculties of
Agriculture and the Institute for Statistics and Social and Economic Research. This would
include finance for minor civil works in existing buildings to make more effective use of
available space, research laboratory equipment and supplies, computers and vehicles for field
work.
4.10   Ministry of Agriculture. Project finance would be made available to the Crop
Services Department of the MOA for the improvement of the six proposed regional research
stations. These would provide services to the research institutes as part of a national strategy
to reduce the number of research stations and minimize the need for each institute to maintain
its own field stations in every ecological zone. Funding for farm development, for the
improvement of office accommodation, simple laboratories, staff housing and for vehicles and
field equipment would be provided. Supporting computing facilities for data analysis would
be provided.
4.11   The project would also finance the purchase of laboratory, oceanographic and fishing
equipment for the Marine Fisheries Research Unit of the MOA. This would enable the Unit
to monitor stocks of important fish species and the impact of various types of fisheries
exploitation on these stocks.
Library and information Systems (US$3.4 million)
4.12   The project would make an important contribution to the development of agricultural
research by improving the library and information systems. The project would finance the



- 20 -
establishment of the Ghana Agricultural Information Network System (GAINS), one of the
sectoral networks within the Ghana Scientific and Technical Information Network
(GHASTINET). GAINS is a means of linking agricultural libraries in research institutes,
universities and the MOA, with the MOA library forming the nodal lit-ary for the system.
The project would finance the development of the MOA library and provide up-to-date library
computer systems using CDROM technology to all the participating libraries, together with
library furniture as necessary. Finance would be available to link GAINS with other
information systems and for subscriptions to scientific journals and the purchase of books.
The range of available books and journals would be considerably increased as GAINS
minimizes the need to duplicate publications. Funding would also be provided for publication
of a Ghanaian agricultural journal, to enable the results of local research to be printed.
Training of library staff in new library and information technology would be an integral part
of the project.
Research Program Support (US$8.8 million)
4.13   The project would provide support for research programs identified as part of the
National Agricultural Research Plan. The formulation of the plan will take about two years,
leading to a modification of some existing research programs, with an increasing focus on
fewer priority topics. The project would, therefore, initially support the on-going program.
Much of this, being relevant, is expected to be retained as part of the future National Plan so
the initial project support to maintain current programs would be both necessary and
appropriate. The project would provide funds, not only for the improvements to research
facilities, described above, but also for the operation and maintenance of these facilities, and
for operational funding for field experimentation. At the same time the project would financ.
an intensification of the research activity on pineapple, plantain and soyabean, and ensure the
continuity of the cotton and bottom-land rice research programs, initiated under the
Agricultural Services Rehabilitation Project. A Research Grants Scheme would also be
established, to enable the research skills available in the Faculties of Agriculture in the three
universities, to actively contribute to the national agricultural research effort in a coordinated
manner. The development of research/extension/producer linkages wculd be fostered as the
project would finance all parts of the research process, from applied research on research
stations and in laboratories, to on-farm adaptive research in participation with MOA staff and
the producers.
4.14   Selected Research Programs. The project would finance five research programs, for
pineapples, plantain, soyabeans, rice and cotton, selected by government on the basis of their
respective contribution to sectoral objectives of exports, food supplies and import substitution.
Each program would also contribute to agricultural development in the major agro-ecological
zones. The selected programs complement on-going research in other important commodities
and contribute to the development of research capabilities in horticulture, staple crops,
legumes, rice and cotton. The selection of these programs is further discussed in Annex 2, in
the light of a number of other criteria for growth and efficiency objectives and for equity and
security objectives. Selection is dependent on the weighting given to various criteria, but for
the purpose of this exercise, the highest weight was given to the availability of donor funding,
that is to say, if donor funds are already available for research into a particular crop, fiurther
specific project support was not considered, even though that crop may be of high priority for
many other reasons. Rice and cotton have been included as donor funding for these programs
ends in 1992. The project intervention has been designed for the coordinated implementation



- 21 -
of the programs by CSIR, the universities, the extension service and the farmers to achieve
the most rapid impact and benefit for the farming community. The programs would mainly
consist of trials on farmers fields with supporting experiments oih research stations and
laboratory analyses. The pineapple research program would be sited in the major growing
area near Accra and would, through on-field research programs improve both yield and
quality of fruit. The plantain research program would focus on the selection of appropriate
cultivars, and the development of technology for propagation, husbandry, pest control and
land management for different production areas. The soy be  research programn would
develop, through testing and selection, varieties adapted to the different agro-ecological zones
and husbandry recommendations suited to various farming systems. Research on processing
methods for home food preparation would also be included. Support for the rice and cotton
research programs would be the provision of recurrent funding for on-going programs, when
present World Bank project support comes to an end in 1992.
4.15   All the programs would involve the participation of CSIR, university and MOA staff
with farmers. Coordination would be the responsibility of the Crops Research Institute (CRI).
The project would provide funds for housing and laboratory rehabilitation; laboratory, office
and field equipment; vehicles; operating expenses, salaries for incremental technical staff and
training. Details of individual programs are presented in Annex 3.
4.16   Research Grants Scheme. The project would provide finance to establish a Research
Grants Scheme. Criteria for the use of these funds in terms of the type of research nd the
types of expenditure is described in Annex 4. They would be primarily for use by the
universities and other competent agencies, to enable them to undertake agricultural research
programs that would contribute to national research priorities as defined by NARC, and that
complement programs being undertaken by other research institutions. The agencies would be
expected to draw up costed proposals for research programs related to the priorities set by the
NARC, which could include operational expenses, the costs of needed equipment, vehicles
and funds to support post-graduate student research activities within the program. The
proposals would be evaluated by a multi-disciplinary Research Grants Board, which would
include representatives from the research institutes, the universities, the MOA and ouler users
of research results. It would be a condition of disbursement of funds for the Research Grants
Scheme that evaluation criteria be defined and agreed with IDA.
4.17   Research/Extension/Producer Linkages. The project would strengthen linkages
between researchers, extension staff and producers by ensuring that researchers, Subject
Matter Specialists, extension staff and the users of research results, the producers, all
participate in the identification of research priorities and the implementation of research
programs through on-farm adaptive trials. All would be involved in diagnostic surveys to
identify the farmers' problems. Research staff, with the assistance of MOA Subject Matter
Specialists would plan and implement necessary on-station research and multi-locational trials
as necessary. Following the on-station testing, researchers and MOA staff would plan on-
farm adaptive trials on a regional basis, but implementation would be dependent on farmer
participation. More details of procedures are presented in Annex 5. The project would
provide funds to ensure that both research and extension staff visit the on-farm trial sites at
least four times during a season. Vehicles and operational funding would be provided under
the selected research programs and general improvement of research facilities. The project
would, therefore, support all the activities necessary to develop a technology to the point that



- 22 -
it has been tested on farmers' fields, so that it is ready for wider use and can be incorporated
in extension programs.
4.18   An important factor contributing to improved linkages would be improved incentives
offered to research staff in recognition of on-farm collaborative work. Inclusion of such work
as a criterion for promotion would be one such incentive, which is already being used, but it
would be given more weight by ensuring that one of the two external assessors on a
promotion board is a representative of the producers. In addition, the project would provide
funds for an annual award to be made to the researcher(s) considered to have made the most
significant contribution to increasing productivity or resolving farmers' problems. The v-ard
would be decided by a Research Prize Committee, which would include a representative of
the research community, the MOA and the producers. The award could be monetary and/or a
national honor, if agreed by Government. In addition to these incentives, institutional
linkages between researchers, MOA staff and producers would be further strengthened by the
establishment of a Research Extension Liaison Committee in each region, chaired by the
Deputy PNDC Secretary for Agriculture. At the national level, linkages would be
strengthened by the fact that extension staff and the producers are represented on the NARC
and on the management boards of the research institutes.
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Proiect Cost Estimates
5.1   Total project costs are estimated at US$29.5 million (Cedis 11.7 billion) inclusive of
duties and taxes in the amount of US$3.0 million (Cedis 1.2 billion). Of this, 67 percent or
US$19.9 million are foreign exchange costs. As a proportion of base costs, investment costs
amount to 66 percent and recurrent costs to 34 percent. The base costs obtained at appraisal
in November 1990 were adjusted to reflect costs at the time the project becomes effective in
October 1991. Total contingencies are 14 percent of base costs with physical contingencies
accounting for 5 percent, and price contingencies for 9 percent calculated on base costs plus
physical contingencies, and compounded annually. The appraisal exchange rate of Cedis 340
to the US Dollar declining to Cedis 415 in 1995, and the following assumptions on the
domestic and international rates of inflation were used to derive the total project cost estimate
International      Pomestic
(percent)         (percent)
1991           2.6              25.0
1992           4.1               5.0
1993-96        3.8               5.0
4/ Source: World Bank guidelines for Ghana as of December 1990. The figures for
international inflation are consistent with the Bank's latest G-5 MUV Index updated
periodically.



- 23 -
5.2   The table below gives a summary of project costs by component. Additional
summary tables on project costs by year, by component, and by summary accounts are
presented in Annex
Project Cost Summary
(US$ Million)
Foreign     Loaw       Total     F
Research Management Development          0.8        1.0        1.8       46
Human Resource Development               2.1        0.2       2.3        92
Rehabilitation of Research Facilities    6.8        2.8       9.6         71
Library and Information Systems          2.1        1.3       3.4        61
Research Program Support                 5.5        3.3       8.8        62
Total Baseline Costs                    17.3        8.6      25.9        67
Physical Contingencies                 0.9       0.5        1.4        63
Price Contingencies                    1.7       0.5        2.2        76
Total Project Costs                     19.9        9.6      29.5        67
B. Proposed Financing Plan
5.3    Of the total project cost of US$29.5 million, the proposed IDA Credit would finance
US$22.0 million excluding duties and taxes, the British ODA US$1.8 million on a grant basis
/ and the GOG US$5.7 million inclusive of duties and taxes. The IDA credit represents 75
percent of total project costs, 91 percent of foreign exchange costs and 41 percent of local
costs: the ODA grant would cover the remaining foreign exchange costs. If duties and taxes
are excluded, the IDA contribution amounts to 83 percent of project costs. Recurrent costs
amount to 34 percent of total costs including contingencies. These would include the
operation and maintenance costs of civil works, vehicles and equipment financed by the
project, and research expenses. IDA would fund about 70 percent of the recurrent costs,
excluding salaries and allowances for incremental staff, which amount to about US$1.0
million over the five-year period. The IDA contribution to recurrent costs is aimed at
achieving a gradual increase in the level of recurrent expenditure per research worker. The
phased decrease in IDA contributions to recurrent costs is detailed in Para 5.12. The
financing plans below present IDA, ODA and GOG contributions.
S/ The British ODA participated in project appraisal and will finance the technical assistance
elements of the project and some associated training. This would provide the technical
assistance related to the development of the research management system and that focused on
improving scientific instrument operation and maintenance. The total ODA contribution may
differ slightly from that shown, due to the different costs of technical assistance used by
ODA.



- 24 -
Proposed Financing Plan by Project Component
(US$ Million)
IDA      ODA        Q;O     IQIAL
Research Management Development             0.8        0.5       0.6        1.9
Human Resource Development                  2.2        0.4         -        2.6
Rehabilitation of Research Facilities       8.8        0.4       2.0       11.2
Library and Information Systems             2.5        0.5       1.0        4.0
Research Program Support                    7.7         --       2.1        9.8
Total 1/                            22.0        1.8       5.7       29.5
1/ Includes duties and taxes of US$3.0 million
Proposed Financing Plan by Foreign Exchange and Local Costs
(US$ Million)
Foreign   Local   Total
IDA                                         18.1    3.9    22.0
ODA                                          1.8      --     1.8
Government of Ghana                           --    5.7      5.7
Total                                19.9    9.6    29.5
C. Procurement
5.4    All goods, works, and services financed under the IDA Credit would be procured in
accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits.
Technical assistance and studies will be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants and training and study tours will be arranged in consultation with IDA
§/. Civil works estimated to cost less than US$250,000 per contract would be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB). The justification
for the proposed LCB for civil works in the amount of US$5.4 million is that much of the
civil works required constitute rehabilitation of widely scattered existing buildings with
relatively little new construction. It is estimated that there would be at least ten contracts and
the size of the average contract would be less than US$250,000. It is likely that foreign firms
would not find such civil works attractive and there are experienced local contractors.
Nonetheless, bids from foreign contractors would be accepted. LCB would also be used for
§/ If ODA finance technical assistance elements of the project, recruitment would be
according to standard ODA procedures.



- 25 -
the procurement of goods estimated to cost more than the equivalent of US$60,000 but less
than US$100,000. International shopping of US$0.7 million for vehicles and US$0.5 million
for equipment and materials appears desirable, since many items in these categories would not
be required at the same time as they would be procured for six different research institutes
and two departments of the MOA.
5.5    Aigeemn was obtained at negotiations that LCB procedures will include local
advertising, public bid opening, clarity of evaluation criteria, award to lowest evaluated bidder
and non-exclusion of foreign bidders who wish to participate. Purchases for groups of items
valued at less than the equivalent of US$60,000 per contract, up to an aggregate not
exceeding the equivalent of US$1.2 million, would be made through international shopping on
the basis of quotations obtained from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines. Goods estimated to cost an equivalent of US$100,000 or more would be procured
through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. All bidding packages and
contract awards estimated at an equivalent of US$100,000 or more would be subject to prior
Bank review. The remaining contracts would be subject to post-review after award of
contracts. Under ICB procurement of goods, a margin of 15 percent of the cif bid price or
actual customs duties, whichever is less, would be allowed as preference to domestic
manufacturers: only a few of the goods purchased through the project will be locally
manufactured, as they consist mainly of scientific equipment and supplies. Procurement
arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(IDA share in parentheses)
(US$ Million)
Procurement Category         ICB           LCB           Other         Total
Civil Works                1.7 (1.1)      3.7 (2.5)        -         5.4 (3.6)
Vehicles                   1.4 (1.4)         -          0.7 (0.5)    2.1 (1.9)
Equipment and Materials    5.2 (4.5)      0.8 (0.7)     0.5 (0.4)    6.5 (5.6)
Technical Assistance &
Studies 1/                           --          1.8 (0.3)    1.8 (0.3)
Training & Study Tours 2/     --             --         2.7 (2.4)    2.7 (2.4)
Research Grant Fund           --             -          1.6 (1.5)    1.6 (1.5)
Operating Costs               --             --         9.4 (6.7)    9.4 (6.7)
Total               8.3 (7.0)      4.5 (3.2)    16.7 (11.8)   29.5 (22.0)
1/ ODA to finance US$1.5 million.
2/ ODA to finance US$0.3 million.
D. Disbursement
5.6    The IDA Credit of US$22.0 million would be disbursed over a period of 6 years
beginning the fourth quarter of IDA FY92 through the end of the third quarter of IDA FY97.
The disbursement schedule is provided in Annex 7. It is shorter than the historical



- 26 -
disbursement profile of eight years for agriculture and rural development projects in Africa.
The six year disbursement period appears realistic since the institutions responsible for
implementing the project are firmly in place, there is a limited need for new construction and
rehabilitation or completion of facilities can be completed rapidly, and an important project
objective is to improve management skills throughout the system. These factors would all
facilitate adherence to the disbursement schedule.
Summary Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
Amount of
Category                     Credit Allocated    % of Expenditure to be Financed
Civil works                         3.2              100% foreign and 45% local
Vehicles                             1.7             100% foreign and 90% local
Equipment & materials               5.1              100% foreign and 90% local
Technical assistance,
training & studies              2.4             100%
Research Grant Fund                  1.4             100% foreign and 50% local
Operating costs 1/                  6.0              100% foreign and 50% local
Unallocated                         2.2
iQal                          22.0
1/  Includes recurrent costs of operation and maintenance of vehicles and equipment, and
laboratory and field research expenses. (See Para 4.7).
5.7   In order to facilitate project implementation and to reduce the volume of withdrawal
applications, two Special Accounts will be opened at a commercial bank on terms and
conditions acceptable to the IDA. These accounts will be operated respectively by the CSIR
and the MOA, the two implementing agencies, to execute components for which they have
responsibility. An initial advance of US$800,000 equivalent in the case of CSIR and
US$300,000 equivalent for MOA will be authorized and can be withdrawn upon credit
effectiveness. These advances cover about four months eligible expenditures.
5.8    Replenishment requests will be submitted monthly. Each request will be fully
documented except for contracts of less than US$20,000 equivalent which will be made on the
basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). All supporting documents will be retained by
CSIR and MOA and made readily available for review by periodic Bank supervision missions
and external auditors.
5.9    Whenever possible, withdrawal applications would be aggregated in amounts of not
less than US$50,000. The same limit applies to direct payments. CSIR will have
responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications for all CSIR institutes, while
MOA will cover activities related to the Regional Research Centers. The Project
Coordinating Section in the Technical Secretariat will have sole responsibility for submitting
the withdrawal applications to IDA for payment.



- 27 -
S.10   Government will establish two Agricultural Research Project accounts with local
commercial banks, one each for the CSIR and MOA, which will receive the Government
funding contribution and would be used to make payments for the implementation of the
project. Government will pay its contribution, monthly and in advance into these accounts.
It will be a condition of proiect effectiveness that Government deposits in Cedis, the
equivalent of US$100,000 in the CSIR project account and US$30,000 equivalent in the MOA
project account, the estimated Government contribution for financing the local operating and
capital costs for the first two months of the project.
E. Auditing and Reportine
5.11   With respect to auditing and reporting, agreement was reached at negotiations that all
accounts related to the project would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable
to IDA. In addition to the auditors reports and statements of accounts, a long audit report,
that is, financial statements and a management letter, will be prepared. These auditors reports
would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the fisca! year of the Government.
Semi-annual progress reports covering all its institutes would be submitted to IDA by the
CSIR, and by MOA for the Regional Agricultural Research Centers. Within six months of
the project closing date a Project Completion Report (PCR) assessing project implementatio i
and achievements would be prepared by the Government and submitted to IDA. Assurances
on these auditing and reporting requirements were obtained at negotiations.
F. Financial Implications
5.12   Given the shortage of funding for agricultural research and its decline in real terms
over the years, the project has important implications for budgetary provision. Annual
recurrent expenditure on research must be related to the needs of the National Agricultural
Research Plan. Incremental recurrent expenditure resulting from the project would amount to
about US$2.3 million in the final year of the project. This is consistent with MTADS
projections for research expenditure as it represents about 25% of the total recurrent
expenditure projected for 1995. Government's contribution to these recurrent costs would be
based on a phased increase over the project period. Thus, IDA would finance about 80% of
recurrent costs in the first year of the project falling to about 50% in the fifth year of the
project. Government's contribution to the incremental costs would, therefore rise from
US$0.3 million to US$1.1 million. This phased increase is not inconsistent with disbursement
schedule shown in Para. 5.6 as the Government contribution includes some expenditure, such
as staff salaries, that is not included for cost sharing with IDA.
5.13   The figures for recurrent expenditure reflect an increase in operational funding per
researcher year from the present inadequate levels to about US$32,000 2/. This figure
assumes that present Government expenditure of research would be maintained at its present
level in real terms. The estimated amount of US$32,000 per researcher year approaches the
2/ This figure is a tentative estimate obtained as follows: the recurrent project cost estimate
in PY5 of US$ 2.4 million is first added to the current CSIR budget in 1995 prices, exclusive
of salaries and allowa..ces, and this total is then divided by the number of researcher years
assumed for the project.



- 28 -
figure of US$34,000 per researcher year that has been found to be appropriate for the
effective research programs in other developing countries. (See Para. 3.15).
5.14   In order to further develop the national agricultural research system and to maintain
the momentum of research activities developed through the project, there will be a continuing
need for investment in research and a commitment by Government to provision of adequate
recurrent expenditure beyond the five-year project period. The project is designed as the first
phase of a long-term effort to develop agricultural research capabilities in Ghana (para 4.3).
With the experience gained during the propused project appropriate mechanisms for future
phasing of Government funding for agricultural research can be developed with further donor
support.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
6.1   The organization of the project would be fully integrated with the coordination and
management of the research system at national, research institution and program levels. This
is illustrated in Figure 1, showing planning and coordination of research programs centered
on NARC, linked to the Institute Management Boards and Faculties of Agriculture, advised
by National Commodity Committees. Once priorities have been set by the NARC, detailed
program management would be the direct responsibility of the Directors of the Institutes,
supported by Program and Budget Sub-Committees, or of the Deans of the Faculties. Project
support for the management and implementation of research would involve both CSIR and the
MOA, so a Project Steering Committee, supported by the Technical Secretariat, would
oversee the timely management of project activities by research organizations. The system is
designed to avoid committees with overlapping responsibilities so that project implementation
can proceed without multiple review by committee. The development of the research
management system is first discussed below. The way in which the system would operate for
the planning and coordination of research is then described. This is followed by a description
of the management of project funded activities within the framework of the national
management system.
B. Development of the Research Management System
6.2    The National Agricultural Research Comm.ittee (NARC). The project would support
the operation of the National Agricultural Research Committee, a s >'-committee of the
Agricultural Policy Coordinating Committee (APCC), a high-level inter-ministerial committee
dealing with coordination of policies affecting the agricultural sector. NARC would be
chaired by the Deputy Secretary, MOA, with representatives from the research community,
the users of research results and involved ministries and wou!d be set-up in consultation with
the CSIR. The membership and terms of reference for the NARC are prcsented in Annex 8.
The establishment of the NARC would be a condition of project effectiveness. It would be
responsible for the development and approval of a national agricultural research policy and a
medium-term agricultural research plan, with research priorities and resource allocation linked
to national development objectives. The Committee would also approve an annual composite,
budgeted national program of agricultural research for submission to the MFEP, to include
not only the CSIR institutes, but also those such as CRIG and FPRI which are funded from



- 29 -
other sources. The membership of the NARC is designed to enable it to meet such
responsibilities.
6.3    The Technical Secretariat to NARC. A Technica! Secretariat would be established as
an integral part of the long-term structure of CSIR to provide services to the NARC. Its
structure, main functions and job descriptions for senior staff are presented in Annex 2. The
Head of the unit would be a Deputy Director General of CSIR who has already been
appointed. He would be responsible for agricultural research matters and be the Secretary to
NARC. The Technical Secretariat would consist of three sections, a Planning and Priorities
Section (PPS), a Secretariat and Monitoring Section (SMS), and a Project Coordinating
Section (PCS), each headed by an officer not below the rank of a Principal Research Officer.
The establishment of the Technical Secretariat and appointment of the Heads of Sections
would be a condition of project effectiveness. PPS would be responsible for development of a
methodology for determining research priorities at the national, institute and program levels
and subsequently, for preparing the National Agricultural Research Plan, based on agreed
national priorities. It would also submit policies and options for consideration by NARC. It
would be responsible for the preparation of a manpower development plan for the agricultural
research system, related to the needs of the National Agricultural Research Plan. This section
would, in the long term be responsible for planning resource allocation to meet the priority
research needs determined by NARC and hence, for the introduction of programmed
budgeting procedures. SMS would be responsible for the development of a management
information system, the Ghana Agricultural Research Information Service (GARIS), that
would include an inventory of current research programs. It would also be respcesible for
monitoring and evaluation, and organizing external reviews of institutes and programs. It
would be the secretariat for the Research Grants Board (See below) and for National
Commodity Research Committees. Technical Secretariat staff would be assisted in these tasks
by short-term local consultants and technical assistance staff. The PCS would be responsible
for project administration within the CSIR system. It would comprise pro"urement and
accounts divisions for the administration of project procurement and funding. It would also
include a Training Division to administer scholarships and other training awards that form
part of the substantial effort to develop human resources.
6.4   Institute Management. Responsibility for the management of the research institutes
would continue, as at present, with their Management Boards. However, to ensure that the
boards have a more active role in the planning and management of research programs, rather
than merely their administration, the Terms of Reference for the Boards would be altered.
To ensure that the needs of users are reflected in the planned programs, the membership of
the Boards have already been modified. Revised Terms of Reference and membership for the
institute Management Boards are presented in Annex 10. Board decisions on research
program priorities and the allocation of resources would be taken in the light of overall
priorities set by the NARC. A Programming and Budgetary Sub-committee of the Board
would undertake a more detailed review of programs, using appropriate checklists, or other
agreed methods to determine the priurities at institute level.
6.5    Within the priorities identified for an institute, development of actual research
programs would be the responsibility of the research scientists, as at present. However, each
Director would chair an Institute Research Committee to review proposals before they are
submitted to the Board. This would be essentially a multi-disciplinary team of research
scientists, including agricultural economists, to ensure balanced research programs and that



- 30 -
the quality of research being planned is high. It would be supported by reviewing groups for
specific commodities or factors, as required. Most Directors already undertake some such
review on an informal basis, so the proposed Research Committee would formalize the
procedure. Assurances were obtained at project negotiations that the necessary modifications
to the institute management would be introduced by April 1992.
6.6   Programmed Budgeting. On the basis of research priorities decided by the NARC
and an indication of the costs and the likely funding available for agricultural research, from
both government and donors, an approximate allocation of resources would be made between
institutions and commodities, resulting in a commodity-institution matrix. Once tentative
allocations have been decided by the NARC, institutes, research stations and universities
would formulate costed programs and experiments, which would form the basis of budget
proposals. These would be brought together by either CSIR and the MOA as composite
budgets for submission to the MFEP. Budgets of institutes would be considered in relation to
national priorities on commodities, regions, etc. Capital and recurrent budgets would be
prepared separately, as required at present, but would be considered as one budgetary
proposal. The proportion of the recurrent budget devoted to personal emoluments would be
discussed in relation to the overall budget. These changes would relate budgets to research
programs determined by national priorities and provide a means for MFEP to reach decisions
on the allocation of resources as part of the national review of public expenditure in the
agriculture sector. Assuranges were obtained during project negotiations that CSIR and the
relevant parts of the MOA budgets would be reviewed with IDA in September of each year to
relate costed research programs to identified priorities: this process would not duplicate the
wider sectoral public expenditure review. The PPU of the Technical Secretariat would be
responsible for developing the programmed budgeting system, with consultant assistance as
necessary. Application of recently developed budgetary norms for common expenditure
categories would be an important part of this process. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that such changes woul:' be introduced by September, 1992, so that the budget to
be reviewed by IDA at the start of the second year of the project, as part of the Public
Expenditure Review Procoss, would be based on programmed budgeting and would be fully
operational in subsequent years.
6.7   MQnitoring. Evaluation and External Review. The SMU of the Technical Secretariat
would be responsible, with consultant assistance, for developing the Ghana Agricultural
Research Information Service (GARIS).  This would be a computerized information system
in whicn research would be described and costed so that information could be retrieved by
commodity, discipline, agro-ecological zone, institute or researcher. It would make it
possible to see the up-to-date cost of research in Ghana in one commodity, in one research
area or in one institute. It would also provide information about the status of research
programs and their application. Initially, a series of reviews of current research in Ghana
would be undertaken to provide essential inputs to GARIS. In subsequent years, reports from
each research program or project would be submitted in a standard format to be added to the
GARIS database. These reports would be additional, though linked to, annual institute
reports. The service would, thus, be an essential tool to monitor research, that is to
determine whether it is proceeding according to plan and in line with original agreed
objectives and priorities. Subsequently, GARIS reports would be used to evaluate research
programs.



- 31 -
6.8    Every institute would be subject to external review once every five years. Timing
would be arranged so that not more than two CSIR institutes would be subject to review in
any one year. The reviews would be undertaken by a panel of not more than six local
consultants, together with two eminent scientists, provided under technical assistance
arrangements and the participation of IDA. The review would cover research programs and
their results, staffing and management procedures to assess the t ffectiveness of the research in
terms of its contribution to the priorities set by the NARC and to national development
objectives. The review team would make recommendations for any necessary changes to
programs and staffing levels.
C. Research Planning and Coordination
6.9    Me¢hodology for Setting Priorities. One of the major functions of the NARC would
be to decide on priorities for allocation of limited research resources. A systematic
methodology for assessing the priorities is needed, however, to ensure the most efficient use
of these resources. Methods must be based on sound economic principles and be suitable for
setting priorities at national, institute and program levels. A number of different methods
have been developed elsewhere, ranging from the use of simulation models and mathematical
programming, through cost-benefit analysis, to weighted scoring of multiple criteria and
simpler checklists. These are described in Annex 2 and the weighted scoring method is
applied to a number of crops in Ghana to illustrate the application of this particular method.
The PPU of the Technical Secretariat would be responsible for developing methodologies for
setting priorities, in close consultation with researchers, economists and users. The method
eventually selected as appropriate for Ghana must provide a systematic means of deciding
research priorities. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that proposals for a
methodology would be available for review by IDA by September, 1992.
6.10 The National Agricultural Research Plan. A National Agricultural Research Plan
would be developed, on the basis of agreed research priorities. The plan would be approved
by the NARC but its development would be the responsibility of the PPU in the Technical
Secretariat. National Commodity Research Comm ttees (Annex 1 11) would be established to
assist the NARC in deciding on priorities and programs, whilst the research institute
Management Boards would contribute to the deta.led development of the plan. Reviews of the
present status of research on commodities and factors of production, to be undertaken for the
development of GARIS (See 6.7), *vould be an important step in formulating the plan. This
would be paralleled by a systematic analysis of the constraints affecting production, to identify
those which could be overcome by research and those which are due to factors that would
require action in areas other than research. '-is would require a clear understanding of the
farming system and the socio-economic frami.dork. The process of developing the plan
would be iterative and dynamic, depending on the results of field-level diagnostic surveys
involving farmers, extension staff, agricultural economists and research scientists as discussed
in Annex 5. It would be a consultative process so that the plan would evolve with both
changing needs and improving research capabilities. The assistance of SPAAR and IARCs
would be actively sought in the development of the plan. The plan would be formulated over
the first two years of the project and assurances were obtained at negotiations that a draft plan
would be available for IDA review by May, 1993, and completed four months later.
6.11   The Human Resource Development Plan. As the National Agricultural Research Plan
is developed, the human resources required for its implementation would become clear. The



- 32 -
PPU of the Technical Secretariat would be responsible, with consultant assistance, for the
formulation of a Human Resources Development Plan to meet the needs of the agricultural
research system. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Human Resources
Development Plan would be available for review by IDA at the same time as the National
Agricultural Research Plan, that is, by May, 1993. However, in order to make fill use of the
funding available, it is necessary to identify a program of training for the first year of the
project. The preparation of this program would be a condition of proiect effectiveness. An
important part of this plan would be a further review of recruitment and promotion criteria for
researchers, to ensure that work that leads to the development and dissemination of new
technology for producers would be recognized, and that promotion not be dependent purely
on the production of refereed scientific publications. To further strengthen such recognition,
one of the two external assessors on promotion boards should be a representative of the MOA
Extension Department. Assurances were obtained that procedures and criteria for promotion
of research staff would be available for IDA review in parallel with the Human Resources
Development Plan. Another important element of the Human Resources Development Plan
would be steps to improve the ratio of technical staff to research staff and to reduce the
numbers of other supporting staff. Government commitment to improve ratios between
resear.h, technical and support staff will also be sought.
6.12   Research Coordination. The NARC would provide a mechanism to ensure the
coordination of research between institutes, universities, the MOA and other agencies.
Control would be exerted through the fact that NARC would have authority for allocation of
budgetary releases in line with agreed priorities. NARC would coordinate donor assistance
for agricultural research and would ensure that external funding was both consistent with the
National Agricultural Research Plan and complementary to on-going programs. Participation
in international and regional research efforts would also be coordinated through NARC and
the Technical Secretariat. Linkages would be strengthened by visits of Ghanaian scientists to
international and neighboring country institutes, and vice versa, and project funds have been
allocated specifically for this purpose. This would increase the awareness of research
undertaken elsewhere, encouraging researchers to adapt and modify results to increase their
relevance to Ghanaian conditions.
D. PrQiect Management
6.13   The Project Steering Committee. To ensure coordination of activities between the
involved agencies, a Project Steering Committee would be established, chaired by the PNDC
Deputy Secretary for Agriculture and forming an executive committee of the NARC. Its
membership is presented in Annex 12. The Committee would meet at least twice per year to
review progress and resolve outstanding issues. It would be responsible for ensuring that the
various agencies meet the obligations and assurances agreed during project negotiations. In
particular, the Committee would ensure that each research institute introduces the proposed
changes in management and budgeting procedures, and the preparation of annual plans for
improvement of research facilities and for research programs. The Project Steering
Committee would be established by the date of proiect effectiveness.
6.14   Human Resource Development. Project funds available for a wide range of in-
country and foreign training activities have not been allocated by institute, or by discipline.
This would provide the flexibility to meet the human resource needs of the National
Agricultural Research Plan, identified in the associated Human Resources Development Plan.



- 33 -
Selection of trainees and senior staff making study visits or attending seminars, would be done
by a Training Committee, chaired by the Head of the Technical Secretariat, whose
membership would include the Director, PPMED, MOA, a Director of one of the CSIR
Institutes and a Dean of one of the Faculties of Agriculture. The Training Officer in the
Technical Secretariat would be the secretary to the Training Committee and responsible for
preparation of an annual training plan, to be reviewed with IDA by June of each year.
However, training needs for the first year of the project would be identified three months
prior to project effectiveness. The Training Officer would also be responsible for
administration of training awards, making sure that trainees received awards and that travel
arrangements were made in a timely manner. An important part of the strategy would be to
promote twinning arrangements with foreign institutions, so assurances were obtained at
project negotiations that university proposals for such twinning would be available for review
by Government and IDA by March, 1992.
6.15   Rehabilitation of Research Facilities. Annual plans would be prepared by June of
each year by each institute for the completion of buildings and for other civil works. These
plans would be reviewed by the Technical Secretariat, prior to submission to the Bank.
Annual procurement schedules and standard bid documents would also be prepared under the
guidance of the Procurement Officer in the PCU. The Procurement Officer would be
identified three months prior to the effective date of the project so that he can be trained in
Bank procurement procedures. Funds for improvement of university facilities would be
administered in the same way as funds for research institutes. Funds for the improvement of
facilities for livestock research in the Animal Research Institute and Government and
university stations have been provided and provisionally allocated to different cost categories.
Any necessary adjustments would be agreed by IDA and Government once a clear program of
work for the sub-sector '. been prepared. This program and a plan for where the program
would be undertaken, maikng effective use of space and facilities available at the ARI, the
universities and the MOA would be completed and reviewed by IDA by April 1992.
6.16   The Regional Research Stations would be the responsibility of the MOA and project
funding would be channelled through the Ministry. Annual plans for civil works and
schedules for procurement would be required, but the administration would be the
responsibility of a Procurement Officer within the PPMED of the MOA. The officer would
be identified for training, three months prior to the effective date of the project. A
Memorandum of Understanding would be drawn up between the CSIR and the MOA, to
indicate the services that the Regional Research Centers would provide to the national
research institutes and the charges to be levied for these services. Assuranc was obtained
during negotiations that such a Memorandum of Understanding would be signed by December
1991. Support for these stations is provided as part of a national strategy to minimize the
number of research stations. Assurances were obtained that by September, 1992, agricultural
research would be concentrated in 13 national and six regional stations identified in the CSIR
report on the Rehabilitation of the Agricultural Research System (Para. 3.23).
6.17 Library and Information Systems. Project proposals for the establishment of GAINS
would be dependent on training of existing library staff in modern library technology. Two
fellowships would be available to enable university staff to obtain training in the most up-to-
date technology, so that they can then train local library staff. Initially, the nodal point for
GAINS would be at the GHASTINET headquarters in CSIR, with the CSIR librarian acting as
the GAINS coordinator. Staff would be trained during the first two years of the project,



- 34 -
when responsibility for coordination would be transferred to the MOA and the Ministry
library would become the nodal library for the network. This would require construction of a
new MOA library building for which project funds have been allocated. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that architectural plans for the new building and contract
documentation would be completed by the date of the project mid-term review. Procedures
for civil works and procurement of equipment would be as for other research facility
improvements, CSIR research institutes and the universities working through the PCU of the
Technical Secretariat, and the MOA through the PPMED Procurement Officer. As the
primary objective of GAINS is the establishment of a network, compatibility of equipment in
all participating libraries is essential.
6.18   Research Program Support. The project would provide support to research programs
through the rehabilitation and operation of research facilities and the funding of selected
programs. The Directors of Institutes and Departments would have the primary responsibility
for preparing annual plans and for implementation of rehabilitation works funded through the
project. Similarly, the Directors, working within the priorities established by the NARC and
guided by the Institute Management Boards and Commodity Committees, would be
responsible for planning and implementation of research programs and the allocation of
operational funds.
6.19   Selected Research Programs. Coordination of the research programs for pineapple,
plantain, soyabean, rice and cotton would be the responsibility of the CRI. Each would be
headed by a Program Coordinator, who would draw up an annual program of trials, together
with collaborating scientists from the universities and the MOA. Funding for the programs
would be channelled through the CRI, who would make payments for allowances and other
expenses to the other agencies. Assurances were obtained at project negotiations that the
program coordinators would be appointed and the National Committees for the first three
commodities would be established by December, 1991. Coordinators for rice and cotton
research programs are already in place. Detailed research programs for the first year would
also be agreed with IDA by December 1991 and by September for subsequent years.
6.20   The Research Grant Scheme. The RGS would be administered by a Research Grants
Board, working through the Technical Secretariat. The Board would h.ave a membership of
ten, four from the CSIR, including the Chairman, the Head of the Technical Secretariat, three
from the MOA and three from the universities. Specialists would be co-opted to the
comsnittee if necessary, to review particular programs. The first task of the Board would be
to agree criteria for assessing the types of research program and expenditure eligible for
support through the RGS. Suggested criteria are presented in Annex 4, together with
procedures for the administration of the Scheme. The proposed criteria for the type of
research include its relevance to the priorities established by NARC, the likelihood of
producing results of immediate use to producers, the probability of obtaining results within
three years and its complementarity with on-going research in Ghana or elsewhere. The
approach, methodology and cost would be additional criteria. The types of expenditure
eligible for support would include equipment, vehicles, operational expenses and scholarships
for post-graduate students participating in the proposed program. Staff salaries and civil
works would not be eligible for financing through the RGS. Assurances were obtained during
project negotiations that the RGB would be established by project effectiveness and methods
for assessing research proposals agreed with IDA, prior to disbursement of research grant
funds. The first four proposals would also be reviewed in detail by IDA after a pre-review



- 35 -
by the RGB. Following review and approval by the Board, procurement of specified items
would be done by the Procurement Officer in the Technical Secretariat. Funds for operational
expenses would be transferred to a dedicated account, set up by the implementing agency.
The percentage of funds allocated to University Faculties of Agriculture and to other agencies
would be monitored. The Board would review progress with research funded through the
RGS on an annual basis, prior to the release of funding for the next year's work.
6.21   Research/Extension/Producer Linkages. Project f;'nding to enable farmers and
extension staff to participate in the design and implementation of research programs would be
administered through the research institutes, as part of their operational research budget.
Allocation of funds would be made by the PCS in relation to costed proposals put forward by
each institute, linked to priorities set by NARC. The funds would provide for daily
allowances for both research and MOA staff partiLipating in on-farm adaptive research trials,
and would be paid through the institutes. Transport for research staff would be provided as
part of the project support to the institutes, whilst transport for extension staff and Subject
Matter Specialists is to be provided under the National Extension Project.
E. Mid-tem and Completion Revie'vs
6.22   No later than 30 months after the project becomes effective a joint MOA, CSIR, and
Bank project review would be held. To facilitate this review, the Technical Secretariat would
prepare a mid-term project report, to be distributed to all participants four weeks prior to the
start of the review. The group would review progress in the development of the research
management system and the National Agricultural Research Plan, the implementation of
selected research programs and the Research Grant Scheme, the improvement to research
facilities, the human resource development program and the establishment of GAINS.
Assuranc  were obtained at negotiations, that the mid-term review would take place not later
than June 1994.
6.23   The project completion review would focus on the achievements of the project and its
impact in relation to its objectives. In particular, consideration would be given to the
effectiveness of the research management system in deciding and implementing priority
research programs, with appropriate resource allocations and its responsiveness to the views
of users of research results. The review would also examine the impact of research programs
in terms of the adoption of new technology by producers. The effectiveness of the Research
Grant Scheme in tapping the skills of university researchers would be examined. In the light
of the findings, recommendations would be made for future development of the agricultural
research system in Ghana. A project compl(Iion report would be prepared presenting findings
and recommendations. The review team wouid be headed by a member of the NARC and
would include two Ghanaian scientists and two from international research organizations or
SPAAR. Terms of reference for the team and its membership would be agreed with the Bank
and report submitted to the Bank no later than six months after completion of the project.
F. Technical Assistance
6.24   The project would finance, under technical assistance arrangements, specialists in
those fields which are important to successful project implementation and in which Ghanaian
skills are lacking. The assistance would complement project-funded local consultancies. The
British ODA will finance both short and long-term technical assistance staff, who will be



- 36 -
recruited in consultation with CSRI and MOA. Advertisement and recruitment procedures for
appointments to be made in the first year of the project would be started ;mmediately after
Board presentation.
6.25   Details of project provisions for internationally recruited staff and local consultants,
together with the timing of their inputs are summarized in Annex 13. There would be about
215 months of short-term consultancies over the five-year project period. About 60 percent
of these would be local consultancies. This short-term assistance would be provided in two
main fields. The first would be in the development of the National Agricultural Research
Plan, involving the development of a methodology for priority setting, the application of the
methodology to formulate the plan, and associated human resource planning. A total of 16
months of assistance would be available during the first two years of the project, mainly as
short-term inputs of about three months. Linked to this would be the development of an
appropriate management information system and monitoring and evaluation procedures, with
18 months of assistance spread over the whole project period. The second main area in which
technical assistance would be provided would be in Human Resource Development. Funds
would be available for staff of twinned institutions to make visits to Ghana, to hold courses in
special subjects, to supervise graduate students, or to assist with curriculum development. A
third important field for technical assistance would be in instrument technology. The project
would finance the appointment of an internationally recruited instrument engineer for two
years to assist with the installation of the substantial amounts of laboratory equipment financed
under the project. He would actively train the present technicians in the operation and
maintenance of the equipment. Terms of reference for this long-term appointment are
presented in Annex 13. Short-term assistance would also provide specialist advice for the
aquaculture research program.
G. Implementation Schedule and Supervision
6.26   A bar chart showing the implementation schedule for key activities is presented in
Annex I4. During the first two years of the project, emphasis would be given to improving
the management of research, through the establishment of NARC and the Technical
Secretariat, the formation of National Commodity Committees and changes to the operation of
the Institute Management Boards. At the same time, a review of the current status of research
and the development of an agreed methodology for setting priorities would lead to the
formulation of a National Agricultural Research Plan and associated Human Resources
Development Plan, in the second year of the project. The development in the early part of
the project of a management information system, GARIS, the introduction of programmed
budgeting and the development of monitoring and evaluation procedures would also assist
with the improvement of research management.
6.27   An early start to the human resource development component of the project would
require the appointment of the Training Committee to identify trainees, at both graduate and
technician levels. Candidates identified immediately would begin their training in the first
year of the project. Twinning arrangements between universities and outside agencies would
be agreed twelve months after project effectiveness. In the light of these arrangements and



- 37 -
needs emerging from the preparation of the National Agricultural Research Plan, the Training
Committee would prepare annual training plans to ensure candidates are selected in a timely
fashion, for the duration of the project.
6.28   Most of the civil works financed through the project involve rehabilitation of existing
buildings and this would be undertaken during the first two years, based on annual
construction plans. New building construction would proceed at the same time, following
government standards. The new MOA library would not be started until the fourth year of
the project, allowing time for staff training and the initial establishment of GAINS in the
GHASTINET headquarters building. The majority of vehicles and equipment would be
procured during the first two years of the project, but some e. ,,ment would be required in
subsequent years.
6.29   The research programs for pineapple, soya beans and plantain, would be initiated in
the first year of the project. The early appointment of Program Coordinators and
participating researchers would enable annual plans for the research program plans to be
prepared rapidly. Early procurement of vehicles would be necessary to provide researchers
with mobility, but the field program would be started before completion of equipment
procurement and the rehabilitation of buildings. Project funding for the rice and cotton
research programs would be made available as funding from the ASRP came to an end.
Other on-going research programs would be reviewed by the NARC in the context of the
National Agricultural Research Plan, and modified as necessary in the second and subsequent
years of the project.
6.30   It would be important for the successful operation of the Research Grant Scheme that
the Research Grants Board be established and criteria for assessing research proposals be
agreed during the first year of the project. Disbursement of these grants to the universities
would start in the second year of the project. Similarly, agreements on the method by which
research institutes would make payments to extension staff, who cooperate in on-farm
adaptive research would be agreed at the start of the project. Annual plans would be prepared
with the involved MOA staff, setting out the program of trials and the expected inputs from
Subject Matter Specialists and extension staff.
6.31   Project supervision would be closely linked to the implementation schedule discussed
here and be linked to a number of key indicators. Details of the timing of supervision
missions and the key indicators are presented in Annex 15. There would be three visits in the
first year of the project to provide close supervision and assistance during the critical start-up
period. Subsequently, the main supervision mission would coincide with the review of the
following year's research program and plan for rehabilitation of facilities in the second quarter
of the calendar year. There would be one additional supervision visit in the fourth quarter of
the second to fifth project years. In addition to the usual indicators of physical and financial
progress, which are related to the implementation and disbursement schedules and to the
detailed cost tables, supervision would monitor key indicators of progress in the development
of the research management system, human resource development, the research programs
themselves and the creation of research extension linkages. Supervision would involve review
of research programs and associated costs, but would not duplicate the mechanisms being
establishei for review of public expenditure in the sector and the economy as a whole. The
Technical Secretariat of NARC, in particular, the unit responsible for monitoring and
evaluation would play a key role in these supervision activities.



- 38 -
VII. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Justification
7.1    The project would support a key element of the Government's strategy for the
agricultural sector, as articulated in the Medium Tenit Agricultural Development Strategy,
providing for research in technology that would lead to sustained growth in the sector. The
project would ensure that Ghana's previous investments in agricultural research infrastructure
and trained manpower would be fully utilized. Improvements to the research management
system would lead to the identification of research priorities that reflect development
objectives and the needs of the farmer. The long-term framework for research provided
through the development of a National Agricultural Research Plan, assured operational
funding and rehabilitation of essential research infrastructure would enhance the quality of
research. By facilitating information flows from farmers to researchers and vice versa, the
improved research/extension linkages supported by the project would further improve the
relevance of on-going and planned research programs.
7.2    Economic rate of return calculations for an agricultural research project are not very
meaningful, as the nature of research achievements and the rate and extent of their adoption
by farmers is impossible to predict and will vary from one agro-ecological zone to another.
In addition, not all production increases could be attributed to newly developed technologies
as they would be dependent on the provision of other inputs. An important part of the
improved management system would be the evaluation of the economic returns to various
research programs.
B. Risks
7.3    A slowing down or reversal of the pace of economic recovery that would affect
economic growth and lead to shortfalls in operational funding would adversely affect the
project. Another risk relates to the effectiveness of mechanisms to ensure that research is
responsive to both development priorities and the needs of farmers, but agreements have been
reached on the status, membership, terms of reference and operating procedures for a
coordinating committee to achieve these objectives. At the same time the project would
develop closer linkages between researchers, extension staff and farmers. Unsatisfactory
quality of research is one further risk, but this would be minimized through project support
for manpower development and training and linkages with international research institutes.
7.4   Project finance would be provided to support research into five crops, pineapple,
plantain, soyabeans, rice and cotton. Their selection has been discussed in Chapter 4 and in
Annex 2, where a range of criteria have been considered in relation to these and a number of
other crops. Weights have been allocated to the criteria and there is a risk that when
weightings are finalized, during the preparation of the National Agricultural Research Plan,
they will not correspond to the weightings used here. This risk is minimized by the fact that
the weightings do not aim to establish absolute priorities, but rather to decide whether crops
selected by Government for project support would be of sufficient priority to be included in
any future National Agricultural Research Plan. The range of crops has been reduced
because, in order to avoid duplication, the greatest weight has at this stage, been given to the
existence of other donor funding. The risk is minimized by the fact that other weightings



39 -
have been based on experienced expert judgement and discussion with Government staff and
producers.
C. Environmental Effects
7.5    The project would support research programs aimed at increasing the sustainability of
agriculture within individual agro-ecological zones. Consideration of appropriate natural
resource management pratices would, therefore, be a fuindamental input to the design of all
project supported programs. Thus research on simple techniques for soil and water
conservation and the maintenance of soil fertility, on improvements to traditional mixed or
rotational cropping systems and on systems that integrate forestry and livestock with cropping
would all safeguard the environment. In addition, research on disease and insect tolerant
varieties, coupled with integrated pest management systems would minimize the use ot
agricultural chemicals.
D. Impact on Women
7.6   The project would ensure that agricultural research responds to the needs of women as
some of the criteria for assessing research priorities would include factors that relate
commodities or technologies to their importance to women. Thus the criteria presented in
Annex 2 include a specific assessment as to whether a crop is produced primarily by women.
Other criteria would include the nutritional value of the crop and the percentage of a typical
family budget devoted to the purchase of a commodity. In addition to the use of such criteria
in the planning of research, the emphasis given in the project to the involvement of producers
in the analysis of constraints and the implementation of on-'arm adaptive research programs
would ensure that women's needs are considered, as many Ghanaian farms are run principally
by women. This would be reinforced by the integration of extension services to ensure that
both men and women extension workers deal with both men and women farmers. Women
also play an important role in the research system itself and there are no barriers to the
promotion of women to senior posts. This is illustrated by the fact that the Director of CRIG,
one of the most important research institutes in Ghana, was until recently a woman.
Vill. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
8.1    During negotiations with Government the following assurances and agreements were
obtained:
Conditions of Project Effectiveness
(a)    The National Agricultural Research Committee would be established (Para.
6.2);
(b)    The Technical Secretariat would be established and the Section Heads
appointed (Para. 6.3);
(c)    The Project Steering Committee would be established (Para. 6.13);



- 40 -
(d)    A program of training to be undertaken during the first year of the project
would be prepared and agreed with IDA (Para 6. 11);
(e)    The Research Grants Board would be established (Para. 6.20);
(f)    Govertunent would establish Agricultural Research Project Accounts i, the
CSIR and MOA and would pay an initial amount of US$100,000 equivalent
for CSIR and US$30,000 equivalent for MOA with subsequent contributions
paid monthly and in advance into these accounts (Para. 5. 10);
Conditions of Disbursement
(a)    Disbursement of funds under the Research Grants Scheme would depend on
the agreement with IDA on criteria for assessing research proposals for grant
funding. The first four proposals would be reviewed by IDA (Para. 6.20);
Other Assurances
(a)    Government's incremental contributions would be, provided in line with the
agreedi financing plan (Para. 5.3);
(b)    A draft National Agricultural Research Plan would be available for IDA
review by May 1993 and completed four months later. (Para. 6.10). This
would require that a methodology for setting priorities be available for review
Dy IDA by September 1992 (Para. 6.9);
(c)    A draft Human Resources Development Plan reflecting the needs of the
National Agricultural Research Plan would be available for IDA review by
May 1993 and completed four months later. Procedures and criteria for
promotion of staff undertaking agricultural research would be available for
IDA review at the same time (Para 6.11);
(d)    Changes to the Management Boards of the research institutes would be
introduced by April 1992 (Para. 6.5) and programmed budgeting with the use
of budgetary norms for common categories of expenditure by September
1992. The proposed annual budget for CSIR institutes and the MOA regional
research centers would be available for IDA comment and review by
September of each year (Para. 6.6);
(e)    Annual plans for rehabilitation of research facilities would be prepared by
June and agreed with IDA (Para. 6.15);
(f)    Program Coordinators for the selected research programs would be appointed
and the relevant Commodity Committees established by December 1991.
(Para. 6.19);
(g)    Agricultural research activities would be concentrated in 13 national and six
regional research stations by September 1992. (Para. 6.16);



- 41 -
(h)    A Memorandum of Understanding would be drawn up by the MOA and the
CSIR and signed by December 1991, setting out the services to be provided to
the CSIR by the MOA at the Regional Research Centers and the costs of
providing these services (Para 6.16);
(i)    All accounts related to the project would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and submitted to the Bank within six months
of the closing of the financial year (Para. 5.11);
(j)    An annual training plan would be prepared and reviewed with IDA in June of
each year. Proposals for twinning arrangements between Ghanaian universities
and foreign institutions would be reviewed and agreed with IDA by March
1992 (Para. 6.14);
(k)    Architectural plans and contract documentation for the construction of a new
MOA library building would be completed by the date of the mid-term project
review (Para. 6.17);
(I)    Semi-annual progress reports would be prepared within three months of the
end of each quarter (Para.5. 11);
(m)   A mid-term review and report would be pryared by June 1994 (Para. 6.22);
(n)    A completion report would be prepared within six months of project
completion (Paras. 5.11 and 6.23).
8.2   Recommendation. Based on the above agreements and conditions, the project is
suitable for a credit to the Republic of Ghana of SDRs 16.3 million (US$22.0 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.
May 1, 1991
Westem Africa Department
Agricultural Operations Division



GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTINAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Figure 1. Orpnizat7on Chart
CSR        t     ----------         -    ---    -    ----    MOA
MIST                              NARC
PROJECT STEERING
~~~~~~COMMITTEE
COMMOITY
COWITTEES   I                     INSTITUTE
MANAGEMENT
BO80ARDS ,                                                              WUNIVERSITIES
TRAINDN
COUMIrEE     I.
1_TECHMICAL.                                - -----
SECRETARIAT                                                                       _
GRrW15 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~o __2.
BOARD                                                                                                              _
L72       I                    RESEAR                                           I CSD, EXTENSION  |     FAO.LT IES OF|
RESEARCH                         i  ES ---- - - ------ -MUINE FISHERIES                                     ACWLWEL
PRIZE      I
COMMITE
PROGRAM AND
BUDGET
SUBCOMMITTEES
S COMDITTTE«R E S E A R C H  P R O C R A M S
Di rect Responsibi I lty
- - Advisory/Coordinotlon
doc.n   hilI1:narp(22 Apr 91)



-43 -                                Annex 1
(Page 1 of 5)
GHANA
NATIONAL AGURCULTURAL RESEARCH PROJEC
Current National Agricultural Research Programs
A. Introduction
1.    The national research effort is currently spread over a wide range of about 40
individual commodities. The only commodities which receive an effective concentration of
researcher time (more than 5 researcher years) are: cocoa (16 person years), maize (11 person
years), cowpea (6 person years) and oil palm (6 person years). All other commodities receive
less than three researcher years. 51 % of researcher time is utilized on crops other than the
beverage crops with 10% of national research time being devoted to food processing spread
over a wide range of commodities. Livestock, with 17% of researcher time, currently
receives an appreciably larger share than the st'b-sector's contribution to the AgGDP (9%).
Forestry (6%) and fisheries (4%) receive smaller shares. Although most agricultural research
programs have a commodity focus (cocoa, maize etc.) they are generally organized around
specialized departments for plant breeding, agronomy, soil science, entomology, pathology
etc. The degree of integration between the different disciplines varies from one institute to
another and from commodity to another. The adequacy and condition of research facilities is
also very variable and is more linked to donor support than necessarily to the importance of
the commodity. Some major aspects of the current research programs are detailed below.
B. Commodity Programs
F ood !Crops
2.    Cereal Crops. A vigorous maize research program, supported by finance from
Canada and expertise from IITA and ICRISAT, is concerned with the selection of high
yielding varieties and the development of husbandry and pest control recommendations. In
recent years, 12 improved varieties have been released for different agro-ecological zones.
Crop husbandry recommendations have been developed for spacing and plant population,
planting date, fertilizer application and weed control and are constantly being updated with
regular circulation of advisory booklets. Stem borer remains a serious pest of maize despite a
cor inuous program into its control. The principal focus of the sorghum research program
has been the selection of varieties of different maturity periods (110 day early short-strawed
varieties and 140 day longer-strawed varieties as compared to the 180 days of the local
unimproved material) appropriate for the various agro-ecological areas. The varietal work is
contimnously complemented by agronomy research and seed of improved local varieties has
been made available to farmers together with husbandry advice. Yields of up to 3000 kg/ha
are now obtained by farmers as compared to the average farm yields of 1000 kg/ha. 3000 to
5000 ha of the early variety, Framida, is now planted each year under the Global 2000
Program. Breeding for resistance to Shoot Fly (Atherigona soccat), which can causes losses



- 44 -                              ADnnex I
(Page 2 of 5)
of up to 90%, is underway as is selection of material resistant to the Sorghum Midge
(Cotarini sorghicola). Control of post-harvest losses is a further research program on
sorghum. Research on pfir millet has focussed on selection of early maturing varieties (70
to 100 day maturity as compared to the 160 days of local varieties) of acceptable grain
quality. Local varieties are being improved through hybridization with imported material.
Yields of 1500 kg/ha are now being obtained on farm from the new varieties comparing
favorably with the current average yieids of 500 to 700 kg/ha. Breeding for resistance to
Downy Mildew (Scherospora graminicola) is now underway with resistant material imported
from northern Nigeria. The sorghum and millet research programs are supported by expertise
and finance from Germany. In the past, the main focus of the £i_ (irrigated, bottom-land and
rain-fed) research program has been varietal testing. A number of selected varieties have
been recommended. Currently an intensified rice research program, supported by the World
Bank (ASRP Project) and France, on improvement of rice productivity in the bottom lands is
under initial implementation. The program was started with the characterization of the
different swampy valley bottom areas in the different major agro-ecological zones (savannah,
transitional and forest). The research program will involve varietal selection and husbandry
trials (CRI) with farmers on their land backed up by regular soil and water monitoring (SRI
and WRRI).
3.    Leguminous Crops. An intensive research program on CoSQ, closely coordinated
with that for maize (with finence and expertise from Canada, IITA and ICRISAT), is
underway involving varietal evaluation, plant husbandry and pest control experimentation on
the research stations and in farmers' fields. Recommendations have been made available, and
are regularly updated, to farmers. In the past, pest control research has concentrated on the
use of insecticides, but the program now involves a broader more environment friendly
program of integrated pest management with selection for resistance and investigation of
biological control possibilities. Sovabean research, supported by expertise and finance from
Germany, has concentrated on evaluation of varieties as part of an internationally coordinated
program of trials. Presently, a hybridization program aimed at improving yield and
storability has been initiated complemented by a small agronomy program. A number of
varieties suited to the various agro-ecological zones have been identified and released together
with husbandry recommendations. Further varietal selection for oil content and maturity
period will be started under the proposed project. Groundnut research is principally focussed
on the selection of high yielding varieties resistant to Cercospora leaf spot and rust and
tolerant to drought (in cooperation with ICRISAT, Niger). Husbandry recommendations are
available.
4.     Staple Food Crops. This group of food crops includes the roots and tubers (cassava,
sweet potato, cocoyam and yam) and plantain. The cassava research program was started
comparatively recently and is centered on the selection of varieties, imported as open-
pollinated seed from IITA, for yield, resistance to pests (Cassava Mosaic Disease, Cassava
Green Spider Mite and Cassava Mealy Bug) and processing quality for fufu and garl. The
material is now in its second year of selection and will enter formal experimentation.
Biological control introduced from IITA is still effective against the mealy bug and green
spider mite. Cassava mosaic is a serious problems in some areas and can cause yield losses
as high as 90%. 7 clones from IITA are now under test against local varieties, 4 have been
selected on the basis of yield with one suitable for fufu and the other 3 for gari (high prussic
acid content). Varietal selection work will continue with support from IITA and IFAD.
Research on yams is led by a Nyankpala Experiment Station team, supported by finance from



- 45                                  Annex I
(Page 3 of 5)
Germany, IFAD and expertise from IITA. The current program is concerned with
fertilization, varietal maintenance and adaptive testing of local mulching materials for the
mini-sett propagation technique. Further research on fertilization, spacing and staking will be
undertaken as the crop becomes increasingly commercialized. Sweet Poatoes are of minor
importance with production restricted to the Accra area. The research program is small and
is restricted to testing imported varieties from IITA. The major problem is storage.
Cocoyams are principally a volunteer crop in the forest zone and little formal research has yet
been undertaken, although CRIG will now be including it in their cocoa farming system
research program. Plantain research is currently undertaken solely by a University of Ghana
team working on the selection of cultivars for yield, fruit quality and tolerance to dry
weather; post-harvest physiology and pathology in collaboration with the Natural Resources
Institute of London; methods of plant management to reduce losses from wind damage; rapid
propagation methods; and, control of stem borer (Cosmopolites sp.) and nematodes
(Meloidogyne and Helicotylenchus). They are also testing different intercropping
arrangements for plantains with other forest region crops. Financial limitations have
restricted the regional coverage of the program.
Industrial Crops
5.    Cocoa and Beverage Crops. The Cocoa Research Institute of Ghana (CRIG) is
responsible to the Cocoa Board (COCOBOD) for research on cocoa, coffee, cola and sheanut.
The research program is supported by the British Government. CRIC- has divisions of Plant
Breeding, Agronomy and Soil Science, Entomology, Plant Pathology and Physiology and
Biochemistry. The cocoa research program is currently wide ranging covering varietal
improvement, husbandry and pest control. A key part of the program is focussed on the
control of Cocoa Swollen Shoot Virus Disease (CSSVD) involving epidemiological studies of
mealy bugs, virus inoculation and screening procedures together vith rapid diagnostic
techniques. Genetic improvement of cocoa has included breeding for resistance to CSSVD,
improvement of yield and quality and broadening of the genetic base. The Black Pcd control
research program includes breeding for resistance, testing of insecticides and integrated pest
management techniques for the control of capsids. A further program is directed at s- ^';ating
alternative methods of establishment and management of cocoa farms.
6.    The research priorities in the coffee program include the expansion of the genebank
targeted at improving the introduced and local clones of robusta coffee in addition to selection
of arabica cultivars suitable for Ghana. Selection criteria include yield, ease of establishment,
early bearing, berry size and drought tolerance. Additionally, research programs into
propagation techniques, spacing, weed control, shading and pest and disease control (coffee
leaf rust, Cercospo leaf spot etc.) are important. The sheanut and cola research programs
are limited to the establishment of germplasm collections and the study of pests and diseas>.
7.    The Five-Year Research Plan of the Oil Palm Research Institute, initiated in 1987,
includes breeding and seed production; agronomy and physiology; entomology; and plant
pathology. Selected material is now comparatively high yielding, tolerant to dry periods and
leaf miner attack. A recent disease to become serious in oil palm in Ghana is Fusarium wilt,
control is being sought through a coordinated regional research program. Some work is being
carried out on the improvement of oil quality, utilizing genes from the wild South American
palm oil to increase the proportion of polyunsaturated acids. The agronomy program involves
trials on fertilizer levels, husbandry techniques and herbicides and various systems of inter-



- 46-                                  Anex 1
(Page 4 of 5)
planting with maize are being tested. Coconut research is limited to the control of Cape
St.Paul Wilt, the etiological agent for the disease has not yet been identified and so the
control program is now focussed on the selection of the comparatively resistant dwarf hybrids.
No effective economic treatment for control of the disease has yet been identified.
S.    Little research was carried out on cotton before 1988, when funding provided by the
World Bank (ASRP Project), enabled a small varietal sele.tion, agronomy and pest control
program to be started. While the first results of this program, covering both rain-fed and
irrigated cotton, are now available further replication across seasons will be necessary before
extension recommendations can be made. There has been little research on tobacco as the
industry is small and principally in private hands. The technology being used has been
developed elsewhere with field testing of varieties and fertilizer rates being carried out in
Ghana.
Livestock
9.    The 1988 Survey of the national research system identified 13 researchers working on
livestock contributing together a total of 4.58 person years to tst  research and only 3.12
person years to all animal nutrition and pasture work. Some red.ess in this imbalanced
allocation of scientific time has already been made and the following successful programs are
underway:
-      production of improved breeds of poultry and cattle;
-      development of superior animal feeds from agricultural by-products;
-      poultry hatchery and breeding farm management;
-      use of medicinal plants to control animal diseases without build-up of toxic
residues in the meat products;
-      control and eradication of tse-tse flies; and
-      development of appropriate livestock equipment.
Other Research Programs and Needs
10.   While a number of the commodity research programs include on-farm testing of
varieties and technologies, the proposed project will enable this to be significantly
strengthened involving the active participation of the MOA (CSD) staff in the adaptive
research. It is expected that the research program objectives will be increasingly written
around the problems identified by farmers in the course of a participative adaptive research
program. Through this participative process new technologies will be adapted to the different
farming systems and to the constraints of available family labor. CRIG has now initiated a
program to ensure that new technologies are adapted to the principal cocoa farming systems.
Traditional farming systems in Ghana frequently involve intercropping; research is already
developing recommendations for mixed cropping arrangements involving row rather than
broadcast seeding and this will be extended to include the testing of all food crop vari'.ties in
mixed cropping arrangements. The need to keep requirements for purchased inputs to a
minimum will be an important aspect of future research, e.g. development of disease tolerant
varieties, spacing of crops to reduce infestation and biological control rather than the intensive
use of agro-chemicals for pest and disease control and the minimization of fertilizer use
through the development of optimum crop sequences or rotations. The biggest challenge for
future research is to ensure that future technological improvements are fitted to socially and



- 47 -                                An  1
(Page 5 of 5)
economically acceptable farming systems. A further major thrust of future research will be
into the sustainable management of land resources, with farming systems integrated Into
community-based management of these resources.
11.   The present research programs in weed science and biological control are
comprehensive. The objective of the Awe  sciene program is the development of cost
effective weed control measures for different farming systems involving principally the
manipulation of time of planting and plant population with minimum use of herbicides.
Stdga, Imperata and Cyperus are the most pervasive weed problems. The biological control
programs involve a cooperative program with IITA for the control of cassava Mealy Bug and
Green Spider Mite and for the mango Mealy Bug. Future programs are planned on maize
Stem Borer and Greater Grain Borer (now identified in 32 villages). Integrated pest
management programs are underway in maize, cowpea, roots and tubers and soya bean and as
a result, insecticide use on cowpea has been reduced from 6 to 3 times during the crop cycle,
and it is expected that this will shortly be reduced to only one. In soya bean the program will
start with initial diagnosis of the insect complex. The research team are in the process of
testing local plant products (e.g. neem) for the reduction of storage losses instead of
formulated insecticides.



- 48 -                                Annex 2
(Page 1 of 4)
GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Methodologies for Setting Research Priorities
A. Introduction
1.    An important function of the NARC will be to make decisions on allocation of
resources to agricultural research programs. An essential part of this process will be the
identification of priority programs, so that the most effective use can be made of limited
resources. At present, decisions about which programs should receive funding are based on
knowledge or experience of national or regional needs and constraints, and the needs of and
returns to, particular commodities or groups of producers. Decisions take into account factors
such as regional differences in farming systems, land and labor availability, the benefits of
commodity oriented or factor research and the likely time required to achieve research results.
However, these factors are seldom explicitly recognized or systematically evaluated. Instead,
research programs are frequently dependent on the enthusiasm and influence of the researcher,
adaptations of the previous year's budget or the availability of donor funding. It is important,
therefore, to develop a methodology that provides a systematic and transparent means of
arriving at decisions on research priorities. A numbe^ of such methods have been developed
and are discussed briefly below. The Technical Secretariat will have the responsibility of
making an in-depth study of these and any other methods that may be suitable for use in
Ghana, and for coordinating the application of a chosen method to guide the NARC in the
formulation of the National Agricultural Research Plan. In order to illustrate the process, the
application of the weighted criteria method to a number of crops commonly grown in Ghana
is discussed in the Section C. This highlights the requirements for consultation between
producers, policy makers and researchers to ensure that any method produces realistic results
and not simply numerically complex but meaningless answers.
B. Priority Setting Methods
Alternative Methods
2.    In addition to the use of simple checklists, four main approaches have been used in
setting priorities.
-     Weighted criteria models;
-     Mathematical programming;
-     Benefit-Cost analyses, including the expected economic surplus;
-     Simulation models.



- 49 -                                Annex 2
(Page 2 of 4)
The brief description of these given below is quoted or drawn from work by ISNAR.1/
3.    Weiehted Criteria Models. This method depends on establishing multiple criteria for
ranking priorities to explicitly consider a wide variety of factors that influence research
selection. These can be grouped into criteria primarily related to the goal of efficiency and
those related primarily to distributional or equity and security goals. The criteria thought to
be relevant in Ghana are presented in Table I and discussed further in Section C.
The relative weights attached to each of the criteria may be left implicit, but in some studies
explicit weights have been attached to each of the criteria. It is this allocation of weights to
individual criteria that is most critical if the method is to produce meaningful results. For
example, if the goal is to improve the well-being of low income consumers, then commodities
could be ranked by the number of calories in the diet obtained from each commodity, or by
the share of the food basket contributed by each commodity. If, on the other hand the goal
were to increase the well-being of people in a particular region, then the commodities would
be ranked by the value of production in the region. Agreement on the weights requires an
iteration between researchers, producers and policy makers.
4.    Benefit-Cost (Expected Economic Surplus Analysis). Most studies based on the
benefit-cost approach to selecting priorities have employed consumer-producer surplus
analysis, using ex-post research evaluatiun. Ex-ante analyses usually incorporate expert
opinion to determine projected research impacts, adoption rates, and probabilities of research
success. Benefit-cost studies calculate benefit-cost ratios, internal rates of return and net
present values for alternative types of research or research on different commodities. The
difficulties with this method are mainly associated with lack of data and the problems of
making accurate ex-ante projections. Consequently, the results may be based on a subjective
assessment, despite the apparent precision of the calculations.
5.     Mathematical Programming. This method relies on mathemati.al optimization of a
multiple-goal objective function. The model uses sii ilar information as the weighted criteria
model and thus depends on judgements in defining objectives, that is efficiency, distributional
and security objectives, and on assigning values to the coefficients used in the model.
However, the model selects an "optimal" resea-rch portfolio, rather than simply ranking
research areas.
6.    Simulation. Allocating priorities to research can be modelled using a systems
simulation approach to capture goals and objectives, uncertainty, research system constraints,
farm-level constraints and changes in supply, demand for inputs, adoption, time, financial
costs and the probability of research success. As with other models, the procedure starts with
the definition of the goals and objectives. The crucial step is the development of a
mathematical model of the system, which must then be validated, before decisions can be
made on research priorities.
Comparison of Methods
1/ Priority-Setting Mechanisms for National Agricultural Research Systems: Present
Experience and Future Needs. ISNAR Working Paper No.7 G. W. Norton and P.G. Pardey.
and later unpublished work by the same authors.



- 50-                                  Ann_ex 2
(Page 3 of 4)
7.    All the methods described above attempt to provide a systematic means of assessing
research priorities: each has advantages and disadvantages. The weighted criteria model
forces decision makers to make conscious trade-offs between multiple goals. It can
incorporate both qualitative and quantitative data, can be easily understood by researchers and
administrators and is not demanding of specialized analytical skills. However, it does require
careful iteration between researchers and administrators to allocate weights to selected criteria.
The weights are inevitably subjective. The economic surplus model incorporates several
efficiency and distributional criteria into one or two measures and can be used to examine the
benefits of research under alternative pricing or trade policies. It is dependent on economic
data that may not be available for a wide range of commodities, it demands analytical skills
and may not be fully understood by non-specialists. Mathematical programming allows a
rapid quantification of trade-offs between goals. It suffers from the same disadvantage as
weighted criteria models, in that it is dependent on subjective weighting of criteria. It is also
demanding of an analyst's time. Simulation models are extremely flexible allowing a great
number of hypotheses to be tested before making decisions on priorities. Their main
disadvantages are their complexity and the amount of analytical time required to construct and
operate the model.
C. The Application of the Weighted Criteria Method in Ghana
8.    The development of a suitable methodology for determining research priorities is an
important part of the proposed project and project funds would be available to undertake in-
depth investigavions. It has been shown in the previous section that many of the possible
methods are demanding of data, which has not been assembled at present. However, the
weighted criteria method can be used with less complete data and is applied here to a number
of crops commonly grown in Ghana. This is not an attempt to draw up a comprehensive list
of commodity research priorities, but serves to illustrate the sort of criteria that need to be
considered in deciding on priorities. It also serves to compare the three crops, pineapple,
plantain and soyabeans, selected by Government for support under the project, with a number
of other crops that could have been included and which have been suggested as possible
priorities for support. The criteria are presented in Table 1, together with a mainly
qualitative assessment of those criteria.
9.    The criteria shown in Table 1 are grouped according to their relevance to a growth or
efficiency objective and to an equity objective. Crops such as yam and cassava occupy a
large area and have a high value in terms of contribution to AGDP. By contrast, pineapple,
soyabean, rubber, sheanut and cotton occupy a small area and have a relatively low value.
On the basis of these criteria the priority for research would lie with yam and cassava.
However, in terms of contribution to export diversification, pineapple would rank as a high
priority for research support. For each of the crops, each of the criteria can be evaluated in
this way as providing a justification, or otherwise, for inclusion as a priority for research.
The key element of the weighted criteria method is deciding on what weight should be
attached to each of the criteria. In the case above, is export diversification more important to
the country than the total value of the crop? If so, this criterion is given a high weighting and
priority would be allocated to pineapple research.
10.   It is not the purpose of this Annex to make judgements on weightings for each of the
criteria, as this requires consultation between producers, planners and researchers. However,



- 51 -                                Annx 2
(Page 4 of 4)
in order to clarify which of the suggested crops should receive research support under the
project, a high weighting was given to the existence of donor support. Of the crops
considered, pineapple, plantain, soyabean, rubber and sheanut do not presently receive any
donor funding. There is presently funding for rice and cotton research, but this will end in
1992, so these two crops will also lack donor support in the near future. Funding for oil
palm research, presently supported through a World Bank project, is dependent on project
rescheduling.
11.   Weighting was next given to the criteria related to the probability of research success,
in particular, the time to complete research and the likely cost. Rubber and sheanut would
require long-term research support at high cost. On the other hand, both crops would
contribute to export growth, both have a high income and price elasticity of demand and
rubber, in particular, has a considerable potential for increased yields. Consequently, both
crops could well justify inclusion in the future National Agricultural Research Plan. Of the
other crops considered in Table 1, the importance of yam and cassava has been emphasized in
a number of discussions during project appraisal. Funding for both crops is provided through
an IFAD-funded Roots and Tubers Project, with support from IITA. Groundnut research is
undertaken by the CRI at Nyankpala, where it is one of the scheduled crops for German-
funded research. Of the remaining crops, all contribute to different sectoral objectives and
the criteria reflecting the probability for research success are positive for pineapple, plantain,
soyabean, rice and cotton. They all have high to moderate price and income elastiities of
demand, with the exception of soyabean. This is offset by the favorable nutritional
characteristics of the crop.
12.   In conclusion, therefore, the criteria presented in Table I show that there are reasons
ior undertaking research in most of the crops listed. Although the values given to the criteria
are qualitative, they provide a more transparent means of assessing the justification for
undertaking research in any of the crops. The application of the weightings to the criteria as
discussed above, shows explicitly what judgements have been made in order to provide
support for particular crops through the project. Two other important factors taken into
account and not shown in the list of criteria, are the need to strengthen research skills in
horticulture, staple foods and legumes, and to develop a research management system through
which skills and experience available in research institutes, universities, the MOA and
amongst producers can be utilized in an integrated manner.



CRITERIA FOR PRIORITIZING CROPS FOR RESEARCH PROGRAM
Criteria                             Pineapple  Plantain       Yam      Cassava   Soyabean   Groundnut   Rice        Rubber     Shearnut   Oilpalm   Cotton
--   _-    .-    ......-   .---..........       ----                   .......   ...........  -----       ----      -----      -------     -------.  .. ......
GROWTN/EFFICIENCY OBJECTIVES
Area (1)                                0.06        5.3        6.3       12.1        0.01        4.7        2.2       0.06        0.1         1.6        0.3
VaIue(%)                                0.05        13        16.66      19.16       0.01       3.83       1.13       0.07        0.1        0.92       0.16
Probability of Research Success
Yield increase X                      60          200        110        400        500         65         125        300        ND          140        210
Quality isprovement                   High     Moderate      Low       High        High     Moderate   Moderate      Low        ND          Low       High
Current program                      Weak        Weak       Weak     Moderate   Moderate   Moderate  Moderate       Weak       Weak    Moderate   Moderate
Donor support                         No          No         Yes        Yes        No          Yes        Yes        No         No         Yes         Yes
Aviltable technology elseihere        Yes         No         Yes        Yes        Yes         Yes        Yes        Yes        No         Yes         Yes
Tim  to coaplete research            Short      Nedium     Medium      Short      Short       Short      Short      Long       Long       Long       Short
Research Cost                       Moderate  Moderate   Moderate       Low        Low         Low        Low       High       High       High     Moderate
Adoption                             High      Moderate   Moderate     High     Moderate Moderate   Moderate         Med        Low        Med        High
Stability of yield                   High        High     Moderate     High     Moderate   Mod-Low        Low     Moderate      ND      Mod-High   Moderate
Demnd by year 2000                      High       High     Moderate     High        High     Moderate   Moderate     High       High     Moderate   Moderate
Income elasticity of ded               High        High     Moderate   Moderate     High     Moderate      High       High       High     Moderate   Moderate
Price elasticity of dend               High      Moderate   Moderate   Moderate      Low         Low       High       High       High     Moderate   Moderate
Environuental i pct                     -ve         +eve       -e          eve       +ve          0         -ve        *ve        eve        *ve          0        pi
Domestic Resource Cost                   <1          1          1          1          1           1         t?          1          1          1?         <1
Finanilt Return to Farmrs             ' Wage      W Wage      W Wage    Wage ?    >Wage       > Wage      YWge       >Wage    > Wage ?    > Wage       Wage ?
Contribution to Sectoral Objective    Export       Food       Food       Food     Nutrition    Nutr.       Food      Export     Export      Food      Imp.Sub.
Divers.                                     Imp.Sub.              Imp.Sub.                          Imp.Sub.
EQUITY/SECURITY OBJECTIVES
Nutrition
Calories/kg                             Low        High        Low        Low       High     Moderate    High        Nil          ND        High         Nil
Protein                                 Low         Low        Low        Low       High        High    Moderate     Nit          ND      Moderate       Nit
X of Family Budget                      NA           4          3         10          0           2          1         NA         ND          2           1
Consumed by poor                        NO          Yes        Yes        Yes        NO         Yes         NO         NA         NO         Yes         MA
Production by women                     NO         Poor       Poor       Poor       Poor        Poor      Poor         No         Yes       Poor        Poor
Regional Distribution                  South      Forest    Tran/Sav   For/Tran   Sav/Tran   Sav/Tran   Equal        Forest    Sav/Tran    Forest       Sav.
MOTE:  A =  Not Applicable                                                                                                                                      c)
0 =  No Data
Dx
-.& r%)



- 53 -                                Annex 3
(Page I of 6)
GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Selected Research Programs
A. Introduction
1.    Three research programs, for pineapples, plantain and soya beans, were identified by
the Research Review team as high priority programs, that complement on-going research and
that could be initiated prior to the formulation of the National Agricultural Research Plan.
The three commodities were chosen because of their potential significant contributions to the
strategy for agricultural growth, set out in the MTADs, through export diversification, import
substitution and food security. Other criteria considered in the selection of the crops have
been discussed in Annex 2. In addition, the choice of these three commodities enables
research expertise to be reinforced in three important sub-sectors:- horticulture, non-cereal
staple crops and legumes. A crucial element of the project support for these selected
programs is the way in which the programs are designed to ensure that the CRI works with
the Universities, the MOA and the farmers in the development and adoption of technology.
Thus, the three programs will pilot important changes in the research process.
B. The PineaDple Research Program
Background
2.    Pineapples have been produced for the domestic market in Ghana for many years. In
1983, there was a rapid expansion of production in areas close to Accra, for fresh fruit
exports. In 1989, 7,947 mt of fruit, worth US$ 2.1 million were exported to 14 different
countries, with the largest proportion marketed in western Europe. The future target is for
the export of 60,000 tons of fruit, with associated improvements in quality and, therefore,
price.
Constraints
3.    Technical problems which presently constrain both yields and the attainment of high
quality fruit include inadequate knowledge of optimum fertilizer sources and rates, and plant
spacing. Further problems requiring solution are plant protection against the mealy bug
Dysmicocus, the carrier of wilt, and root and heart rot caused by Phytophthera sp. The
control of flowering by hormone application, and effective soil and water conservation
measures are other subjects in which further research is urgently needed.
The Proposed Research Program



_54 -                                Annex 3
(Page 2 of 6)
4.    The research prograw. would address the principal agronomic constraints outlined
above. The majority of work would be undertaken on growers fields in the Accra region,
mainly in the Aburi, Nsawam and Karua areas, and would include on-farm trials of the rates,
type and time of application of fertilizer, plant spacing and flowering hormone application.
This would be supported by an on-station program focused on the selection of cultivars, the
evaluation of rapid propogation methods and the screening of agro-chemicals. The research
team would be based at Pokoase Agricultural Station, with supporting soil and plant analyses
provided by the University of Ghana at Legon.
5.    A multi-disciplinary research team would be established, headed by a Senior
Horticulturalist from CRI, as Program Coordinator, and would include the following staff;
Institution       Reseach Time
(Mths/Yr)
Senior Horticulturalist                       CRI                  12
Horticulturalist                        CRI                 12
Plant Pathologist                       CRI                 3
Nematologist                            CRI                  1.5
Weed Scientist                          CRI                  1.5
Agricultural Economist                  CRI                  1.5
Biometrician                            CRI                  1.5
Soil Scientist                          UOG                 3
Total        36
The research team would be assisted by a post-graduate student program from the University
of Ghana whilst the staff of the Crop Services and Extension Departments of the MOA would
participate with CRI in the on-farm experimentation.
6.    The Program Coordinator and horticulturalist from CRI would be based at Pokoase
Agricultural Station. The project would finance the rehabilitation of offices and laboratories
and the construction of two staff bungalows. Necessary laboratory and field equipment would
be provided, together with vehicles, motorcycles and allowances to enable research staff to
establish and supervise field experiments. Regional study visits to Kenya, Cameroon and
Cote d'Ivoire would also be funded.
7.    A National Pineapple Research Committee would be established to review annual
research programs and ensure that they are targeted at growers priorities. The Committee
would be chaired by the Program Coordinator and would include the CSD Horticulturalist,
two pineapple growers, a representative of the Horticultural Association of Ghana, and the
consultant on horticulture to the Export Promotion Council. The Committee would be
established and the first annual research program agreed prior to project effectiveness. The
National Committee would play an important role in establishing linkages between the various
organizations involved in pineapple production in Ghana, reinforced by project support for
joint experimental work involving growers, research and extension staff.
Bnfits



- 55 -                                 Annex 3
(Page 3 of 6)
S.    The proposed research program would benefit the expanding export trade in
pineapples. Improved fertilization and flowering control schedules would improve fruit size
and shape, thereby increasing yield and revenue per kilo. The transfer of the CRI
horticultural research unit to Pokoase would also assist with the general development of
horticultural production in the Accra region.
C. The Plantain Research Program
Background
9.    Plantains are grown extensively throughout the forest zone and are second only to
cassava as a source of dietary starch, filling the "hungry gap" in October and March/April
when cassava, yam and cocoyam are in short supply. The University of Ghana has
undertaken research into plantain since 1960 at the University research station at Kade, but
there has been little research done elsewhere.
Constraints
10.   The major constraints affecting increased production of plantains have been the low
yield of cultivars, fruit quality and drought tolerance. Stem borer (Cos1mopolitg sp) and
nematodes (Meliodogyne and Heliocotylenchus) adversely affect plantain production, whilst
there is a lack of information on appropriate agronomic and inter-cropping practices to
minimize wind damage. Post-harvest deterioration of fruit results in serious losses.
The Proposed Research Program
11.   In order to improve the productivity of plantain production, the program would
address the main problems by continuing with the collection, characterization and evaluation
of cultivars and by developing a rapid multiplication technique for use by farmers. Research
into pest and disease prevention would be included, together with improved agronomic and
planting recommendations. The research program would be managed from the research
centers at Fumesua and Kade, with the majority of field research being on-farm experimental
work in seven different production areas in the Brong Ahafo, Western, Central, Volta,
Eastern and Ashanti Regions. These areas are representative of the rain forest, moist semi-
deciduous forest and forest savanna transition zones.
12.   The research team would be headed by a Senior Agronomist from CRI, who would be
the Program Coordinator. It would include both CRI and UOG staff, with the active
involvement of MOA staff from the Crop Services and Extension Departments. The research
team would be as follows:



- 56 -                                Annex 3
(Page 4 of 6)
Institution       Research Time
(Mths/Yr)
Senior Agronomist        CRI                   12
Agronomists              UOG                   18
Agronomist               CRI                    6
Nematologist            CRI                     6
Entomologist             UOG                    3
Pathologist              CRI                    3
Agricultural Economist   CRI                    1.5
Soil Scientist           CR1                    1.5
Total    51
13.   The project would finance the necessary vehicles and equipment for the research
program, together with operational expenses and allowances for field staff. Regional study
visits would be funded to INIBAP, Cote d'Ivoire, IITA, Nigeria, and Cameroon.
14.   A National Plantain Research Committee would be established to coordinate the
research effort between the various institutions, to review progress and to plan the coming
year's experiments in the light of growers problems. The Committee would be chaired by the
Program Coordinator and would include the CSD specialist, two producers and a market
trader dealing with plantain sales in an urban area.
Benefits
15.   The program would increase productivity and reduce seasonal shortages and post
harvest losses of fruit, by making it possible to spread the harvest through selection of
cultivars and improved agronomic practices.
D. The Soya Bean Research Program
Background
16.   Although soya beans have been grown in Ghana for a number of years, production is
still limited and the country imports both oil and meal every year. Soyabeans could make an
important contribution to reducing the vegetable oil deficit in the country, as well as providing
a source of protein for animal feeds. In addition, soyabeans are already used in some parts of
the country in the preparation of traditional foods. Recent successes in improving seed
viability and nodulation now make it feasible to expand soyabean production.
Constraints
17.   Soyabean production in Ghana is currently constrained by low yielding varieties and
husbandry methods which are inadequately adapted to farming systems in the various agro-
ecological zones in the country. Further development of appropriate processing methods is
also required.



- 57 -                      ~~~~~~Annex 3
(Page 5 of 6)
The Proposed Research Program
18.   The main thrust of the proposed research program would be the selection of varieties
suited to the different agro-ecological zones of the country. Tlis would start with the testing
of varieties developed elsewhere, particularly in the West Afrkian regioli. The program
would also establish trials to develop recommendations for .ime of planting, p!ant spacing and
weed control, In parallel, methods for processing soya beans for home food preparation
would be further developed. Field trials would be coordinated from Nyankpala and Fumesua
and would include on-far,n testing with the extension services and farmers in Northern,
Brong-Ahafo, Ashanti, Volta and Central Regions.
19.   The research team would be headed by a Senior Plant Breeder from the CRI, who
would act as the Program Coordinator. It would include scientists from the CRI at Nyankpala
and Fumesua, from the three Universities and from the Food Research Institute (FRI). Staff
of the Crop Services and Extension Departments of the MOA would play an important role in
the implementation of the on-farm trials. The team would complement the work being done
on other legumes and would include the following scientists:
Institution                Research Time
(Mnths/Yr)
Senior Plant Breeder                 CRI                               6
Plant Breeder                        CRI                              12
Agronomist                           CRI  (NAES)                      12
Agronomist                           CRI  (Fumesua)                   12
Agronomist                          UCC   (Cape Coast)                 6
Food Technologist                    FRI                               6
Food Technologist                   UOG                                6
Socio-Economist                      CRI                               6
Pathologist                          UST                               3
Entomologist                         CRI                               3
Total   72
20.   The project would finance necessary equipment, vehicles, operational expenses and
staff allowances for the whole program. Study visits for members of the research team would
also be funded, enabling them to maintain close links with the soya bean research program in
IITA.
21.   A National Soyabean Committee was established in 1988, with representatives from
the MOA, CRI, UCC, FRI, GGDP, the Ministry of Health and private food processors. A
research sub-committee has been established under the chairmanship of CR1 and this sub-
committee would coordinate the proposed research program.
Benefits



- 58 -                             Annex I
(Page 6 of 6)
22.   lTe program would result in increased soyabean production and utilization throughout
the country, with associated improvements in farm income and nutrition and a reduction in
imports.



59 -                                  Annelx
(Page 1 of 2)
GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESER kRCHPROJECT
Research Grants Scheme
1.    The project would provide finance to establish a Research Grants Scheme (RGS) to
enable universities and other agencies to undertake agricultural research that would contribute
to national research priorities. A Research Grants Board (RGB) would be established to
review research proposals. Their first task would be to establish criteria for assessing these
proposals. This Annex sets out initial proposals for these criteria. Following detailed review
by the RGB, a final list of criteria would be prepared and agreed with IDIA by April, 1992.
This Annex also sets out the proposed membership of the Research Grants Board and
arrangements for the administration of the RGS.
2.    Criteria for Tyte of Research. Grants would normally be for three years and
research proposals eligible for support under the RGS would be assessed against the following
criteria:
-     Relevance to the priorities established by the NARC;
-     Likelihood of producing results of immediate use to producers;
-     Complementarity with, or contribution to, past or on-going research in Ghana
or elsewhere, justified by a review or literature;
-     Multi-disciplinary approach and the integration of skills available in the
faculty or agency applying for the Grant;
-     Probability of obtaining results within three years;
-     Appropriateness of experimental approach and methodology;
-     Ability to complete the proposed research using existing facilities and the need
for new equipment; and
-     Cost.
3.    Criteria for Type of Expenditure. The type of expenditure eligible for support under
the RGS would include:
Equipment;
Vehicles;
Operational expenses, including running costs of vehicles and equipment, the
cost of casual labour for field experiments and travel and subsistence expenses
for research staff; and



- 60-                                Annex 4
(Page 2 of 2)
-     Scholarships for post-graduate students participating in the proposed research
program.
Expenditure not eligiolb .:r support under the RGS would include:
-     Staff salaries and permanent allowances; and
Civil works.
4.    Membership of the Research GQrants Board. The Board would have a membership of
ten, four from the CSIR, including the Chairman, the Head of the Technical Secretariat, three
from the MOA, including the Director Of Extension, and three from the universities.
Specialists would be co-opted to the Board, if necessary, to review research proposals. The
Board would meet bi-annually.
5.    Administrative Procedures. I/
-     The RGB would publicize the availability of grants to universities and to other
competent private sector agencies, the broad objectives and the procedures to
be followed;
-     Research proposals would be submitted to the Technical Secretariat in a
standard format, complete with detailed costings;
-     Following review, the Board would approve selected proposals that meet the
criteria and judged to make a significant contribution to agreed priority
research topics;
-     The first four proposals would be reviewed by IDA following a preliminary
review by the RGB and depending on the quality of the reviews by RGB could
then be delegated entirely to the RGB for proposals up to an agreed amount;
-     Procurement of specified items would be done by the Procurement Officer in
the Technical Secretariat, in consultation with the Faculty or agency
undertaking the research;
-     Funds for agreed operational expenses would be transferred, quarterly and in
advance, to a dedicated account, set up by the Faculty;
-     Expenditure would be subject to audit as with Pil other projen funding; and
-     Prog.ess with research funaed through the RGS would be reviewed annualy
by the RGB and IDA, prior to the release of funding for the next year's work.
1/ To be formally agreed with IDA prior to disbursement of funds.



- 61 -                                 Annex 5
(Page I of 3)
GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
ResearchlExtension/Producer Linkages
1.    The development of strong linkages between research scientists, subject matter
specialists, extension staff and producers is dependent on their involvement in research
programs and in particular, the planning and implementation of on-farm adaptive research.
Within the framework of national research priorities decided by the NARC, all should be
involved in diagnostic surveys to determine farmers' problems. This would be followed by
on-station experimentation and,if necessary, multi-locational trials on farmers' fields, managed
by researchers, assisted by the SMSs. On-farm adaptive research his the primary objective of
testing new technologies with farmer management. It is here that there is the greatest need
and opportunity for creating strong linkages as discussed in the following paragraphs. Once
the technology has been proven suitable for farmer use, the extension service would make it
more widely known, through regular extension messages and demonstration plots. This
sequence of activities, from research to farmer adoption is summarized in Table 1, which also
shows the involvement of researcher, SMS, extension agent and farmer.
On-Farm Adaptive Research
2.    Planning. At the national level improved linkages would result from the strong
representation of extension staff and the users of research results on the National Agricultural
Research Committee, on the Management Boards of the research institutes and on National
Commodity Research Committees. At the regional level, improved linkages would be
developed by annual planning meetings for adaptive research programs on particula.
commodities or factors to be undertaken in a given region. At the working level, the
planning meetings would involve the researcher(s), the head of the regional Extension
Department and relevant Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) of the regional Crop Services
Department, and could conveniently coincide with orne of the regular monthly training
meetings for SMSs. Experience with the previous year's experiments would be reviewed,
priorities assessed and the nature and location of on-farm trials agreed for the coming season.
It may be necessary for researchers to modify planned trials in the light of the review.
Selection of farmers to participate in the trials would be the responsibility of district extension
staff, and more particularly, the Village Extension Workers. Formal discussion of the
proposed work program would be undertaken by a Research Extension Liaison Committee
(RELC), set up in each region, under the chairmanship of the Regional PNDC Secretary for
Agriculture. The membership of the RELC would include the Director or Program
Coordinator from the concerned national research institute, the Regional Agricultural
Extension Officer and the Regional SMSs.
3.    Implementation. Linkages would be further developed during the implementation of
the planned on-farm adaptive research program. The researchers, relevant SMS and district
o. regional extension staff would meet with the VEW and the farmer on the arn.. Visits by



- 62 -                               Annex S
(Page 2 of 3)
all would be made at planting, flowering and harvest, with one further visit to be agreed at an
appropriate time. Particular note would be made of the farmer's views as to whether the
proposed technology is appropriate to his situation and the following year's trials modified in
the light of this experience. Similar procedures would be followed for on-farm adaptive
research in the livestock and fisheries sub-sectors, as well as for crops.
4.    The project would fully support both the on-station and on-farm adaptive research
activities, providing operational research funds and necessary facilities and transport.
Allowances for SMSs and extension staff would also be provided, to ensure that they could
attend both plannine, and on-farm supervision meetings. Transport for the SMSs and
extension staff would not bt provided under the research project as this is to be supplied
through the parallel National Extension Project.
TABLE 1. Research/Extension/Producer Linkages
ACTION              LOCATION             RESPONSIBILITY
Decision on research      National                NARC
priorities
Diagnostic surveys        National/regional     RI, CSD, Ext.
Planning experimentation  National/regional        RI.
On-station research       National/regional     RI, CSD provides
research centers     RRC services
On-farm adaptive research
-Planning                 Regional              RI. CSD, Ext.
-Planning                 Farm level            RI, CSD, Ext.
+ farmer.
-Trials                   Farm level                 a "a
-Analysis                 Regional                 RI
-Recommendation           Regional              RI, CSD, Ext.
-Extension                Regional              Ext.
-On-farm demonstration plots
-Planning                 Regional              CSD, Ext.
-Planning                 Farm level            CSD, Ext, farmer
-Implementation           Farm level              n a  n
-Analysis                 Regional              CSD, Ext.
-Recommendation           Regional                i  a



- 63 -                                Annme 
(Page 3 of 3)
Incgntives
5.    The proposals for improved research/extension/producer linkages will only be
effective if there are adequate incentives for research staff to participate in programs that are
of direct benefit to the farmer, even if the work may not lead to publications in scientific
journals. Experience with the CIDA financed Ghana Grains and Legumes Project shows that
the provision of adequate research facilities, transport and funds is in itself an important
incentive, as research staff respond well to the improved job satisfaction. In addition,
promotion of research grade staff in the CSIR system is no longer dependent solely on
publication in scientific journals. "General performance and contribution to the work of an
Institute' are now criteria for promotion. Recognition of a researcher's contribution to
overcoming farm-level problems will be further enhanced by the agreement that one of the
two external assessors on the promotion board will be a representative of the users of research
results.
6.    The project would also provide funds for an annual research prize, to be awarded to
the scientist judged to have made an outstanding contribution to agricultural production. A
Research Prize Committee would be established through the Technical Secretariat, with two
representatives of the users of research results and one from the research community. ITe
Committee would judge whether the prize should be in the form of a national honor, which
would require the agreement of Government, or a monetary award, using the funds provided
through the project.



GCANA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECI
Project Cozponents by Year
tCfI Dllitonl
Base Costs                            Total
t        2         3        4         5         CEDI   fUSs'01
A. RESEARClt NANAGENENt OlVEtOPREOT              271 98   110 23    60 13    73 46    81 I;         596 91   1.755 62
B. NW11 RESOURCE OLVELOPTIENI                     38 87   114 83   160.36   176 45   278 57         769 07   2.261 98
C  REHABItITATTON Of RESEARCH FACIIITIES      1.623 56 1. 149 39   375 00    87 16    39 92   3.275 04   9.632 46
0. IUFORNATICN AND tLIRARY SYSIENS               429 41   203 37    68 37   368 57    90 60   1.160 32   3.412 69
E. RESEARCH PROGRAM SUPPORT                      554 20   624 55   608 83   617 87   602 43   3.007 88   8.846 70
Total BASEtlNE COSIS                             2.918 01 2.202 37 1.272 69 1.323 52 1.092 63   8.809 22  25.909 46
Physical Contingpncies                          262 83   121 32    36 71    52 04        2 25      475 14   1.397 47
Price Contingencies                             426 44   582 76   406 50   506 98   486 66   2.409 33   2,217 84
Total PROJECT COSTS                              3.607 28 2.906 44 1.715 89 1.882 53 1.581 54  11.693 69  29.524 78
Taxes                                           476 37   282 63   150 02   200 84   100 80   1.210 66   3.080 07
Foretig  Exchange                             2.384 21 2.127 74 1.110 31 1.096 92 1.083 09   7.872 28  19.876 87
.....-   - - - - - -   . . . . ....................... .............. ........ ....... 
January 31. 1991  16 36
(D X
I. aa



GHANA
AGRICUITURA8 RESEARCH PROJECI
Project Canponents by Year
loal15 Including Contingencies                                       lotals Including Contingencies
(CEDI Million)                                                         WUS$  000)
..   .  ................... ................. . .. .. .. . .....   ... . .   .   .   .  ...  ..  ..  ..   ..  .....  ....  . . . ......  ...   ...... ...... ........... ...
I         2          3          4          5        lotal           1          2          3          4           5        Total
A  RESEARCH MANAGEMENT OEVEtOPtENt                      323 50    135 69        77 20      99 3      114 91      750 61    862 66    339 23    100 61    242 21    27fi 89   1.911 61
B. NJUtA RESOIRCE DEVEtOPMENt                            44 06    144 30    212 36   245 59    407 44   1.053 76              117 50    360 76    524 34    599 01    981 79  2 583 40
C  RE"ASItITA1ION OF RESEARCH FACIlIIIiS              2.046 00 1.582 19    542 16    127 98           57 71  4.356 04  5.456 00 3955 47  1 338 67    312  15    139 06 11 201 35
D  INFOR1IIItN AND LIBRARY SYSlEMS                      536 90    258 76        89 12   562 26    133 55   1.580 59   1,431 73   646 90    220 04 1.371 36    321 80  3.991 85
E  RESEARCH PROGRAM SUPPORI                             656 82    785 49    795 06    847 39    867 93  3.952 69   1.751 52  i.963 74 ¶.963 10 2.066 81 2.091 41  9 836 57
. ... . . .. ... .. .  . . . . .. .... . . .. .. .. ...                        .  ....   ..   .......  ........... 
Total PROJECT COSIS                                     3.607 28 2.906 44 1.715 89  1.882 53 1.581 54  11.693 69  9 619 41 7 266 10 4236 77 4.591 54 3.810 95 29.524 78
....-- --    - - --                                                                                                                                                            .   .     ..    . ... ..        .... ... .......... .   .   . .. .
January 31. 1991   16 36
I-. iD



G69A1A
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECI
SUIRIARY ACCOUNTS COST SURNART
ICED! Niltion)                                        fuss 10001
It Total                                            % total
I Ioreign  Base                                     2 Foreign  Base
Local   Foreign   Total    Exchange   Costs    local    Foreign   Total    Exchange   Costs
I. INWISINENT COSTS
A, IUItDINGS AND CIVIL WORKS                    931 10   580 tO  1.511 20           38       17  2 738 54  1.706 1S  4.444 70            38      1?
8. VEHICLES                                      65 42   548 68    614 tO           89        7    192 41  1.613 77  1.806 18            89        7
C. EQUIPIVNT                                    184 14 1. 537.08  1. 721 23         89       20    541 59  4.520 83  5.06? 43           89       20
D. THUNIUME                                      99 29    50.00    149 29           33        2    292 03    147 05    439 09           33        2
I  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                  463 77    463 77          too        5             i.364 02  1.3G4 02         tOO        S
F. LOCAL CONSULTANTS                             96 30         -      96 30                   1    283.24                203 24 
6. LOCAt TRAINING                                76 06                76 06                   I    223 71                223711 
M. OVERSEAS TRAINING                                      747 5t    747 51         too        8          -  2. 198 2,7  2. 198 57       tOO       8
I. PUSIICATIIN                                    3 72    30 91       34 64         89        0     tO 95      90 9?    lOt 88          89        0
d. RESEARC  GRANT FOND                                    28? 94    282 94         100        3               832 t8    83? 18         100        3
folal INVESTHENI COSTS                           t 4t 1  4 4 2140 1t'    .' F 4        14       65  4.282 48 12.473 SI 16. 755 99           74      65
Physical Contingencies                          I ?4 '..   too) .'    4 1  14       I'l       5    513 38    884 09  1. 397 47          63        5
Price, Cent ingenies                            IS I18/  I ItI, 19  1 452 5?        18       16    204 89  1.082 75  1.287 63           84        5
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                    1.946 37 ). 678 38  7.624 75          74       87  5.000 75 14.440 35 :9.441 09            74       75                                           0
it. RECURREN costs
A. OPERATION AND NAINILNANCE
I. civil MORKS                             113 10    72 90      186 00         39        2    332 65    214 42    547 07            39        2
2. VEHICIES                                275 50   395 77    671 27           59        8    810 29  1. 164 03  1.974 32           59        8
3. EQUIPIIENI                              549 4?   784 57  1.334 04           59       IS  I 615 09  2.307 56  3.923 65            59       IS
4. FRNHIFURE                                 9 02      3 64      12 66         29        0      26 53      10 69      37 22         29        0
S.h-lotal OPERATION AND NIAINITNANCE          947 09 I. 256 88  2.203 97          157      25  2. 785 57  1.696 70  6.482 27           SI7      25i
8. SALARIES ANO ALLoONACES                     319 66              319 665                   4    940 17                940 17i                  4
C  tAB & RESEARDH SUPPLIES                     101 93   236 95    338 89           70        4    299 79    696 95    995 74           70        4
D. COTTON RESEARCH PROGRAN                       7is    1618a       23 33          59        0     21 04      47 58      68 63         t,9       0
I. RICE RESEARCH PROGAN                          9 68    21 89       31 57         69        0     28 47      64 38      92 85         b9        0
F. RESEARCH GRANI FUND                          dl1 7'   113.06    194 76          58        2    240.31    332 51    572 81           58        2
Total RECURRET COSTS                             1.467 2? 1.644 96  3. I12 18          53       35  4.315 36  4.838 12  9. 153 48           53       35
Price Cantmngwicies                             407 82   548.94    956.76           57       It    331 80    598 41    930 20            64       4
lotal INCaUDING CONTINIGENCIES                   1.875 04 2.193 90  4.068 94           54       46  4.647 IS  5.436 53 10.083 68            54       39
Total BASELINE COSTS                              2.923 265.885 95  8,809 22            67      100  8.597 83 17. 311 63 25.909 46           6       10        ~0-
Physical Contingencies                           174 55   300 59    475 14           63        5    513 38    884 09  1.397 4?            63       5                                         M9
Price Contingencies                              723860 1.8685.73  2.409 33          70       27    536.868  1. 681 15  2.217 84          76       9
Total PRJECT Costs                                3.821 41 7.872 28 11.693 69           67      133  9.647 90 19.876 87 29. 524 78           67      114
January 31. 1991 16:38



SHEA
AGRICULTURAt RESEARCH PMOJECI
8REAROOU 01 SUIUARI ACCOUNIS
(MSS Pillion)
ease
ease Costs              Physical Contirqencies           Price Contingencies             Total Ircl  Cont          Physical    Costs
.......- ................    .                              ,,, ,,, ..    ..                                  ...   ...    nt.   Plus   Price
local                         Local                          tocal                          local                   Price Cont.  Cont. on
For.  IEcl  Duties *          For   IExcl. Duties A           tor   IFxcl Duties *         For   iFx    Duties a          on Physical    Base
Exch. taxesl  laxes   total  txch. taxes$  lomgs   total  Exch  laxest  taxes  lotal  E[ch  taoest  lsxes   Total            Cant.       Costs
1. 1UWSMUEI4 coStS
A  ItOIUIISM OtCiWit LIS                     I 71   I 85      0 89  4.44   0 26   0 28      0 13  0 67   014   0 07        0 05  0 27   210   220         1.08  5 38          0 70      4. S8
I  vEhliCES                                  1. 6t  -0.00     0. 19  1.81   016              002  0. 18   008             0 01  0 09   185  -0 00        0 22  2 07          0. 19      t 89
C. EStlPIEUI                                 4.52  -0.00      0 54  5 06   0 45  -0 00      005  0S t  031                0 04  0 35   528  -0 00        0 63  5 92          0.54      5 38
8. FItVIJh                                   0 15   0. 19     0 10 0.44   0 01   9.02       0 01  0 04   0 01   0 00       0 00  0 02   0 t7   0 21       0 12  0 50          0 05      0.46
E. IEOICAt ASSISUI CE                        1.36       -        -1 36         -                -         012                    0 12   148                  -  148                      1. 48
F. IOCAIt USIILIUTS                             -  028              028               -                      -          001   -001          -  029           - 029                      C.29
6  LOrAl  HAlIKIG                               -  0.22          - 022                                       -       s00         0 01       -   024          - 024               -      0.24
M. aEUrsI sISAIEING                          2.20       -        -2 20         -      -                   030        -        -030   250           -         -  250              -      2.50
1. tSlICAtI                                  0 09   0.01         -0  10                               -   0o01   0.00            0 01   010   001            -0  11              -      011
A. ESEAClt 6311 fMUIQ                       0 83       -        - 0 83        -           -       -      0 11                  10 i   0 94        -         -  0 94             -      0 94
-. -.   . ......     ........     ..... .   ..... ... .....   ......    . ..  ..... . . . ..... .   ...... ....... ...   ..    .....  ..... ....  ...   ... ....   ..  .. .... .   --------............. ... . .  .....
Total ISMSFNEIT COSIS                          12 47   2 55      1 73 16576   0 88   0.30      0 2?    1 40   1 08   O. 10    0 10  1 29  14 44   2 35       2 05 19 44          1. 47     17.97
It.  CTmIt COSTS
. OPERAIIS  -0 MINTCEUCE
1. CSit VIMS                            0.21   0. 33         -   .SS      -                           0 03   0 03         - 0 05   0. 24   0.36          - 0 60              -        O60
2. VtElCLES                              1. 16   0. 51   0 30  1.97        -      -        -          014   0.03       0.03  0.20   1.30   0 55      0 33  216               -      2. 18
I. f41PIMENT                            2.31   1. 22     0 39  3 92               -                   0. 30   0.09     0. 04  0.43   2.60   1 31     0 43  4 35              -      4 35
4. #111it11                             0.01   0.02      000  004                                 -    000   0000      0 000 00   00O    002         00 000                  -      0.04
.  ..  ..   ....... ............  .....  ...... .....  ......  .... ..... ....  ...   .. ....  ..   ..... .   ----- .. ---   ---- ----  -------- .. .. .......  .... .........
Sxb-t.cal OPEiAtIlUltlAlUEUIICE             3.70   2.09     0 69  6 48        -                          046   015        0 07  0 69   4 16   224       07   71 7                      7- 77
I  SALAIESI_IMatU tlNIcES                      -  0. 94         -094          -               -                 0 06         - 0 06        -   I00             1 00                     I 00
C.  UI 8 ESEASI    StlIES                  0.70   0. 09     0.21  1           -               -      -     07   0 01      0 02  0 10   0 77   010       023  1 10                       1 10
D.  11I   UESEANI1 1                       0.05   0 01      0 01  0 07        -      -                   0Of  0 00        0 00  0.01   0. 05   001      002  0 08                      0.08
E. 8i  E   SEU OI                           0 06   0.01     0.02  0 09        -                          O 01   0 00      00 001   A h7   001           002  0 10                      0 10
F. ESEtMCH GIIIIo                           0. 33   0 24        - 0 57                                   004   0 02          -0 06   0 38   026                0 64                    0 64
totel  tK        CtOSTS                         4. 84   3.38     0 93  9. IS                                 0 60   0 23      0 10  0 93   5 44   362        103 1008               -      10 08
Total                                           17. 31   5.94     2. 66 25. 91   0 88   0 30    0.22  1 40   168   0 33        0 20  2 22  19. 8   657        308 29 52           1. 47     28.05
damal  u. MITit 33
00



- 68 -
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Disburserent Schedute byv Quarter /
Cumulative
IDA                                   Cumulative              Disbursement                      Standard
FY  Quarter   Disbursement  DisburJement    as X of Credit                                           Disbursement Profile  g/
92      1
11
IV                  1.9                     1.9                           9                                     3
. ........................................................................... ............... ................................
93       1                   1.7                     3.6
11                  1.8                     5.4
III                 1.8                     7.2
IV                  1.3                     8.5                           39                                   14
......................................... ....................................................................... ...
94      1                    1.3                     9.8
11                  1.3                    11.1
III                 1.3                    12.4
IV                  0.8                    13.2                           60                                   30
.......................................................
95      1                    0.8                    14.0
11                  0.8                    14.8
III                 0.8                    15.6
IV                  0.8                    16.4                           74                                  48
..........................................................................................
96      1                    0.9                    17.3
1                  0.9                    18.2
III                 0.8                    19.0
IV                  0.7                    19.7                           89                                  63
............................................................................... ..........................................
97       1                   0.8                    20.5
it                  0.8                    21.3
III                 0.7                    22.0                            100
IV                                                                                                            82
....... ........................................................... ...................................................
98
IV                                                                                                             94
...... .......... .. ..........................................................................
99    1
IV                                                                                                           100
/j   Credit effectiveness, compietion and closing dates assumed to be October 1, 1991, September 30, 1996 and
March 31, 1997, respectiveLy.
I/ Source: Standard Disbursement Profiles, CODNO, April 1990. Refers to the proffte for agricuLture
proJects in Africa.



- 69 -                                AMxJ 8
(Page I of 2)
GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
National Agricultural Research Committee
Membershin and Terms of Reference
Membership
The membership of the National Agricultural Research Committee would be
as follows:
-     Deputy Secretary for Agriculture, Chairman
-     Chief Technical Director, Ministry of Agriculture
-     Director, Policy Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Department,
Ministry of Agriculture
-     Director, Extension Services Department, Ministry of Agriculture
-     A representative of COCOBOD
-     A representative of the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
-     A representative of the Ministry of Lands and Natural resources
-     A member of the Council, Council for Scientific and Industrial Research
-     A member of the Technical Committee for Agriculture, Forestry and
Fisheries of CSIR
-     A representative of the Environmental Protection Council
-     A representative nominated by the Ghana National Farmers and Fishermen's
Association
-     A representative of agri-business, nominated by the Chamber of Commerce
-     A distinguished agricultural scientist, nominated by the Executive Committee
of the Professional Association of Agricultural Scientists
-     A Dean of a Faculty of Agriculture selected by the committee of Vice-
Chancellors
-     A Director of an institute concerned with agricultural research, selected by the
Director-General, CSIR.
The Member-Secretary to the Committee will he the head of the Technical Secretariat.



- 70 -                                AnM  8
(Page 2 of 2)
The terms of reference of the NARC would be as follows:
To formulate a national agricultural research policy and strategy based on the
national agricultural development plan and national science and technology
policy.
To identify priorities for research in different conmodity sectors and major
scientific activities and assign appropriate allocations of resources to institutes
and other bodies conducting agricultural research.
To supervise the development of a medium-term agricultural research plan.
To supervise the annual preparation of a composite budgeted program of
agricultural research for the whole of Ghana for submission to the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Planning through the NAPCC.
T o review the activities of institutes regularly to ensure that research is
effective and to initiate external reviews of institutes at regular intervals.
To appoint Commodity Review Groups to advise the NARC on scientific
issues and research needs in particular sectors.
To carry out any other functions in relation to agricultural research and its
wipplication as may be requested by the Government of Ghana.



- 71 -                                Annex 9
(Page 1 of 3)
GHANA
NATIQNAL AGRICULTURAL RESE^ARC PROJECT
The National Agricultural Research Committee Technical Secretariat
Functions and JQb Descriptions of Senior Staff
Fungtions
1.    The main function of the NARC Technical Secretariat will be to provide the NARC
with the information and management support whicb' is needed to set priorities for, and
coordinate agricultural research in Ghana. The Technical Secretariat will, therefore, be
responsible for:
-     the development of methodologies for determining priorities;
-     the preparation of a national agricultural research plan;
-     the preparation of a manpower development plan for the agricultural research
system;
-     the development of the Ghana Agricultural Research Information Service
(GARIS);
-     the preparation of resource allocation matrixes;
-     procedures for monitoring, evaluation and external review;
-     the administration of the Research Grant Scheme;
*     the organization of project funded training awards and
-     the administration and coordination of the project funding for the CSIR.
Job Descriptions
2.    Head of the NARC Secretariat. The head of the Secretariat will be a Deputy Director
General in the CSIR. He will be an experienced agricultural scientist with proven
management experience. He will be responsible for coordinating the work of the units under
him so that the capacity to manage Ghana's Agricultural Research System in an efficient and
effective manner is gradually developed. He will maintain close links with MOA, universities



- 72-                                 Annex 9
(Page 2 of 3)
research system. He will be the Secretary of NARC and the Chairman of the Research
Grants Boards.
3.    Head of the Plannine and Priorities Section (PPS). The head of this section will be a
PRO. He will be an agricultural research scientist with experience of research management
and planning. He will supervise the work of the SRO, Priorities and National Agricultural
Research Plan, and of the SRO, Resource Allocation. He will take the lead in developing a
checklist procedure for determining priorities suitable for Ghana, oversee the development of
the NARP and later of a human resources development plan, and coordinate these plans with
the allocation of resources. He will attend the relevant budget hearings at the MFEP.
4.    SRO, Priorities and the National Agricultural Research P1an. The SRO will be an
agricultural scientist, preferably with experience of multi-disciplinary research. He will assist
the head of the PPU in developing suitable checklists to determine priorities, for use by the
NARC, MOA, CSIR, etc. and use them in preparing papers for the NARC. He will assist in
coordinating the preparation of the National Agricultural Research Plan and the Human
Resources Development Plan, drawing on the information collected through GARIS.
5.    SRO. Research Allocation. This SRO will be an agricultural scientist with previous
experience of formulating agricultural research programs. He will check that draft budgets
prepared by the institutes are in accord with national priorities as determined by the NARC.
He will prepare resource allocations in matrix form for approval by NARC, including data
from MOA and the RGB, prior to submitting them to the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning.
6.    Head of the Secretariat and Monitoring Section (SMS). The head of this section will
be a PRO. He will be an agricultural research scientist with experience of research
management. He will supervise the work of the SRO supporting the National Comwnodities
Committees and the Research Grants Board, and of the SRO responsible for GARIS and
Monitoring, Evaluation and Review. He will assist the Head of the Technical Secretariat in
arranging the appointment of members of the RGB and of the National Commodity
Committees. He will initiate the development of GARIS, review monitoring reports,
authorize evaluation studies, and supervise the organization of external reviews of institutes.
7.    SRO. National Commodities Committees and Research Grants Board. This SRO will
be an administrator with previous experience in dealing with research and with research
institutions, or a scientist with experience of administration. He will be responsible for
arranging meetings of the National Commodity Research Committees and of the Research
Grants Board. He will process the research grant applications from the universities, organize
independent reviews of proposed research programs, prior to the meetings of the Board and
ensure that grants are paid in a timely manner
8.    SRO. GARTS. and Monitoring. Evaluation and Review. This SRO will be an
agricultural scientist with some computing experience. Initially, he will assist with the
development of the Ghana Agricultural Research Information Servi^e (GARIS), during the
first two years of the project. Subsequently, using GARIS, he will monitor the progress of
research and, as authorized, evaluate the outcome of specific programs. In years 4 and 5 he
will assist in organizing external reviews of institutes.



- 73 -                                  Anne9
(Page 3 of 3)
9.    Head of the Project Coordination Section (PCS). The head of this section will be a
PRO. He will be an administrator with previous experience of dealing with scient;sts, or a
scientist with experiences of administration. He will supervise the work of the training
officer, the procurement officer, and the accountant. He will act as Secretary of the Project
Steering Committee and generally be concerned with overseeing the funding and
administration of this project.
10.   SRO. Training Officer. This SRO will have had previous experience in personnel
management/staff development. He will be responsible for the processing of all applications
for local and foreign training, both short- and long-term. He will arrange the twice-yearly
meetings of the Training Advisory Committee.
11.   Procurement Officer. This officer will be an administrator of equivalent rank to an
SRO. He will be responsible for all project procurement for the CSIR system, liaising closely
with the Head of the Scientific Instrument Centre to ensure compatibility of equipment. He
will receive special training in World Bank procurement procedures so that appropriate
procurement schedules and standardized bidding documents are prepared in a timely manner.
12.   Accountant. The accountant will be responsible for ensuring that project accounts are
kept up-to-date so that project disbursement is readily monitored. He will coordinate the
work of institute accountants, to ensure uniformity of project accounting procedures. He will
assist the SRO dealing with resource allocation as needed.



Figure 1. Propos d Structure of the Technical Secretariat
|Nbtiopol Agricultural|
R _ rch Co itt"
Pro;oct    |                                4 Research Grants
Stoering; Cominto                                           Boar-d 
H"d   TS ~ ~     ~    ~     Bar 
i q ~~~~~~Training Com_mittee|
Research Prizo
Committee
Secretariat and               Planning and                Project CoortAnation
Monitoring Section (SUS)      Priorities Sect.(PPS)             S ction (Cs)
PRO                           PRO                          PRO
Not. Commodities      GARIS       Priorities     Resource    Training   Procure
Comittees           M,E, Reviow      NARP       Allocation   Officer       Officer      Accountant
Ros. Grants B.          SRO           SRO           SRO        SRO
SRO



- 75                                   Annex 10
(Page 1 of 2)
GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Research Institute Manaeement Boards
Membership and Terms of Reference
Membership
1.    The membership of the Management Boards of the Research Institutes would be as
follows:
A Chairman to be appointed by the Council (CSIR)
A member of the Council, if the Chairman is not a Council member
-     The Director of the Institute
-     The Deputy Director of the Institute
-      Director of a cognate institute, or his representative
-      One elected member of the research staff, not below the grade of Principal
Research Officer, elected by all research grade staff
-      One elected member of the research staff, not below the grade of Research
Officer and with at least three years experience in CSIR, elected by all
research grade staff
-      Not less than seven and not more than ten representatives of relevant
government ministries or departments, universities, professional institutions,
financial and b:nking institutions and other user agencies, or other person
whose membership would promote the interests of the institute. Not less than
four representatives should be drawn from direct user agencies and if possible
from those actively engaged it, agriculture.
Represent:ives of the TUC and CDR as directed by Government
T2rmhs te R mseofre
2.    T'he terms of reference for the Research Institute Boards would be as follows:



- 76 -nnex I
(Page I of 2)
to consider and approve research programs submitted by the institute staff in
the light of national and commodity priorities determined by the NARC;
to consider budgetary allocations, both recurrent and capital, in the light of
the same priorities;
to review the draft budgets prepared by the Director of the institute before
they are submitted to the NARC;
to review periodically the progress of the institute's research programs;
to consider the future needs of the institute for buildings, equipment and other
facilities, and trained staff;
to consider the balance of the institute's staff as between research , technical
and support staff;
to support the, institute's preparations for quinquennial external reviews;
to supervise the finances of the institute in accordance with the financial
regulations of the CSIR by periodic review of the accounts;
to manage the estate and properties of the institute;
to appoint specified grades of junior staff in accordance with the regulations
laid down by the Council;
to ensure the proper execution of capital development works in accordance
with Council regulations;
to appoint from its own membership a Subcommittee on Programming and
Budgeting, and a Subcommittee on Administration;
to discharge such other duties as may be assigned to it by the Council from
time to time.



- 77 -
Annex 1 1
GrHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
National Commodity Research Committees
Terms of Reference
1.    A National Commodity Research Committee will be appointed by NARC for no
longer than three years. A committee may be reappointed, with changed membership, for
further three year periods; no member may serve for more than two consecutive periods (six
years) on a committee.
2.    Each Committee will consist of the Chairman and ten other members, who will be
agricultural scientists and users from CSIR Institutes, MOA, Universities, the private sector,
etc.
3.    Each committee will advise the NARC on the priorities in its commodity.
4.     National Commodity Committees will perform whatever other tasks may be allotted to
them by the NARC.



- 78 -
Annex 12
GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Pto*ect Steering Committee
Membershig
1.    PNDC Secretary or Deputy Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture (Chairman).
2.    Director, Policy Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Department, Ministry
of Agriculture.
3.    Director-General, CSIR.
4.    Secretary, Council of CSIR.
S.    Head of the NARC Secretariat, Deputy Director General, CSIR.
6.    A Dean of a UnMversity Faculty of Agriculture.
Secretary: the Heaci of the Project Coordinate Unit.



- 79 -                               ADDOLI
(Page 1 of 4)
,.l;iANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJEC
Technical Assistance and Local Consultancies
A. Technical Assistance. Schedule of Activities.
Activity                          No. Months Assistance by Year
1     2      3      4      5  Total
Planning and Monitoring
Priority methodology              4                                  4
Development of NARP               6      3                           9
Human resource planning                  3                           3
External Reviews                                       2      2      4
MIS                               4      3      1      1      1    10
M andE                                   2      2      2      2      8
HIuman Resource Develggment
Visiting academics
Graduate courses                  3      3      3      3      12
Technician courses         2      2      2      2      2      10
Res. Mgment.courses        2      2      2                    6
Scientific Instrument Maintenance
Instrument engineer             12    12                             24
Laboratory specialist             3      3                           6
Library and Information Systems
Library Specialist                4      4      1      1      1      11
Aquaculture specialist                   2             2             4
37    39    11         13   11    111



- 80 -                                Annex 13
(Page 2 of 4)
B. Terms of Reference. Long-Term Technical Assistance
Laboratory Instrument Engineer/Tnstructor.
1.    Qualifications. A degree or equivalent in electronics with several years of experience
of using and servicing a wide range of laboratory instruments, preferably with previous work
experience in a developing country.
2.    Puties. Appointment would be for 24 months to help to establish a new instrument
servicing facility at the Scientific Instrumentation Center, Accra. The duties would be to
assist the Head of the Center in;
-      installing test equipment and training junior service
technicians in the operation, maintenance and servicing of the
laboratory instruments used in the research institutes of CSIR.
-     setting-up a database with details of the laboratory equipment within
the agricultural researcn system to assist in tracing sources of supplies
and spare parts; and to advise the institutes on the possibilities of
sharing facilities.
-     organizing a routine maintenance service for the research institutes,
assembling and operating mobile workshops from the Center.
-     helping the research institutes to install and use their  new equipment
correctly, giving on-the-job training and  special seminars to
staff as necessary.
-     maintaining contact between local agents, suppliers and the institutes
to expedite the procurement of supplies and spares.
-     when the maintenance service is operating satisfactorily, installing and
using a gas/liquid chromatograph within the
Scientific Instrumentation Center, building-up an expertise in the
technique at the Center for the use of all the institutes.
C. Terms of Reference. Short-Term Technical Assistance
Priority Methodology
3.    The appointment would be for four months to assist the Technical Secretariat to
develop a methodology for setting research priorities at national, institute and program levels.
Check-lists of factors to be considered, indicators and the weighting to be attached to each
would be developed and agreed with research staff and users of research results. Methods of
utilizing the agreed lists and weightings would also be developed and agreed. The work
would be done in close collaboration with local consultants, recruited for the purpose.



- 81 -                              Annex 13
(Page 3 of 4)
Development of the NARP
4.    The appointmnent would be for nine months, six in the first year of the project and
three in the second year, to assist with the development of the National Agricultural Research
Plan. Assistance would be provided to the Technical Secretariat to integrate the findings of
the review of the status of research, undertaken by local ccnsultants. The agreed methodology
for setting research priorities would then be applied to the preparation of a National
Agricultural Research Plan, for approval by the NARC.
Human Resource Planning
5.    The appointment would be for three months in the second year of the project, to assist
the Technical Secretariat with the development of a Human Resources Development Plan for
the agricultural research system. This would be based on the skills required to implement the
National Agricultural Research Plan, taking into account the expertise already available. The
work would be done in collaboration with local consultants.
Management Inf9rmation System
6.    The appointment of an expert in computer-based information systems would be for a
total of ten months, spread over the five years cf the project. Four months would be in the
first year, to assist with the establishment of the Ghana Agricultural Research Information
System (GARIS). The work would include system design, the installation of hardware and
software and the design of data collection procedures. A second visit of three months in the
second year of the project would further assist with the development of the system, with short
advisory visits of one month duration in subsequent years.
Monitoring and Evaluation
7.    Two month visits would be made in each year, starting in the second year of the
project, to assist the Technical Secretariat with the monitoring and evaluation of research
programs. Special expertise in monitorir,g and evaluation techniques would complement the
work of the information systems expert.
External Reviews
8.    Visits of one month each by two internationally recognized scientists would be made
in the fourth and fifti years of the project, to participate in external reviews of two of the
research institutes. They would assist in developing the format for such reviews, which
would be undertaken of other institutes in subsequent years.
Human Resource Development
9.    One three month visit per year would be made by an academic from a twinned
university to supervise graduate students and give specialized lectures as determined with the
Deans of the Faculties of Agriculture. Similar visits of two month duration would be made
for technician training. Two month visits in each of the first three years of the project would
be made to establish training and curriculum needs for training in research management.



- 82 -                              Annex 13
(Page 4 of 4)
Laboratory Specialist
10.   Two visits of three months each would be made by a specialist in soil and plant
analysis, to work in the Crops Research Institute and the Soils Research Institute. He would
assist in commissioning new equipment, agreeing any changes in analytical procedures or
methods and train technicians in all aspects of these procedures.
Libra. Specialist
11.   The appointment would be for a total of 11 months over the five-year project period.
Two visits of four months each would be made in the first two years of the project, by a
librarian with expertise in the installation and operation of the modern library technology to
be provided through the project. The specialist would be responsible for training librarians
participating in GAINS in the operation of the system. He would also assist with the design
and implementation of other improvements to the library and information systems that are to
be financed under the project. One-month advisory visits would bf made in the last three
years of the project.
Aquaculture Specialist
12.   Two two-month visits would be made by an aquaculture specialist in the second and
fourth years of the project, to assist the Institute of Aquatic Biology in the development of the
aquaculture research program and to provide specialist advice on any particular problems that
may arise as the facility at Akosombo is developed.
D. Local Consultancies. Schedule of Activities.
Activity                      No. of Months Assistance by Year
1     2      3     4      5       Total
Planning and Monitoring
Priority methodology            6                                     6
Status of research             54                                    54
Development of NARP             6    18                   12         36
Human resource planning                6                              6
External Reviews                                    8      8         16
National Commodity Ctees.      12                                    12
IQWA                    78    24             8    20          130



NATIWNAL AUtICUL11#RESEARCH PROJECT
Project Implementation Scheule
Projet Year          PRE       1       2       3       4       6      6
IDA Fiscal Y@ur    91/92    92/93   98/94   94/96   96/96   96/97   97/96
Calendar Year         91       92      93      94      96      90      97
Quartr              1 2 3 4 t  2 3 4 e r  a 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 e  4 1 213 4 1 2 3 4
1. IIED
- Board Presentation
- Effecti venee 
- Co.pl.tio. Date
- Closing Date
2. POJECT ITWE TATI_ON
Reerch 1hm           Dlo_mt
- Appoint Head of Tch. Secretariat 
- Idtity Procurnt Officers                 *                                                                              o
- Appoint Technical Secretriat               *                                                                            w
- Establish Comodity Re. Committes 
- modify Intitute H1t Bords 
- Delop Priority Setting methodology
- Review Current Status of Research
-Develop HARP
- Review NAM _
Prepre Humsn Resore Dev't Plan                   I   __  
- Devlop GAIS                                    -_-   ---  -  - - - -         
- Itrod  Frogram         Budgeting                       ----
- Anual Bud"g  Revi                                     11*
- Mloitoring and Evalution                           -       ___ _           _   _   ,   _
Priority Research Progres                         __s
- Appoint Project Coerdinatoro               *                                                                         oQ11
- Establish R_eeerch Teems                     *                                                                         mm
- Prepre Annual Research Plans
- Rbabil Itate/Construct Bulildings            _ ____ 
- Procure Vehicl                               _ -
- Procure Equipment                                  ---------
- Imlemt Research Programs                                              -_ _ _ __ -
Research Grant Sche me 
- Establshb Research Grant. Board         -             i
- Defiwo Criteria for Progrm Seloction
- Disburso for Agreed Progres s



Project Year              PRE      1       2       3       4   |           6
IDA Fiscal Year          91/92  92/93  93/94 94/96  95/96   98/97   97/98
Cnlnder Year              1w91992   1993  1994   1995    1996    1996
Quarter                 1 2 3 4               4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 213 4 1 2 3 4
Risurchse  nsgreion Linkagns
-Prwop   Mmmo, of Und irst4nding      
- Prepare Annual Plans
-Dlsbunw for Agreed Plans ______
iprovemet of Reoerch Facilities
- Preparation of Annual Plans                  *  *        *    1*
- Undertake Civil Works
- Procure Vehicles              _ _
- Procure Equipment                                         - -  - - - - - - -
Hman Resource Develop  t
- Appoint Training Co _ttee.                                                        I
- Agree University Twinning Arrango nts                                                                                           o
- Prepare Annual Training Plan                 *
- Select Traines*
- Imple mnt Training Program                      *- ------_-
Technical Assistance (TA)                            1  1t- -1                         -i
- Advertise TA Pos ts
- Recruit TA Personnel
Reviews fRfprtina and Audits
- llid-Torm R w"eIIvi                                               l    
- External Revie  of InStitutes                                       -  - - - - - - - -
- Completion Review                                                         I  I       ----
- Six-monthly Progress ReportS                   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  -
- Annual Audit Accounts
ax
ol 
bth



- 85 -Anne 1S
(Page 1 of 3)
<3HANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Project Sunervision
Supervision Pl
1.    IDA supervision of the project would be closely linked to the implementation schedule
presented in Annex 12. The scheddle of supervision missions presented below includes three
visits during the first year of the project, to provide close superrision and assistance during
the critical start-up period. In subsequent years, one visit by a supervision mission would
coincide with the review of the following year's research program and rehabilitation plan in
the second quarter of the calendar year. In the third year of the project this visit would
incorporate the project mid-term review. The supervision plan also provides for one
additional visit in the fourth quarter of the second to fifth project years.
CY                 1992          1993          1994         1995            1996
Quarter           1234          1234          1234          1234          1234
Supervision       ****            *  *          *  *          *  *
Mid-Term Rev.                                   *
Key Indicators
2.    The key indicators to assess the progress of the project can be considered in a number
of groups. The Technical Secretariat, in particular the Monitoring Unit, will be responsible
for collating the data shown below:
Research Management System
-     Introduction of priority setting methodology;
-     Completion of NARP;
-     Development of GARIS;
-     Completion of HRD plan;
-     Introduction of programmed budgeting
-     Operation of Commodity Committees;
-     Operation of Research Grants Board.



- 86 -                               Annex 1S
(Page 2 of 3)
Research PrgM
Constraint analyses;
-     Number of research programs;
-     Number of experiments - national programs;
-     Number of experiments - international programs;
-     Number of experiments/researcher/research area;
-     Timeliness of experiments;
-     Production trends by experiment;
-     Implementation within budget.
Rnes=hUlelion/Producer Linkages
Number of regional or zonal planning meetings;
Number of meetings in past twelve months;
Number of meetings with producers;
Number of on-farm adaptive research trials.
Human Resource Development
-     Numbers of professional, technical and support staff;
-     Number of staff years by research area or prograrm;
-     Ratio of professional to technical and support staff by research area or
program;
-     Annual training plans;
-     Numbers and discipline of professional staff undergoing training;
-     Numbers of technical and support staff undergoing training;
-     Number of short-term study visits by professional and technical staff.
Technical Assistance
Number of months/discipline;
Number of visits from IARC staff;
Physical
Physical achievement of civil works or procurement of project
financed items as presented in the implementation schedule and
detailed cost tables;
Numbers of Government research stations.
Financial
Research budget by agency;
-     Investment;
-     Personnel;
-     Operational expenses;



- 87 -                                 A      15-L
(Page 3 of 3)
Research budget by research program or area;
Expenditure by researcher and researcher year by agency and research
program;
-      Total;
-      P'Prsonnel;
-      Operational;
Percentage of Research Grant Funds allocated to universities and other
agencies;
Timeliness of quarterly reports;
Annual reports for Institutes or agencies;
Publication of research results in;
-      Extension bulletins;
-      Scientific journals.



- 88 -
Annex16
GHANA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Documents Available in Project File
A. Background and Project Preparation Pa=ers
1.    Ghana. Medium Term Agricultural Development Strategy.
An Agenda for Sustained Growth and Development (1991-
2000). World Bank Report 8914-GH. 1990.
2.     Review of the Ghana Agric"ltural Research System. Joint Review by
a National Team Selected by the CSIR and ISNAR. 1989.
3.     Review of the Ghana Agricultural Research System. Phase I.
Review by a National Team Selected by CSIR and ISNAR. 1990.
B. Working Papers
1.    The Management of Research.
2.     Priority Research Programs.
3.    The Improvement of Research Facilities.
4.    Detailed Project Costs and Financing Tables.



