Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2247 GH
             (National Agricultural Research Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated June 10, 1991
                                               CREDIT NUMBER 2247 GH
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 10, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
Page  2
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
      (b)   "CSIR" means the Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research under the Borrower's Ministry of Industry, Science and
Technology;
      (c)   "NARC" means the National Agricultural Research
Committee established pursuant to Section 5.01 (a) of this
Agreement;
      (d)   "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (e)   "Cedis" means the currency of the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to sixteen million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 16,300,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars two
special deposit accounts in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment: (i) Special
Account MOA for the purposes of Parts C.3, C.4 and D.3 of the
Project; and (ii) Special Account CSIR for the purposes of all other
Parts of the Project. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1997, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Page  3
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing
November 1, 2001, and ending May 1, 2031. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on May 1, 2011, shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOA
and CSIR with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, agricultural, financial and research
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Without limitation upon any of its obligations
Page  4
under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   open and maintain in a commercial bank accounts in the
name of MOA and CSIR on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association to be used exclusively for the purposes of meeting
expenditures under parts of the Project for which MOA and CSIR are
responsible and which are not financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit; and
      (b)   in addition to the initial amounts referred to in
Section 5.01 (f) of this Agreement, deposit into said accounts
promptly before each month starting six months after the date of
this Agreement, the Borrower's contribution to the financing of the
Project as set forth in MOA's and CSIR's approved work plan and
budget for the next month.
      Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
Page  5
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has established NARC referred to in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the Borrower has established the Project Steering
Committee referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement;
      (c)   the Borrower has established the Technical Secretariat
referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and
appointed the section heads;
      (d)   the Borrower has established the Research Grants Board
under Part E of the Project;
      (e)   the Borrower has furnished to the Association a training
program under Part B of the Project for the first year of Project
implementation acceptable to the Association; and
      (f)   the Borrower has deposited initial amounts in Cedis
equivalent to $100,000 for CSIR and $30,000 for MOA in the accounts
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The PNDC Secretary for Finance and Economic
Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            PNDC Secretary for Finance
              and Economic Planning
            Ministry of Finance and
              Economic Planning
            P.O. Box M40
            Accra, Ghana
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                  ECONOMICON                  2205 MIFAEP GH
                  Accra
      For the Association:
Page  6
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                  By /s/ Joseph L.S. Abbey
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                           SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works:                               100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
                                                and 45% of local
                                                expenditures
     (a) CSIR                  1,340,000
     (b) MOA                   1,040,000
(2)  Equipment,                                 100% of foreign
     vehicles,                                  expenditures and
     furniture and                              90% of local
     materials:                                 expenditures
     (a) CSIR                  4,220,000
     (b) MOA                     820,000
(3)  Consultants' ser-         1,780,000        100%
     vices and training
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
Page  7
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4)  Operating costs:                           100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                50% of local
                                                expenditures
     (a) CSIR                  3,780,000
     (b) MOA                     670,000
(5)  Equipment, vehi-          1,040,000        100% of foreign
     cles, operating                            expenditures and
     costs and scholar-                         50% of local
     ships under the                            expenditures
     Research Grants
     Scheme
(6)  Unallocated               1,610,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                16,300,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "operating costs" means the incremental Project
related costs for office and laboratory supplies, vehicle and
equipment maintenance and field work.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) payments
for expenditures under Category (5) unless the Borrower has
submitted to the Association criteria for assessing research
proposals for grant funding acceptable to the Association.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to develop the institutional
framework and improve the research management systems for agri-
cultural research in Ghana and to strengthen the research capacity
of institutions in Ghana.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Research Management
1.    Establishment and operation of the National Agricultural
Research Committee and its Technical Secretariat.
2.    Development of a National Agricultural Research Plan.
3.    Improvement of research management systems at the national,
research institutes and programs levels.
4.    Construction of staff housing units, rehabilitation of offices
and acquisition of vehicles and equipment therefor.
Page  8
Part B:     Human Resource Development
      Training for scientists, students and technical staff in
agricultural research.
Part C:     Rehabilitation of Research Facilities
1.    Construction and rehabilitation of offices and laboratories,
installation and expansion of computing facilities, acquisition of
equipment, laboratory supplies, vehicles and field research inputs
and provision for training for:
      (a)   the Institute for Animal Research;
      (b)   the Institute for Crops Research;
      (c)   the Institute for Food Research;
      (d)   the Institute for Aquatic Biology; and
      (e)   the Institute for Soils Research.
2.    Improvement of the research facilities at the three Faculties
of Agriculture and the Institute for Statistics and Social and
Economic Research, including acquisition of laboratory equipment and
supplies, computers and vehicles.
3.    Support of the six regional research stations of MOA's Crop
Services Department, including construction of offices, laboratories
and staff housing units and acquisition of vehicles, equipment and
computer.
4.    Strengthening of the Marine Fisheries Research Unit of MOA,
including acquisition of laboratory, oceanographic and fishing
equipment.
Part D:     Library and Information Systems
1.    Establishment and operation of the Ghana Agricultural
Information Network System, including acquisition of library
equipment, furniture, books, journals, publication of a national
agricultural journal and provision of training for library staff.
2.    Completion or rehabilitation of library facilities in the CSIR
system.
3.    Construction of a new library building for MOA.
Part E:     Research Programs
1.    Development and implementation of research programs for
selected crops such as pineapples, plantain, soybeans, rice and
cotton, including rehabilitation of laboratories and staff houses,
acquisition of laboratory, office and field equipment and vehicles
and provision of training therefor.
2.    Establishment and operation of a Research Grants Scheme
designed to finance acquisition of equipment, vehicles and post-
graduate students' research activities.
3.    Improvement of the linkage between research, extension staff
and producers in the identification and implementation of research
programs through increased on-farm adaptive trials and promotion of
incentives for on-farm collaborative works.
                      *     *    *    *    *
      The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  9
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more each, and contracts for civil works shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more each.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Ghana may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$250,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $2,500,000, and goods estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of $700,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $60,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $900,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from a list of at least three suppliers from at least two different
countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Accounts, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Accounts in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Accounts, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be fur-
Page  10
nished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Project Management and Coordination
1.    Overall responsibility for the management and coordination of
all research activities shall rest with NARC established pursuant to
Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement. NARC chaired by a Deputy
Secretary of MOA with membership and terms of reference acceptable
to the Association shall be responsible for the development and
approval of a national agricultural research policy and a medium-
term agricultural research plan, with research priorities and
resource allocation linked to national development objectives.
2.    NARC shall be assisted by a Technical Secretariat established
within CSIR pursuant to Section 5.01 (c) of this Agreement with
membership and terms of reference acceptable to the Association. The
Technical Secretariat shall consist of a Planning and Priorities
Section, a Secretariat and Monitoring Section and a Project
Coordinating Section. Its main function shall be to provide
information and management support to NARC, including the
preparation of semi-annual progress reports within two months of the
end of each reporting period.
3.    The coordination of all Project activities among the various
departments and agencies of the Borrower involved in the imple-
mentation of the Project shall be carried out by the Project
Steering Committee acting as an executive committee of NARC and
established pursuant to Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement. The
Project Steering Committee shall be chaired by the PNDC Secretary of
MOA with membership and terms of reference acceptable to the
Association. The committee shall meet at least twice a year to
review the progress of the Project and resolve outstanding issues.
4.    A mid-term review shall be carried out by the Borrower, acting
through MOA and CSIR, and the Association not later than June 30,
1994, in order to evaluate the overall progress of the Project and
to modify the Project implementation procedures, if necessary. In
order to facilitate this review, the Technical Secretariat shall
prepare, not later than four weeks before the scheduled date for the
review, a mid-term Project review to be furnished to the Association
and all departments and agencies involved in the Project imple-
mentation.
Part A of the Project
5.    The Borrower, through NARC, shall:
      (a)   furnish to the Association, not later than September 30,
1992, its proposals for the methodology of setting research
Page  11
priorities in light of limited research resources;
      (b)   after having exchanged views with the Association on the
proposed methodology, initiate the process of developing a national
agricultural research plan by involving all relevant participants in
this process;
      (c)   furnish such a draft plan, not later than May 31, 1993,
to the Association for its review and comments; and
      (d)   finalize such plan, not later than September 30, 1993,
taking into account the Association's comments.
Part B of the Project
6.    The Borrower, through NARC's Technical Secretariat, shall
furnish to the Association for its review and comments:
      (a)   not later than May 31, 1993, a draft human resources
development plan, including procedures and criteria for promotion of
staff undertaking agricultural research, and finalize such plan, not
later than September 30, 1993, taking into account the Association's
comments; and
      (b)   not later than June 30 of each year, annual training
plans in such detail and format as the Association shall request for
the proposed training activities during the next twelve months and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
7.    The Borrower shall ensure that proposals by universities for
research twinning arrangements are furnished to the Association for
its review not later than March 31, 1992.
Part C of the Project
8.    The Borrower, through NARC's Technical Secretariat, shall
furnish to the Association not later than June 30 of each year,
annual work plans for the rehabilitation of research facilities
acceptable to the Association.
9.    The Borrower shall ensure that, not later than September 30,
1992, agricultural research activities will be concentrated in 13
national and six regional research stations.
10.   The Borrower shall cause MOA and CSIR to enter into a
memorandum of understanding, not later than December 31, 1991,
indicating the services which the MOA operated regional research
centers would provide to the national research institutes and the
charges to be paid by CSIR for these services.
Part D of the Project
11.   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, not later than
June 30, 1994, the architectural plans and contract documentation
for the construction of the new MOA library building.
Part E of the Project
12.   The Borrower shall cause the research institutes:
      (a)   to introduce, not later than April 30, 1992, organi-
zational changes in the management of the institutes by assigning
their management boards a more active role in the planning and
management of research programs; and
      (b)   to apply, not later than September 30, 1992, new
programming and budgeting procedures as developed by the Technical
Secretariat.
13.   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, not later than
September 30 of each year, CSIR's proposed annual budget and those
for MOA's regional research centers for the Association's reviews
Page  12
and comments.
14.   The Borrower shall appoint the program coordinators for the
selected research programs and establish the relevant commodity
committee not later than December 31, 1991.
15.   The Research Grants Scheme referred to in Part E.2 of the
Project shall operate as follows:
      (a)   research proposals shall meet the criteria to be
submitted to the Association pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   applications for grants shall be submitted to the
Technical Secretariat and evaluated and approved by the Research
Grants Board established pursuant to Section 5.01 (d) of this
Agreement;
      (c)   the first four grants shall have been jointly approved
by the Research Grants Board and the Association;
      (d)   each grant shall be made under an agreement requiring,
inter alia, that procurement out of the proceeds of such a grant be
made in accordance with Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
      (e)   there shall be an annual review of the Research Grants
Scheme by the Research Grants Board and the Association prior to
approving new research proposals for the next twelve months period.
                           SCHEDULE 5
                         Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means: (i) in the case of
Special Account CSIR: Categories (1) (a), (2) (a), (3), (4) (a) and
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and (ii) in the case of Special Account MOA: Categories
(1) (b), (2) (b) and (4) (b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means in the case of
Special Account MOA an amount equivalent to $300,000 and in the case
of Special Account CSIR an amount equivalent to $800,000, such
amounts to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into
the respective Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of any Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of any Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the respective Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request
or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into said Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  13
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of any Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of any Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into any Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in any
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be
Page  14
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in any
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
