Page  1
Document of  
The World Bank 
 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 
 
Report No: 47517 - AF 
 
PROJECT PROPOSAL 
 
ON A  
 
AFGHANISTAN RECONSTRUCTION TRUST FUND 
 
IN THE AMOUNT OF  
US$27.75 MILLION (EQUIVALENT) 
 
AND A 
 
PROPOSED GRANT IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.03 MILLION 
(US$1.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT) 
 
TO 
 
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
FOR A 
 
JUSTICE SECTOR REFORM PROJECT (PHASE I) 
 
May 28, 2008 
 
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of 
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 
Page  2
1
Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund 
Project Proposal 
 
Afghanistan Justice Sector Reform Project (Phase 1) 
 
Applicant 
The Islamic Republic of Afghanistan  
Brief Description 
A
project to enhance the capacity of the Afghan justice institutions to deliver legal 
services.  Investment and technical assistance provided under the project are intended 
to strengthen human capital and physical infrastructure management, augment the 
skills of justice sector professionals, and enhance the physical infrastructure used to 
deliver legal services.  The project is also intended to empower the Afghan people 
through legal aid and education on legal rights and obligations. This is the first ARTF-
funded project proposal intended to support the implementation of the National Justice 
Sector Strategy (NJSS) and the National Justice Program (NJP). The aim of this first 
project (Phase 1) is to implement a set of quick impact sub-projects, visible to the 
Afghan people, while also preparing a foundation for a subsequent more robust and 
longer term ARTF-supported project (Phase 2).   
Project Development 
Objective 
To strengthen the centralized state justice system in Afghanistan and increase access to 
justice for the Afghan people. 
Performance Indicators 
1. 
The number of improved justice facilities.  
2. 
The number of people who receive legal services.  
3. 
The number of qualified and properly trained justice professionals.  
4. 
The number of legal professionals with increased access to adequate legal 
reference materials.  
5. 
The extent of legal advice and representation provided by the state’s legal aid 
program.  
6. 
The number of community leaders and other Afghan people reached through 
the legal awareness initiatives. 
7. 
Improved capacity of legal institutions to manage their human resources and 
assets.  
8. 
Progress in human resource reforms to lay the foundations for increasing 
salaries. 
Sector 
Justice (BG)
 
Location 
Kabul City, provinces and districts in Afghanistan, to be identified  
Total Project Cost 
$27.75 million ARTF financing 
Amount Requested for 
ARTF MC Approval 
$27.75 million 
Implementing Agencies 
The Supreme Court of Afghanistan 
The Afghan Ministry of Justice  
The Afghan Attorney General’s Office  
Implementing Period 
Two years 
Implementation 
Arrangements 
The project will be implemented by a Program Oversight Committee, Program 
Support Unit, and a Project Unit in each implementing agency.   
Contact for further 
information 
Dr. Abdul Kamawi, The Supreme Court of Afghanistan 
Mr. Mohammed Hashemi, The Afghan Ministry of Justice 
Dr. Samaadi, The Afghan Attorney General’s Office  
Reviewed and Cleared 
by the Administrator 
Loan Department; Legal Department; Country Management  
Page  3
2
TABLE OF SELECTED ACRONYMS & ABBREVIATIONS 
 
AGO           
 
Attorney General’s Office of Afghanistan 
ANDS         
 
Afghanistan National Development Strategy 
ARTF          
 
Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Found 
ARDS-PU    
 
Afghanistan Reconstruction and Development Services- Procurement Unit 
CNTF         
 
Counter Narcotics Trust Fund 
 
DA             
 
Designated Account  
DAB           
 
Da Afghanistan Bank (Central Bank) 
ESMF         
 
Environmental and Safeguards Management Framework 
FDD           
 
Focused District Development  
FM 
       
 
Financial Management 
FMA           
 
Financial Management Agent  
GoA           
 
Government of Afghanistan  
HRM          
 
Human Resource Management 
IBRD         
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
 
ICGJR         
 
International Coordination Group for Justice Reform
 
ICT            
 
Information and Communication Technology  
IDA                 
International Development Association (or the Association) 
INLTC      
 
Independent National Legal Training Center  
LOTFA      
 
Law and Order Trust Fund  
M&E          
 
Monitoring and Evaluation  
MoE           
 
Ministry of Economy of Afghanistan 
MoJ            
 
Ministry of Justice of Afghanistan 
NJP            
 
National Justice Program
 
NJSS          
 
National Justice Sector Strategy  
NSP           
 
National Solidarity Program  
PACBP       
 
Public Administration Capacity Building Project  
PAR            
 
Public Administration Reforms  
PFM 
       
 
Public Finance Management 
PEFA          
 
Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability 
PJCM           
 
Provincial Justice Coordination Mechanism (UNAMA)
 
PRR            
 
Priority Reform and Restructuring program  
POC           
 
Program Oversight Committee 
PSU            
 
Program Support Unit 
PU              
 
Project Unit 
QER           
 
Quality Enhancement Review 
 
SDU           
 
Special Disbursement Unit  
SOE          
 
Statement of Expenses 
SC               
 
Supreme Court of Afghanistan 
SDU            
 
Special Disbursement Unit  
TA 
  Technical 
Assistance 
UNAMA      
 
United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan
 
Page  4
3
Table of Contents 
 
I. 
STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE
............................................4 
A.  Key Development Issues...........................................................................  4 
B.  Rationale for ARTF Involvement ...............................................................6 
II. 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
...........................................................................6 
A.  Project Development Objectives.................................................................6 
B. Strategic Choices.........................................................................................7 
C. Project Components....................................................................................8 
D.  Project Cost by Components.....................................................................10 
E.  Relationship to Other Programs ...............................................................10 
III. 
IMPLEMENTATION
...................................................................................12 
A. Institutional Arrangements........................................................................12 
B. Procurement ..............................................................................................13 
C. Financial Management..............................................................................13 
D.  Monitoring and Reporting.........................................................................15 
E.  Sustainability and Risks............................................................................16 
F.  Social and Environmental Issues...............................................................18 
IV. 
Annex 1  
Sector Background..........................................................................19 
V. 
Annex 2  
Detailed Project Description...........................................................23 
VI. 
Annex 3  
Project Cost by Component for ARTF Proposed Funding.............29 
VII. 
Annex 4  
Implementation Arrangements........................................................32 
VIII. 
Annex 5  
Financial Management....................................................................35 
IX. 
Annex 6  
Procurement Arrangements.............................................................46 
X. 
Annex 7
 
Monitoring and Evaluati
on
………………………………………..63  
 XI.      
Annex 8
 Summary of Donor Engagements....................................................66 
 
XII.      
Annex 9
 Social and Environmental Safeguards.............................................75 
 
XIII.      
Annex 10
 Letters of Endorsement .................................................................80 
Page  5
4
I. 
 
STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE 
 
A. 
Key Development Issues 
 
1. 
Afghanistan continues to struggle to overcome the legacy of almost three decades of war 
and civil strife.  Its political context remains complex and dominated by the cross-border Taliban 
insurgency, increasing narcotics production, and weak governance and rule of law.   
 
2. 
Its economy has continued to recover strongly in recent years, marked by strong fiscal 
discipline and declining inflation, but the political and economic situation remains very fragile, 
especially in view of the tense, and in some areas deteriorating, security situation.  By the time 
the Taliban government fell in 2001, the Afghan political system had largely collapsed.  While 
many of the formal structures and some of the traditional practices of public administration 
remained in place, they lack human, financial and physical resources, as well as up to date know 
how.  Since then, the Government of Afghanistan (GoA) has faced enormous challenges in 
restoring security, taking charge of running the country, building consensus across various 
political factions and rebuilding the capacity of the state.  In this challenging context, significant 
progress has been made in restoring institutions of governance, but more is urgently needed. 
Corruption continues to threaten the initial gains in government capacity and effectiveness, and 
encourages a culture of patronage and involvement in illegal activities, damaging the credibility 
of the state. 
 
Justice Sector 
 
3. 
In recent years, the GoA has taken bold steps, assisted by the international community, to 
rehabilitate the justice system and improve the delivery of legal services.  Pursuant to initiatives 
supported by the international donor community, hundreds of judges, prosecutors, 
Huqquq
 
officers and other officials have received substantive legal training; new courts and office 
facilities have been built; a new manual case management system has been tested for the courts; 
business operations, especially in the central justice institutions 
–
the Supreme Court (SC), 
Ministry of Justice (MoJ) and Attorney General’s Office (AGO) – continue to be more closely 
aligned with current needs; and a number of NGOs have worked to provide legal assistance to 
the poor and disadvantaged to deal with their day-to-day challenges. 
 
4. 
Given its direct relationship to GoA priority interests such as security and economic 
development, justice sector initiatives initially focused on criminal justice, including the 
corrections system.  In recent years, the focus of government and donor efforts has widened 
considerably to include work on other aspects of the justice system.  Donors such as US AID, for 
example, have provided significant support for court administration and for legislative drafting 
capacity.  Italy, the United States and Germany, among others, have supported
 legal education 
and training for legislative drafters, judges, prosecutors, public defenders, law professors and law 
students.  Further examples include the provision of training by the UN Office on Drugs and 
Crime (UNODC) on juvenile justice, and the European Commission (EC)
’s support for 
implementation of the Priority Reform and Restructuring (PRR) program, and other Human 
Resouce Management (HRM) reforms, at each of the justice institutions.  There has also been 
research and training on aspects of Afghan law such as human rights, women’s rights and 
matrimonial law.  There is much ongoing work on the development of professional standards in 
the justice sector, on building a national legal aid system and on the promotion of legal 
Page  6
5
awareness.  Technical support, including office management, computer and database training, 
and the rehabilitation and construction of infrastructure has been provided to the justice 
institutions.  Legal libraries have been established and new reference materials produced.  There 
have also been a range of justice sector conferences, seminars, studies and assessments (see 
Annex 8 for a full list of justice sector project supported by donors).  
 
5. 
One of the particular challenges in the Afghan legal system is the need to reconcile and 
connect state law, sharia law and customary law so as to establish a unified legal system that is 
consistent with Islamic standards, human rights standards and Afghan legal traditions.  
Currently, the state courts and the traditional community-based 
jirgas
 and 
shuras
 work largely in 
isolation of each other.  The GoA aims to build a unified justice system that will rely on formal 
institutions, while integrating the functions of the traditional mechanisms of dispute resolution.  
At this early stage, the priority is to strengthen the state justice institutions.  At the same time, the 
GoA is, and the permanent justice institutions in particular are, developing policies toward 
embracing the potential of traditional justice systems.   
 
6. 
Much work remains to be done in relation to the formal justice sector.  Working 
conditions for those in the sector remain very poor.  Judges, prosecutors, and civil servants 
working in the justice sector are paid less than a third of what is considered to be a living wage; 
they often do not have sufficient training or access to laws and other legal materials to advise on, 
apply or enforce state laws; and they often feel isolated from the central government and lacking 
the personal security necessary to reach independent decisions in local communities.  All of 
these factors make them more susceptible to corruption, which according to popular perception is 
widespread in the justice sector.  Court houses and offices are frequently either non-existent or 
badly dilapidated.  Where they do exist, they often lack basic equipment such as desks, chairs, 
and often, even pens and paper.  Many legal professionals also lack access to transportation to 
attend courts and offices in remote areas, of which there are many in Afghanistan.  All these 
things undermine their efforts to deliver legal services to Afghan citizens.   
 
7. 
Citizens themselves lack confidence in the formal justice institutions and regard them as 
slow, ineffective and often corrupt.  Access to courts and legal assistance are rights enshrined in 
the Afghan constitution, but they are rights that are very difficult for the majority of Afghans, 
particularly women, to realize.  Public awareness of legal rights is very low, legal information is 
very difficult to access, and the majority of people cannot afford court fees or the transportation 
costs for attending court.  It follows that one of the biggest challenges of building the Afghan 
state is to establish the legitimacy of the formal justice system. 
 
National Justice Sector Development Program 
 
8. 
In January 2006, the GoA and the international community agreed on specific 
development goals and deadlines for their achievement, including in the justice sector, in the 
Afghanistan Compact
.
These goals, along with others based on the strategies produced by the 
Supreme Court (SC), Ministry of Justice (MoJ) and Attorney General’s Office (AGO) in April 
2007, have now been incorporated into a 
National Justice Sector Strategy
 (NJSS).  The NJSS is 
intended to be a statement of 
high level objectives, and is accompanied by a 
National Justice 
Program 
(NJP).  The NJP is an implementation plan designed to achieve the objectives set out in 
the NJSS.  Drafts of the NJSS and NJP are currently at an advanced stage, and once finalized, 
will form part of the 
GoA’s 
Afghanistan National Development Strategy
 (ANDS). 
Page  7
6
9. 
According to the NJSS, Go
A’s vision is “
an
Islamic society in which an impartial and 
independent justice system delivers safety and security for life, religion, property, family and 
reputation, with respect for liberty, equality before the law and access to justice for all
.”
The 
NJSS aims to realize this vision by undertaking a range of activities unified under three goals: (i) 
improved quality of justice; (ii) improved integrity, performance and infrastructure; and (iii) 
improved coordination and integration within the justice system, with other government 
institutions and civil society.   
 
10. 
The proposed project is fully consistent with the NJSS and the NJP objectives and 
priorities, and is designed to coordinate with and build on past and ongoing projects 
implemented by the GoA and international donors (
see
 
Annex 1 for more details). 
 
B.  
Rationale for ARTF Involvement 
 
11. 
As GoA and the international donor community agreed at the
 
2007
Rome Conference on 
the Rule of Law in Afghanistan 
(convened by Afghanistan and Italy and jointly chaired by the 
United Nations) there is an urgent need to improve the coordination, integration and funding of 
investments in the Afghan justice sector.  As part of their Joint Recommendations, the Rome 
Conference participants
 agreed to elaborate a comprehensive National Justice Program and 
establish a pooled funding mechanism to support it.  The Conference invited the World Bank to 
assist in the design of the pooled funding mechanism and noted that the ARTF showed the most 
potential as a funding mechanism.  
 
12. 
The implementation of the NJSS and the NJP is a long term process which will require 
continuing support through a number of programs and projects, only some of which will be 
financed by the ARTF.  It is hoped that the use of the ARTF, as a significant source of pooled 
funding, will facilitate a coordinated approach among international donors in the justice sector, 
reduce duplication, minimize transaction costs, and so significantly increase the development 
impact of donor contributions in this sector.  
 
13. 
At the same time, some justice sector programs and projects will continue to be supported 
by bilateral donors or other multilateral trust funds, e.g. the Counter Narcotics Trust Fund and 
the Law and Order Trust Fund. The various programs and projects are drawn together under the 
objectives and priorities of the NJSS, and the NJP.  
 
II.  
PROJECT DESCRIPTION 
 
A. 
Project Development Objectives 
 
14. 
In line with the ANDS and NJSS, t
he
project’s development objective is to strengthen a 
centralized state justice system and to increase access to justice for the Afghan people. The 
project’s immediate objective is to enhance the capacity of the justice sector institutions to 
Page  8
7
deliver legal services.  This will be achieved primarily through more strategic human capital and 
physical infrastructure management, increasing the skills of justice sector professionals, and 
enhancing the physical infrastructure used to deliver legal services.  
 
15. 
The guiding principles which underlie this project are: (i) to facilitate a shift from 
ad
hoc
initiatives to more systemic, structural reforms owned by the Afghan justice sector institutions; 
(ii) to establish justice sector centers of excellence (strategically located justice sector facilities, 
serving as models for replication and enabling measurement of the cumulative effects of 
reforms); (iii) to meet infrastructure needs as part of a comprehensive program of institutional 
reform; (iv) to strengthen self-governing structures in the justice sector to promote professional 
competence and integrity and fight corruption; (v) to build sustainable institutional capacity and 
(vi) to promote the design and implementation of measures that recognize the additional 
challenges faced by the most vulnerable sections of the Afghan population including women, 
children and those with disabilities, including the promotion of gender equality and human 
rights.  
 
16. 
The project’s progress will be measured against: (i) the number of improved facilities; (ii) 
the number of people who receive legal services in these facilities; (iii) the number of qualified 
and properly trained justice professionals; (iv) the number of legal professionals with increased 
access to adequate legal reference materials; (v) the extent of legal advice and representation 
provided by the state’s legal aid program; (vi) the number of community leaders and ordinary 
Afghan people reached through the public awareness initiatives; (vii) the increase in the capacity 
of legal institutions to manage their human resources and assets; and (viii) progress in human 
resource reforms to lay the foundations for increasing salaries. See also the Monitoring & 
Evaluation Framework proposed in Annex 7. 
 
17. 
The baseline data to measure project progress against the above indicators, and the 
project monitoring and evaluation arrangements, will be agreed upon at the beginning of project 
implementation. Measures to enhance the capacity of the justice institutions, and the project 
implementation structure, to establish baseline data and to conduct monitoring and evaluation 
will also be considered. 
 
B. Strategic Choices  
 
18. 
This is the first ARTF-funded project proposal intended to form part of the NJP. The aim 
of this first project (Phase 1) is to implement a set of quick impact sub-projects, visible to the 
Afghan people, while also preparing a foundation for a subsequent more robust and longer term 
ARTF-supported project (Phase 2).  The scope of activities in Phase 1 is deliberately limited, in 
view of the need to establish the implementation structure, to build procurement capacity in the 
institutions, to assimilate baseline data and to operate in an uncertain security environment.  
Phase 2 activities will address more complex challenges under the same development objectives. 
This incremental approach is intended to enable the swift delivery of tangible benefits that will 
work to build trust and confidence in the GoA and the justice institutions, and capitalize on the 
political momentum, both domestically and internationally, for justice sector reform.  
 
19. 
Preparation of Phase 2 will begin during or immediately after the implementation of 
Phase 1. Phase 2 will be designed to be consistent with, and where appropriate, to continue, 
Phase 1 activities.  It is anticipated that Phase 2 will: continue to support initiatives instigated in 
Page  9
8
Phase 1 such as HRM reforms and training; implement the construction of infrastructure, the 
designs of which will be reviewed and procurement undertaken as part of the Phase 1 project; 
continue to provide information and communication technology (ICT) support; continue to 
support legal aid and legal awareness initiatives and their roll out to additional provinces; and, 
additionally, address some more complex issues such as possibilities for integration of the 
informal justice system, the establishment of agreed standards for the recruitment, training and 
performance evaluation of justice sector professionals and the standardization of legal education.  
The GoA will prepare Phase 2 in close consultation with international donors, and the Bank will 
appraise the project design.  Preparation work may start as early as September 2008.  
 
C. Project Components 
 
20. 
The project will have three components: (i) Enhancing Capacity of Justice Sector 
Institutions; (ii)
 
Empowering the People; and (iii) Strengthening Implementation Capacity.  
 
(i) Enhancing Capacity of Justice Sector Institutions (US$23.6 million)
 
21. 
The objective of this component is to enhance the basic operations of the justice 
institutions.  The target group comprises judges, prosecutors and other justice sector officials, 
some of whom, by the end of the project, should be able to work under substantially better 
conditions and possess greater skills related to the resolution of legal disputes.  The eventual 
beneficiaries of this component will be the people of Afghanistan who receive better services in 
form of legal dispute resolution.   
 
22. 
The component has three subcomponents: (a) human capital; (b) physical infrastructure; 
and (c) information and communication technology.  
 
(a) 
Human Capital
.
This subcomponent will finance technical assistance (TA) for the first 
stages of Human Resource Management (HRM) reforms for judges and prosecutors as well 
as the continuation of civil service reforms for support staff.  These reforms are intended to 
form the basis for salary increases in the justice sector
1
and to be consistent with the steps 
taken under the Priority Reform and Restructuring (PRR) program in other ministries. The 
specific reforms required as a basis for pay increases will be discussed and agreed with the 
justice institutions--and in consultation with the donor community--early on in the project 
implementation period.  This subcomponent will also support the development of legal 
libraries, a review of HRM procedures, legal forms, training courses and professional 
gatherings.  A conference of international legal professionals, including those from countries 
with Islamic legal systems, and their Afghan counterparts will be organized to encourage an 
open discussion of the development of Afghanistan’s domestic law.  
 
HRM reforms and training initiatives will continue to be supported in follow up 
phases/projects (see Section II.E below). The reforms will target increased productivity 
(through increased workforce specialization and skill development), and more strategic and 
integrated court management.  Follow up projects will also continue supporting the 
1
Salary increases are not funded under this project.  They will be funded by donor contributions to the ARTF recurrent window, 
on successful implementation of the HRM and associated reforms under this and/or follow up projects. 
 
Page  10
9
development of legal documents, publications and other materials.  They will aim to 
capitalize on the results of professional gatherings and strengthen self-governing elements 
(e.g. professional associations) of the justice sector.  This should contribute to the 
independence of judges and legal professionals.  
 
(b) 
Physical Infrastructure
.
With the investment and TA provided under this subcomponent, 
the GoA will establish a Capital Investment Plan, other investment plans and facility design 
standards, including standards for model justice centers; prepare for and begin to implement 
construction and repair of court and office facilities and jud
ges’ residences; equip new and 
existing courts and offices; and provide transportation for justice sector officials.  Capacity to 
manage physical assets will also be supported to sustain the progress achieved under this 
subcomponent. 
 
The new facilities (with the exception of the AGO Headquarters) will be constructed during a 
second follow up project (see Section II.E below).  Follow up projects will support the 
rehabilitation, construction and equipping of other facilities according to the plans and 
standards developed during the initial phase.  An overriding objective will be to align assets, 
buildings and management to the business needs of the sector including, for example, 
geographical caseload and demand for services.  
 
(c) 
Information and Communication Technology
.
The third subcomponent will finance an 
assessment of the need for ICT in the central legal and provincial justice institutions and 
provide for the networks and hardware needs identified.  ICT support will continue under the 
follow up projects, in line with the assessments and plans developed during this first project. 
 
(ii
)
Empowering People
 
(US$2.4 million)
 
22. 
The objective of this component is to empower the Afghan people through legal aid and 
education.  The target group for this component is community leaders as well as the wider 
population, especially those in the most economically vulnerable sections of the Afghan 
population, together with legal aid providers. Policy makers will also benefit from activities 
forming part of this component.  The component is divided into two subcomponents: (a) legal 
aid; and (b) legal awareness.  
 
(a) Legal Aid
.
By financing investment (under sub-component (i)(b)) and TA for the 
operation of some five to ten legal aid offices around the country, this component will 
support basic legal aid (in the form of information, counseling and representation) for eligible 
individuals, with a focus on women and children.  In addition to providing services to 
eligible clients, the legal aid offices will collect and analyze data about the demand for and 
supply of legal services. Using these analyses, the legal offices will assist the MoJ and the 
Legal Aid Council
2
in developing national legal aid policy and the associated regulations.  If 
successful, the project will be rolled out to additional provinces under follow up projects in 
coordination with other legal aid initiatives implemented under bilateral and other projects. 
(see Section II.E below). 
 
2
The MOJ and Legal Aid Council, as well as creation of additional legal aid offices, are supported by bilateral 
projects. 
Page  11
10
(b) Legal Awareness
.
This subcomponent will support public confidence in the state justice 
system, as well as knowledge and understanding of legal rights and obligations under civil 
(including family), commercial and criminal laws.  TA undertaken by a Legal Awareness 
unit, within the MoJ, will focus on awareness raising, first, among community leaders, and 
then, with the help of legal professionals, among the general public.  Nanganhar Province, 
comprising 21 districts, has been selected by the MoJ to pilot this activity. The legal 
awareness campaign will, to the extent possible and appropriate, be coordinated with related 
programs, such as the
 Ministry of Interior’s Focused District Development program, bilateral 
projects and with the legal aid subcomponent of this project.  If successful, the project will be 
rolled out to other provinces as part of a follow up project (see Section II.E below). 
 
(iii) Strengthening Implementation Capacity (US$1.75 million)
 
23. 
The ultimate objective of this component is to build implementation capacity within the 
justice institutions so that they will, in time, be able to implement reforms and other activities 
without significant additional assistance.  The immediate objective of this component is to 
facilitate effective implementation of the NJSS, NJP and the project.  With TA provided under 
this component, the government will establish and operate NJP management infrastructure which 
will also be responsible for the management of the ARTF project.  The management functions 
will be shared among: a Program Oversight Committee (POC), a Program Support Unit (PSU), 
and a project unit (PU) in each of the implementing agencies.  The POC will work closely with 
the Board of Donors (BoD) which will advise the POC on strategic direction and reform 
challenges.  The project will finance local and international consultants to assist the PSU and PU.  
It will also finance the costs associated with operating the implementation units (see also Annex 
2
).   
 
D.
 
Project Costs by Component
 
US$ million 
 
A
Strengthening Capacity of Legal Institutions to Deliver Legal 
Services 
23.60
1
Human Capital 
5.25
2
Physical Infrastructure 
16.9
3
Information and Communication Technology 
1.45
B
Empowering the People 
2.40
1
Legal Aid 
1.80
2
Legal Awareness Campaign 
0.60
C
Strengthening Implementation Capacity 
1.75
Total Project Cost* 
27.75
*
total including physical and price contingencies 
 
 
E.  Relationship to Other Programs 
 
24. 
As a rule, even before comprehensive data is available on existing and proposed bilateral 
and other projects in the justice sector, the PSU will undertake a stock-taking and bench-marking 
exercise before launching new activities.  This will ensure that activities proposed under this 
project will not duplicate work already done in the sector and will benefit from lessons learned 
and best practice information. 
Page  12
11
 
25. 
Activities under this project relate to the wider public administration reforms (PAR) 
being
 supported by international donors and the Bank.  The PAR’s objectives are to: build an 
effective civil service; improve local governance and service delivery; and make government 
accountable to the people.  The PRR has been the principal vehicle for restructuring and 
rationalizing government agencies.  The key elements of PRR are functional reviews, merit-
based appointments, and pay and grading reforms that include significantly increased salaries.  
 
26. 
Within the PAR, the MoJ and seven of its regional offices underwent a functional review 
and redesign of job descriptions.  In March 2007, the MoJ reached PRR stage two with 1,815 job 
positions approved and 850 merit-based appointments.  The SC and AGO have not, until 
recently, sought to participate in PRR.  In December 2007, the SC and one court in Kabul 
launched their version of PRR for court staff.  Early in 2008, the AGO decided to take a similar 
approach.  Both the SC and AGO have expressed their commitment to initiate similar reforms for 
judges and prosecutors. The special case of judges and to a similar extent, prosecutors, whose 
independence from executive influence must be guaranteed, justifies a special reform track such 
as the SC and the AGO has proposed.  Close coordination between these HRM reform processes 
in the justice institutions and with the Civil Service Commission is essential.  
 
27. 
Justice sector reforms in Afghanistan have been supported by a wide range of programs 
and projects funded and implemented by various bilateral donors and multilateral trust funds, e.g. 
the Counter Narcotics Trust Fund (CNTF) and the Law and Order Trust Fund (LOTFA).  The 
various projects are increasingly being drawn together under the objectives and priorities of the 
NJSS, and the NJP envisions that this multi-strand funding structure will continue in the future.  
Such an approach is required in the justice sector because significant funding sources are 
restricted in the scope of the activities they are authorized to support.  The ARTF, given the 
restrictions in the Bank’s Articles of Agreement, is not authorized to fund activities related to 
security and therefore, cannot fund activities directly related to prisons.  LOTFA funds, on the 
other hand, are intended for activities directly related to police and other law enforcement 
agencies, and the CNTF is authorized to support activities directly related to the reduction of 
illegal drug production.   
 
28. 
This project has been designed to capitalize on and complement the full range of projects 
that are active in the areas of HRM, education and training, physical infrastructure, ICT and legal 
aid and legal awareness.  Examples include the Independent National Legal Training Centre 
(INLTC) project, whose major donors include Italy and the US; the development of legal 
libraries and training materials supported, for example, by USAID and UNODC; the Focused 
District Development program, run by the Afghan Ministry of the Interior with the support of the 
US military (CSTC) and the US Department of State; the legal aid projects being pursued by 
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) and the EC; and the regional training 
programs for community leaders and prosecutors run under the auspices of the JSSP (supported 
by the US State Department) (see Annex 5 for further details of donor activities in the justice 
sector). 
 
29. 
The project will also explore possible collaboration with the National Solidarity Program 
(NSP), supported by the Bank and other donors and implemented by the Ministry of Rural 
Rehabilitation and Development.  The aim would be to build links between legal empowerment 
and common needs of poor communities, including access to resources, markets and services. 
Page  13
12
Legal awareness and legal aid initiatives have the potential to build on the effectiveness of the 
NSP by opening vertical pathways for the poor to effectively claim and protect their rights, and 
to resolve disputes both in terms of NSP-related disputes and broader local tensions.  Possible 
linkages with other projects will also be explored early on in the project implementation period. 
 
III. IMPLEMENTATION 
 
A. Institutional 
Arrangements 
 
30. 
The NJP implementation structure will assist the GoA to manage this project and will 
over time, as the implementing institutions further develop their capacity, work to transition 
implementation functions to the institutions themselves.  The structure includes a Program 
Oversight Committee (POC); Board of Donors (BoD); Program Support Unit (PSU); and Project 
Units (PU) in the implementing institutions 
–
the SC, the MOJ, and the AGO.  The POC is 
composed of the Afghan Chief Justice, Minister of Justice, Attorney General and Minister of 
Finance.  The GoA
3
may select and appoint additional members of the POC and its chairman. 
 
31. 
The POC is responsible for 
the overall policy, strategic planning and management of this 
project, and the coordination of the implementation of the project within the National Justice 
Program and other development programs. Responsibilities of the POC other than those directly 
related to this project are as set out in the NJP.
4
Specific responsibilities of the POC, which 
relate to this project, also include establishment of the PSU.  From the time of project 
effectiveness until the PSU is created (by end July 2008), the POC will be responsible for project 
management.  The POC will work closely with a Board of Donors and other stakeholders, 
supporting the justice sector reforms.  The POC and the Board of Donors will meet on a 
quarterly basis to discuss project progress.   
 
32. 
The PSU will be responsible for effective execution of the project in compliance with the 
ARTF Grant Agreement.  It will serve as POC secretariat and will be responsible for the day-to-
day management and implementation of this project including financial management, 
procurement, progress reporting and monitoring, and technical oversight of the implementation 
of activities under the Project.  The PSU will also coordinate and monitor the implementation of 
the NJSS and NJP.   
 
33. 
The PSU will include: (i) a director, appointed by and reporting to the POC; (ii) a 
program coordinator, responsible for the coordination and monitoring and evaluation of NJSS 
and NJP; and (iii) a staff of about four senior local and/or regional experts in fields such as 
construction and facilities management, HRM, education and training, ICT, legal aid and 
informal justice; and (iv) two or three junior assistants.  Two regional and/or international 
experts in procurement and financial management will further assist the director and the team.  
The program coordinator and other staff will by hired on a competitive basis by the POC, in 
accordance with the World Bank’s guidelines for the hiring consultants. These staff will report to 
3
The authority in charge of appointing the chair of the POC will be determined by the time of project effectiveness. 
4
The form and responsibilities of the implementation structure is set out in Chapter 4 C of NJP. 
Page  14
13
the Project Director.  The operating costs of the PSU, as well as the costs of the salaries of the 
PSU team, will be financed by the ARTF Grant.  
 
34. 
The PSU will work closely with PUs established in the SC, the MOJ, and the AGO.  Each 
PU will be led by 
each institution’s head of administration, who will be supported by an 
assistant.  The assistant will be funded by the ARTF. Each PU will further include a staff 
responsible for the tasks to be supported by the project such as physical infrastructure, HRM and 
training, legal aid and ICT.  The PU will be a key vehicle for the transfer of the know-how 
generated through the project from the PSU to the institutions.  The role of each PU will be to 
facilitate smooth cooperation between its respective institution and the PSU.  The PUs will meet 
on a regular basis with the PSU director to identify and resolve issues arising from the 
implementation of the program and the project.  Specific responsibilities of each PU will include 
cooperation on organizing procurement (e.g. assisting in setting technical specifications, terms of 
reference and qualification requirements of prospective contractors) and securing provision of 
timely inputs to implement project activities (e.g. selection of pilot locations and construction 
sites).  A detailed description of the implementation structure and operational procedures will be 
included in the project operational manual, which will be issued within four months of the 
appointment of the project director (see also Annex 4).
 
B. Procurement 
 
 
35. 
Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out in accord
ance with the Bank’s  
Guidelines
:
Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and  IDA Credits
 May 2004, , Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers
 
May  2004, and the 
provisions stipulated in the Grant Agreement.  For contracts to be financed by the Grant, the  
different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-qualification, 
estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are  agreed between  the  Recipient  
and  the  Bank  team  and reflected in the Procurement  Plan.  The Procurement Plan will be 
updated at least every six months or based on actual project implementation needs and 
improvements in institutional capacity.  The International Development Association-led 
procurement team has found that procurement capacity in the implementing agencies is weak 
and that they have not implemented any donor-assisted project.  Therefore, it is recommended to 
seek the assistance of the Afghanistan Reconstruction 
and Development Services (ARDS) – PU in the Ministry of Economy (MoE) as mandated by 
GoA. In addition the PSU will be supported by a procurement specialist. The detailed 
procurement plan is attached as Annex 6. 
 
C. Financial 
Management 
 
Financial Management, Disbursement and Audit Arrangements 
 
36. 
A Public Finance Management (PFM) performance rating system has been recently 
developed for Afghanistan by the Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA) 
multi-agency partnership program, which includes the Bank, International Monetary Fund, 
European Commission, and other agencies. Afghanistan’s ratings against the PFM performance 
indicators portray a public sector where financial resources are, by and large, being used for their 
intended purposes as authorized by a budget that is processed with transparency and has 
contributed to aggregate fiscal discipline.  
Page  15
14
 
37. 
Financial management and audit functions for the proposed project will be undertaken 
through the agents contracted under the Public Administration Capacity Building project.  This is 
the primary instrument for continuing to strengthen the fiduciary measures put in place for 
ensuring transparency and accountability of funds provided by the Bank and other donors. Under 
these contracts, two advisers
—Financial Management and Audit—are responsible for working 
with the government and line ministries to carry out these core functions.  The Financial 
Management Agent (FMA) is responsible for helping the MoF maintain the accounts for all 
public expenditures, including IDA-financed projects and for building capacity within the 
government offices for these functions.  
 
38. 
At the project level, the PSU will perform the key financial management functions for the 
implementing entities – SC MoJ, and AGO. As an interim measure until the time the PSU is 
fully established and staffed, the project will use the services of ARDS – PU in MoE to handle 
the initial activities for the project.  The financial management capacity of MoE has been 
assessed for this purpose and found satisfactory by IDA. IDA will carry out an assessment 
subsequently of the PSU and its financial management arrangements once it is established.  
 
39. 
The PSU will utilize an accounting system to maintain relevant accounting records and 
generate required periodic reports on the project activities. Quarterly Financial Monitoring 
Reports will be prepared by the PSU. Consolidated project reports will be prepared, reviewed, 
and approved by the MoF, supported by the FMA. 
 
40. 
A Designated Account (DA) will be opened at Da Afghanistan Bank (DAB, the Central 
Bank) or in a local commercial bank in the name of the project on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to IDA. The DA will be maintained by the MoF. Withdrawal applications for 
replenishment will be submitted monthly. Financial management arrangements for the project 
are detailed in Annex 5. 
 
Fund Flows 
 
41. 
Fund management for the Project will follow existing procedures. As with all public 
expenditure, all payments under the project will be routed through MoF.  The FMA will assist 
the MoF in executing and recording project payments.  In keeping with current practices for 
other projects in Afghanistan, the DA will be operated by the Special Disbursement Unit (SDU) 
in the Treasury Department MoF.  Requests for payments from DA funds will be made to the 
SDU by PSU.  In addition to payments from DA funds, the PSU can also request the SDU to 
make direct payments to consultants, consulting firms or suppliers, and special commitments for 
contracts covered by letters of credit. Such requests will follow Bank procedures.  All 
withdrawal applications to IDA, including replenishment, reimbursement, and direct payment 
applications, will be prepared and submitted by MoF. 
 
Accounting and Reporting 
 
42. 
A Financial Management Manual will be prepared by the PSU, within three months of its 
establishment, documenting the financial management arrangements for the project.  The manual 
will outline guidelines for project activities and establish a project financial management system 
Page  16
15
in accordance with standard Afghan government policies and procedures.  This will include use 
of the Chart of Accounts developed by the FMA to record project expenditures. Project accounts 
will be consolidated centrally in MoF, through the SDU and supported by the FMA. 
Consolidated Project Financial Statements will be prepared for all sources and uses of project 
expenditures. 
 
Disbursement Method 
 
43. 
Disbursements from the grant will be transaction-based, with replenishment, 
reimbursement, direct payment, and payments under Special Commitments including full 
documentation or against statements of expenditures, as appropriate
.
Audit of Project Funds  
 
44. 
The Auditor General, supported by the Audit Agent, is responsible for auditing the 
accounts of all IDA-financed projects, it will also b
e
responsible for this project’s audit.  Annual 
audited project financial statements will be submitted within six months of the close of GoA’s 
fiscal year. 
 
E. 
Monitoring and Reporting 
45.
 
The POC will report on the NJP to the Cabinet of Ministers, and to the ANDS Oversight 
Committee in accordance with the ANDS and NJP requirements.  On a quarterly basis, the POC 
will discuss the NJP and project progress with the Board of Donors.  Project progress will also be 
reported to the ARTF Management Committee at six monthly intervals. 
 
46. 
The quarterly reports, including Financial Monitoring Reports, will form the basis of the 
project monitoring and supervision by the Bank.  The reports will include sources and uses of 
funds, physical progress and the status of procurement activities. The compilation of the reports 
will be the responsibility of the PSU and PUs. 
T
he
project will also be monitored through 
studies/surveys, expert assessment, and collection of empirical data.
 
47. 
The PSU under the POC, supported by the consultants, will be responsible for overall 
monitoring and reporting to ARTF (at six monthly intervals).  The project will also be monitored 
through supervision, progress reports, studies/surveys, expert assessment, and empirical data.  In 
addition, each of the components aims at improving the GoA’s capacity to manage particular 
functions based on empirical data.  For instance, the Project will assist the GoA in establishing a 
performance monitoring and evaluation system that will enhance the human resources, asset 
management and legal aid program.  These systems will become an integral part of the project’s 
monitoring and evaluation arrangements.  
48. 
The Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) frameworks have been developed to guide the 
progress assessments. The frameworks are annexed to the main program and project documents 
(see also Annex 7).  Following the guidance of the NJP and the Grant Agreement, the PSU and 
PU will update the frameworks within four months of the appointment of the Project Director.   
 
F.  
Sustainability and Risks 
 
Page  17
16
 
49. 
The factors that are critical to the sustainability (and/or attainability) of the project 
objectives are: (i) security; (ii) institutional capacity; (iii) commitment and support for HRM 
reforms; (iv) coordination; (v) the availability of empirical data to support the reform design and 
monitor its progress; and (vi) corruption. The overall implementation risk rating is 
“
Substantial”
.
Risks and Risk-mitigation Measures 
Risks Mitigation 
measures 
Risk Rating 
with 
Mitigation 
Security
 
The political and security situation in 
Afghanistan remains volatile.  This may 
interfere with development and 
reconstruction efforts. 
The project design is flexible enough to be able to 
react and adjust to realities.  
Substantial 
Institutional Capacity
 
1) Weak capacity of the implementing 
agencies ( SC, MOJ, AGO) and their 
regional offices; 
 
2) Weak capacity of the private sector to  
execute construction and ICT projects 
The project will fill capacity gaps by using 
experienced international/regional/national 
consultants.  In addition, the project supports 
capacity building in the implementing institutions.  
Close cooperation and coordination with other 
donors who rely heavily on international assistance 
should also help to address this weakness. Finally, 
with respect to procurement, the justice sector 
institutions, at least at the initial stage of the project 
will work closely with the Ministry of Economy
.
Substantial 
Commitment to Reforms
 
Some of the reforms, e.g. HR reforms for 
judges and prosecutors, may disturb 
political alliances (in the long term) and 
might thus be perceived as a political threat. 
Recent withdrawal of two laws on civil 
service reform from the Parliament 
illustrates importance of the commitment to 
this reform.  
Improved competence of workforce in justice sector 
is 
conditio sine qua non 
for strengthening the rule of 
law.  A combination of “hard reforms” with reforms 
which have strong support from the leadership and 
its constituencies (such as building physical 
infrastructure and increase of salaries at the end of 
the reform process) should help to gain the support 
for and ownership of the full range of reforms.   
 
High 
Coordination 
(i) Justice Sector  
The justice sector is composed of three 
separate institutions whose interests 
sometimes compete. The need to preserve 
institutional independence of judicial and 
prosecutorial systems translates into a 
tendency to seek separation from 
mainstream sector reforms (e.g. seeking a 
separate facility, institution, and process 
from that used in the rest of the public and 
or justice sector).  These trends reduce 
returns on the reform investments.  
Through TA the project will increase the 
understanding of the concepts of independence and 
accountability. The TA provided under the project 
should result in more transparent and better 
informed managerial decisions. 
Medium 
Page  18
17
(ii) Donors
 
Justice sector reform has been supported by 
a
large number of development partners 
with different priorities and approaches.  
Although donor coordination has improved 
in recent years, the legacy of patchy and 
inconsistent reform interventions will be 
hard to overcome.  
The NJSS and NJP represent a consensus on the key 
reform directions and priorities.  The 
implementation structure, mainly the PSU which 
will have dual responsibilities to implement this 
project and to coordinate all other reform efforts, 
will reduce the risks of overlaps and reform 
inconsistencies.   In addition, there are other donors’ 
coordinating mechanisms (e.g. ICGJR, PJCM) in 
place to address the issue of insufficient 
coordination. 
Medium 
Design & Lack of Empirical Data
 
By any standard, existing information 
metrics about the Afghanistan JS are not yet 
sufficient to inform the management about 
decision-making, designing the project, 
and/or monitoring its progress during the 
execution phase.  This may reflect on the 
adequacy of the project design.  
The challenge will be addressed through the relative 
flexibility of the design which should allow for 
necessary adjustments.  The project component 
includes collection of necessary data and analytical 
work which should help to make informed decisions 
about the project.    
Substantial  
Implementation Arrangement & Capacity
 
Implementing agencies have very limited 
capacity for the procurement and financial 
management that will be necessary to 
implement the project activities. They do 
not have experience implementing the 
World Bank Procurement Guidelines and 
associated procedures.   
 
The PSU will assist the implementing agencies with 
the procurement and financial management, and 
other aspects, involved in implementing the project. 
In the interim period before the PSU is established, 
MoE will assist the implementing agencies with 
procurement and financial management.  
 
High 
Corruption
 
1) 
Judicial Corruption
.
Reportedly corruption is wide spread in the 
justice sector. Corruption erodes confidence 
in the system and undermines its already 
fragile legitimacy. A corrupt justice sector 
cannot deliver service (including its 
oversight over other branches of the 
government); nor can it prosecute 
corruption committed by others.  
 
2) 
Corruption at the project level.  
The project management responsibilities 
will 
assist the institutions’ implementation 
capacity.  A lack of understanding of 
existing procurement and FM practices 
impose the risk.  Corruption is inherent 
especially in construction component. Here, 
a
lack of an overall framework
 for quality 
assurance, e.g., local municipality 
inspections and permitting requirements
1) Through its activities, the project will increase 
transparency and accountability in the justice sector.  
For instance, by HRM management reform, the 
project will reduce corruption associated with hiring 
of judges, prosecutors and others.  This reform is 
also a precondition for salary increases, which are 
themselves seen as one of the most important 
anticorruption measures.  
The project’s legal 
empowerment component should also increase the 
ability of people to execute public control over 
officials, including judges and prosecutors.  
 
2) Strong management structure, transparent 
procedures, information sharing, and close 
cooperation with larger constituencies (especially 
with donors), and intensive supervision of the 
project should mitigate the risk. Additional financial 
controls and audits can help with the corruption 
issue.  Further, onsite inspections by the PSU or 
government staff will be necessary. 
 
High 
Page  19
18
increase the risk of corruption.   
Overall  
 
S
Risk rating: H=high risk; S=substantial risk; M=modest risk; L=low risk
 
G. 
SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 
 
50. 
The physical infrastructure component of the project will trigger OP/BP 4.12, although 
the planned rehabilitation and construction activities of court and office facilities and jud
ges’ 
residences
 primarily will be on existing government land, and no major land acquisition is 
expected. The Environmental and Safeguards Management Framework, followed by other 
ongoing/planned projects in Afghanistan, specifies the procedures to be followed in case of Land 
Acquisition and will be adapted to the present project, where all sub-projects may not be 
identified at appraisal 
Page  20
19
Annex 1 
Sector Background 
 
1. 
Afghanistan has undergone a political transformation since 2001, but notwithstanding a 
wide range of important achievements, the normalization of political culture still has a long way 
to go.  The need for long-term engagement in Afghanistan has been recognized by the 
international community and was endorsed at a high-level conference held in London in January 
2006 which provided a forum to launch the 
“post-Bonn” agenda. A significant feature of this 
agenda is the 
Afghanistan Compact
 which provides twenty-seven benchmarks to be achieved 
within the next five years.  The benchmarks for the Compact were drawn from the Government’s 
Interim Afghan National Development Strategy (IANDS)
.
The IANDS, completed in January 
2006, is built around three pillars: (i) security; (ii) governance, rule of law and human rights; 
and, (iii) economic and social development. The strategy provides a vision of development based 
on private-sector-led growth supported by a lean state, which uses the budget as its key policy 
instrument and aid coordination tool.  The development of the full ANDS is now at an advanced 
stage, and advanced drafts of the strategy are currently being reviewed by the GoA and the donor 
community. 
 
2. 
Building institutions that can provide security and services to the Afghan people, while 
protecting their rights, has been at the heart of the reconstruction effort since 2001.  The links 
between effective justice institutions 
–
capable of delivering a range of legal services to the 
Afghan people – and economic growth, private sector development, poverty reduction, reduced 
dependence on the drug economy and the delivery of public services, are widely recognized.  In 
recent years, there have been several high profile achievements related to governance. In January 
2004, Afghanistan adopted a new Constitution.  Afghans participated in elections for the first 
democratically elected president in December of the same year.  Elections for the 
Wolesi Jirga 
(the lower house of the National Assembly) and for provincial councils took place in September 
2005.   
 
3. 
Over the same period, Afghanistan's economy continued to recover strongly, marked by 
strong fiscal discipline and declining inflation.  Despite these achievements, however, 
the 
situation remains very fragile, especially in view of the tense, and in some areas deteriorating, 
security situation. The country has not emerged fully from its state of conflict. 
At this point, 
there are great pressures on the justice institutions to deliver services requiring significant 
increases in their management and implementation capacity.  In the context of enormous needs, 
weak capacity and increasing insecurity in many areas, a sense of frustration is emerging at the 
ability of the government to make these institutions relevant, and capable of delivering tangible 
benefits, to the Afghan people.  
 
4. 
Currently, Afghanistan does not have a uniform legal system.  In practice, justice 
institutions apply and enforce sharia law and customary rules irrespective of relevant state law.  
Informal institutions, such as 
jirgas 
or
shuras, 
continue to play an important role in resolving 
disputes, prosecuting crimes, and enforcing contracts, but often without regard to the constitution 
or the internationally accepted human rights standards to which Afghanistan is bound. Women 
and children, in particular, are often unable to access appropriate protection within the informal 
justice enforcement system.  The formal justice sector principally operates under the authority of 
three institutions: the Supreme Court, the Ministry of Justice and the Attorney General Office.  
Page  21
20
Legal education, currently provided by state universities, in law and sharia faculties respectively, 
and in 
madrasas
,
is also an important influence on the operation of the justice sector.  
 
The Supreme Court  
 
5. 
The jurisdiction (criminal, civil, commercial and administrative) of the Afghan courts is 
governed by the 2004 Constitution and the 2005 Law of the Organization and Authority of the 
Courts of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.  The Supreme Court (
Stera Mahkama
)
is 
Afghanistan’s highest judicial organ, and the judicial branch as a whole is, according to the 
constitution, “an independent organ of the state”.  The Supreme Court is the final court of appeal 
and has the authority to interpret the Constitution and review the constitutionality of legal 
instruments.  It is also charged with the administration and oversight of the lower courts, the 
Appeal Courts and the Primary Courts (Urban and District Primary Courts).  It is thus 
responsible for the administration of a court system which comprises 34 Appeal Courts (one in 
each Afghan province) and some 408 Primary Courts.  In total, it employs over 6,100 people, 
including around 1,700 judges (some of whom are administrators and do not hear cases), judicial 
advisors and court clerks. 
 
6. 
The Supreme Court itself is comprised of the Chief Justice and eight associate justices 
who serve ten-year non renewable terms of office.  By statute, the Supreme Court High Council 
is vested with the responsibility for judicial administrative policy development and 
dissemination, and for “taking appropriate measures for enhancing the knowledge and 
experiences of judges.”  The General Administrative Office of the Judiciary is responsible for the 
implementation of Supreme Court High Council policies and all other judicial administrative 
matters.  
 
The Ministry of Justice   
 
7. 
The MoJ has a broad mandate.  Among the important functions it incorporates are: 
drafting and publication of legislation (the 
Taqnin
), mediation and enforcement of judgments 
(the 
Huqquq)
;
legal protection of government assets (the Government Cases Department); 
overseeing the prisons (the Central Prisons Department); and the Juvenile Rehabilitation 
Department.  It is also responsible for raising legal awareness and legal aid; providing legal 
advice to the government; registering political parties and social organizations; and licensing 
lawyers. Recently, the MOJ has become a focal point for promoting the enforcement of human 
rights.  The MoJ has around 1,400 professional civilian staff, and offices and facilities in 
provincial centers and in all 365 districts.  The Central Prisons Department, responsibility for 
which was transferred to the MoJ from the Ministry of the Interior in 2003, has about 3,600 
personnel (95% military personnel) and is the largest department of the MoJ.  The Advocates 
Law requires the MoJ to assist with the establishment of an independent bar association and 
ensure the availability of legal aid to indigent defendants in criminal cases.  Key challenges for 
the MoJ include human resource management reforms; instigating institutionalized and 
structured training; raising legal awareness and providing effective legal aid for indigent 
litigants, in particular defendants in criminal cases; and constructing or rehabilitating the office 
and transportation necessary for effective operations around the country.  
 
Page  22
21
The Attorney Gene
ral’s Office  
 
8. 
The Attorney General’s Office is part of the executive branch but is “independent” in its 
functions (Article 134, 2004 Constitution).  It is charged with the investigation and prosecution 
of crime.  The AGO comprises approximately 4,500 staff in total, including over 2,500 
prosecutors. Prosecutors investigate crimes, and direct the police work involved in the 
investigation. The AGO’s Judiciary Department is responsible for determining whether an 
indictment should be filed with the court so as to instigate a prosecution.  The Attorney General 
is responsible for the administration of the AGO, which has offices in the 34 provinces and in 
more than 300 districts.  The AGO has special divisions to investigate and prosecute particular 
crimes including national security, corruption and financial offences.   
 
Key Challenges  
 
9. 
The real challenge for the justice sector as a whole will be to build legitimacy and 
relevance in the eyes of the Afghan people. As described above, historically, the centralized 
justice system has been no more than peripherally relevant to the lives of most Afghans.  The 
GoA and donors agree that, to be successful, the reconstruction of the Afghanistan legal system 
has to proceed in an integrated and an all embracing manner.  It is a reform necessity to bring the 
key justice institutions under the control of the state, and equip them so they can effectively 
function in their prescribed roles.  This project therefore focuses on building the capacity of the 
centralized state justice institutions.  The particular challenges in this regard are described below.  
 
Human Capital 
 
10. 
There remains a dearth of human capacity in the justice
 sector institutions.  By GoA’s 
own estimation, only 40% of judges and, in the provinces, only 20% of prosecutors, have a 
university education. Legal professionals often have neither sufficient training nor access to the 
basic reference materials required to apply state law or shariah law.  Some 36% of judges report 
that they have no access to statutes; 55% say that they have no access to textbooks; and around 
80% say that they have no access to Supreme Court decisions or to professional support from 
mentors.  Judges, prosecutors and other justice officials earn an average of around $80/month.  
This is less than a living wage and quite insufficient to attract, retain and motivate skilled 
professionals.  Justice professionals also often feel isolated from the central government and 
lacking the personal security necessary to reach independent decisions in local communities.  
Independence and impartiality of legal professionals – judges, prosecutors and court personnel – 
is essential to the proper functioning of justice institutions, but as yet, the justice sector lacks a 
mechanism for ensuring the accountability, and the ethical conduct, of legal professionals.  There 
is little sense of professional status or pride among Afghan legal professionals, and their 
individual loyalties are often based on patronage rather than a commitment to uphold the law or 
the integrity of their profession.  Furthermore, HR management in the justice institutions fails to 
ensure merit-based recruitment, merit-based advancement, the promotion of ethical standards or 
the provision of training to judges and prosecutors necessary to address the system wide lack of 
fundamental legal competencies.   
 
Physical Infrastructure and Information and Communication Technology
 
Page  23
22
11. 
Lack of appropriate infrastructure and ICT continues to be a significant problem.  In 
many parts of the country, court houses and prosecutors offices are either non-existent or badly 
dilapidated.  Where they do exist, they often lack basic equipment such as desks and chairs, and 
often, even pens and paper.  This should be considered against research studies which suggest 
that good physical working conditions are among the most powerful performance incentives for 
legal professionals. 
Proximity to court facilities is also one factor in assessing the public’s access 
to justice.  Many legal professionals lack access to transportation to attend courts and offices in 
remote areas, of which there are many in Afghanistan.  All these things undermine the justice 
institutions’ efforts to deliver legal services to citizens, and must be addressed in order to set the 
justice system on its feet. 
 
Access to Justice and Legal Awareness
 
12. 
Citizens themselves lack confidence in the formal justice institutions and regard them as 
slow, ineffective and often corrupt.  Public awareness of legal rights is very low, legal 
information is very difficult to access, and the majority of people cannot afford court fees or the 
transportation costs for attending court.  This should be set against a background of research 
which suggests the vast majority of civil disputes can normally be resolved simply by the 
provision of legal advice, long before they come before a court.  Access to courts and legal 
assistance is a right protected by the Afghan constitution, but it is a right that is very difficult for 
the majority of Afghans, and particularly for women, to realize.  This is particularly critical in 
criminal matters, where the availability of representation makes it more likely that an 
individual’s detention will be swiftly reviewed and his case heard before he or she has had to 
spend months on remand. Thus, the ability of Afghan people to help themselves by accessing 
legal advice and representation must be addressed. 
 
National Justice Sector Strategy and Program
 
13. 
While donors and partners have been active in the justice sector, assistance has been 
characterized by poor coordination and inadequate funding.  Greater coordination of 
development initiatives in the justice sector is thus sorely needed.  In late 2006, donors 
established the International Coordination Group for Justice Reform (ICGJR) in Kabul.  
Currently, as agreed at the Rome Conference, the UNAMA Provincial Justice Coordination 
Mechanism (PJCM) is also being set up to rationalize internationally funded justice sector 
projects, but more needs to be done.   
 
14. 
This project is designed to directly support the achievement of a range of the outcomes 
stated in Section VII of the NJP, the most prominent of which include: (i)
 
the organizational 
restructuring and design of the justice institutions; (ii) pay and grading reforms leading to 
improved salaries, benefits and work conditions; (iii) recruitment standards, including standards 
related to the academic and vocational qualifications of new staff; (iv) a functioning legal aid 
system; (v) the dissemination of laws to justice sector institutions and to the public; (vi) effective 
public awareness campaigns to improve victims’, witnesses’, defendants’ and the public’s 
knowledge of their rights and responsibilities, and access to justice; (vii) professional 
development opportunities for justice sector professionals; (viii) a prioritized and sequenced 
infrastructure development plan with standardized designs; and (ix) functioning institutions of 
justice in provinces, including the construction or rehabilitation of certain offices and courts. 
 
Page  24
23
 
Annex 2 
 
Detailed Project Description 
 
1. 
The project has two main components.  First, “
Enhancing C
apacity of Legal Institutions” 
and second, “Empowering the People”. 
The project also has a third Implementation Capacity 
component, which is designed to ensure smooth implementation of the project.  
 
(i) Enhancing Capacity of Justice Institutions ($23.6 million)
 
2. 
The objective of this component is to enhance and/or enable the basic operations of 
justice institutions by investing in the skills of justice sector professionals and officials, and 
improving their working conditions.  The component has three subcomponents: (a) human 
capital; (b) physical infrastructure; and (c) information and communication technology.  These 
will, to a large extent, build on, complement and/or expand on ongoing GoA and donor 
activities. 
 
(a) 
Human Capital ($5.25 million
)
3. 
The reforms under this subcomponent seek to: (i) increase strategic alignment of human 
resource management (HRM) functions, capacity, and processes with justice sector business 
needs; (ii) intensify learning and training of the workforce; (iii) encourage professional 
affiliations; and (iv) provide the decision-makers (legal professionals) with opportunities to 
exchange experiences and views on subjects relevant to the development of a legal system in 
Afghanistan.  These reforms will also seek
 to increase the employment of, and/or the equal 
treatment of, women and those with physical disabilities.
 
Human Resource Management Reform ($1.75 million) 
 
4. 
This subcomponent will finance technical assistance (TA) in the form of consultant 
services; study tours; and training to the SC and AGO to carry out HRM reforms for judges, 
prosecutors and civil servants.
5
Specific project activities include:  
 
·
Creation of independent decision-making bodies responsible for personnel management 
in the Supreme Court (SC) and Attorney General Office (AGO). (Judicial and 
Prosecutorial Councils).
6
·
Review of the selection and appointment policies and regulations for judges and 
prosecutors.  The objective of the review is to develop recommendations for: 
5
This project activity does not include the MOJ which implements its civil service reform under the umbrella of 
PRR.  
6
This model is common in many countries in Europe, Latin America; but also in countries with Islamic Law such as 
Algeria; Egypt; Jordan; and Morocco.  
 
Page  25
24
strengthening competitive and merit-based elements of the process; improve quality of 
the induction training and learning for the candidates for judgeship and prosecutorship; 
and to improve transparency of the allocation of judges and prosecutors to the courts and 
prosecutors’ offices. 
·
Evaluation of the skills of “sitting” judges and prosecutors.  The purpose of the 
evaluation is to design and implement a requalification program. 
·
Implementation of the second phase of the Priority Reform and Restructuring (PRR) 
program which the SC and the AGO began in 2008.  Support will be provided for two 
activities: (i) completion of the functional reviews and job descriptions for civil servants 
in the SC and AGO and pilot regional offices; and (ii) rolling out the program to around 
ten regional courts and offices.  The pilot offices will be selected by the SC and AGO at 
the commencement of project implementation.  
 
Learning and Training ($3.5 million) 
 
5. 
This subcomponent will finance TA in the form of consultant services, training, and 
goods to enhance the skills of the justice sector workforce, with a particular focus on female 
staff, and to improve their access to legal information. Specific project activities include:  
 
·
Strengthening training management capacity
 in the SC, Ministry of Justice (MoJ) and 
AGO.  The activity aims to build the capacity of the training units in the Human 
Resources (HR) departments at the SC, MoJ, and AGO to develop, organize and 
coordinate education, learning and training programs for their staff. A stock-taking study 
of previous and ongoing training programs will form part of this activity.  
 
·
Providing training
 to judges, prosecutors, their support staff and MoJ officials and its 
regional staff.  Under this activity, some 1,000 judges, prosecutors, and their support staff 
and MoJ officials will receive training.  Whenever possible the project will continue with 
training programs which have been developed and implemented by the justice sector and 
involved donors.  Programs to enhance new skills such as legal analysis, computer 
proficiency, library management, court administration, and financial management will 
also be added.  When project implementation begins the SC, MoJ, and AGO will prepare 
the precise portfolio and timetable of training activities per each justice sub-sector (2 
year-training plan).  
 
·
Creating legal libraries
.
Three types of libraries will be supported through this activity.  
First, the project will finance the completion of the Central Legal Library in the MoJ, 
which the 
Taqnin
 has started to assemble.
7
In addition, mid-sized libraries will be created 
in four provincial MoJ offices.  These libraries will be accessible to the staff of the 
provincial MoJ office of the MoJ, and to the regional and local administration, and if 
feasible, to the general public.  The project will also finance the creation of a number of 
small libraries containing core legal materials in courts and prosecutor’s offices.  The list 
of courts and offices where the libraries will be established will be prepared by the SC, 
MoJ, and AGO (against specific criteria) at the commencement of project 
implementation.
 
7
This will be coordinated with the INLTC law library management system.  Possible additional support for the MoJ 
Translation and Publication Unit will also be considered. 
Page  26
25
 
·
Dissemination of Laws.
This activity will support continued publication of the State 
Gazette and a collection of statutes, and their distribution to all state agencies, including 
all courts, all prosecution agencies, all state university law schools, all law schools in 
Afghanistan and the 
Wolesi Jirga
.
It will also support development of an index to the 
legislation published in the State Gazette, and distribution thereof to the same agencies.  
Finally the MOJ, under this component, will carry out a feasibility study for the creation 
of an internal print-shop to be used for the publication of laws and regulations. USAID is 
has been undertaking important work in this area for some time and the precise 
specifications of this project activity will be developed in close coordination with 
ongoing initiatives. 
 
(b) Physical Infrastructure ($16.9 million) 
 
6. 
With the investment and technical assistance provided under the subcomponent, the GoA 
will prepare and partially implement construction and repair of court and office facilities and 
jud
ges’ residences; equip new and existing courts and offices; and provide transportation for 
justice sector officials.  Capacity to manage physical assets will also be supported to sustain the 
progress achieved under this subcomponent.  Specific activities to be implemented under this 
component include:  
 
·
Design (or design review) of about 28 court and rehabilitation of about five buildings; 
design of about six regional offices of the MOJ; and design of and rehabilitation of three 
AGO offices. The specific (regional) facilities will be selected by the SC, MoJ, and AGO 
at the 
commencement of project implementation
 based on a set of indicators such as 
workload, size of population served, security, potential as a center of excellence and other 
factors which determine the ability to complete construction in the given timeframe. 
Design (or design review) will take account of the needs of female and disabled staff and 
clients.  In most of these cases the actual construction of the new facilities will take place 
during the second phase of the reform. However, the implementation process will be 
organized such that (re)construction work on courts and other facilities can proceed as 
soon as appropriate conditions exist.   
 
·
Design and extension of training facilities, administrative offices, and housing (dorm 
space) for trainees in the Independent National Legal Training Center. 
 
·
Design of a new headquarters facility for the SC, the MoJ, and the AGO (in case of AGO 
the project will also finance (re)construction work). 
 
·
Creation of operating investment funds in the SC, MoJ, and AGO to finance maintenance 
costs associated with the existing facilities. 
 
·
Preparation of an Investment Plan and Facility Standards
.
The Capital Investment Plan 
will be based on a assessment of the current condition of the facilities (part of which is 
being conducted by another donor), and will produce an inventory of necessary new 
construction and rehabilitation works; criteria for prioritizing the necessary works taking 
into account building conditions and staffing and workload estimates; and an estimate of 
Page  27
26
costs for the necessary works, including maintenance and operations.  The activity also 
includes funding to develop standards for model justice facilities, incorporating best 
international practices, lessons learned from bilateral work already undertaken by donors, 
and designs for new model provincial centers, to be built in the next phase of the ARTF 
project.   
 
·
Purchase of 220 vehicles and their operating and maintenance costs for use by judges, 
prosecutors and their staff, and MoJ officials, throughout the country on a prioritized 
basis.  In addition to permitting staff to travel outside provincial cities, new vehicles will 
contribute to the security of the staff. Selection criteria will be agreed upon 
commencement of the project. 
 
·
Purchase of office equipment (including copiers, fax machines) and furniture for current 
and to-be-constructed facilities.  The lack of such equipment, even in current facilities, is 
repeated cited as a major detriment to the functioning of staff of the Justice institutions 
throughout the country.  It is anticipated that additional furniture and equipment will be 
purchased in the future phase of the ARTF project. 
 
(iv) 
Information and Communication Technology ($1.45 million)
 
7. 
The subcomponent will finance an evaluation of the ICT needs and limited 
implementation of the ICT reform. The project focus will be on 
case management, HRM, and 
performance monitoring and evaluation system
.
First, an overall ICT plan for the justice sector 
and/or its sub-sectors (e.g. courts) with the basic data will be prepared by MoJ, and AGO with 
help from international experts.
8
The plan will be the road map for the overall design.  Second, 
a
software solution will be modularized and implemented in a sequenced manner. For each 
subsequent module it will be ensured that it will be compatible with previously developed 
modules. To reduce operation and maintenance costs, any systems should be prepared as web-
based systems which initially “run” locally without a network connection.  With progress in the 
country and a more stable and affordable ICT infrastructure, such a system could be operated 
from a central server.  This will help to reduce the overall operation and maintenance costs. 
 
8.  The specific interventions include:  
 
·
Purchasing a minimal amount of hardware to meet emergency needs of the SC, MoJ and 
AGO  
 
·
“
Rapid Assessment
”
for the offices of the MoJ, and the AGO will be prepared. This rapid 
assessment will provide information on the current situation on the ground, possible 
interventions for the institutions and most of all an outline of the recurrent cost to make 
any intervention in the long run sustainable 
 
·
Under the project, MOJ and AGO will prepare a detailed network design for their 
respective buildings. These designs will be implemented during the 24-month project 
period. Hardware for the network will be purchased through the project. 
 
8
The SC will prepare its ICT plan under the USAID funded  bilateral project  
Page  28
27
(ii
)
Empowering the People
 
($2.4 million) 
 
9. 
The objective of this component is to empower the Afghan people through legal aid and 
legal education.  There will be two subcomponents: (i) legal aid and (ii) legal awareness.  
 
(a) Legal Aid 
(
$1.80
million)  
 
10. 
This subcomponent will provide TA assistance in the form of consultant services, and 
training, and investment (under the physical infrastructure subcomponent) to implement the first 
phase of a national legal aid program.  The MoJ has been working with international donors to 
draft a comprehensive set of policies for the legal aid system.  The proposed system includes a 
Legal Aid Department in the MoJ, the National Legal Aid Council, liaison officers and legal aid 
offices, and identified service providers, in the regions.  The proposed system of service 
providers includes employed lawyers and paralegals in legal aid offices, NGOs and legal clinics 
in law schools.  The legal aid system will require the cooperation of these institutions with the 
police, prosecutors, and judges.    
 
11. 
This subcomponent will finance the creation and operation of five to ten legal aid offices 
in the regions selected by the MOJ against criteria such as size of population served; specific 
problems posed; security; potential as a center of excellence; and presence of related projects.  
The support will include hiring and training staff, drafting operational manuals, and covering the 
operating costs of the offices.  In addition to day-to-day service provision, with a focus on 
services related to women and children, and coordinating service provision with other service 
providers, the office will be responsible for close monitoring and evaluation of demand for and 
supply of services.  This will include not only service provided by the offices, but also service 
provided by other service providers.  The data collected through the project will be used to 
prepare a report on legal aid provision which will serve to make recommendations for 
modifications of the system design and to prepare a plan for its roll out into other provinces and 
districts.   
 
(b) Legal Awareness
 
($0.60 million) 
 
12. 
This subcomponent will finance technical assistance in the form of consultant services 
and training to pilot a trust-building and legal awareness campaign in the Nanganhar province 
and its 21 districts.  The MOJ will supervise the project. The specific activities to be financed 
include: (i) creation  and staffing of a small office of two to four people which will be supported 
by local consultants (legal professionals); (ii) organizing initial consultations with the local 
community leaders and legal professionals to identify existing legal awareness initiatives and 
accordingly, define the priority themes for the trust-building and training activities; (iii)  
developing trust-building and training materials (the package will contain material which has 
been developed under existing projects, as well as new materials); (iv) conducting training 
sessions with male and female community and civil society leaders (about 500 people); and (iv) 
reaching out, to the population in close cooperation with the community leaders. The office will 
work in close cooperation with legal aid office and its experience will feed into the assessment of 
legal demand.  The MOJ will, to the extent possible and appropriate, coordinate with related 
programs, such as 
the Ministry of Interior’s Focused District Development program, the National 
Solidarity Program and the Provincial Justice Coordination Mechanism.  
 
Page  29
28
(iii) Strengthening Implementation Capacity ($1.75 million)
 
13. 
The objective of this component is to ensure efficient implementation of the project. (see 
Annex  4 on Implementation Arrangement) 
 
Page  30
29
 
Annex 3 
 
Table A.1: Project Cost by Component for ARTF Proposed Funding 
 
Table 1
:
Summary Cost by Component 
 
US$ million 
 
A
Strengthening Capacity of Justice Sector Institutions  
23.60 
 
1
Human Capital 
5.25
2
Physical Infrastructure 
16.9
3
Information and Communication Technology 
1.45
B
Empowering People 
2.40 
 
1
Legal Aid 
1.80 
 
2
Legal Awareness Campaign 
0.60 
 
C
Strengthening Implementation Capacity 
1.75 
 
Total Project Cost* 
27.75 
 
*
total including physical and price contingencies 
 
 
Table 2
:
Project Cost for Component 1 by Expenditure Category 
 
Component 1:  
Amount in 
million USD 
Expenditure 
Category 
 
Strengthening Capacity of Justice  Institutions  
23.600 
 
Human Capital 
5.250 
 
Infrastructure 16.900 
 
Information and Communication Technology 
1.450 
 
A
Human Capital 
5.250 
 
1
Supreme Court
2.050 
 
Human Resource Management 
1.450 
CS 
 
Legal Education - Training  
0.600 
CS 
 
2
Ministry of Justice
1.800 
 
Legal Education and Training 
1.050 
CS 
 
Dissemination of Laws 
0.750 
CS/Goods 
 
3
Attorney General's Office (AGO)
1.400 
 
Human Resource Management 
0.300 
CS 
 
Legal Education and Training 
1.100 
CS 
 
B
Physical Infrastructure (Facilities and Vehicles) 
16.90 
 
1
Design, and Rehabilitation 
2.95 
CS/Works 
 
SC (buildings under the SC in provinces) 
1.30 
CS/Works 
 
Page  31
30
MOJ (buildings under MOJ in provinces) 
0.15 
CS/Works 
 
AGO (buildings under AGO in provinces) 
1.50 
 
 
2
Operating Investment Fund 
1.50 
 
Buildings SC 
0.50 
O&M Fund 
 
Buildings MOJ 
0.50 
O&M Fund 
 
Buildings AGO 
0.50 
O&M Fund 
 
3
Design and Construction in Kabul 
4.40 
 
Design of complementary housing and training facility 
0.30 
CS 
 
Design of MOJ Headquarters 
0.40 
CS 
 
Design and Construction of AGO Building 
3.00 
CS/Works 
 
Design of SC Building 
0.70 
CS 
 
4
Vehicles 
5.80 
Goods  
Vehicles SC 
2.00 
 
 
Vehicles MOJ 
0.70 
 
 
Vehicles AGO 
2.00 
 
 
Operating Cost of new vehicles 
1.10 
O&M  
 
5
Equipment and Furniture 
1.30 
Goods  
6
Investment Plan and Facility Standards 
0.95 
 
Staff and support cost 
0.15 
CS 
 
Design standards for Courts 
0.20 
CS 
 
Design Provincial Centers 
0.20 
CS 
 
Infra Investment Sector Plan 
0.40 
CS 
 
A
ICT Technology 
1.450 
CS / Goods 
 
Table 3
:
Project Cost for Component 2 by Expenditure Category 
 Component 
2: 
Amount in 
million USD 
Expenditure 
Category  
 Empowering 
the 
People 
2.400 
 
 
1
Legal Aid 
1.800 
 
Establishing/Equipping MOJ & regional offices 
0.685 
CS/Goods/Work
Designing Policies and Regulations 
0.200 
CS 
 
 Training 
0.015 
CS 
 
 Legal 
Fund 
1.000 
Fund 
 
2
Legal Awareness Campaign 
0.600 
TA/Goods  
Table 4
:
Project Cost for Component 3 by Expenditure Category 
 
Component 3: 
Amount in 
million 
Expenditure 
Category 
 
Strengthening Implementation Capacity 
1.750 
 
Program Oversight Committee 
0.050 
 
Program Support Unit (PSU) 
1.298 
 
 
Director 0.070 
CS 
 
Coordinator and M& Expert 
0.060 
 
 
 
Senior Staff (4) 
0.272 
CS 
 
 
Junior Staff (3) 
0.097 
CS 
 
Page  32
31
 
International/regional Consultants (2) 
0.800 
CS 
 
 
Project Unit (PU) in SC, MOJ and AGO 
0.130 
 
Project Assistants/Coordinators 
0.130 
CS 
 
Project Support Facility 
0.272 
 
Car (2) 
0.060 
GOODS 
 
Office Rent for project duration 
0.094 
O & M 
 
 
Operating cost 
0.048 
O & M 
 
 Equipment 
0.050 
GOODS 
 
 
Furniture and supplies 
0.020 
GOODS 
 
 
Page  33
32
 
Annex 4 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
1. 
The project is estimated to require 30 months for implementation, including the estimated 
six months needed for closing the contracts.    
 
Institutional Arrangements 
 
Figure 1: Implementation Arrangements 
 
Page  34
33
 
Figure 2: PSU Interaction with PUs 
 
Timeline for Initial Implementation Steps 
 
Component A - Strengthening Capacity of Legal Institutions to Deliver Legal Services 
Milestone 
Date (timeframe) 
Purchase Emergency ICT Packages 
June 15,  2008 
Process small works procurement packages for SC and AGO 
August 1, 2008 
Process small works procurement packages for SC and AGO 
September 1, 2008 
Procure Equipment for SC, MOJ and AGO (multiple 
packages) 
June 1, 2008 
Purchase Vehicles through authorized agency 
July 15, 2008 
Assessment “Printing in-house vs outsourcing of print work” 
August 15, 2008 
ICT Assessments procured (for MOJ, SC and AGO) 
September 15, 2008 
Procurement of larger CS contracts (management and HR 
issues) 
September to December, 2008 
Updating procurement plan  
October 2008 
Closing of contracts 
 
30 months after effectiveness 
 
Page  35
34
Component 
B
-
Empowering the Poor
 
Milestone 
Date (timeframe) 
Establishment of MOJ and regional offices 
August 1 2008 
Purchase Equipment for Offices 
September 2008 
Designing Policies and regulations 
October 1, 2008 
Staff training 
October 1, 2008 
 
Component 
C
-
Strengthening Implementation Capacity 
Milestone 
Date (or timeframe) 
Establishment of Oversight Committee 
June 2008 
Hiring of Project Director for PSU 
June 2008 
Establish PSU Office 
June 2008 
Hiring of Project Support Staff 
July 2008 
Hiring of Int. Consultant(s) 
July  2008 
PSU fully operational 
July 31, 2008 
Start procurement process for project implementation (see 
procurement plan; first three months) 
June 1, 2008 
Procurement of larger CS contracts 
September 15, 2008 
Updating procurement plan  
October 2008 
Closing of contracts 
 
30 months after effectiveness 
 
*For further details see the initial procurement plan
 
Page  36
35
Annex 5 
 
Financial Management  
 
Country Issues 
1. 
The World Bank (Bank) has gained substantial experience and understanding of the 
financial management environment in Afghanistan through the large number of projects under 
implementation over the past four years.  The Public Administration Capacity Building Project 
(PACBP) is the primary instrument to continue and enhance the fiduciary measures put in place 
during the past years to help ensure transparency and accountability for the funding provided by 
the Bank and other donors.  
2. 
A Public Finance Management (PFM) performance rating system using 28 high-level 
indicators that was developed by the Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA) 
multi-agency partnership program was applied in Afghanistan in June 2005.  PEFA is comprised 
of the Bank, IMF, EC, and several other agencies.  The system is structured around six core 
dimensions of PFM performance: i) budget credibility, ii) comprehensiveness and transparency, 
iii) policy-based budgeting, iv) predictability and control in budget execution, v) accounting, 
recording, and reporting, and vi) external scrutiny and audit.  Afghanistan’s ratings against the 
PFM performance indicators generally portray a public sector where financial resources are, by 
and large, being used for their intended purposes. This has been accomplished with very high 
levels of support from international firms; this assistance will continue to be needed over the 
medium term if these ratings are to be maintained. There is also much room for improvement. 
3. 
In spite of undeniable progress the policy framework benchmarks have not yet been fully 
costed so various priorities are funded through the annual budgeting process.  The rising costs of 
the security sector constitute the major constraint on attainment of fiscal sustainability. With 
regard to executive oversight, the national assembly will play an increasingly active role. All in 
all, the new national strategy has created high expectations of the executive which could prove to 
be quite difficult to meet. 
4. 
The public sector, in spite of considerable efforts to reform its core functions, remains 
extremely weak outside of Kabul.  The lack of qualified staff in the civil service and the absence 
of qualified counterparts in the government after 30 years of war and conflicts is a binding 
constraint. Delays in reforming the pay structure and grading of civil servants have crippled the 
public administration of the country. Domestic revenues lag behind expenditures by a factor of 
ten to one.  Large-scale corruption could emerge to undermine the government’s efforts to 
enhance aid flows through national accounts.  Capacities to track expenditures and monitor 
expenditure outcomes have improved, but they need rapid and substantial strengthening if 
progress toward the attainment of national development targets is to be monitored. Currently, 
75% of external revenues bypass government appropriation systems.  
5. 
The Bank is financing a Financial Management Advisor to assist the Ministry of Finance 
(MoF), an Audit Advisor to assist the Control and Audit Office, and a Procurement Advisor to 
assist in Procurement-related activities. Also an Internal Audit function is being developed 
within the MoF with Bank financing. USAID, and earlier the Indian Aid Assistance Program, is 
financing a team of consultants and advisors to assist the Da Afghanistan Bank in local as well as 
Page  37
36
foreign currency operations. The activities carried out under the existing Public Administration 
projects have helped the GoA to ensure that appropriate fiduciary standards are maintained for 
public expenditures, including those supported by the Bank and the donor community. 
6. 
Progress has been slower than expected in shifting from operations support provided by 
the three Advisors to capacity development and knowledge transfer to the civil servants. Given 
that, is expected that the Advisors will continue to be required for the medium term.  Challenges 
still remain in attaining the agreed upon fiduciary standards and also to further enhance them. 
And to make matters more complex, the regulatory environment in Afghanistan has advanced 
significantly in the past three years.  Unfortunately, even mastery of basic skills in the early 
environment does not fully qualify the civil servants to work effectively in the new emerging 
environment. 
 
Risk Assessment and Mitigation
 
7. 
The table below identifies the key risks that the project may face and indicates how these 
risks are to be addressed. The overall financial management
 risk rating is “
High”
 but
the residual 
risk rating after application of the mitigating measures is “
Substantial”
.
Risk
Risk 
Rating 
Risk Mitigation Measures 
Residual 
Risk 
Condition of 
negotiations, 
Board or 
Effectiveness 
(Y/N) 
Inherent Risk 
 
Country Inherent Risk 
M 
Source - PFM study 
M 
N 
Project Financial 
Management Risk 
H
Minimize use of Designated Account 
and maximize direct payments to 
consultants, and contractors.  Financial 
management  and procurement 
functions to be performed by  PSU with 
qualified staff 
S
N
Perceived Corruption 
H 
Government commitment, internal 
controls and new internal audit will 
help to reduce the high level of 
perceived corruption 
S
N
Overall Inherent Risk 
H
S
Control Risk 
 
1. Weak Implementing 
Entity 
S
Oversight functions to be performed by 
a
POC comprised of the Chief Justice,, 
Minister of Justice,  Attorney General, 
and Minister  of Finance. The PSU will 
handle financial management functions 
in addition to other relevant functions. 
This unit will be staffed by 
international and national consultants. 
PSU will also be responsible for overall 
M
N
Page  38
37
control and coordination with the 
implementing entities.  
As an interim measure until the PSU is 
established and staffed,MoE will assist 
by handling the initial project activities. 
To facilitate this, there will be a MoU 
between MoE, MoF and the 
implementing entities. MoE’s FM 
arrangements were assessed by the 
Bank for this purpose and were found 
to be satisfactory. 
2. Funds Flow 
S 
Payments will be made to contractors, 
consultants, and suppliers from the DA 
by SDU-MoF. In addition to payments 
out of DA funds, the implementing 
entities can also request the SDU to 
make i) direct payments from the Grant 
Account to contractors, consultants or 
consulting firms, and ii) special 
commitments for contracts covered by 
letters of credit. These payments would 
only be made by SDU after due 
processes and proper authorization 
from the respective component 
implementing entities. 
M
N
3. Budgeting 
S 
Ensure that project funds are allocated 
in the annual government development 
budget. 
The implementing entities are 
responsible for the preparation of 
annual work plans and the derivation of 
annual budget there from for the 
specific components to be implemented 
by them. The PSU will coordinate with 
the focal points in the implementing 
entities to facilitate this process and to 
consolidate the overall budget for the 
project. A Budget Committee 
comprised of representatives from the 
PSU and the implementing entities will 
coordinate the budget process. This 
Committee will report to the POC. The 
composition of the Budget Committee 
will be detailed in the FM Manual.  
M
N
4. Accounting Policies 
and Procedures 
S
Will follow international standards. 
Project accounting procedures and 
details of the FM arrangements will be 
documented in an FM Manual to be 
prepared by the PSU and approved by 
the Bank 
M
N
5. Internal Audit 
H 
The internal audit units of the 
respective implementing entities and 
S
N
Page  39
38
the MoF internal audit department will 
review project internal control systems 
6. External Audit 
H 
Will be audited by CAO with support 
from Audit Advisor 
S
N
7. Reporting and 
Monitoring 
H
Strengthening the SDU is a priority 
under the FM Advisor contract, to 
provide information that will comply 
with agreed format of financial reports. 
This will be facilitated by the excel-
based accounting system that will be 
utilized by the PSU to maintain records 
and generate required reports.  
S
N
Overall Control Risk
H
S
Detection Risk
S
Adequate accounting, recording, and 
oversight will be provided in project 
procedures. 
Accounting/Recording/oversight by 
SDU 
–
MoF of all advances/M-16 
supported by Financial Management 
Advisor. 
M
N
Overall Fm Risk 
Rating
H
S
Risk rating: H=high risk; S=substantial risk; M=modest risk; L-low risk
 
Strengths and Weaknesses
 
Strengths 
8. 
The GoA provides assurance to the Bank and other donors that the measures in place to 
ensure appropriate utilization of funds will not be circumvented.  The GoA strongly supports 
reforms through the Public Administration Capacity Building Project to enhance financial 
management in Treasury operations, public procurement, internal audit in the public sector, and 
external audit by the Auditor General.  Suitable interim arrangements have been put into place to 
fast track this project and to enable a smooth transition to the PSU.  
 
Weaknesses and Action Plan 
9. 
The main weakness in this project, as in many others in Afghanistan, is the ability to 
attract suitably qualified and experienced counterpart staff especially for Financial Management. 
The establishment of the PSU  and the staffing of the PSU with consultants to be funded by the 
project are expected to strengthen the fiduciary arrangements. 
 
Action Plan 
–
To be reviewed at ‘Initial Supervision’
 
Significant 
Weaknesses 
Action Responsible 
Agent 
Completion  
Date 
Shortage of  
qualified and 
experienced FM 
staff 
MoE to handle the initial project activities 
till the establishment of the PSU. To 
facilitate this arrangement, there will be an 
MoU between MoE, MoF and the 
implementing entities 
MoF, MoE, 
MoJ, SC and 
AGO 
 
Within three 
months of 
project 
effectiveness 
Page  40
39
Significant 
Weaknesses 
Action Responsible 
Agent 
Completion  
Date 
Establishment of PSU and staffing of the 
unit with consultants  
MoJ, SC and 
AGO 
Project internal 
controls and 
procedures need to 
be defined 
Financial Management Manual developed,  
reviewed, and approved by the  Bank 
PSU Within 
three 
months after the 
establishment of 
PSU 
Interim reports need 
to include required 
information 
Sample pro forma report formats will be 
provided at negotiations 
 
Un-audited interim financial report formats 
for the project confirmed 
IDA/MOF/PSU 
Negotiations 
 
After PSU is 
established 
Implementing Entities
 
10. 
The project will be implemented by three entities: the SC, MoJ, and AGO.  A Project 
Support Unit (PSU) will be established to coordinate and supervise the implementation of the 
project and perform the key financial management and procurement functions. There will be a 
Project Unit (PU) in each of the three implementing entities; the PSU and three PUs will work 
closely with each other to carry out the project activities. The respective PUs will coordinate 
with the relevant departments within the implementing entities as necessary to facilitate the day-
to-day operations between the PSU and the entities.  
 
11. 
The PSU will be staffed with qualified and experienced financial management staff to 
carry out day-to-day financial management operations of the project including preparation of: M-
16 forms (payment orders), project coding sheets, and B27 allotment forms as well as overall 
contract and project management. Detailed working relationships between the PSU, the PUs, and 
implementing entities, FM reporting requirements, staffing, systems, internal control procedures, 
and other financial management arrangements will be included in the Financial Management 
Manual (FMM).  
12. 
Until the PSU is established and appropriately staffed, the project will use the services of 
the Ministry of Economy (MoE) to carry out the initial activities under an interim arrangement. 
The Bank has assessed the financial management capacity of MoE for this purpose and found it 
to be satisfactory. To formalize this arrangement, there will be an MoU between MoE, MoF, SC, 
MoJ,, and AGO. An financial management assessment of the updated implementation 
arrangements will be carried out after the PSU is fully established.  Additional financial 
management procedures and controls may be warranted at that time.  
Project oversight
 
13. 
A Project Oversight Committee (POC) chaired by the Chief Justice, and including the 
Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, and the Minister of Finance will be responsible for 
overall policy, strategic planning and project oversight and also for integration with other justice 
sector programs.  Observers such as local authorities, donors, financing agencies representatives, 
Page  41
40
and other experts would be invited to attend the POC meetings as required. The POC will meet 
regularly, at least once per quarter and on an 
ad
hoc
 basis when required.  
Project coordination and monitoring
 
14. 
The PSU has the responsibility for overall project implementation, coordination, and 
monitoring.  The PSU will work closely with the PUs in the respective implementing entities to 
facilitate this function. The PSU will report to the Project Oversight Committee on the 
consolidated progress of the project. The PSU is also responsible for: (a) assuring steady 
progress of execution in accordance to an implementation schedule reviewed and approved by 
the World Bank, (b) reporting regularly to the POC, (c) ensuring adequate and smooth transfer of 
skills to the national staff, and (d) ensuring that transparency and high ethical standards are 
maintained throughout the process.   
 
Budgeting 
 
15. 
A budget committee will be appointed to coordinate preparation of the annual work plan 
and formulation of the annual project budget. This committee will be comprised of 
representatives from the PSU and the implementing entities, and shall report to the POC. The 
Budget Committee shall also coordinate quarterly budget reviews to ensure adequate budget 
discipline and control. The committee will be responsible for ensuring that project expenditures 
for each fiscal year are captured in the Governmental Development budget of that fiscal year. 
The budgeting process and the key role of periodic budget reviews will also be detailed in the 
FMM.  
 
Funds Flow
 
16. 
The standard funds flow mechanism in Afghanistan will be followed in this project. 
Project funds will be deposited in the Designated Account (DA) to be opened and maintained at 
the Da Afghanistan Bank (DaB) or in a local commercial bank, if approved.  The DA, in keeping 
with current practices for other projects in Afghanistan, will be operated by the Special 
Disbursement Unit (SDU) in the Treasury Department of MoF. Requests for payments from the 
DA will be made to the SDU by the project when needed, and after due approval from the head 
of the respective component implementing entity.  
17. 
In addition to payments out of DA funds, the project can also request the SDU to make i) 
direct payments from the Grant Account to consultants, consulting firms or suppliers, and ii) 
special commitments for contracts covered by letters of credit. These payments will follow 
World Bank procedures.  All project payments will be made to either international firms or local 
firms that have bank accounts in DAB, a local commercial bank, or an overseas bank. All 
payments will be made either through bank transfers into the account of such firms or by check. 
Expenditures for each component will be paid after relevant approvals from the component 
implementing entity and in accordance with the approval mechanisms documented in the project 
FMM. 
 
Page  42
41
 
Funds Flow Chart 
 
Legal requirements for authorized signature
 
18. 
MoF has authorization to disburse funds from the Grant.  Specimen signatures of 
authorized signatories in MoF will be submitted to the Bank prior to commencing disbursements. 
 
Accounting 
 
19. 
The SDU will maintain a proper accounting system of all expenditures incurred along 
with supporting documents to enable IDA to verify these expenditures. The FM staff of the PSU 
will: i) supervise preparation of supporting documents for expenditures, ii) prepare payment 
orders (Form M16), iii) obtain approval for M-16s from the relevant authority depending on the 
payment amount, and iv) submit them to the Treasury Department in MoF for verification and 
payment. Whilst original copies of required supporting documents are attached to the Form M16, 
the project is required to make and keep photocopies of these documents for records retention 
purposes. The FM Advisor in the MoF/SDU will use the government's computerized accounting 
system, AFMIS, for reporting, generating relevant financial statements, and exercising controls. 
20. 
The PSU FM staff will maintain essential project transaction records using accounting 
system/Excel spreadsheets and generate required monthly, quarterly, and annual reports.  
Page  43
42
The FM Manual, to be prepared by the PSU within three months of establishment, and to be 
approved by the Bank, will include: i) roles and responsibilities for all FM staff, ii) 
documentation and approval procedures for payments, iii) project reporting requirements, and iv) 
quality assurance measures to help ensure that adequate internal controls and procedures are in 
place and are being followed.   
 
21. 
The FM Manual will also establish project financial management in accordance with 
standard Afghan government policies and procedures including use of the government Chart of 
Accounts to record project expenditures. The use of these procedures will enable adequate and 
timely recording and reporting of project expenditures. Overall project accounts will be 
maintained centrally in SDU, which will be ultimately responsible for recording all project 
expenditures and receipts in the Government’s accounting system. Reconciliation of project 
expenditure records with MoF records will be carried out monthly by the PSU.   
 
Internal Control & Internal Auditing 
 
22. 
The PSU will be responsible for coordinating FM activities for the project with the SDU.  
Project–specific internal control procedures for requests and approval of funds will be described 
in the FM Manual including segregation of duties, documentation reviews, physical asset 
control, asset verification, and cash handling and management.  
 
23. 
Annual project financial statements will be prepared by SDU/MoF detailing activities 
pertaining to the project as separate line items with adequate details to reflect the details of 
expenditures within each component. The project financial management systems will be subject 
to review by the internal audit departments of the three implementing entities and the internal 
audit directorate of the MoF, according to programs to be determined by the Director of Internal 
Audit using a risk-based approach.  The Bank also reserves the right to conduct an external 
review of the project activities and financial flows.  
 
External Audit
 
24. 
The project accounts will be audited by the Auditor General, with the support of the 
Audit Advisor, with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.  The audit of project 
accounts will include an assessment of the: (a) adequacy of the accounting and internal control 
systems; (b) ability to maintain adequate documentation for transactions; and (c) eligibility of 
incurred expenditures for Association financing.  The audited annual project financial statements 
will be submitted within six months of the close of fiscal year.  All agencies involved in 
implementation and maintaining records of expenditures would need to retain these as per the 
IDA records retention policy. 
25. 
The following audit reports will be monitored each year in the Audit Reports Compliance 
System (ARCS):  
 
Responsible Agency 
Audit 
Auditors 
Date 
MoF, supported by Special 
Disbursement Unit 
SOE, Project Accounts and 
Designated Account 
Auditor General  
Sep 22 
Page  44
43
Financial Reporting 
 
26. 
Financial Statements and Project Reports will be used for project monitoring and 
supervision. Based upon the financial management arrangements of this project, Financial 
Statements and Project Reports will be prepared monthly, quarterly, and annually by the PSU. 
These reports will be produced based on records from three sources: i) PSU’s accounting system 
ii) expenditure statements from SDU (as recorded in AFMIS) and reconciled with the PSU, and 
iii) bank statements from DAB.  
27. 
The quarterly Project Reports will show: (i) sources and uses of funds by project 
component, and (ii) expenditures consolidated and compared to governmental budget heads of 
accounts.  The project will forward the relevant details to SDU/DBER with a copy to IDA within 
45 days of the end of each quarter.  The government and IDA have agreed on a pro forma report 
format for all Bank projects; a final customized format for JSRP reports will be provided after 
project effectiveness.   
28. 
The annual project accounts to be prepared by SDU from AFMIS after due reconciliation 
to records maintained at the PSU, will form part of the consolidated Afghanistan Government 
Accounts for all development projects.  This is done centrally in the MoF Treasury Department, 
supported by the Financial Management Advisor.  
 
Disbursement Arrangements  
 
29. 
Disbursements procedures will follow the Bank procedures described in the 
World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines and the Disbursement Handbook for World Bank Clients (May 2006) 
and allow for use of advances, reimbursements, direct payments and Special Commitments.Table 
1
shows the allocation of IDA proceeds in a single, simplified expenditure category and Table 2 
presents the expected co-financing.  The single category for “goods, works, consultancy services, 
training and operating costs” is defined in the financing agreement to facilitate preparation of 
withdrawal applications and record-keeping. The final disbursement deadline will be four 
months after the closing date. 
30. 
During this additional 4-month grace period, project-related expenditures incurred prior 
to the closing date are eligible for disbursement.  
31. 
There are no disbursement conditions.  There is no provision for retroactive financing. 
 
Table 1:  IDA Financing by Category of Expenditure (US$ million) 
 
Expenditure Category 
Amount of the 
Grant 
Allocations 
Financing 
Percentage
(1) Goods, works, consultants’ services, training, and 
Incremental Operating Costs
9
100 % 
9
Incremental 
Operating Costs refers to project-related incremental expenses incurred on account of project implementation 
support and management including the rental of office space;  the operation, maintenance, rental and insurance of vehicles;  fuel;  
communications supplies and charges; advertisements;  books and periodicals;  office administration and maintenance costs; 
bank transaction charges; utility charges;  domestic travel and per diem but excluding salaries of officials and staff of the 
Recipient's civil service.
 
Page  45
44
 
Total                        
 
- 
Table 2:  Estimated Co-financing (US$ million) 
 
IDA ARTF 
JSDF 
Beneficiaries 
Total 
XX 
  
  
  
  
32. 
Summary Reports.  
Summary reports in the form of Statements of Expenditure will be 
used for expenditures on contracts above US$20,000; all training programs and operating costs.  
 
33. 
Designated Account.  
A
single designated account will be opened at DAB in US dollars 
for a maximum amount of US$ 400,000 . The SDU in MOF will manage payments from and 
new advances/replenishments to this account. The designated account will be replenished on a 
monthly basis. 
 
34. 
Direct Payments.  
Third-party payments (direct) and Special Commitments will be 
permitted for amounts exceeding US$ 80,000.  All such payments require supporting 
documentation in the form of records (copies of invoices, bills, purchase orders, etc.). 
 
35
.
Preparation of Withdrawal Applications.  
PSU will prepare Summary Reports and 
forward those reports to the SDU for further processing as a reimbursement application.  The 
SDU will review withdrawal applications for quality and conformity to Treasury procedures, and 
then obtain signature. Selected PSU and SDU finance staff will be registered as users of the 
World Bank Web-based Client Connection system, and take an active hand in managing the flow 
of disbursements. 
 
36. 
Financial Management Covenants
 
·
MoF shall submit audited financial statements for the project within six months of the 
end of each fiscal year. The Project’s audit report will cover the financial statements, the 
Designated Account, and SOEs, in accordance with terms of reference agreed with the 
Association. 
 
·
Un-audited project interim financial reports will be submitted by PSU on a quarterly 
basis to the World Bank and a copy to SDU-MoF within 45 days after the end of each 
quarter. 
 
37. 
Special Financial Management Covenant
 
·
The implementing entities will ensure that key FM staff of the PSU is retained throughout 
the duration of the project in order to ensure smooth project implementation. 
 
38. 
Regular Supervision Plan.
 During project implementation, the Bank will supervise the 
project’s financial management arrangements.  The team will: 
Page  46
45
·
Review the project’s quarterly un-audited interim financial reports as well as the project’s 
annual audited financial statements and auditor’s management letter. 
·
Review the project’s financial management and disbursement arrangements (including a 
review of a sample of SOEs and movements on the Designated Account and bank 
reconciliations) to ensure compliance with the Bank's minimum requirements.   
·
Review agencies’ performance in managing project funds to ensure that it is timely, 
accurate, and accountable.  Review Internal Audit reports.  Particular supervision 
emphasis will be placed on asset management and supplies. 
·
Review of financial management risk rating, compliance with all covenants, and follow 
up on the action plan. 
 
Conclusion 
39. 
The interim financial arrangements, including the systems, processes, procedures, and 
staffing are adequate to support this project.  The updated implementation arrangements will be 
assessed after they are in place.  
 
Page  47
46
 
Annex 6 
Procurement Arrangements  
(Including Procurement Plan) 
 
Country Context 
 
1. 
The Bank has gained substantial experience and understanding of the procurement 
environment in Afghanistan through its involvement in the interim procurement arrangements 
put in place through Emergency Public Administration Project (EPAP) as well as with the 
institutions such as Afghanistan Reconstruction and Development Services (ARDS) that is 
holding the
 current responsibility for government’s procurement administration. As part of the 
broader review of Afghanistan’s Public Finance Management (PFM) system, the Bank recently 
carried out an assessment of the procurement environment in the country based on the baseline 
and performance indicators developed by a group of institutions led by the Bank and 
Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)/Development Assistance 
Committee (DAC). 
 
2. 
The first key issue identified through the procurement assessment was the need for 
ownership and a champion in the GoA for procurement reform, deepening of capacity, ensuring 
integrity in the operation of procurement systems, and promoting sound procurement among 
ministries.  A new Procurement Law has been adopted in November 2005 which radically 
transforms the legal and regulatory framework for the procurement administration of 
Afghanistan.  While it provides a very modern legal framework for procurement, effective 
implementation of the law encounters difficulties in the current weak institutional structure and 
capacity of the Government.  A Procurement Policy Unit (PPU) has now been established under 
Ministry of Finance (MoF) to ensure the implementation through the creation of secondary 
legislation, standard bidding documents, provision of advice and creation of the necessary 
information systems for advertising and data collection. “Rules of Procedure for Public 
Procurement” which details the better implementation of the Procurement Law has been issued 
by MOF as circular number PPU/C005/1386 dated April, 12 2007. The Procurement Appeal and 
Review mechanism is in place and the Manual of Procedures for “Procurement Appeal and 
Review” has been issued by MoF as circular number PPU/N001/1385 on March 18, 2007.  
 
3. 
In the absence of adequate capacity to manage procurement activities effectively, some 
interim arrangements have been put in place to improve the procurement management of the 
country.  A central procurement facilitation service, ARDS-PU has been established under the 
supervision of Ministry of Economy (MoE). The Bank and the GoA has agreed on a program for 
country wide procurement reform and capacity building, leading to the transition from 
centralized to decentralized procurement services.  The Bank funded Public Administration 
Capacity Building project (PACBP) and Public Financial Management Reform Project (PFMRP) 
are the primary instruments for implementing the program to strengthen capacity of the line 
ministries to manage public procurement in an effective, transparent and accountable manner.  
However, the implementation of the procurement capacity building strategy has not made any 
significant progress yet due to lack of coordination and delays in decision making within the 
Government.  The envisaged radical changes to the procurement management environment 
Page  48
47
expected from the new Law also require the urgent implementation of a comprehensive human 
resources and capacity development program.  The implementation of the procurement reform 
component of the PACBP and PFMRP should be considered with due priority to ensure that 
fiduciary standards are further enhanced and that capacity is developed in the Government to 
maintain these standards. 
 
4. 
The Consultant has now been mobilized under the PPU/MOF to carryout the capacity 
Building which focuses on systematic training of staff of ministries in public procurement. The 
assignment includes conduct of training programs to private sector. The consultant has 
completed the training needs assessment and the program for training of trainers has begun. The 
first training program is planed to commence on December 1, 2007 
 
General  
 
5. 
The proposed program covers assistance to three key agencies Supreme Court (SC), 
Ministry of Justice (MOJ) and Attorney General Office (AGO). The proposed implementation 
structure will include a Program Oversight Committee (POC)composed of the Afghan Chief 
Justice, Minister of Justice, Attorney General and Minister of Finance. Day to day management 
will be the responsibility of the Program Support Unit (PSU) which will closely work with the 
directors of administration at the Supreme Court, the MOJ and AGO. PSU will be staffed by 
procurement and financial specialists to assist the implementing agencies  
 
6. 
Procurement administration of the project would be carried out in accordance with 
the 
World Bank’s “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
”
dated May 2004, 
“Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
”
dated May 
2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Grant Agreement. The general description of various 
procurements under different expenditure categories are described below. For each contract to be 
financed by the Grant the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the 
need for prequalification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed 
between the Grant Recipient and the Bank project team are described in the Procurement Plan 
agreed with the Government at appraisal. This Procurement Plan will be updated at least 
annually or at lesser time intervals as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs 
and improvements in the institutional capacity.  
 
Procurement of Works 
 
7. 
Works procured under this project, would include: (i) rehabilitation of court houses, and 
office facilities; (ii) extension of training facilities, including administrative offices and dorm 
space; and (iii) construction/rehabilitation/refurbishment of AGO office in Kabul. The 
procurement will be done using the Bank’s Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) for all ICB and 
Afghanistan specific SBD agreed with (or satisfactory to) the Bank. Threshold for ICB civil 
works will be equivalent or more than USD 5,000,000 per contract; threshold for NCB works 
will be less than USD5,000,000 per contract and threshold for Procurement through shopping 
will be equivalent or less than USD 100,000 per contract.  
 
Procurement of Goods 
 
Page  49
48
8. 
Goods procured under this project would include: cars, office furniture and office and IT 
equipment. 
 
The procurement will be done using Bank’s SBD for all ICB and Afghanistan 
specific SBD agreed with (or satisfactory to) the Bank. Threshold for ICB will be equivalent or 
more than USD 200,000 per contract and threshold for NCB goods will be equivalent or less 
than USD 200,000 per contract and shopping threshold per contract will be USD 100,000.  
 
Selection of Consultants 
 
9. 
Under the project both, firms & individual consultants will be hired to provide 
consultancy services. 
 
Technical Assistance to be provided by Consultancy firms 
 
10. 
The Grant will finance: (i) HR reform for judges and prosecutors ( creation of Councils, 
review of HR policies, and evaluation of skills; (ii) PRR for administration staff of the SC and 
AGO and pilot regional courts and offices;(iii) building training management capacity in the SC, 
MoJ, and AGO; (iv) training for judges, prosecutors and civil servants (v) support for publication 
and dissemination of laws ; (vi) creation of libraries (in the courts, AGO offices, the MOJ and its 
regional offices); (viii) design of legal forms (AGO) ; (viii) international conference; (ix) review 
of designs, designs and/or construction supervision for rehabilitation and construction of 
courthouses (including houses for judges) and office facilities; for the MoJ and AGO regional 
offices (x) design of new headquarters for SC; and MoJ (x) design, and construction supervision  
of AGO’s headquarters in Kabul; (xi) ICT assessments for MoJ, and AGO; (xii) network design 
and implementation fro MoJ, SC, and AGO offices;; (xiii) creation of legal aid offices; and legal 
awareness campaign in one province.   
 
Technical Assistance to be provided by individual consultants 
 
11. 
The Grant will finance: (i) Project Director, (ii) Procurement Specialist, (iii) Financial 
Management Specialist, (iv) Program Coordinator and M&E Specialist, (v) Architect & 
Engineer, (vi) ICT Specialist; (vii) HRM and Training Specialist; (vii) two Junior Assistants; 
(viii) 3 Project Coordinators for SC, AGO and MOJ  
 
12. 
Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
13. 
The grant will finance several training activities in country and outside the country for 
judges, MOJ staff and AGO staff. These will include study visits and participation at seminars 
etc.  
 
14. 
Operational Costs
:
which would be financed by the project would be procured using the 
implementing agency’s administrative procedures which were reviewed and found acceptable to 
the Bank.   
 
Assessment of the Agency’s Capacity to Implement Procurement 
 
Page  50
49
15. 
The Supreme SC, MOJ, and AGO will implement the project with support of the PSU 
which will be staffed by procurement and financial management specialists to assist the 
implementing agencies. The PSU will be staffed by June 2008, including one procurement and 
one financial management specialist. Until the PSU is established and appropriately staffed, the 
project will use the services of the Ministry of Economy (MoE) to carry out the initial activities 
under an interim arrangement. To formalize this arrangement, there will be an MoU between 
MoE, MoF, SC, MoJ, and AGO.   
 
16. 
An assessment of the capacity of the implementing agencies to implement procurement 
actions for the project has been carried out by Deepal Fernando Senior Procurement Specialist 
and Rahimullah Wardak Procurement Analyst in February, 2008.   Below are the findings of the 
assessments.  
 
(a) Procurement Capacity of Supreme Court 
 
17. 
The assessment reviewed the organizational structure of the implementing agency and the 
interaction between the project’s staff responsible for procurement and the SC relevant central 
unit for administration and finance. The assessment reveals that the SC procurement staff is 
familiar and involved in small procurement of goods following shopping procedure. The 
procurement staff has limited experience in the procurement of the high value goods, and civil 
works following open tendering. The procurement staff is not familiar with Bank procurement 
Guidelines and has no experience hiring consultant services. The staff does not have English 
skill as well to understand the bidding document and RFP to be used for procurement of high 
value of goods, civil works, and consultant contracts under the project. 
 
(b) Procurement Capacity of Ministry of Justice 
 
18. 
The assessment reviewed the organizational structure of the implementing agency and the 
interaction between the project’s staff responsible for procurement and the SC relevant central 
unit for administration and finance. The assessment reveals that the MoJ procurement staff is 
familiar and involved in small procurement of goods following shopping procedure. The 
procurement staff has limited experience in the procurement of the high value goods, and civil 
works following open tendering. The procurement staff is not familiar with Bank procurement 
Guidelines and has no experience hiring consultant services. The staff does not have English 
skill as well to understand the bidding document and RFP to be used for procurement of high 
value of goods, civil works, and consultant contracts under the project. 
 
(c) Procurement Capacity of Attorney General Office  
 
19. 
The assessment reviewed the organizational structure of the implementing agency and the 
interaction between the project’s staff responsible for procurement and the AGO relevant central 
unit for administration and finance. The assessment reveals that the AGO procurement staff is 
familiar and involved in small procurement of goods following shopping procedure. The 
procurement staff has limited experience in the procurement of the high value goods, and civil 
works following open tendering. The procurement staff is not familiar with Bank procurement 
Guidelines and has no experience hiring consultant services. The staff does not have English 
skill as well to understand the bidding document and RFP to be used for procurement of high 
value of goods, civil works, and consultant contracts under the project. 
Page  51
50
 
20. 
As indicated above the procurement officers working under the three implementing 
agencies has a very limited experience in procurement of high values of goods and works and 
does not have any experience in hiring consultant services. The staff is not familiar with the 
Bank procurement guidelines. Therefore, the overall project risk for procurement is high.  
 
21. 
To mitigate the risk the following measure has been agreed with implementing agencies. 
 
·
To ensure compliance with the Bank policy and procedure, procurement documentation 
for complex and large value of goods, works and consultancy contracts will be carried 
out with consultation of the ARDS. 
 
·
One Procurement Specialist will be hired to do the day-to-day management of 
procurement action and be contact person among the three implementing agencies and 
ARDS for procurement of high value contracts and do small procurement of goods, 
works and consultant.  
 
·
The Bank procurement specialists will provide short term training to the procurement 
staff of the three implementing agencies to explain World Bank procurement and 
consultant guidelines. Also the procurement staff will be trained how to procure goods, 
works under Bank finance project following shopping procedure. 
 
·
In the long run the procurement specialist to be hired under the project will also train the 
procurement staff of the three implementing agencies in procurement of goods, works 
and consultancy services following World Bank procurement and consultant guidelines.  
 
Procurement Plan 
 
22. 
The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a Procurement Plan for project implementation 
which provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan has been agreed between the 
Borrower and the Project Team on [
date
….]
and is available at [
provide the office name and 
location
]
It will also be available in the Project’s database and in the Bank’s external website. 
The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the Project Team annually or as 
required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in institutional 
capacity. 
 
Frequency of Procurement Supervision 
 
23. 
In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the 
capacity assessment of the Implementing Agency has recommended one supervision missions to 
visit the field to carry out post review of procurement actions. As the overall project risk for 
procurement is high, therefore, the percentage of contracts to be post reviewed will be 
10%. 
 
Procurement Audit  
 
24. 
In addition to the prior review and post review supervisions to be carried out from Bank 
offices, an independent procurement audit will also take place during the project life. 
Page  52
51
 
Page  53
52
Attachment 1 
 
Details of the Procurement Arrangement Involving International Competition 
 
Goods and Works and non consulting services. 
 
List of contract Packages which will be procured following ICB and Direct contracting: 
 
 
List of contract Packages which will be procured following ICB and Direct Contracting:   
 
Works contracts estimated to cost equivalent USD 300, 000or more per contract, Goods contracts 
estimated to cost equivalent USD 200,000 more per contract and all Direct contracting will be subject to 
prior review by the Bank. 
 
Consulting Services
.
List of Consulting Assignments with short-list of international firms: 
 
Ref. No. 
 
Description of 
Assignment 
 
Estimated 
Cost in 
USD 
 
Selection 
Method 
 
Review 
by Bank 
(Prior / 
Post) 
 
Expected 
Proposals 
Submission 
Date 
 
Comments 
CS 14/08 
ICT assessment 
for Ministry of 
Justice  
190,000 
CQS 
Prior 
June 15, 2008 
Firm specialized in  
preparation of  
assessments and 
functional 
specifications 
CS 16/08 
ICT assessment 
190,000 CQS 
Prior 
September 15, 
Firm specialized in  
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Ref. 
No. 
 
Contract  
(Description) 
 
Estimated 
Cost 
 
Procurement 
Method 
 
P-Q 
 
Domestic 
Preference 
(yes/no) 
 
Review 
by Bank 
(Prior / 
Post) 
 
Expected 
Bid-
Opening 
Date  
 
Comments 
G20/
08
 
Vehicles for 
SC, MOJ and 
AGO
 
4,700,000
 
ICB/DC
 
yes
 
Yes
 
Prior
 
Jul 1, 
2008
 
G
21/0
8
Books and 
Journals 
95,000 DC no no  Prior 
Jul 
1, 
2008 
SC
 
G
26/0
8
Books and 
Journals 
80,000 DC no no  prior 
Sep 
1, 
2008 
Technical 
literature 
G
27/0
8
Books and 
Journals 
80,000 DC no no  prior 
Nov 
1, 
2008 
Technical 
literature 
G
28/0
8
Books and 
Journals 
85,000 DC no no  prior 
Jan 
1, 
2008 
Technical 
literature 
Page  54
53
 
Ref. No. 
 
Description of 
Assignment 
 
Estimated 
Cost in 
USD 
 
Selection 
Method 
 
Review 
by Bank 
(Prior / 
P
ost) 
 
Expected 
Proposals 
Submission 
D
ate 
 
Comments 
for AGO office  
2008 
 
preparation of  
assessments and 
functional 
specifications 
CS 17/08 
Building design 
work for SC 
 
1,000,000 
QCBS 
Prior 
August 1, 2008 
Design of 
complementary 
housing for training 
facility and design 
of new SC building 
CS 19/08 
Design and 
supervision of  
construction for 
AGO building 
380,000 
QCBS 
Prior 
August 1, 2008 
AGO Building and 
design review of 
existing building 
(USD 80,000) 
CS 20/08 
Human Resource 
Management for 
Judges and 
development of 
HR framework 
600,000 
QCBS 
Prior 
Jun 1, 08 
SC 
CS 21/08  
PPR for Admin 
staff in Supreme 
Court 
300,000 
QCBS 
Prior 
June 15, 08 
SC 
CS 22/08 
Training for 
Judges 
450,000 
QCBS 
Prior 
Aug 1, 08 
SC 
CS 23/08 
Training for MOJ 
staff 
150,000 
CQS 
Prior 
Jun 15, 08 
MOJ 
CS 25/08 
Preparation of 
Law Index 
180,000 
CQS 
Prior 
Nov 1, 08 
Preparation of law 
index 
CS 26/08 
Standardization 
of legal forms 
190,000 
CQS 
Prior 
Sep 15, 2008 
AGO 
–
preparation 
of standardized legal 
forms for AGO’s 
operations 
CS 27/08 
Training contract 
for AGO staff 
180,000 CQS 
Prior  Oct 
1, 
08 
AGO 
 
CS 28/08 
Design and 
supervision of  
construction for 
building for 
Ministry of 
Justice 
550,000 
QCBS 
Prior 
Dec 15, 2008 
Building and design 
/review of existing 
building  
Short lists composed entirely of national consultants
:
Short lists of consultants for services estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely of national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Procurement Plan 
 
Project Information
 
Country:  
 
Afghanistan 
Borrower: 
 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 
Page  55
54
Project Name:  
Justice Sector Reform Project  
Grant No.: 
 
TF 92160-AF 
Project Implementing Agency: (i) Supreme Court, (ii) Ministry of Justice, and (iii) Attorney 
General’s Office  
 
Bank’s Approval
 
Date of the Procurement Plan
 Original 
 
Date of General Procurement Notice
:
March 2, 2008 
Period Covered by this Procurement Plan
:
March 08 
–
February 2009 (12 months) 
 
Goods and Works and Non-Consulting Services 
 
Prior Review Threshold
:
Procurement Decisions subject to Prior Review by the Bank as stated 
in Appendix 1 to the Guidelines for Procurement: [Thresholds for applicable procurement 
methods (not limited to the list below) will be determined by the Procurement Specialist 
/Procurement Accredited Staff based on the assessment of the implementing agency’s capacity.]  
 
Procurement Method 
Prior Review Threshold  
Comment 
1. 
Civil Works 
USD 300,000 
First three contracts 
following NCB 
2. 
Goods 
USD 200,000 
First three contracts 
following NCB 
3. 
Direct Contracting 
All 
Regardless of value 
Procurement Method
 
Threshold for Methods
 
Comment
 
1. 
ICB Civil Works 
USD5,000,000 
Equivalent or more 
2. 
NCB Civil Works 
USD5,000,000 
Equivalent or less 
3. 
ICB Goods 
USD200,000 
Equivalent or more 
4. 
NCB Goods 
USD200,000 
Equivalent or less 
5. 
Shopping Goods 
USD100,000 
Equivalent or less 
Prequalification
.
Bidders for NIL shall be pre-qualified in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
 
Reference to (if any) Project Operational Manual  
Any Other Special Procurement Arrangements 
Page  56
5
5
P
r
o
c
u
r
e
m
e
n
t
P
a
c
k
a
g
e
s
w
i
t
h
M
e
t
h
o
d
s
a
n
d
T
i
m
e
S
c
h
e
d
u
l
e
4
.
P
r
o
c
u
r
e
m
e
n
t
P
a
c
k
a
g
e
s
w
i
t
h
M
e
t
h
o
d
s
a
n
d
T
i
m
e
S
c
h
e
d
u
l
e
[
L
i
s
t
t
h
e
P
a
c
k
a
g
e
s
w
h
i
c
h
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
B
a
n
k
’
s
p
r
i
o
r
r
e
v
i
e
w
f
i
r
s
t
a
n
d
t
h
e
n
t
h
e
o
t
h
e
r
p
a
c
k
a
g
e
s
]
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
R
e
f
.
N
o
.
C
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
(
D
e
s
c
r
i
p
t
i
o
n
)
E
s
t
i
m
a
t
e
d
C
o
s
t
P
r
o
c
u
r
e
m
e
n
t
M
e
t
h
o
d
P
r
e
q
u
a
l
i
f
i
-
c
a
t
i
o
n
(
y
e
s
/
n
o
)
D
o
m
e
s
t
i
c
P
r
e
f
e
r
e
n
c
e
(
y
e
s
/
n
o
)
R
e
v
i
e
w
b
y
B
a
n
k
(
P
r
i
o
r
/
P
o
s
t
)
E
x
p
e
c
t
e
d
B
i
d
-
O
p
e
n
i
n
g
D
a
t
e
C
o
m
m
e
n
t
s
W
O
R
K
S
W
1
/
0
8
R
e
h
a
b
i
l
i
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
f
a
c
i
l
i
t
y
w
i
t
h
s
m
a
l
l
e
x
t
e
n
s
i
o
n
1
0
0
,
0
0
0
N
C
B
n
o
n
o
P
o
s
t
A
u
g
u
s
t
1
,
2
0
0
8
C
o
m
p
1
:
S
i
t
e
s
e
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
b
a
s
e
d
o
n
p
r
i
o
r
i
t
y
n
e
e
d
s
t
b
d
-
-
S
C
W
2
/
0
8
R
e
h
a
b
i
l
i
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
f
a
c
i
l
i
t
y
w
i
t
h
s
m
a
l
l
e
x
t
e
n
s
i
o
n
1
0
0
,
0
0
0
N
C
B
n
o
n
o
P
o
s
t
A
u
g
u
s
t
1
,
2
0
0
8
C
o
m
p
1
:
S
i
t
e
s
e
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
b
a
s
e
d
o
n
p
r
i
o
r
i
t
y
n
e
e
d
s
t
b
d
-
-
S
C
W
3
/
0
8
R
e
h
a
b
i
l
i
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
f
a
c
i
l
i
t
y
w
i
t
h
s
m
a
l
l
e
x
t
e
n
s
i
o
n
1
0
0
,
0
0
0
N
C
B
n
o
n
o
P
o
s
t
A
u
g
u
s
t
1
,
2
0
0
8
C
o
m
p
1
:
S
i
t
e
s
e
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
b
a
s
e
d
o
n
p
r
i
o
r
i
t
y
n
e
e
d
s
t
b
d
-
-
S
C
W
4
/
0
8
R
e
h
a
b
i
l
i
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
f
a
c
i
l
i
t
y
w
i
t
h
s
m
a
l
l
e
x
t
e
n
s
i
o
n
5
0
,
0
0
0
N
C
B
n
o
n
o
P
o
s
t
S
e
p
t
1
,
2
0
0
8
C
o
m
p
1
:
S
i
t
e
s
e
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
b
a
s
e
d
o
n
p
r
i
o
r
i
t
y
n
e
e
d
s
t
b
d
-
-
S
C
W
5
/
0
8
R
e
h
a
b
i
l
i
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
f
a
c
i
l
i
t
y
w
i
t
h
s
m
a
l
l
e
x
t
e
n
s
i
o
n
5
0
,
0
0
0
N
C
B
n
o
n
o
P
o
s
t
S
e
p
t
1
,
2
0
0
8
C
o
m
p
1
:
S
i
t
e
s
e
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
b
a
s
e
d
o
n
p
r
i
o
r
i
t
y
n
e
e
d
s
t
b
d
-
-
S
C
W
6
/
0
8
R
e
h
a
b
i
l
i
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
f
a
c
i
l
i
t
y
w
i
t
h
s
m
a
l
l
e
x
t
e
n
s
i
o
n
1
0
0
,
0
0
0
N
C
B
n
o
n
o
P
o
s
t
A
u
g
u
s
t
1
,
2
0
0
8
C
o
m
p
1
:
S
i
t
e
s
e
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
b
a
s
e
d
o
n
p
r
i
o
r
i
t
y
n
e
e
d
s
t
b
d
–
A
G
O
W
7
/
0
8
R
e
h
a
b
i
l
i
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
1
0
0
,
0
0
0
N
C
B
n
o
n
o
P
o
s
t
A
u
g
u
s
t
1
,
C
o
m
p
1
:
s
i
t
e
Page  57
5
6
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
R
e
f
.
N
o
.
C
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
(
D
e
s
c
r
i
p
t
i
o
n
)
E
s
t
i
m
a
t
e
d
C
o
s
t
P
r
o
c
u
r
e
m
e
n
t
M
e
t
h
o
d
P
r
e
q
u
a
l
i
f
i
-
c
a
t
i
o
n
(
y
e
s
/
n
o
)
D
o
m
e
s
t
i
c
P
r
e
f
e
r
e
n
c
e
(
y
e
s
/
n
o
)
R
e
v
i
e
w
b
y
B
a
n
k
(
P
r
i
o
r
/
P
o
s
t
)
E
x
p
e
c
t
e
d
B
i
d
-
O
p
e
n
i
n
g
D
a
t
e
C
o
m
m
e
n
t
s
f
a
c
i
l
i
t
y
w
i
t
h
s
m
a
l
l
e
x
t
e
n
s
i
o
n
2
0
0
8
s
e
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
b
a
s
e
d
o
n
p
r
i
o
r
i
t
y
n
e
e
d
s
t
b
d
–
A
G
O
W
8
/
0
8
R
e
h
a
b
i
l
i
t
a
t
i
o
n
o
f
f
a
c
i
l
i
t
y
w
i
t
h
s
m
a
l
l
e
x
t
e
n
s
i
o
n
1
0
0
,
0
0
0
N
C
B
n
o
n
o
P
o
s
t
A
u
g
u
s
t
1
,
2
0
0
8
C
o
m
p
1
:
S
i
t
e
s
e
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
b
a
s
e
d
o
n
p
r
i
o
r
i
t
y
n
e
e
d
s
t
b
d
-
-
A
G
O
G
O
O
D
S
G
1
/
0
8
E
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
f
o
r
P
S
U
O
f
f
i
c
e
5
0
,
0
0
0
S
h
o
p
p
i
n
g
n
o
n
o
n
o
J
u
n
e
1
,
2
0
0
8
C
o
m
p
3
G
2
/
0
8
F
u
r
n
i
t
u
r
e
f
o
r
P
S
U
1
5
,
0
0
0
S
h
o
p
p
i
n
g
n
o
n
o
n
o
J
u
n
e
1
,
2
0
0
8
C
o
m
p
3
G
3
/
0
8
E
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
f
o
r
S
C
9
5
,
0
0
0
S
h
o
p
p
i
n
g
n
o
n
o
n
o
J
u
n
e
1
,
2
0
0
8
C
o
m
p
1
G
4
/
0
8
E
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
f
o
r
S
C
2
0
,
0
0
0
S
h
o
p
p
i
n
g
n
o
n
o
n
o
S
e
p
t
e
m
b
e
r
1
,
2
0
0
8
C
o
m
p
1
G
5
/
0
8
E
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
f
o
r
S
C
9
0
,
0
0
0
S
h
o
p
p
i
n
g
n
o
n
o
n
o
D
e
c
1
,
2
0
0
8
C
o
m
p
1
G
6
/
0
8
E
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
f
o
r
S
C
9
0
,
0
0
0
S
h
o
p
p
i
n
g
n
o
n
o
n
o
F
e
b
1
,
2
0
0
9
C
o
m
p
1
G
7
/
0
8
C
o
m
p
u
t
e
r
E
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
f
o
r
S
C
9
5
,
0
0
0
S
h
o
p
p
i
n
g
n
o
n
o
n
o
A
u
g
1
,
2
0
0
9
C
o
m
p
1
–
e
m
e
r
g
e
n
c
y
h
a
r
d
w
a
r
e
G
8
/
0
8
E
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
f
o
r
S
C
8
0
,
0
0
0
S
h
o
p
p
i
n
g
n
o
n
o
n
o
M
a
y
1
,
2
0
0
8
C
o
m
p
1
G
9
/
0
8
E
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
a
n
d
F
u
r
n
i
t
u
r
e
f
o
r
M
O
J
9
5
,
0
0
0
S
h
o
p
p
i
n
g
n
o
n
o
n
o
J
u
n
e
1
,
2
0
0
8
C
o
m
p
1
G
1
0
/
0
8
E
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
a
n
d
F
u
r
n
i
t
u
r
e
f
o
r
M
O
J
8
0
,
0
0
0
S
h
o
p
p
i
n
g
n
o
n
o
n
o
A
u
g
,
2
0
0
8
C
o
m
p
1
Page  58
5
7
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
R
e
f
.
N
o
.
C
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
(
D
e
s
c
r
i
p
t
i
o
n
)
E
s
t
i
m
a
t
e
d
C
o
s
t
P
r
o
c
u
r
e
m
e
n
t
M
e
t
h
o
d
P
r
e
q
u
a
l
i
f
i
-
c
a
t
i
o
n
(
y
e
s
/
n
o
)
D
o
m
e
s
t
i
c
P
r
e
f
e
r
e
n
c
e
(
y
e
s
/
n
o
)
R
e
v
i
e
w
b
y
B
a
n
k
(
P
r
i
o
r
/
P
o
s
t
)
E
x
p
e
c
t
e
d
B
i
d
-
O
p
e
n
i
n
g
D
a
t
e
C
o
m
m
e
n
t
s
G
1
1
/
0
8
E
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
f
o
r
M
O
J
9
0
,
0
0
0
S
h
o
p
p
i
n
g
n
o
n
o
n
o
N
o
v
1
,
2
0
0
8
C
o
m
p
1
G
1
2
/
0
8
E
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
f
o
r
M
O
J
8
0
,
0
0
0
S
h
o
p
p
i
n
g
n
o
n
o
n
o
F
e
b
1
,
2
0
0
9
C
o
m
p
1
G
1
3
/
0
8
C
o
m
p
u
t
e
r
E
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
f
o
r
M
O
J
9
5
,
0
0
0
S
h
o
p
p
i
n
g
n
o
n
o
n
o
J
u
n
1
,
2
0
0
9
C
o
m
p
1
–
e
m
e
r
g
e
n
c
y
h
a
r
d
w
a
r
e
G
1
4
/
0
8
N
e
t
w
o
r
k
E
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
f
o
r
M
O
J
7
0
,
0
0
0
S
h
o
p
p
i
n
g
n
o
n
o
n
o
N
o
v
1
,
2
0
0
9
E
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
l
i
s
t
b
a
s
e
d
o
n
n
e
t
w
o
r
k
d
e
s
i
g
n
f
o
r
M
O
J
G
1
5
/
0
8
E
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
a
n
d
F
u
r
n
i
t
u
r
e
f
o
r
A
G
O
8
0
,
0
0
0
S
h
o
p
p
i
n
g
n
o
n
o
n
o
A
u
g
,
2
0
0
8
C
o
m
p
1
G
1
6
/
0
8
E
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
f
o
r
A
G
O
9
0
,
0
0
0
S
h
o
p
p
i
n
g
n
o
n
o
n
o
N
o
v
1
,
2
0
0
8
C
o
m
p
1
G
1
7
/
0
8
E
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
f
o
r
A
G
O
9
0
,
0
0
0
S
h
o
p
p
i
n
g
n
o
n
o
n
o
F
e
b
1
,
2
0
0
9
C
o
m
p
1
G
1
8
/
0
8
C
o
m
p
u
t
e
r
E
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
f
o
r
A
G
O
9
0
,
0
0
0
S
h
o
p
p
i
n
g
n
o
n
o
n
o
J
u
n
1
,
2
0
0
9
C
o
m
p
1
–
e
m
e
r
g
e
n
c
y
h
a
r
d
w
a
r
e
G
1
9
/
0
8
N
e
t
w
o
r
k
E
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
f
o
r
A
G
O
6
5
,
0
0
0
S
h
o
p
p
i
n
g
n
o
n
o
n
o
N
o
v
1
,
2
0
0
9
E
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
l
i
s
t
b
a
s
e
d
o
n
n
e
t
w
o
r
k
d
e
s
i
g
n
f
o
r
M
O
J
G
2
0
/
0
8
V
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
f
o
r
S
C
,
M
O
J
a
n
d
A
G
O
4
,
7
0
0
,
0
0
0
I
C
B
/
D
C
y
e
s
n
o
y
e
s
J
u
l
1
,
2
0
0
8
C
o
m
p
1
–
p
r
o
c
u
r
e
-
m
e
n
t
t
h
r
o
u
g
h
I
A
P
S
O
(
i
f
d
o
u
b
l
e
c
a
b
v
e
h
i
c
l
e
s
i
n
c
l
u
d
e
d
c
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
w
i
l
l
b
e
s
p
l
i
t
a
n
d
t
h
e
s
e
d
o
u
b
l
e
c
a
b
s
w
i
l
l
b
e
Page  59
5
8
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
R
e
f
.
N
o
.
C
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
(
D
e
s
c
r
i
p
t
i
o
n
)
E
s
t
i
m
a
t
e
d
C
o
s
t
P
r
o
c
u
r
e
m
e
n
t
M
e
t
h
o
d
P
r
e
q
u
a
l
i
f
i
-
c
a
t
i
o
n
(
y
e
s
/
n
o
)
D
o
m
e
s
t
i
c
P
r
e
f
e
r
e
n
c
e
(
y
e
s
/
n
o
)
R
e
v
i
e
w
b
y
B
a
n
k
(
P
r
i
o
r
/
P
o
s
t
)
E
x
p
e
c
t
e
d
B
i
d
-
O
p
e
n
i
n
g
D
a
t
e
C
o
m
m
e
n
t
s
p
r
o
c
u
r
e
d
t
h
r
o
u
g
h
I
C
B
)
G
2
1
/
0
8
B
o
o
k
s
a
n
d
J
o
u
r
n
a
l
s
9
5
,
0
0
0
D
C
n
o
n
o
n
o
J
u
l
1
,
2
0
0
8
S
C
G
2
2
/
0
8
L
i
b
r
a
r
y
f
u
r
n
i
t
u
r
e
5
0
,
0
0
0
S
h
o
p
p
i
n
g
n
o
n
o
n
o
J
u
l
1
,
0
8
S
C
G
2
3
/
0
8
L
i
b
r
a
r
y
e
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
9
0
,
0
0
0
S
h
o
p
p
i
n
g
n
o
n
o
p
o
s
t
J
u
l
1
5
,
0
8
M
O
J
G
2
4
/
0
8
L
i
b
r
a
r
y
f
u
r
n
i
t
u
r
e
9
0
,
0
0
0
S
h
o
p
p
i
n
g
n
o
n
o
p
o
s
t
J
u
l
1
5
,
0
8
M
O
J
,
c
e
n
t
r
a
l
l
i
b
G
2
5
/
0
8
L
i
b
r
a
r
y
f
u
r
n
i
t
u
r
e
8
5
,
0
0
0
S
h
o
p
p
i
n
g
n
o
n
o
p
o
s
t
N
o
v
1
5
,
2
0
0
8
4
s
m
a
l
l
l
i
b
r
a
r
i
e
s
G
2
6
/
0
8
B
o
o
k
s
a
n
d
J
o
u
r
n
a
l
s
8
0
,
0
0
0
D
C
n
o
n
o
p
o
s
t
S
e
p
1
,
2
0
0
8
T
e
c
h
n
i
c
a
l
l
i
t
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
G
2
7
/
0
8
B
o
o
k
s
a
n
d
J
o
u
r
n
a
l
s
8
0
,
0
0
0
D
C
n
o
n
o
p
o
s
t
N
o
v
1
,
2
0
0
8
T
e
c
h
n
i
c
a
l
l
i
t
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
G
2
8
/
0
8
B
o
o
k
s
a
n
d
J
o
u
r
n
a
l
s
8
5
,
0
0
0
D
C
n
o
n
o
p
o
s
t
J
a
n
1
,
2
0
0
8
T
e
c
h
n
i
c
a
l
l
i
t
e
r
a
t
u
r
e
G
2
9
/
0
8
P
r
i
n
t
i
n
g
o
f
S
t
a
t
e
G
a
z
e
t
t
e
5
0
0
,
0
0
0
N
C
B
/
S
h
o
p
p
i
n
g
n
o
n
o
p
o
s
t
O
c
t
1
5
,
0
8
P
r
i
n
t
i
n
g
o
f
s
t
a
t
e
G
a
z
e
t
t
e
i
n
c
l
.
p
r
o
o
f
r
e
a
d
i
n
g
Page  60
59 
 
III. Selection of Consultants 
 
1.  Prior Review Threshold
:
Selection decisions subject to Prior Review by Bank as stated in 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines Selection and Employment of Consultants: 
 
Selection  Method 
Prior Review 
Threshold 
Comment 
1. 
Competitive Methods  (Firms)  
USD 100,000 
Equivalent or more 
2. 
Individual Consultant 
USD 50,000 
Equivalent or more 
3. 
Single Source (Firms and Individual) 
All  
Regardless of value 
Selection  Method 
Threshold for Methods USD  
Comment 
1. 
CQS 
200,000 equivalent or less 
 
2.  Short List Composed Entirely of National Consultants
:
Short list of consultants for services, 
estimated to cost less than 
$100,000
 equivalent per contract, may be composed entirely of national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3.  Any Other Special Selection Arrangements: 
[including advance procurement and retroactive 
financing, if applicable] NA 
 
4. 
Consultancy Assignments with Selection Methods and Time Schedule
 
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Ref. No. 
Description of Assignment 
Estimated 
Cost in USD 
Selection 
Method 
Review 
by Bank 
(Prior 
/Post) 
Expected 
Proposals 
Submission 
Date 
Comments 
Individual 
Consultants 
CS 1/08 
Project Director 
70,000 
IC 
Post 
April 15, 08 
for two years 
CS 2/08 
Project Coordinator 
60,000 
IC 
Post 
April 15, 08 
for two years 
CS 3/08 
Procurement Specialist 
48,000 
IC 
Post 
April 15, 08 
for two years 
CS 4/08 
Financial Mgmt 
Specialist 
48,000 
IC 
Post 
May 1, 2008 
for two years 
CS 5/08 
International Expert 
100,000 
IC 
Prior 
May 15, 
2008 
for two years 
CS 6/08 
Legal Advisor 
48,000 
IC 
Post 
June 1, 2008 
for two years 
CS 7/08 
Junior Expert for PSU 
32,300  
IC 
Post 
June 1, 2008 
for two years 
CS 8/08 
Junior Expert for PSU 
32,000 
IC 
Post 
June 1, 2008 
for two years 
CS 9/08 
Junior Expert for PSU 
32,000 
IC 
Post 
June 1, 2008 
for two years 
CS 10/08 
PU Coordinator (MOJ 
 25,000  
IC 
Post 
Jun15, 2008 
Liaison between 
MOJ, SC, AGO 
and the PSU 
office 
CS 11/08 
PU Coordinator SC  
25,000 
IC 
Post 
Jun 15, 2008 
Liaison between 
MOJ, SC, AGO 
and the PSU 
office 
Page  61
60 
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Ref. No. 
Description of Assignment 
Estimated 
Cost in USD 
Selection 
Method 
Review 
by Bank 
(Prior 
/Post) 
Expected 
Proposals 
Submission 
Date 
Comments 
CS 12/08 
PU Coordinator AGO 
25,000 
IC 
Post 
June 15, 
2008 
Liaison between 
MOJ, SC, AGO 
and the PSU 
office 
CS 13/08 
Assessment “Printing 
in-house vs. 
outsourcing of print 
work” 
50,000 
IC 
Prior 
Aug 15, 08 
Rapid assessment 
to determine the 
best solution for 
printing the state 
gazette 
Consulting 
Firm 
CS 14/08 
ICT assessment for 
Ministry of Justice  
190,000 CQS 
Prior 
June 
15, 
2008 
Firm specialized 
in  preparation of  
assessments and 
functional 
specifications 
CS 15/08 
Network design and 
implementation 
services for MOJ and 
AGO office 
170,000 CQS 
Prior 
August 
20, 
2008 
Local firm for 
network design 
and physical 
installation of 
cables in MOJ 
and AGO 
building 
CS 16/08 
ICT assessment for 
AGO office  
190,000 CQS 
Prior 
September 
15, 2008 
 
Firm specialized 
in  preparation of  
assessments and 
functional 
specifications 
CS 17/08 
ICT assessment for SC 
190,000 CQS 
Prior 
September 
15, 2008 
 
Firm specialized 
in  preparation of  
assessments and 
functional 
specifications 
CS 18/08 
Building design work 
for SC 
 
1,000,000 QCBS 
Prior August 
1, 
2008 
Design of 
complementary 
housing for 
training facility 
and design of new 
SC building 
CS 19/08 
Review of court 
building design for 8 
buildings and limited 
supervision 
90,000 
CQS 
Post 
June 15, 08 
SC and AGO 
CS 20/08 
Design and 
supervision of  
construction for AGO 
building 
380,000 QCBS 
Prior 
August 
1, 
2008 
AGO Building 
and design review 
of existing 
building (USD 
80,000) 
CS 21/08 
Human Resource 
Management for 
600,000 
QCBS 
Prior 
Jun 1, 08 
SC 
Page  62
61 
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Ref. No. 
Description of Assignment 
Estimated 
Cost in USD 
Selection 
Method 
Review 
by Bank 
(Prior 
/Post) 
Expected 
Proposals 
Submission 
Date 
Comments 
Judges and 
development of HR 
framework 
CS 22/08  
PPR for Admin staff 
in Supreme Court 
300,000 
QCBS 
Prior 
June 15, 08 
SC 
CS 23/08 
Training for Judges 
450,000 
QCBS 
Prior 
Aug 1, 08 
SC 
CS 24/08 
Training for MOJ staff 
150,000 
CQS 
Prior 
Jun 15, 08 
MOJ 
CS 25/08 
Library staff training  
70,000 
CQS 
Post 
Sept 15, 08 
MOJ and AGO -- 
Training for 
librarians 30  
CS 26/08 
Preparation of Law 
Index 
180,000 
CQS 
Prior 
Nov 1, 08 
Preparation of 
law index 
CS 27/08 
Standardization of 
legal forms 
190,000 CQS 
Prior 
Sep 
15, 
2008 
AGO 
–
preparation of 
standardized legal 
forms for AGO’s 
operations 
CS 28/08 
Training contract for 
AGO staff 
180,000 
CQS 
Prior 
Oct 1, 08 
AGO 
 
CS 29/08 
Design and 
supervision of  
construction for 
building for Ministry 
of Justice 
550,000 QCBS 
Prior 
Dec 
15, 
2008 
Building and 
design /review of 
existing building  
IV. Implementing Agency Capacity Building Activities with Time Schedule 
 
1. 
In this section the agreed Capacity Building Activities (some items could be from CPAR 
recommendation)   
 
No. 
Expected outcome / 
Activity Description  
Estimated 
Cost 
Estimated 
Duration 
Start Date 
Comments 
1
Training of the procurement staff of 
SC, MOJ and AGO in procurement of 
small value goods and works under 
shopping procedure. 
 
One days 
As soon as 
the project is 
approved 
 
*National Competitive bidding procedures shall be subject to the following additional  
Procedures:
 
(i) 
Standard bidding documents approved by IDA shall be used. 
Page  63
62 
(ii) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated national daily 
newspaper and bidding documents shall be made available to prospective bidders, at 
least twenty-eight (28) days prior to the deadline for the submission of bids. 
(iii)  Bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount over the estimated cost. 
(iv) 
Bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who are willing to pay the 
required fee. 
(v) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. 
(vi) 
Qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) shall be stated on the bidding 
documents, and if a registration process is required, a foreign firm determined to be the lowest 
evaluated bidder shall be given reasonable opportunity of registering, without any hindrance. 
(vii) 
Bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by courier service or by mail. 
(viii) 
All bidders shall provide bid security or a bid security declaration form as indicated in the 
bidding documents. A bidder’s bid security or the declaration form shall apply only to a specific 
bid. 
(ix) 
Bids shall be opened in public in one place preferably immediately, but no later than one (1) 
hour, after the deadline for submission of bids. 
(x) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria disclosed in the bidding 
documents, in a format, and within the specified period, agreed with the IDA. 
(xi) 
Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an official estimate without 
the prior concurrence of the Association. 
(xii) 
Split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried out. When two (2) or more 
bidders quote the same price, an investigation shall be made to determine any evidence of 
collusion, following which: (A) if collusion is determined, the parties involved shall be 
disqualified and the award shall then be made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified bidder; 
and (B) if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then fresh bids shall be invited after 
receiving the concurrence of the IDA; 
(xiii) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the initial period of bid 
validity so that extensions are not necessary. Extension of bid validity may be sought only under 
exceptional circumstances. 
(xiv) 
Extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence of the IDA: (A) for 
the first request for extension if it is longer than eight (4) weeks; and (B) for all subsequent 
requests for extensions irrespective of the period. 
(xv) 
Negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other bidders. 
(xvi) 
Re-bidding shall not be carried out without the IDA’s prior concurrence; and 
Page  64
63 
(xvii) 
All contractors or suppliers shall provide performance security as indicated in the contract 
documents. A
 contractor’s or a supplier’s performance security shall apply to a specific contract 
under which it was furnished. 
 
Page  65
64 
Annex 7
 
Monitoring and Evaluation  
 
1.
At the level of the NJP, monitoring and evaluation will be the responsibility of the POC and PSU.  At the level of the 
project, monitoring and evaluation will be the joint responsibility of the PSU, PU and the Bank. This annex comprises a draft 
framework for M&E of the project using key outcome and result indicators.  A similar framework forms part of the NJP.  The 
NJP, in addition describes the institutional structure and the principles according to which its progress will be monitored and 
assessed.  
2.
The PSU will update both M&E systems within four months from the appointment of the Project Director 
following the guidance of the NJP and the Grant Agreement.  The future M&E system will include a more detailed 
description of indicators for final and intermediate outcomes and outputs that contribute to their achievement; as 
well as strategies for (baseline) data existing inventories and their collection.   
 
Monitoring and Evaluation Framework 
Project Objective 
Key Outcome Indicators 
Use of Outcome Information 
Enhance the capacity of the 
justice sector institutions to 
deliver legal services 
Increased number of men and 
women who receive legal 
service of better quality (dispute 
resolution, prosecution, 
counseling, representation) 
 
Review of capacity of justice 
institutions 
 
Feed into the design of follow up 
reforms 
Results per (sub)components 
Results indicators 
Use of Results Monitoring
 
Judges, prosecutors and other JS 
officials have better skill to 
deliver justice services 
 
1) 
Councils for HRM of judges 
and prosecutor operational 
 
2) Merit-based 
selection 
and 
allocation system for judges and 
prosecutors operational 
 
3) 
New judges and prosecutors 
sufficiently trained and 
allocated to courts and offices 
based on the results 
 
4) 
Functional review and 
redesign of key job description 
in the SC and AGO and their six 
offices completed 
 
5) 
Skill of sitting judges and 
prosecutors reviewed and gaps 
partially filled 
 
6) Judges, 
prosecutors, 
their 
support staff and other civil 
servants  trained 
 
7)
Training policies and 
(1) Failure to create councils may flag 
a
lack of commitment to the HR 
reform 
 
(1-4) Feeds into design of a follow up 
M&E system for performance and 
policies on allocation of HR 
 
(Feeds into the review & redesign of 
existing reforms and their roll out to 
the rest of the systems) 
 
(1-4) Feeds into the increase of the 
salaries of JS personnel 
 
(5-7) Feeds into reforms which will 
support higher productivity through 
specialization and better organization 
 
(8) Supports the follow up awareness 
reforms and reforms aimed at access 
to legal information 
 
(9) Feeds into long term reform of 
substantive laws and change in legal 
culture 
10
 Exact number will  be determined upon commencement of the project  
Page  66
65 
management capacity improved 
 
8) 
Legal Libraries in MOJ, SC, 
AGO and about 20
1
0
of court 
and office facilities operational 
 
9) International 
Conference 
organized 
 
10)  Local gathering of judges 
and prosecutors organized 
 
(10) Feeds into reform which aims to 
strengthen professional identity and 
independence 
 
Physical Infrastructure 
(facilitates, transportation) is 
improved and contributes to 
better legal service 
(1) review  of design of 28 courts 
(and associated judges’ 
residences) completed; design of 
six MOJ regional offices and 
three AGO regional offices 
completed  
 
(2) Five courts; five MOJ and 
five AGO regional offices   
repaired for use
10
 
(3) Investment Fund for covering 
maintenance costs of facilities 
and cars operation 
 
(4) 220 vehicles delivered to the 
users and used 
 
(5) 40 courts and offices 
equipped and furnished
10
 
(6) Investment plan and 
facilities standards completed 
 
(7) asset management capacity 
in the SC, MOJ, and AGO 
strengthened 
 
(1)
Feeds into more massive 
construction of the facilities to be 
implemented during the nest stages of 
the reform
(1
-7) Feeds into design of follow up 
projects
(1
-
7)
Feeds into the policies addressing 
geographical access to  justice ser
vices 
by population
(3,7) Improves planning for 
expenditure
ICT in place in the central 
agencies and contributing to 
better performance (management 
and service delivery) 
(1) 
ICT assessments in the SC, 
MOJ, and AGO prepared 
 
(2) 
Emergency hardware 
installed in the HQs 
 
(3) 
Network in MOJ and AGO 
installed 
 
(1-2) Feeds into the plans for 
increasing productivity of justice 
institutions through technological 
advancements 
Legal Aid 
(1) Baseline assessment for 
legal aid completed 
(2) Methodology for monitoring 
and ev
alua
tion of legal aid 
(1-3,6) Feeds into review and 
redesign of legal “welfare” policies 
 
(1
-
3) Improves planning for 
Page  67
66 
developed 
 
(3) Legal Aid Fund  created 
 
(4)  Legal aid offices 
operational in at least five 
provinces  
 
(5) Lawyers and paralegals 
trained 
 
(6) Number of cases 
received/resolved through the 
legal aid offices increasing. 
expenditure 
 
(4-6) Feeds into the longer term 
policy on empowerment of rural 
population 
 
(4,6) Addresses immediate needs of 
population 
 
(5) Contributes to strengthening legal 
profession 
 
Legal Awareness 
(1) 
Legal information 
(publications, advertisements, 
shows etc) disseminated/ 
broadcast 
 
(2)  Communities and their 
leaders educated in substance 
and in accessing legal 
information 
 
Contributes to narrowing gap between 
formal and informal justice system 
 
Promotes relevance of formal laws 
 
Helps to resolve day-to day problems 
of common  people 
Page  68
67 
 
Annex 8 
 
Summary of Donor Engagement in the Justice Sector in Afghanistan  
 
This matrix has been prepared by the UNAMA Rule of Law Unit.  It is the latest version currently available, but it 
is expected that it will be updated in due course. An updated version of this matrix will be included as Attachment 
1
of
the NJP. 
 
DONOR ACTIVITY MATRIX 
National Level 
UNAMA Rule of Law Unit
Update: March 05, 2008
Int. 
Agency/
Donor 
Title of project/ 
category*   
Description and purpose (specify: 
activities/beneficiaries) 
Institutional 
Counterpart
/partners 
Date 
of 
projec
t
Name/email of 
contact person 
Remarks
Italy 
Italy - OIM 
A Brighter Childhood: 
Tackling Child 
Trafficking in 
Afghanistan 
Study tour, judges and prosecutors trainings, 
support to the civil society on the fight against 
trafficking of minors. Support to the victims of 
trafficking. 
MoL, MoI, MoF, 
MoW, AGO, SC, 
MoE, NGOs 
12/2006  
- 04/2008 
maurizio.dicalisto@esteri.it
Italy - IDLO 
Interim training for 
the afghan judiciary 
Training of 250 prosecutors, training of 50 head 
of jurisdiction and officials from MoJ. 2 Study 
tour for 20 participants in Egypt and Italy 
MoJ, SC, AGO 
7/2003 - 
12/2004 
maurizio.dicalisto@ester
i.it
Italy -  ISISC 
Training the trainers: 
Course on the Interim 
Criminal Procedure 
Code 
Training of 120 judges, prosecutors, police 
officers, lawyers and MoJ officials 
MoJ, SC, AGO 
5/2004 - 
6/2004 
maurizio.dicalisto@ester
i.it
Italy -  ISISC 
Provincial justice 
Initiative 
Courses on the interim Procedure Criminal 
Code, training of central authorities, support to 
the establishment of a  network to monitor 
judicial system 
MoJ, SC, AGO 
8/2005 - 
9/2007 
maurizio.dicalisto@ester
i.it
Italy - ISISC 
Rehabilitation and 
support of the Afghan 
judicial and 
penitentiary system 
Secondment of a ISISC legal expert to the 
Italian embassy 
Italian Embassy 
8/2007 - 
12/2007 
maurizio.dicalisto@ester
i.it
Italy - 
UNOPS 
National Legal 
Training Centre 
Building of the NLTC centre 
NLTC - MoJ 
2005 - 
05/2007 
maurizio.dicalisto@ester
i.it
Italy Higher 
education 
programme in judicial 
disciplines 
Development of curricula for training of judges, 
prosecutors and lawyers 
MoE, Kabul 
University 
Dec-06 
maurizio.dicalisto@ester
i.it
Italy - LAOA - 
UNICEF 
Legal Assistance to 
minors and indigents 
Survey on detained children in conflict with the 
law. Implement an assistance program on 
indigent detainees 
MoJ 3/2007 
- 
12/2007 
maurizio.dicalisto@ester
i.it
Italy - NBCC 
National Security 
Court 
Provide infrastructures to the National Security 
Court 
NSC 09/2005 
- 
02/2006 
maurizio.dicalisto@ester
i.it
Italy - IDLO 
Afghanistan Justice 
System Trust Fund 
contribution 
Capacity building and training activities to 
prosecutors, judges and lawyers in Kabul and in 
the provinces 
MoJ, SC, AGO 
2002 - 
2008 
maurizio.dicalisto@ester
i.it
Page  69
68 
Italy - IDLO 
Enhancing the 
capacity of legal 
professionals in 
Afghanistan - first 
phase 
Training of judiciary officials; training on legal 
drafting, capacity building activities within the 
National Legal Training Centre 
MoJ, SC, AGO, 
INLC 
2005 - 
2007 
maurizio.dicalisto@ester
i.it
Italy -  IDLO 
Increasing 
Afghanistan capacity 
for sustainable legal 
reform 
Technical assistance in the development of the 
Independent National Legal Training Centre. 
Training for officials in government ministers. 
Support to the Faculty of Sharia at Kabul 
University 
MoJ, SC, AGO, 
INLC, Kabul 
University 
3/2007 - 
8/2008 
maurizio.dicalisto@ester
i.it
Italy -  
UNIFEM 
Gender justice 
programme 
Support to the implementation of CEDAW within 
the Afghan legal system 
Gov. of Afgh. 
2003 - 
2005 
maurizio.dicalisto@ester
i.it
Italy - UNIFM 
Violence against 
women 
Legal services for women, Training, Provision of 
shelter, Organisation of referral centres 
Afghan Women 
2007 - 
2008 
maurizio.dicalisto@ester
i.it
Italy - UNDP 
Rebuilding the justice 
sector of Afghanistan 
Provide infrastructures and training to the 
justice institutions 
MoJ, SC, AGO 
2003 - 
2005 
maurizio.dicalisto@ester
i.it
Italy - UNDP 
Afghan Interim 
Authority Fund 
Contribution of the reconstruction of afghan 
judicial system 
MoJ, SC, AGO 
2002 - 
2007 
maurizio.dicalisto@ester
i.it
Italy - UNDP 
- ISISC 
Access to justice at 
district level 
Contribution of the reconstruction of afghan 
judicial system in the provinces 
MoJ, SC, AGO, 
Ministry of Women 
2006 - 
2009 
maurizio.dicalisto@ester
i.it
Italy - 
UNODC 
Reform of the juvenile 
justice system 
construction of a department of minor affaires 
within the MoJ. Construction of court of minors, 
in Kabul. Construction of detention centre for 
minors. 
MoJ, Juvenile 
Justice of Kabul 
2003 
maurizio.dicalisto@ester
i.it
Italy - 
UNODC 
Reform of the 
penitentiary system in 
Afghanistan 
Revision of penitentiary legislation. Construction 
of the Central Prison Department. Construction 
of detention centres for women and children 
MoJ, Central 
Prison department 
2003 - on 
going 
maurizio.dicalisto@ester
i.it
Italy - 
UNODC 
Criminal law and 
criminal justice 
capacity building in 
Afghanistan 
Revision of legislation on drug trafficking, 
terrorism, extradition. Start up of Justice 
Support centres in selected provinces  
MoJ, AGO 
2003 - on 
going 
maurizio.dicalisto@ester
i.it
Italy - 
UNODC 
Prison system reform 
- extension to the 
provinces 
Revision of the penitentiary regulations. 
Enhance of professionalism of the penitentiary 
staff. Enhance detention infrastructures 
MoJ 
2004 - on 
going 
maurizio.dicalisto@
esteri.it
Italy - 
UNICEF 
Support the Reform of 
the Juvenile Justice 
sector and the 
development of a 
child-right based 
legislative framework 
in Afghanistan 
Establishment of a rehabilitation centre for 
minors in Kabul 
MoJ 2003 
- 
2007 
maurizio.dicalisto@esteri
.it
 
Italy -  IMG 
Infrastructures and 
equipment for Justice 
Institutions 
Construction of provincial facilities and 
procurement of vehicles for judicial institutions 
in Afghanistan 
Gov. of Afg. 
2007 - 
2008 
maurizio.dicalisto@
esteri.it
US 
US/US/INL-
DOD 
Senior Federal 
Prosecutors Program 
Reform key criminal justice laws; Train and 
mentor the CNTF and CNT; Develop security for 
facilities and personnel.  Mentor and train Anti-
Corruption Prosecutors at the Attorney General's 
Office. 
MOJ, SC, AGO, MOI, CNTF 
Rob Lunnen, lunnenrc@state.gov 
US/INL JSSP 
Legal 
Education 
and Training 
Legal education, training, mentoring in criminal 
law.  Develop professional standards. 
MOJ, AGO, Kabul University, 
NLTC 
Karen Hall, 
hallk2@state.gov 
US/INL 
JSSP AGO Support 
Build capacity of the Attorney General's Office 
and prosecutors 
AGO  
Karen 
Hall, 
hallk2@state.gov 
US/INL JSSP 
Police/Prosecutor 
Coordination 
Police-prosecutor coordination and criminal 
justice integration 
AGO, MOI 
 
Karen Hall, 
hallk2@state.gov 
US/Treasury Anti-Money 
Laundering 
Assessment 
Assess Interfaces Between FIU and Law 
Enforcement 
AGO, MOI, Central Bank 
Gretchen Biery, bierygm@stat.gov 
US/CSTC-A ANA 
Criminal 
Investigative Division 
Provide training, mentoring and equipment to 
military criminal investigators. 
MOD 
 
Col. Rick Fay, fayr@cfc-a.centcom.mil 
Page  70
69 
US/CSTC-A 
Operational Law 
Provide mentoring and training on Law of 
Armed Conflict and ROE (Nationwide) 
MOD 
 
Col. Rick Fay, fayr@cfc-a.centcom.mil 
US/CSTC-A ANA 
Mentoring 
of 
Basic Court-Level 
Judiciary 
Provide mentoring, training, equipment to 
prosecutors, defense counsel and judges. 
MOD 
 
Col. Rick Fay, fayr@cfc-a.centcom.mil 
US/CSTC-A ANA 
International 
Military Legal Training 
Provide training in military justice, utilizing 
international experts. 
MOD 
 
Col. Rick Fay, fayr@cfc-a.centcom.mil 
US/Treasury Anti-Money 
Laundering Advisor to 
DAB 
Improve anti-money laundering capacity and 
financial intel. 
Central Bank 
 
Gretchen Biery, bierygm@stat.gov 
US/INL 
JSSP Provincial Justice 
Assessment 
Comprehensive provincial criminal justice 
system assessment including customary law 
MOJ, SC, AGO, 
MOI 
 Karen 
Hall, 
hallk2@state.gov 
US/USAID 
Court Administration 
Improve overall admin and case management 
MOJ, SC 
 
Ray Johansen, RJohansen@usaid.gov 
US/USAID Commercial 
Court 
Reform 
Develop capacity, training programs, advisory 
support 
MOJ, SC 
 
Ray Johansen, RJohansen@usaid.gov 
US/INL 
Afghan women judges 
judicial education 
program 
Study tour for 4 judges (2006), distribution of 
legal texts, legal awareness training, capacity-
building of Afghan Women Judges Association 
(2007) 
SC, AWJA 
 
Karen Hall, 
hallk2@state.gov 
US/INL 
JSSP Legal Aid and 
Defense 
Improve legal aid and criminal defense 
capacities 
SC, MOJ 
 
Karen Hall, 
hallk2@state.gov 
US/USAID Women's 
Rights 
Under Islam 
National dialogs, provincial dialogs 
MoWA, Cultural Centers 
Ray Johansen, RJohansen@usaid.gov 
US/CFC-A CERP-Public 
Defense 
Development 
Provide access to criminal defense services for 
indigents 
Defense Lawyers 
 
Col. Rick Fay, fayr@cfc-a.centcom.mil 
US/INL CSSP 
MOJ/Corrections 
Police Department 
Advisor 
Improve Capacity and Reforms to Corrections 
System 
MOJ  
Karen 
Hall, 
hallk2@state.gov 
US/INL 
JSSP MOJ Support 
Strengthen MOJ planning, coordination, policy 
capacity 
MOJ  
Karen 
Hall, 
hallk2@state.gov 
US/CFC-A Justice 
Sector 
Assessment 
Evaluation & Assessment of Justice 
sector(nationwide) through civilian mentors, 
PRTs civil affairs personnel 
MOJ, AGO, MOI, 
SC,  
 
Col. Rick Fay, fayr@cfc-a.centcom.mil 
US/CSTC-A Afghan 
National 
Army--General Staff 
Legal Mentors 
Provide mentoring, training, equipment to ANA 
justice officials (Nationwide) 
MOD 
 
Col. Rick Fay, fayr@cfc-a.centcom.mil 
US/CFC-A 
Support to ANDS 
Consultative Groups 
Provide support/coordination, as appropriate, to 
CG process 
ANDS, MOJ, AGO, MOI, SC 
Col. Rick Fay, fayr@cfc-a.centcom.mil 
US/CSTC-A 
KMTC Legal Advisors 
Provide mentoring and training at the ANA's 
recruit and training commands. 
MOD 
 
Col. Rick Fay, fayr@cfc-a.centcom.mil 
US/CSTC-A Corps-Level 
ANA 
Legal Advisors 
Provide embedded mentoring and training to 
Corps-level Staff Judge Advocates 
MOD 
 
Col. Rick Fay, fayr@cfc-a.centcom.mil 
US/CSTC-A 
ANA Court of Military 
Appeals 
Provide mentoring and training to ANA's 
appellate court. 
MOD 
 
Col. Rick Fay, fayr@cfc-a.centcom.mil 
US/CFC-A Coordination 
of 
US 
military ROL initiatives 
Provide coordination of US military ROL 
initiatives as directed by US Embassy ROL 
Coordinator 
MOJ, MOI, SC, 
AGO,  
 
Col. Rick Fay, fayr@cfc-a.centcom.mil 
US/CSTC-A 
Ethics 
Provide mentoring and training on ethics laws 
and regulations. 
MOD, MOI 
 
Col. Rick Fay, fayr@cfc-a.centcom.mil 
US/CSTC-A 
Ministry of Interior & 
Afghan National Police 
Mentoring 
 Mentor ANP Legal Affairs Chief and his staff; 
assist other MOI and ANP directorate heads 
with anti-corruption initiatives, written policies 
and draft legislation; advise on major cases. 
MOI 
 
Col. Rick Fay, fayr@cfc-a.centcom.mil 
US/CSTC-A 
ANP Legal Monitoring 
and Evaluation  
Evaluate quality of Afghan legal support 
rendered within MOI and ANP. Monitor and 
evaluate observance by MOI and ANP leadership 
to Rule of Law. 
 
MOI 
 
Col. Rick Fay, fayr@cfc-a.centcom.mil 
US/CSTC-A ANP 
Internal 
Monitoring Mentoring 
Provide advice to ANP Internal Affairs, Human 
Rights and Inspections staff on probes of 
matters under their cognizance. 
MOI 
 
Col. Rick Fay, fayr@cfc-a.centcom.mil 
US/USAID 
Infrastructure 
Court, Administration, Prison, and Other 
Construction 
MOJ, SC, AGO, 
MOI 
 
Ray Johansen, RJohansen@usaid.gov 
US/CFC-A 
CFC-A Prison Survey 
Survey of all CPD prison  facilities (Nationwide) 
MOJ 
 
Col. Rick Fay, fayr@cfc-a.centcom.mil 
Page  71
70 
US/INL JSSP 
AGO 
Logistic 
Support 
Provide equipment, supplies, security support 
for AG 
AGO  
Karen 
Hall, 
hallk2@state.gov 
US/CSTC-A;  
Afghan National Police 
(ANP) Legal  
Mentoring 
Assist ANP Legal Affairs Chief with resource 
needs such as equipment and manning  
(“tashkil” process for additional billets) 
MOI 
 
Col. Rick Fay, fayr@cfc-a.centcom.mil 
US/CSTC-A 
ANP Procurement Law 
Mentoring 
Advise on contact and procurement law and 
policy. 
MOI 
 
Col. Rick Fay, fayr@cfc-a.centcom.mil 
US/CFC-A CERP-Other 
Infrastructure (New 
Construction & 
Rehabilitation) 
Courthouses, justice administration buildings, 
other related construction 
MOJ, SC, AGO 
 
Col. Rick Fay, fayr@cfc-a.centcom.mil 
US/CSTC-A 
ANA Military Court 
Houses (New 
Construction) 
Build court houses at each Corps/Basic Court 
location. 
MOD 
 
Col. Rick Fay, fayr@cfc-a.centcom.mil 
US/CSTC-A ANA 
Legislative 
Drafting Assistance 
Assist in Drafting Laws and Regulations 
Affecting Military Justice 
MOD 
 
Col. Rick Fay, fayr@cfc-a.centcom.mil 
US/USAID 
Legal Education 
Overseas Travel, Law Journal, Computer 
Training, Curriculum 
MOJ, SC, Kabul University, 
NLTC 
Ray Johansen, RJohansen@usaid.gov 
US/USAID 
Law Reform and Legal 
Drafting 
Compiled Laws, Translation, Legislative Drafting 
Training 
MOJ, SC 
 
Ray Johansen, RJohansen@usaid.gov 
US/INL CSSP 
Corrections 
Officer Training 
Curriculum Development, Training, Nation 
Training Center 
MOJ, NCTC 
 
Karen Hall, 
hallk2@state.gov 
US/INL CSSP 
Prison 
Engineering 
Development 
Supports and develops capacity from design to 
renovation 
MOJ  
Karen 
Hall, 
hallk2@state.gov 
US/USAID 
Judicial Training 
Curriculum Development, Training, Training 
Infrastructure 
SC 
 
Ray Johansen, RJohansen@usaid.gov 
US/CSTC-A 
ANP Legal Training 
Arrange legal training for ANP members by use 
of ANP staff and international mentors 
MOI 
 
Col. Rick Fay, fayr@cfc-a.centcom.mil 
US/INL 
LLM (Master's in Law) 
Program 
ESL training for 17 law professors in Kabul and 
Seattle, LLM and certificate degrees in 2007 
Kabul University 
 
Karen Hall, 
hallk2@state.gov 
US/USAID Informal 
Justice 
Sector and Access to 
Justice 
Educational Materials, Cultural Centers, 
Women's Rights 
MoWA, Cultural Centers 
Ray Johansen, 
RJohansen@usaid.gov
 
 
 
 
 
 
NL 
Last update 
27/Sep/2007
 
NL 
Promoting Transitional 
Justice 
Promote Transitional Justice  support the Action 
Plan in all its facetsovide support staff for GoA 
focal point on Transitional Justice 
ICTJ (in 
partnership with 
AIHRC and 
UNAMA) 
2006-
2007 
Guillaume Teerling, 
guillaume.teerling@minb
uza.nl 
NL 
Transitional Justice -  
support staff 
Provide support staff for GoA focal point on 
Transitional Justice 
Presidential 
Palace, MoFA, 
AIHRC 
2006-
2007 
Guillaume Teerling, guillaume.teerling@minbuza.nl
NL 
Open up archives on 
war crimes 
Open up archives on Dutch investigations and 
sources on Afghan war crimes 
Afghanistan 
Center Kabul 
University 
2006-
2007 
Paul van de Logt, paul-
vande.logt@minbuz
NL 
Strengthening the 
Justice System of 
Afghanistan 
capacity building and reform of justice 
institutions, provide technical assistance and 
training 
UNDP 
2006-
2007 
Guillaume Teerling, guillaume.teerling@minbuza.nl
NL 
Training members of 
parliament 
Exchange and training programme of members 
of parliament 
Netherlands 
Institute for 
Multiparty 
Democray 
2006-
2007 
Yvonne Stassen, yvonne.stassen@minbuza.nl
Egyptian Embassy/ 
EFTC 
Last update 
27/Sep/2007
Egyptian 
Embassy/ 
EFTC 
Law enforcement 
Advanced field training seminar for Anti-
Narcotics Officers 
Egyptian Police 
Academy , MOCN 
current 
year 
karimsharaf@hotmail.co
m
 
Page  72
71 
Egyptian 
Embassy/ 
EFTC 
Building Capacity 
500 fellowships for  Afghan students to study 
Sharia and Law at Al-Azhar University for for 
years, with an average of 80 scholarship per 
year 
Al-Azhar 
university,  
current 
year 
karimsharaf@hotmail.com
 
Egyptian 
Embassy/ 
EFTC 
Building Capacity 
Visiting Scholars Program:30 Egyptian 
Professors specialized in Sharia, Islamic 
Jurisprudence, Gender issues, Criminal Law and 
Human Rights  
Al-Azhar university 
current 
year 
karimsharaf@hotmail.co
m
 
Canada 
Canada Corrections 
Advisor 
to 
UNAMA 
Deploying Corrections Advisor to UNAMA to help 
establish professional correctional service that 
respects rule of law and international human 
rights standards and practices.  Duties include 
advising UNAMA and Ministry of Justice and 
liaising with donors. 
UNAMA 2003-
2009 
Catherine Bloodworth 
(catherine.bloodworth@i
nternational.gc.ca) 
 
Canada Counter 
Narcotics 
Trust Fund  
Contributed to CNTF to assist GoA in fighting 
illicit drug production and implementing National 
Drug Control Strategy.  Contribution was 
earmarked for Alternative Livelihoods 
UNDP 2006-
2008 
Catherine Bloodworth 
(catherine.bloodworth@intern
ational.gc.ca)
Canada Canada-UNODC 
Afghanistan Counter 
Narocitcs Program  
Supporting various UNODC programs trargetting 
counter narcotics.  
United Nations 
Office on Drugs 
and Crime 
2005-
2009 
Catherine Bloodworth 
(catherine.bloodworth@international.gc.ca
Canada 
Gender Advisor to the 
Ministry of the Interior 
Supporting gender advisor within MOI to foster 
more gender-balanced police organisation that 
operates under rule of law and human rights 
principles and actively protects women and 
girls.  Activities include training and mentoring 
Afghan policewomen 
CANADEM 2005-
2008 
(2007-
2008 
funding 
awaiting 
final 
approval) 
Georgina Wogley 
(georgina.wigley@international.gc.ca)  
Canada Strengthening 
the 
Rule of Law  
Supporting IDLO to improve access to justice 
through legal aid, training of prosecutors, 
judges, and public defenders, and enhancing 
court administration. 
International 
Development and 
Law Organization 
2004-
2007 
Nadir Habib (nadir.habib@international.gc.ca)
Canada 
DELETE -- Women's 
Rights Fund 
DELETE -- This project has finished and has 
now been replaced by the Rights in Practice 
Project (see below) 
International 
Centre for Human 
Rights and 
Democratic 
Development 
2003-2006 (follow-up project under 
review) 
Canada 
Support to Legal Aid 
Afghanistan (LAA) 
Project 
Supporting International Legal Foundation (ILF) 
and International Criminal Defence Attorneys 
Associate (ICDAA)  to build infrastructure for 
public defence system (legal aid) throughout 
Afghanistan through International Legal 
Foundation-Afghanistan.  Activities include 
setting up offices, training and mentoring 
lawyers delivering defence services to the poor 
and conducting workshops for all stakeholders. 
Now supporting ICDAA and ILF to consolidate 
institutional capacity of their five legal aid 
offices under ILF-A as a single national service 
provider. These legal aid offices will be overseen 
by new Afghan Board of Directors, that will also 
engage Afghan Government in formulating 
viable national legal aid policy framework. 
CANADEM, 
International Legal 
Foundation (ILF, 
and International 
Criminal Defene 
Attorneys 
Association 
(ICDAA) 
2005-
2010 
Nadir Habib (nadir.habib@international.gc.ca)
Canada DELETE 
--Alternative 
Livelihoods Program 
in North-eastern 
Afghanistan 
DELETE -- focuses on rural development and income generating activities rather 
than Rule of Law or justice 
 
Canada 
Disbandment of Illegal 
Armed Groups 
Assisting GoA to disband and disarm illegal 
armed groups to set conditions for good 
governance and rule-of-law 
UNDP/Afghanistan 
New Beginnings 
Program (ANBP) 
2005-
2009 
Nasir Ebrahimkhail 
(nasir.ebrahimkhail@international.gc.ca)
 
Canada Translation 
and 
Publication Unit in the 
Supreme Court 
Supporting priority project identified by the 
Afghanistan Supreme Court at the Rome Rule of 
Law Conference for the creation of a translation 
and publication unit at the Court. 
UNDP 2008-
2009 
Catherine Bloodworth 
(catherine.bloodworth@international.gc.ca)
Page  73
72 
Canada Public 
Legal 
Awareness Project in 
the Ministry of Justice 
Supporting priority project identified by the 
Afghanistan Ministry of Justice at the Rome Rule 
of Law Conference to address the need for 
public legal awareness via (a) delivering a 
nation-wide public legal awareness campaign; 
and (b) strengthening the capacity of the 
Ministry of Justice to conduct on-going public 
legal awareness initiatives. 
UNDP 2008-
2009 
Catherine Bloodworth 
(catherine.bloodworth@international.gc.ca)
Canada Capacity 
Building 
Project in the Minisry 
of Justice Legislative 
Drafting Unit 
Supporting deployment of Justice Canada 
lawyer and reach-back capacity of Department 
of Justice, to help standardise legislative 
drafting process and improve legislative drafting 
capacity within the MoJ. Some emphasis will 
also be placed on improving access to legislative 
and policy development. Legal texts, 
information technology and other resources will 
be provided to Ministry as required.  
DFAIT/Justice 
Canada 
2008-
2009 
Catherine Bloodworth 
(catherine.bloodworth@international.gc.ca)
Canada Rights 
in 
Practice: 
Women's Rights and 
Family Law Reform 
Supporting Rights and Democracy to launch 
debate and activities around women's rights and 
family law reform in Afghanistan. Activities 
include working with Afghan civil society to 
conduct research and design advocacy 
strategies in favour of family law reform, 
including engaging mullahs and community 
leaders on more progressive forms of family law 
in which women's rights are protected.  
International 
Centre for Human 
Rights and 
Democratic 
Development 
(Rights and 
Democracy) 
2007-
2011 
Caroline Delany 
(caroline.delany@international.gc.ca) 
Canada Broadening 
the 
Constituency of 
Transitional Justice in 
Afghanistan 
Supporting broadcast radio programs aimed at 
providing forum for: (1) victims of human rights 
abuses to tell their stories; and (2) transitional 
justice experts to educate public with regard to 
transitional justice action plan.  
Afghanistan 
Natioanal 
Participation 
Association 
2007-
2008 
Catherine Bloodworth 
(catherine.bloodworth@international.gc.ca)
Canada 
Towards a Just Peace: 
Transitional Justice 
Programs in 
Afghanistan 
Supporting victim networks, local civil society 
initiatives, and the Afghansitan Independent 
Human Rights Commission (AIHRC) in 
documenting and addressing human rights 
violations.  
International 
Centre for 
Transitional 
Justice 
2007-
2008 
Catherine Bloodworth 
(catherine.bloodworth@international.gc.ca)
Canada Afghanistan 
Indpendent Human 
Rights Commission 
(AIHRC) 
Providign core budget support to AIHRC. This 
builds on 2002-2003 funding to AIHRC to 
advance women's rights, human rights 
education and transitional justice.  
AIHRC 
2007 
Nadir Habib (
nadir.habib@international.gc.ca
 
 
 
 
 
 
CIDA 
Last update 
27/Sep/2007
 
CIDA Counter 
Narcotics 
Trust Fund  
Contributed to CNTF to assist GoA in fighting 
illicit drug production and implementing National 
Drug Control Strategy.  Contribution was 
earmarked for Alternative Livelihoods 
UNDP 2006 
Rory 
O'Connor 
(rory.o'connor@internati
onal.gc.ca) 
CIDA is a Canadian 
Government 
Department 
CIDA Counter-Narcotics 
Capacity Building 
Project  
Working with UK and Belgium to support 
UNODC to increase capacity of justice 
professionals to prosecute high-profile drug 
traffickers.  Project objectives include: building 
capacity of judges, prosecutors and 
investigation unit officers; improving physica 
United Nations 
Office on Drugs 
and Crime 
2005-
2007 
Linda Libront (linda.libront@international.gc.ca)
CIDA 
Gender Advisor to the 
Ministry of the Interior 
Supporting gender advisor within MOI to foster 
more gender-balanced police organisation that 
operates under rule of law and human rights 
principles and actively protects women and 
girls.  Activities include training and mentoring 
Afghan policewomen 
CANADEM 2005-
2008 
(2007-
2008 
funding 
awaiting 
final 
approval) 
Linda Libront (linda.libront@international.gc.ca)
CIDA Strengthening 
the 
Rule of Law  
Supporting IDLO to improve access to justice 
through legal aid, training of prosecutors, 
judges, and public defenders, and enhancing 
court administration. 
International 
Development and 
Law Organization 
2004-
2007 
Linda Libront (linda.libront@international.gc.ca)
Page  74
73 
CIDA 
Women's Rights Fund 
Supporting Rights and Democracy to promote 
human rights for women among Afghan 
women, to help build space for women=s voices 
in political, judicial and civil processes, and to 
promote capacity-building among local Afghan 
women=s groups.  Activities includ 
International 
Centre for Human 
Rights and 
Democratic 
Development 
2003-
2006 
(follow-up 
project 
under 
review) 
Rory O'Connor (ro
ry.o'connor@international.gc.ca)
CIDA 
Support to Legal Aid 
Afghanistan (LAA) 
Project 
Supporting International Legal Foundation (ILF) 
to build infrastructure for public defence system 
(legal aid) throughout Afghanistan through 
International Legal Foundation-Afghanistan.  
Activities include setting up offices, training and 
mentoring lawyers 
International 
Criminal Defence 
Attorneys 
Association & 
International Legal 
Foundation 
2005-
2006 
(new 
funding 
under 
review) 
Linda Libront (linda.libront@international.gc
CIDA Alternative 
Livelihoods 
Program in North-
eastern Afghanistan 
Supporting Aga Khan Foundation Canada to 
provide effective alternative livelihood options 
through community-based, integrated rural 
development in Bamyan, Baghlan, Parwan, and 
Samangan.  Project supports increased range of 
licit income generating opportun 
Aga Khan 
Foundation 
Canada 
2005-
2009 
Linda Libront (linda.libront@international.gc.ca)
CIDA 
Disbandment of Illegal 
Armed Groups 
Assisting GoA to disband and disarm illegal 
armed groups to set conditions for good 
governance and rule-of-law 
UNDP/Afghanistan 
New Beginnings 
Program (ANBP) 
2005-
2009 
Nasir Ebrahimkhail 
(nasir.ebrahimkhail@international.gc.ca)
 
Germany 
Max-Planck-
Institute for 
Comparative 
and Private 
International 
Law, 
Hamburg/Ger
many 
The matrimonial laws 
of Afghanistan 
survey of current legal situation as regards 
matrimonial law, experts workshop on 
matrimonial law, publication of a family law 
textbook  
legal community 
in Afghanistan  
2006 - 
2007 
Nadjma Yassari, yassari@mpipriv.de 
GTZ- Rule of 
Law Project  
National Justice 
Monitoring and 
Evaluaton System  
GTZ works with the Afghan governament to 
support efforts of key reforms within the judicial 
system. Activities in this area include suporting 
the development and implemation of the 
natinoal justice monitoring and evaluation 
system, and training key justice personnel at 
the supreme court  
Supreme Court 
and Ministry of 
Justice  
2006-
2008 
Dr. Hirbod Aminlari, hirbod.aminlari@gtz.de
GTZ- Rule of 
Law Project  
Police Training  
In close consultation with MoI, GPPT and EUPOL 
policemen and women are being instructed to 
better observe the principles of rule of law and 
to apply them in their daily work. As one part of 
this cooperation, the police academy is being 
advised on the shaping of its curriculum, and 
GTZ is has produced Dari and Pashto legal 
materials on principles of Afghan law, including 
the constitution, police law, criminal procedures, 
penal code, juvenile law, human rights. GTZ is 
undertaking this work through a ToTwith 
instruction being carried out in both the capital 
and the provinces. GTZ is doing a training in 
Mazar for 25 Police Officer of the Police Manual 
and giong to do the same training in 5 zones in 
Afghanistan  
MoI, GPPT, EUPOL 
2006-
2008 
Dr. Hirbod 
Aminlari, hirbod.aminlari@gtz.de 
GTZ- Rule of 
Law Project  
Civil society  
Social dialogue, public information and 
education through promotion the local NGOs 
working at the provincial and distric levels. GTZ 
supports Afghanistan’s efforts to spur social 
dialogue and organizational development so 
that local partners are enabled to develop their 
own independent positions on the basic themes 
of democracy and rule of law and to open their 
views to discussion. 
different NGOs 
such as AHRO, 
AWJA, LCSAWC, 
WHSRO and Radio 
Zohra  
2006-
2008 
Dr. Hirbod Aminlari, hirbod.aminlari@gtz.de
Page  75
74 
GTZ- Rule of 
Law Project  
Access to Justice  
 Assistance to the Training Commission of the 
Supreme Court in the education of judicial 
candidates and advisory services and financing 
for national NGOs that seek to improve the 
quality and range of the legal advice they 
provide to vulnerable population groups such as 
poor women, persons in custody pending trial, 
and prison inmates. GTZ also supports the 
Ministry of Justice as it assumes its legal aid 
responsibilities, especially at the provincial level.  
GTZ also is also exploring ways to improve 
relationships between police and society in 
Afghanistan through trust building/confidence 
building initiatives. The results of these activities 
will form the basis for best practices in 
confidence building. 
different NGOs 
such as AHRO, 
AWJA, LCSAWC, 
WHSRO  
2006-
2008 
Dr. Hirbod Aminlari, hirbod.aminlari@gtz.de
Max-Planck-
Institute for 
for 
Comparative 
Public Law  
and 
International 
Law, 
Heidelberg/G
ermany 
 
Assistance to the 
Training Commission 
of the Supreme Court 
in the education of 
judicial candidates 
Assistance to the SC-Trainings Commission in 
the education of judicial candidates (“stage”), 
teaching Constitutional Law, Human Rights, 
Court Organization Law, General Criminal Law, 
Judicial Ethics and Fair Trial Principles 
SC, IIPLD 
(France), 
(coordination of 
the training 
modules with 
USAID and IDLO) 
2006-
2007 
Tilman Röder, troeder@mpil.de, Aziz Ahmadzada, 
ahmadzada10@hotmail.com 
EC
 
Medica 
Mondiale/EC 
Family Violence 
Legal Support for Women and Girls affected by 
family violence in Kabul, Herat, Mazar-i-Sharif 
and Kandahar: 
The legal situation of women and girls affected 
by family violence is improved through direct 
legal services for survivors, awareness raising 
and education on their legal rights and by 
building capacity of different key actors 
providing effective prevention and response 
mechanisms. This will be achieved for example 
through: providing fair access to justice in 
Kabul, Herat, Mazar-i-Sharif, and Kandahar; 
skills and capacity building for direct service 
providers like defence lawyers, prison wardens, 
police and through legal education on women’s 
rights as human rights is provided with 
particular emphasis on amending, implementing 
and enforcing legislation to protect women and 
girls against family violence. 
Penitentiary 
Institutions 
12/05 --
01/2008
 
erwan.marteil@ec.
europa.eu 
UNDP/EC 
A2J at the District 
Level 
This project aims to support access to justice at 
the district level. The action is taken around 
four main activities: reassessment of districts 
within the national strategy framework on 
strengthening the justice system; refurbishment 
of judicial centres  
District Courts 
01/05-
01/09 
erwan.marteil@ec.
europa.eu 
UNDP/EC 
A2J at the District 
Level 
In terms of substance, to improve access at 
justice at the district level through the human 
rights based trainings and consultations of the 
representatives of the justice systems (duty 
barriers) and the public awareness raising 
campaign among the community members 
(claim holders), specially focusing on 
disadvantaged categories. 
District Courts 
01/05-
01/09 
erwan.marteil@ec.
europa.eu 
Page  76
75 
UNDP/EC 
A2J at the District 
Level 
In terms of process,  to strengthen social 
cohesion through seeking consensus with 
participatory processes, and focusing assistance 
on the most vulnerable strata of the society- 
women, children, elderly, minorities. The human 
rights-based approach will facilitate the 
codification of the social and political consensus 
on accountabilities for results into laws, policies 
and programmes aligned with international 
conventions 
District Courts 
01/05-
01/09 
erwan.marteil@ec.
e
uropa.eu 
UNODC 
Last update 
27/Sep/2007
UNODC 
 Reform of the 
juvenile justice system 
- Extension to the 
provinces (AFG/S51) 
• Training for professionals dealing with 
juveniles in contact and in conflict with the law 
trained on the new Afghan Juvenile Code and 
on Juvenile Justice and implementation of non-
judicial measures and non-custodial sanctions; 
• Training on management,  
MoJ 
Planned 
Ms. Carla Ciavarella 
(carla.ciavarella@unodc.
org) 
UNODC 
Counter Terrorism 
(CT) 
• National workshop, June 2004, on necessary 
legislative measures for fighting terrorism and 
translational organized crime. 53 officials of the 
Government representing various Ministries 
were trained. 
• Legislative drafting workshop for Afghan 
experts in  
MoJ 
Planned 
Mr. Matteo Pasquali (matteo.pasquali@unodc.org)
UNODC 
Measures to prevent 
and combat trafficking 
in human beings in 
Afghanistan 
(AFAFG/S54) 
• Assessment report including trends and 
recommendations on anti-trafficking strategies;  
• Assessment report prepared on existing 
legislation and legislative drafting assistance; 
• Training programme designed for law 
enforcement and the judiciary; 
• An a 
MoJ 
Planned 
Mr. Matteo Pasquali (matteo.pasquali@unodc.org)
UNODC 
Crime Assessment in 
Afghanistan 
• To engage national institutional counterparts 
into the research and the collection of 
information available in concerned authorities 
and institutions; 
• To establish an inventory of data and 
information (secondary data) available at 
institutional level  
MoJ 
Planned 
Mr. Matteo Pasquali (matteo.pasquali@unodc.org)
UNODC 
Strengthening the 
capacity of the 
judiciary to prevent 
and combat 
corruption in 
Afghanistan 
• To build the awareness and capacity of the 
National Assembly to ratify the UNCAC and to 
work on the implementation of its principles and 
provisions at central and provincial level; 
• Provision of legislative assistance in order to 
amend national legisla 
MoJ 
Planned 
Mr. Matteo Pasquali (matteo.pasquali@unodc.org)
UNDP 
Last update 
27/Sep/2007
UNDP/SJSA 
Access to Justice; 
Element: 1. Enhance 
rights awareness 
Public Legal Awareness Campaign (focus on HR, 
women rights and chilfren) - one of 5 Qick 
Impact projects as outlined for Rome 
Conference. 
UNDP with MoJ, 
national service 
providers for 
media,  
Dec 2007 
- Nov 
2008 (1 
year) 
nasrat.aslam@undp.org
 
Page  77
76 
Annex 9  
 
Environmental and Social Safeguards Management 
Framework 
 
Background 
 
In January 2006, the GoA and the international community agreed on specific development goals 
and deadlines for their achievement, including in the justice sector, in the 
Afghanistan Compact
.
These goals, along with others based on the strategies produced by the Supreme Court (SC), 
Ministry of Justice (MoJ) and Attorney General’s Office (AGO) in April 2007, have now been 
incorporated into a 
National Justice Sector Strategy
 (NJSS).  The NJSS is intended to be a 
statement of 
high level objectives, and is accompanied by a 
National Justice Program 
(NJP).  
The NJP is an implementation plan designed to achieve the objectives set out in the NJSS.  The 
draft NJSS and NJP are currently at an advanced stage, and once finalized, will form part of the 
GoA’s 
Afghanistan National Development Strategy
 (ANDS). 
 
According to the NJSS, GoA’s vision is “
an
Islamic society in which an impartial and 
independent justice system delivers safety and security for life, religion, property, family and 
reputation, with respect for liberty, equality before the law and access to justice for all
.”
The 
NJSS aims to realize this vision by undertaking a range of activities unified under three goals: (i) 
improved quality of justice; (ii) improved integrity, performance and infrastructure; and (iii) 
improved coordination and integration within the justice system, with other government 
institutions and civil society.   
 
Objectives 
 
In line with the ANDS and NJSS, t
he
project’s development objective is to strengthen a 
centralized state justice system and to increase access to justice for the Afghan people. The 
project’s immediate objective is to enhance the capacity of the justice sector institutions to 
deliver legal services.  This will be achieved primarily through more strategic human capital and 
physical infrastructure management, increasing the skills of justice sector professionals, and 
enhancing the physical infrastructure used to deliver legal services. 
 
Potential Impacts of Various Components 
 
The project will enhance the capacity of the Afghan justice institutions to deliver legal services.  
Investment and technical assistance provided under the project are intended to strengthen 
human 
capital and physical infrastructure management, augment the skills of justice sector 
professionals, and enhance the physical infrastructure used to deliver legal services.  The project 
is also intended to empower the Afghan people through legal aid and education on legal rights 
and obligations. This is the first ARTF-funded project proposal intended to support the 
implementation of the National Justice Sector Strategy (NJSS) and the National Justice Program 
(NJP). The aim of this first project (Phase 1) is to implement a set of quick impact sub-projects, 
visible to the Afghan people, while also preparing a foundation for a subsequent more robust and 
longer term ARTF-supported project (Phase 2).   
 
Page  78
77 
The project will have three components: (i) Enhancing Capacity of Justice Institutions; (ii)
 
Empowering the People; and (iii) Strengthening Implementation Capacity.  
 
Component (i) Enhancing Capacity of Justice Institutions includes a P
hysical Infrastructure sub-
component
,
comprising i.e. investment plans and facility design standards, including standards 
for model justice centers, preparation for and implementation of construction and repair of court 
and office facilities and jud
ges’ residences; equip new and existing courts and offices; and 
provide transportation for justice sector officials.  Capacity to manage physical assets will also 
be supported to sustain the progress achieved under this subcomponent. New facilities (with the 
exception of the AGO HQ) will be constructed during a second follow up project (see Section 
II.E below).  Follow up projects will support the rehabilitation, construction and equipping of 
other facilities according to the plans and standards developed during the initial phase.  
 
Activities under the project should not entail significant and negative environmental and social 
impacts, provided they are designed and implemented with due consideration of environmental 
and social issues. Construction activities may cause limited, temporary, and localized negative 
impacts due to depletion or degradation of natural resources such as stone, earth, water etc. used 
for school construction if proper environmental management is not carried out at design, 
construction and operation stages. This can be mitigated through the implementation of an 
appropriate social and environmental management plan.  
 
OP/BP 4.01 is triggered because of rehabilitation and construction activities under the 
Infrastructure 
sub-component. The project will apply the Environmental and Social Safeguards 
Management Framework (ESSMF) developed for the proposed operation. The ESSMF provides 
guidance on the approach to be taken during implementation for the selection and design of 
subprojects/proposed investments and the planning of mitigation measures, guidelines and codes 
of practice for an environmental mitigation measures to be incorporated in the design, 
contracting and monitoring of sub-projects. Guidelines for consultation and disclosure 
requirements are also included, to ensure due diligence and facilitate consistent treatment of 
environmental and social issues by all participating development partners.  
 
If land acquisition is required, it will be undertaken in accordance with the provisions of 
Afghanistan’s current Land Expropriation Law, enacted in 2000 and the Land Policy 2007 
approved by the cabinet in 2007 plus OP/BP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement. In terms of social 
impacts, the project provides an Abbreviated Resettlement Framework (Attachment 2). 
 
The project is of national scope and will thus in principle have equal outreach to all ethnic and 
religious minority groups.
The project could potentially have significant positive impact on 
gender equity, and will incorporate gender disaggregated indicators across all relevant 
subcomponents in the Results Framework. Wherever community consultations, separate 
consultations shall be carried out with women in order to ensure than women’s views are elicited 
at par with men’s.  
 
Chance finds of cultural property
(
archaeological artifacts) during implementation of sub-
projects involving civil works will be handled according to provisions in 
the “Law on Preservation 
of  Afghanistan's Historical and Cultural Heritage (2004)” and 
be reported to the provincial or district 
governors, who then will inform the Archaeological Committee. 
 
Page  79
78 
Compliance with the safeguard provisions and the negative list will be ensured through an 
environmental, social and risk screening procedure (check lists) required for sub-project 
proposals, and by internal input, process, and output monitoring, independent external 
monitoring by consultants, and by Bank supervision missions. 
.
Purpose of the Environmental and Social Management Framework 
Currently social and environmental management in Afghanistan is suffering from critical 
capacity constraints. Since there is potential for adverse environmental impacts, albeit limited, 
from the proposed activities under the AJSRP, their mitigation and management is key to the 
wholesome rehabilitation and development within the vocational educational sector. Hence, 
keeping in view the existing management capacity, as well as the flexibility required with 
investments still to be finalized, a framework approach is adopted for AJSRP.  It allows for early 
identification of potential adverse impacts, without the requirement of rigorous analysis through 
quantification, and also provides general policies and broad guidance for their effective 
mitigation, along with codes of practice and procedures to be integrated into project 
implementation. Consistent with existing national legislation, the objective of the Framework is 
to help ensure that activities under the proposed reconstruction operations will: 
 
·
Protect human health;  
·
Prevent or compensate any loss of livelihood;  
·
Prevent environmental degradation as a result of either individual subprojects or their 
cumulative effects;  
·
Enhance positive environmental and social outcomes; and, 
·
Ensure compliance with World Bank safeguard policies. 
 
General Principles 
 
Recognizing the emergency nature of the proposed relief and reconstruction operations, and the 
related need for providing immediate assistance, while at the same time ensuring due diligence in 
managing potential environmental and social risks, this Framework is based on the following 
principles: 
 
1. 
The project will support multiple subprojects, the detailed designs of which may not be 
known at appraisal.  To ensure the effe
ctive application of the World Bank’s safeguard policies, 
the Framework provides guidance on the approach to be taken during implementation for the 
selection and design of subprojects, and the planning of mitigation measures; 
 
2. 
All proposed subprojects will be screened to ensure that the environmental and social 
risks can be adequately addressed through the application of standardized guidelines; 
 
3. 
Project design and subproject selection will aim to maintain regional balance, and equity 
between ethnic and religious groups, considering variations in population density.  Employment 
opportunities within the projects will be available on an equal basis to all, on the basis of 
professional competence, irrespective of gender, or ethnic or religious group
 
4. 
Consultation and disclosure requirements will be simplified to meet the special needs of 
these operations.  Prior to approval by the World Bank Board, this Environmental and Social 
Page  80
79 
Safeguards Framework will be disclosed in Afghanistan in Dari and Pashto, and in the World 
Bank Infoshop.  
 
Safeguard Screening and Mitigation 
 
The selection, design, contracting, monitoring and evaluation of subprojects will be consistent 
with the following guidelines, codes of practice and requirements: 
 
·
A
negative list of characteristics that would make a proposed subproject ineligible for 
support, as indicated in Attachment 1; 
·
An abbreviated Resettlement Framework to 
be followed  in case land acquisition affecting  
less than 200 Project Affected People, provided in Attachment 2;  
·
Procedures for the chance discovery of archaeological artifacts, and unrecorded 
graveyards and burial sites, provided in Attachment 3;  
 
Responsibilities for Safeguard Screening and Mitigation 
 
The overall responsibility of project implementation rests with the Supreme Court (SC), Ministry 
of Justice (MoJ) and the Attorney General’s Office (AGO). A designated Safeguards Nodal 
Officer will be identified with responsibility for overseeing the implementation of the 
Environment and Social Safeguards Framework and Management Plan within the Project Units 
in the implementing institutions, the SC, MoJ and the AOG.  
 
Capacity Building and Monitoring of Safeguard Framework Implementation 
 
As part of the social and environmental capacity building that will be provided for 
implementation of IDA-financed operations in Afghanistan, the Safeguards Focal Officer and 
relevant staff of the implementing institutions/Consultants will receive training in the application 
of the Safeguard Framework. Specialist training modules may be considered after an acceptable 
level of base knowledge has been established. During supervision of the project, the World Bank 
will assess the implementation of the Framework, and if required, will recommend additional 
strengthening.  
 
Consultation and Disclosure 
 
This Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework was developed on the basis of an overall 
Framework for World Bank-funded reconstruction operations which was prepared in 
consultation with the principal NGOs and development partners participating in reconstruction 
activities in Afghanistan.  Prior to approval of the project by the World Bank, it will be disclosed 
by the Government in both in both Dari and Pashto, as well as English, and it will also be made 
available at the World Bank’s Infoshop.  Since no other separate environmental or social 
assessments will be prepared for activities under the proposed reconstruction operations, no 
additional disclosure requirements will apply.  
Page  81
80 
Attachment 1
Negative List of Subproject Attributes
Subprojects with any of the attributes listed below will be ineligible for support under the proposed 
emergency reconstruction operations. 
 
Attributes of Ineligible Subprojects 
GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS 
Involves the significant conversion or degradation of critical natural 
habitats.  Including, but not limited to, any activity within: 
 
·
Ab-i-Estada Waterfowl Sanctuary; 
·
Ajar Valley (Proposed) Wildlife Reserve; 
·
Dashte-Nawar Waterfowl Sanctuary; 
·
Pamir-Buzurg (Proposed) Wildlife Sanctuary; 
·
Bande Amir National Park; 
·
Kole Hashmat Khan (Proposed) Waterfowl Sanctuary. 
 
Will significantly damage non-replicable cultural property, including but not 
limited to any activities that affect the following sites: 
 
·
monuments of Herat (including the Friday Mosque, ceramic tile 
workshop, Musallah complex, Fifth Minaret, Gawhar Shah mausoleum, 
mausoleum of Ali Sher Navaii, and the Shah Zadehah mausoleum complex); 
·
monuments of Bamiyan Valley (including Fuladi, Kakrak, Shar-i 
Ghulghular and Shahr-i Zuhak); 
·
archaeological site of Ai Khanum; 
·
site and monuments of Ghazni; 
·
minaret of Jam; 
·
mosque of Haji Piyada/Nu Gunbad, Balkh province; 
·
stupa and monastry of Guldarra; 
·
site and monuments of Lashkar-i Bazar, Bost; 
·
archaeological site of Surkh Kotal. 
 
Requires involuntary acquisition of land, or any resettlement of people affecting 
more than 200 persons. 
Involves the use of unsustainably harvested timber or fuelwood. 
Involves the use of hazardous substances. 
Page  82
81 
Attachment 2 
Abbreviated Resettlement Framework
,
In compliance of the Ban
k’s Operational Policy 4.12, in case of less than 200 Project Affected People 
(PAPs), the following abbreviated Resettlement Framework shall be followed in order to restore housing 
and issue economic compensation for loss of land and livelihood through a consultative and mutually 
agreeable process.  
 
Principles 
 
o
all land should be surveyed and mapped and agreement reached with government on explicit 
eligibility cut-off date. 
o
where land is disputed or land ownership is not clear, the land will be surveyed and a map hereof 
issued to the affected families. In case of land disputes, attempts should be made to settle disputes prior to 
project start. 
o
customary and collective rights, e.g. to grazing land and commons, should be verified and 
documented through community-level consultations and local authorities. Customary and collective rights 
are also subject to compensation. 
o
compensation for land, housing and assets are based on principles of replacement cost and 
mutually agreeable solutions based on consultative approach with PAPs.  
o
where affected land provide income, the equivalent to the value of the crop lost will be given in 
compensation, based on the value of the harvests lost until the replacement crop (e.g. fruit tress) come 
into full production. 
o
if land forms basis for other income, the value of the income hereof  will be subject to third party 
assessment 
o
if PAPs are squatters/informal settlers on the land, they will receive economic/material 
compensation to re-establish themselves elsewhere (e.g. on government land) without suffering damage to 
their livelihood or living standard. 
 
Process 
 
1. Survey of land and assets & census of Project Affected Peoples, including squatters and informal 
settlers:  
·
the surveyed land and assets should be identified, marked and photographed, and by the defined 
eligibility cut-off date the areas should be secured against encroachers. 
·
the Project Affected People should be identified and registered with full data and photographs  
·
a
compensation package should be developed (categories of impacts and appropriate entitlements 
to formal and informal settlers landholders and squatters), and  
·
initial consultations should be conducted to identify any salient issues or concerns impacting on 
affected people. Gender separate consultations should be conducted in order to properly ascertain the 
views of the women. 
 
2. Calculation of individual entitlements. There should be continued consultations with the affected 
people regarding the project, land acquisition and compensation package in order to reach mutually 
agreeable solution to land/asset acquisition and/or shifting of house. In case any PAP refuses to shift, an 
abbreviated Resettlement Plan, compliant to OP 4.12, should be developed. 
 
Page  83
82 
Attachment 3
Protection of Cultural Property
Physical culture includes monuments, structures, works of art, or sites of "outstanding universal value" 
from the historical, aesthetic, scientific, ethnological, or anthropological point of view, including 
unrecorded graveyards and burial sites.  Within this broader definition, cultural property is defined as 
sites and structures having archaeological, paleontological, historical, architectural, or religious 
significance, and natural sites with cultural values.  
 
The proposed emergency project is  unlikely to pose a risk of damaging cultural property, as the sub-
projects will largely consist of small investments in community infrastructure and income generating 
activities, reconstruction of existing structures, and minor urban public works.  Further, the negative list 
of attributes, which would make a subproject ineligible for support (Attachment 1), includes any activity 
that would significantly damage non-replicable cultural property.  Nevertheless, the following procedures 
for identification, protection from theft, and treatment of chance finds should be followed and included in 
standard bid documents. 
 
Chance Find Procedures 
 
Chance find procedures are defined in the law on the Preservation of Afghanistan’s Historical and 
Cultural Heritages (decree no. 19, Official Gazette, no. 828, 1383/02/31 – 2004/05/20)), specifying the 
authorities and responsibilities of cultural heritage agencies if sites or materials are discovered in the 
course of project implementation.  This law establishes that all moveable and immovable historical and 
cultural artifacts are state property, and further:   
 
1. 
All humanitarian artifacts (Moveable and Immoveable) which have historical, scientific, artistic 
or cultural value and are at least one hundred (100) years old.(art. 3, 1) 
 
2. 
All artifacts which are less than 100 years old but have cultural, scientific and artistic value and 
are determined to be preserve able and valuable artifacts (art. 3, 2). 
 
3. 
The Archaeology Institute and the Historical Artifacts Preservation and Repair Department are 
both responsible to survey, evaluate, determine and record all cultural and historical sites and collect and 
organize all historical documents related to each specific site.  No one can build or perform construction 
on the recorded historical and cultural site unless approved or granted permission or agreement is issued 
from the Archaeology Institute (art. 7) 
 
4. 
Whenever municipalities, construction, irrigation or other companies (whether they are 
governmental or private) find or discover valuable historical and cultural artifacts during the conduct of 
their projects, they are responsible to stop their project and report any findings to the Archaeology 
Institute about the discovery. (art. 10). If a construction project harms a historical or cultural artifact, the 
project will be stopped until proper measures are taken to preclude such harm. (art. 11) 
 
5. 
Any finder or discoverer of historical and cultural sites is obligated to report a find or discovery 
to the Archeology Institute immediately but not later than one week if it is in the city and not later than 2 
weeks if it is in a province.  All discovered artifacts are considered public properties and the Government 
of Afghanistan will pay for all lands and sites which are considered to be of historical or cultural 
value.(art. 19, 1) 
 
Page  84
83 
6. 
Whenever there is an immovable historical and cultural site discovered which includes some 
movable historical and cultural artifacts, all such movable artifacts are considered public property and the 
owner of that property will be rewarded according to Article 13 of this Decree (art. 19, 2).  
 
7. 
A person who finds or discovers a movable historical and cultural artifact is obligated to report 
the discovery to the Archaeology Department no later than seven (7) days if he/she lives in the capital city 
of Kabul, and in the provinces they should report the discovery to the Historical and Cultural Artifacts 
Preservation Department or Information and Culture Department or to the nearest governmental 
Department no later than fourteen (14) days.  Mentioned Departments in this article are responsible to 
report the issue to the Archaeology Department as soon as possible and the discoverer of the artifact will 
be rewarded according to Article 13 of this Decree.(art. 26) 
 
8. 
 Whenever individuals who discover historical and cultural artifacts do not report such 
discoveries to the related Departments within the specified period according to Articles 19 and 26 of this 
Decree, they will be incarcerated for a minimum of one (1) month but not more than a maximum of three 
(3) months.(art. 75) 
 
9. 
Individuals who deliberately destroy historical and cultural artifacts will be fined and according 
to the level and kind of destruction, they shall be incarcerated from one (1) month minimum to a 
maximum of ten (10) years. (art. 74) 
 
In case of a chance find of moveable or immovable historical or cultural artifact, the implementing 
agency is responsible for securing the artifact from theft, pilferage and damage until the responsibility has 
been taken over by the relevant authorities as specified above.  
 
These procedures must be referred to as standard provisions in construction contracts, when applicable.  
During project supervision, the Site Engineer shall monitor that the above regulations relating to the 
treatment of any chance find encountered are observed.   
 
Relevant findings will be recorded in World Bank Project Supervision Reports (PSRs), and 
Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs) will assess the overall effectiveness of the project’s cultural 
resources mitigation, management, and capacity building activities, as appropriate.  
 
Page  85
84 
 
Page  86
85 
Annex 10 
 
Letters of Endorsement by Sector Ministries and Ministry of Finance
 
